Document of
The World Bank
Report No. P-3546-TA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
OF SDR 16.7 MILLION
(AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO U$$18 MILLION)
TO THE
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR THE
MUFINDI PULP AND PAPER MILL - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
AND
ENERGY CONVERSION PROJECT
May 2, 1983
This report may not be published nor may it be quoted as representing the views of the World Bank.
The World Bank does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.-



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =    Tanzania Shilling (TSh)
TSh 1.00         =    US$0.107
US$1.00          =    TSh 9.43
US$1.00          =    SDR 0.927
(As the Tanzania Shilling is officially valued in relation to a basket of
the currencies of Tanzania's trading partners, the USDollar/Tanzania
Shilling exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in this report
were made at US$1.00 to TSh 9.43 which was the level set in the most
recent exchange rate adjustment in March 1982.  The USDollar/SDR exchange
rate used in this report is that of March 31, 1983.)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 metric ton (t)       =      1,000 kilograms (or 2,204 pounds)
i meter (m)           =       39.37 inches
1 cubic meter (3)     =       35.31 cubic feet
1 kilometer (km)      =       0.621 mile
1 hectare (ha)        =       2.47 acres
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CDC       -      Commonwealth Development Corporation
KfW       -      Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
NDC       -      National Development Corporation
NIB       -      Nordic Investment Bank
OMC       -      Operating Management Contract (Contractor)
SIDA      -      Siwedish International Development Authority
SPB       -      Seshasayee Paper and Boards Limited, India
SPM       -      Southern Paper Mills Company Limited
Stothert  -      Stothert International Corporation, Canada
TAC       -      Tanzania Audit Corporation
TANESCO   -      Tanzania Electric Supply Company
TANZAM    -      Tanzania-Zambia Highway
TAZARA    -      Tanzania-Zambia Railway Authority
TWICO     -      Tanzania Wood Industry Corporation
]FISCAL YEAR
Government  -  July 1 to June 30
NDC and subsidiar:Les:  January to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TANZANIA
MUFINDI PULP AND PAPER MILL - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
AND
ENERGY CONVERSION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                United Republic of Tanzania
Beneficiaries:           National Development Corporation (NDC)
and Southern Paper Mills Company Limited (SPM).
The Government would make the proceeds of the
credit available through NDC to SPM as shareholder
equity.
Amount:                   SDR 16.7 million (US$18 million equivalent).
Terms:                    Standard.
Project Description:    The project would assist SPM to manage and operate
the Mufindi Pulp and Paper Mill, which is currently
under construction, and to market its output. The
project would (i) provide SPM with expatriate
management services for six years, including about
one year prior to the start-up of the first paper
machine in July 1984, (ii) convert the existing
power boiler from dependence on oil/coal to one
that can also use fuelwood from the nearby Sao Hill
forestry plantations, and provide SPM with related
wood harvesting and transport equipment and (iii)
supply imported fuel and pulp to the mill for the
first six months of operation, and other materials
and supplies (chemicals, spares, consumables, etc.)
for about the first three years of operations.
Benefits:                The project would allow Tanzania to operate its
largest industrial facility based on local
resources and to achieve significant foreign
exchange benefits through import substitution and
export earnings. On a sunk cost basis, the project
would have an economic rate of return of 20%.
The project would also facilitate steady progress
towards output levels, export sales and training
targets necessary for ensuring financial
self-sufficiency for the Mufindi pulp and paper
mill and eventual replacement of expatriate staff
with Tanzanian personnel.
Risks:                   The project would face significant risks, including
the mill's possible inability to reach assumed
levels of capacity utilization for exogenous
reasons, such as the lack of imported supplies and
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance ofJ
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
transportation bottlenecks. Domestic demand for
pulp and paper products may rise more slowly than
expected as a result of slow overall growth in the
economy, and the mill may not be able to penetrate
new export markets sufficiently to sell all of its
output and generate adequate foreign ex-hange to
meet its long term import requirements.  Some of
these risks would be addressed directly through
financing of the mill's initial import nteeds and
ensuring it ready access to foreign exclhange
resources through a specia L external acc-ount. The
operating management firm would receive significant
bonuses for good sales perf ormance and has
considerable knowledge of a key export mnarket
(India). There is also a risk that Tanzania
personnel may not be able to replace all
internationally recruited staff over a six-year
period. The operating management firm would have
specific training incentives in its contract, which
should reduce this risk. Extensive trai-ning of
Tanzanian personnel has also been undertaken under
the existing project.
Estimated                                  Local      Foreign       Totatl
Project Costs:1                           -US$ million---------
Operating Management Servicas           3.5         18.9         22.4
Energy Conversion
Boiler                                0.3         2.5           2.8
Fuelwood Harvesting                   0.3          4.0          4.3
Import Requirements                      -          10.0         10.0
Sub-total         4.1        35.4         39.5
Contingencies:
Physical                             0.4          1.2          1.6
Price                                0.5         3.4           3.9
Total             5.0        40.0          45.0
Financing Plan:                            Local      Foreign       Total
---------US$ -million---
IDA                                      -          18.0         18.0
SIDA                                     -          13.5         13.5
Federal Republic of Germany (KfWt)    -              8.5          8.5
Government                              5.0          -             5.0
Estimated Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year             1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
-US--------------us$ million------------------
Annual                    3.4    3.8    5.1    2.6        1.6    1.1    0.4
Cumulative                3.4    7.2   12.3   14.9   16.5   17.6   18.0
'The project would be exempted from identifiable taxes and duties.



- iii -
Rate of Return:              5% (on basis of full project cost); 20% (on
basis of treating all previous expenditures as
sunk costs).
Staff Appraisal Report:    No separate Staff Appraisal Report has been
prepared.
Map:                         IBRD Map No. 13486.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
FOR THE MUFINDI PULP AND PAPER MILL - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
AND
ENERGY CONVERSION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the United Republic of Tanzania of SDR 16.7 million (US$18.0
million) equivalent on standard terms to help finance the Mufindi Pulp and
Paper-Technical Assistance and Energy Conversion Project.  The proceeds
of the credit would be passed on to the National Development Corporation
and Southern Paper Mills Company as equity.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic memorandum on Tanzania (Report No. 3086-TA) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on January 23, 1981. A revised
memorandum, based on the work of two economic missions which visited
Tanzania in July and September 1982, will be issued in late 1983.
Background
3.        At Independence in 1961, Tanzania (then Tanganyika) was one of
the poorest countries in the world. Almost solely dependent on subsistence
agriculture and a few estate crops, the country had a very modest indus-
trial base (less than 5% of GDP), and a very small number of educated and
trained personnel. For the first six years after Independence, the Govern-
ment's development objectives resembled those of many other less developed
countries, stressing growth in per capita income and national self-suffi-
ciency in skilled manpower, based on market forces and capital intensive
agricultural projects. This approach had a number of drawbacks, such as
high investment costs in the agricultural sector, and led in the Govern-
ment's view to unacceptable economic and social conditions, such as widen-
ing income differentials and unequal opportunities for advancement in the
rural areas. In response to this situation, the national development
strategy was reassessed in 1967. The new priorities, enunciated in the
Arusha Declaration and related policy statements, were directed towards
establishing a socialist society, with greater emphasis on broad-based
rural development, self-reliance in development efforts, and the intro-
duction of mass education. To accomplish these ends, the State, with
guidance from the Party, was expected to play the leading role, especially
in the reform and creation of appropriate institutions. This led in the
late 1960s to the nationalization of large-scale industry, commerce and
finance, the creation of numerous parastatal bodies, the formation of
ujamaa (cooperative) villages, the decentralization of Government (1972),
and the mass campaign of villagization (1974-76).



4.         Despite some disruption arising from these major institutional
changes during the period, Tanzania managed to show improvements both in
social welfare and in macroeconomic performance.  Primary School enroll-
ments increased by more than 50%, life expectancy rose by almost 5 years,
and access to safe water increased in both the rural and urban areas. GDP
grew by 4.4% per annum from 1966 to 1973, investment averaged 24% of GDP
from 1970 to 1973, and domestic resource mobilization :improved with recur-
rent revenues rising from 15% of GDP in 1967/68 to 19% in lthe mid 1970s.
However, the productive sectors grew slowly and the rate oiF return on new
investments (which was centered on the industry and transport sectors) was
poor.  Perhaps the principal disappointment was in agriculture, the domi-
nant sector in the economy, which grew by only 2.3% per anium from 1966 to
1973.  This growth was also uneven among regions and precluded any narrow-
ing of rural-urban income differentials.  Tanzania made rapid progress
towards localizing key posts in the economy, but large gaps in manpower
requirements remained. DependerLce on foreign aid to finance both domestic
investment and the widening balance of payments gap also increased. By
1973, the issues which were to be so important for Tanzania throughout the
1970s and early 1980s were becoming clear: How quickly could a country
with limited trained personnel develop a strong and efficient centrally
administered economy? The Government's emphasis on equity was often at the
expense of efficiency and incentives; how long could the country afford
these costs? What could be done to improve theX growth rate of the
monetized, productive sectors?
5.         The oil price increases and world recession of 1973-74 coincided
with two years of below average rainfall in Tanzania.  Agricultural produc-
tion also was affected by disruptive changes in the rural areas at this
time (decentralization and villagization), and there was a serious short-
fall in foodgrain production.  The Government was forced into the world
market, making large purchases of foodgrains for cash. Export crop
production also fell during this period and the barter terms of trade
dropped by about one-third during these two years. As a result, the
current account deficit rose from US$118 million in 1973 to around US$340
million in both 1974 and 1975. Domestically, the recurrent budget fell
into deficit and Government bank borrowing rose from TSh.416 million in
1973/74 to TSh.1061 million in 1]975/76.
6.         The Government prepared a program to deal with at least the
short-term effects of the crisis and was able to receive some assistance
from the IMF and a program l-oan from the Bank.  Under this program, import
levels were tightly restricted, wages were frozen, government development
expenditures were redirected towards the productive sectors, and the
Tanzanian shilling was devalued by 10% against the SDR. Producer prices
for food crops were substant:ial:Ly increased and at the same time, the
National Milling Corporation (NMC) was instructed to purchase a number of
drought-resistant crops such as cassava, sorghum, and pigeon peas in addi-
tion to the usual foodgrains like maize.  While these steps were taken to
increase food production, they also discouraged the production of export
crops, weakened the financial position of NMC and required the banking
system to extend large amounts of credit to NMC. Aside from the devalua-
tion, little scope was given to market forces and Tanzania made no basic
changes in its system of administered prices and government controls.  The
basic weaknesses of the economy persisted: declining export volumes,



- 3 -
limited trained manpower, disappointing growth in the monetized and
productive sectors, and poor maintenance of existing capital stock and
infrastructure, especially in agriculture and transport.
7.        Nonetheless, the Government program, boosted greatly by the
coffee boom of 1977, additional foreign assistance and reasonable weather
for agriculture, was able to keep the economy in balance until 1978.
During 1978, the overly stringent import controls were relaxed at the same
time as the terms of trade began to deteriorate again. The balance of
payments went into deficit and foreign reserves were drawn down. Then, in
October 1978, the country was invaded by forces from Uganda. The resulting
war, the oil price increases of 1979 and flooding and drought in different
parts of Tanzania led to a worsening balance of payments deficit and the
Government built up major arrears on its import payments for the first time
since Independence. The domestic budget fell heavily into deficit as
expenditures (led by defense) rose by 50% from 1977/78 to 1978/79 and
revenues improved by only 10%. As a result, Government borrowing from the
banking system increased from TSh. 600 million in 1977/78 to more than
TSh. 3,000 million in 1978/79. Such borrowing was the major factor in
money supply growth, which exceeded 53% in this period.
8.        According to the official National Accounts statistics, GDP in
constant prices has risen by 4.7% per annum since 1966, and by a slightly
higher rate of 5.1% per annum over the past six years. However, this
latter trend assumes an 8.6% per annum increase in subsistence agriculture,
which seems somewhat overstated in the light of Bank Group project
experience and the known marketed surpluses of food. Assuming a more
realistic growth rate of 4.0% per annum for subsistence agriculture,
overall GDP growth since 1973 would also be reduced to 4.0% per annum.
With population growing by around 3.3% per annum, this implies an increase
in per capita GDP of only 0.7% per annum. There also has been a change in
the structure of the economy over the past seven years, away from the
productive monetary sector and towards subsistence and service activities.
Excluding public administration, commercial services and trade, the
monetary sector has grown by only 2.3% per annum over the past seven years,
well below the population growth rate. This change in the structure of the
economy has been a major factor hampering the Government's efforts to
mobilize domestic resources.
9.        Although Tanzania has sustained a high investment ratio, this has
not been matched by a similar success in the mobilization of domestic
savings or in the return on investments. Up to the mid-1970s, foreign
savings had financed 20%-40% of domestic investment. However, the depend-
ence on foreign savings- rose sharply to more than 60% of domestic invest-
ment during the crisis years of 1974-75 and again from 1978. The major
shortfalls in domestic savings have occurred in the Government sector,
where they have actually been negative in some years since 1975. The low
return on investments is reflected in the incremental capital-output ratio
for the monetary sector, which was around 4.5 at the start of the decade
and rose to between 6 and 7 by 1980.
10.       Agriculture remains the most important sector in Tanzania,
accounting for 90% of total employment, 50% of GDP and 80% of exports. The
long-term trend growth rate of agricultural production has hardly kept pace



with population growth and apparently has fallen in more recent years as
the initial expansion of export crop production (through the mid-1960s) has
been reversed. This poor performance cannot be adequately explained by the
limitations of the natural environment. Although the importance of rural
development has continuously been highlighted in Government statements,
including the Arusha Declaration and successive plans, this has not always
been reflected in the allocation of resources to the agricultural sector or
in policy formulation and implementation. The general direction of the
Government's post-Arusha agriculture strategy has also tended to emphasize
the transformation of the institutional structure of rural development
(through the formation of villages and increasing public involvement in the
sector) over measures designed to improve agricultural production direct-
ly.  Many of these institutional changes were introduced too rapidly, with-
out careful planning or sufficient recognition that by themselves they
could not compensate for inadequate incentives and shortages of skilled
manpower and managers. More recently there has been a greater awareness of
the role of incentives, and recent price adjustments attest, to the Govern-
ment's willingness to use them to influence the pattern of agricultural
production. Available manpower, however, is still stretche!d rather thinly
throughout the sector, mainly because of the predominant role assigned to
the public sector. This has resulted in weakened capacity for policy
planning and implementation, especially in the areas of research and
extension, and deficient distribution of fertilizers and other on-farm
supplies and equipment.  Another factor underlying the poor performance of
agriculture has been the deterioration of transport services.  Road, rail
and water services have declined. owing to a lack of spare parts, poor
maintenance and inadequate planning and management.
The Current Balance of Payments Crisis and Medium Term Prospects
11.       The slow growth in. agricultural production, transport bottlenecks
and external shocks described above have all contributed to the severe
deterioration in the balance of payments over the past three years.  Export
volumes have fallen to a level one-third below the peaks of the mid-1960s
and early 1970s. Furthermore, the terms of trade have decLined by 27%
since the coffee boom of 1977, due to a sharp increase in import costs,
especially for petroleum, at. a time when the overall level of export prices
has been rising very slowly. Oring to these adverse developments, the
purchasing power of Tanzanias's exports in 1980 was one-third lower than in
1977 and only one-half of tbhe 19166 level. Part: of this shortfall has been
offset by additional external resources, including a sharp increase in
commodity and program aid to more than US$200 million in 1980, as well as
by drawings under the IMF st:andby program concluded in September 1980. But
Tanzania has also had to utilize large amounts of excepticonal financing,
including suppliers' credits and an increase in import payment arrears.
Despite this, the volume of imports has had to be severely curtailed, and
in 1982, was still no higher than in the mid-1970s.
12.       Given the deterioration in international commodity prices,
as well as the limited SCOpE! for further exceptional financing, there is
little immediate prospect for an improvement in the balance of payments.
This continuing balance of payments constraint is inevitably having a
debilitating effect on the economy, with lower imports reducing production.
and maintenance of existing assets, resulting in further falls in exports



- 5 -
and available foreign exchange. This vicious circle will be difficult to
break, unless there is a substantial injection of foreign exchange and
major improvements in producer incentives, parastatal operations, import
allocations, the promotion of non-traditional exports, and overall
government planning and budgeting. In March/April 1981, the Government
introduced a number of significant measures--such as higher producer prices
for coffee, sisal and tobacco and the establishment of a Special
Agricultural Account at the Bank of Tanzania to ensure that a substantial
proportion of foreign exchange earnings are returned to the agricultural
sector. This Export Rehabilitation Program was supported by a US$50
million credit from IDA (Cr. No. 1133-TA).
13.       During negotiations of the Export Rehabilitation Credit in March
1981, agreement was also reached on a Memorandum of Understanding on
Follow-Up Measures. These included more restraint and selectiveness in the
public investment program, more emphasis in the recurrent budget on the
operations and maintenance needs of the economy, improved foreign exchange
budgeting, a re-examination of the roles (particularly purchasing mandates)
of the State-owned crop authorities, the introduction of more payment-by-
results schemes in industry and a review of subsidy and cost recovery
arrangements in the public sector. The Government also agreed that an
independent Advisory Group would be established to assist the Government in
preparing a comprehensive program of economic rehabilitation and recovery.
14.       The Advisory Group began work in November 1981 and completed its
Report in April 1982.  The Government adopted a large number of its
recommendations and incorporated these in a Structural Adjustment Program
which was issued in July 1982. This Program includes a series of
important initiatives and proposals. The development budget for 1982/83
has been substantially cut back for the second year in a row to release
resources for the operations and maintenance needs of the economy.
Difficult decisions have been taken in the light of limitations on
available foreign exchange and physical resources. The price control
system has been reviewed and food marketing arrangements are to be
reorganized. The Government has begun to allocate a larger, though still
inadequate, share of foreign exchange resources to agriculture through the
Special Agricultural Account established under the Export Rehabilitation
Program. Agricultural producer prices have been adjusted to maintain them
broadly constant in real terms, and the Government has announced its
intentions to relax restrictions on interregional trade. It has also
opened up the marketing of some funds (mainly minor grains such as millet)
to anyone interested in conducting such trade. Special steps are being
taken to control Government recurrent spending and to reduce parastatal
losses. The functions of key agricultural agencies are being reduced and
will be taken over by other bodies, such as cooperatives. All of these
measures will serve to trim overall burdens on the public sector and give
further encouragement to smallholder production.
15.       However, while most of the key issues of economic recovery have
been raised in the Government's Structural Adjustment Program, important
decisions remain to be taken on matters such as the exchange rate and real
adjustments to agricultural prices. Furthermore, the Government has yet to
complete the preparation of specific action programs in key sectors (e.g.
transport) which would have a measurable impact on production. In



- 6 -
the most important economic sector - agriculture - a Presidential
Commission has recently prepared a detailed set of recommendations, and a
Government policy paper on agriculture has been issued. Measures proposed
include the elimination of most consumer food price subsidies, reduction in
the field marketing responsibilities of the export crop parastatals,
relaxation of import procedures for agricultural inputs and equipment and
the strengthening of researc]n and extension services. However, follow-up
work is still needed to permit implementation of some of these measures and
to define appropriate policiess in other key areas, especially the
decentralization of input distribution and the diversification of crop
marketing channels. Further work is also necessary in estimating the
resource requirements of a medium term adjustment program and indicating
precisely how domestic and foreign exchange budgets will be administered to
support the program.
16.       A Bank economic mission reviewed the Government's program in
September/October 1982.  The recommendations of the Government's
Agricultural Commission, and an agricultural sector report prepared by Banlk
staff were also discussed with senior Government officials in Dar es Salaam
in March 1983. Bank staff will assist the Government during the next few
months in further strengthening its proposed agricultural rehabilitation
program.
17.       Discussions with the IMF on a possible Standby Arrangement are
continuing. Tanzania has ha,l no access to Fund facilities since December
1980, when the Government failed to meet performance targets under a
previous Standby. Following three rounds of discussions in May, June and
August 1982, the Government invited a Fund mission to visit Dar es Salaam
for three weeks in October 1982. No agreement was reached during this
mission, particularly on the appropriate magnitude of an exchange rate
adjustment, and discussions were resumed briefly in Washing/ton in March
1983. An IMF mission visited Tanzania again for Article IV consultations
in April 1983.
18.       Even with a much improved export performance, Tanzania will
continue to face a very difficult balance of payments situation, especially
over the next three to five years. To sustain an increase in per capita
GDP will require increasing amounts of aid in real terms and a careful
review of import requirements, especially those for low-priority projects
with long gestation periods and high foreign exchange costs.  Otherwise the
prospects would be for generally stagnant economic activity over the 1980s
as a whole, with a substantial decline in per capita incomes.  To avoid
this, there will need to be continued emphasis on export performance and a
concerted effort to improve the level of capacity utilization and effi-
ciency in the economy. Furthermore, this must be done without jeopardizing
vital food production.
19.       Although it may be possible to finance a small portion of the
current account gap through commercial borrowings, the scope for this is
clearly limited; in addition to the difficulties of raising commercial
credit during a period of balance of payments problems, Tarnzania simply
cannot afford the heavy burd,en of debt service payments. Therefore, the
bulk of the financing requirements will have to be met by additional
foreign assistance. Possible sources for this include further drawings



from the IMF (which could add US$100 million per annum), deferred payment
arrangements and other concessional financing from oil-supplying countries,
additional new commitments from traditional bilateral and multilateral
sources, and a continued movement towards non-project assistance.
External Debt
20.       Owing to the very concessional terms on which past aid has been
given to Tanzania and the Government's previous reluctance to use higher
cost commercial loans and suppliers' credits, the country's overall debt
service ratio has historically been less than 10%. However, the debt
service burden is expected to increase as past loans fall due for repayment
and new borrowings, including some on commercial terms, are required to
meet the widening balance of payments gap. Such borrowings, together with
very poor export prospects, could raise the debt service ratio to 15%-20%
during the 1980s. In 1981, it is estimated that the Bank held 14% of
Tanzania's external debt outstanding and disbursed (for the Bank Group, it
was 33%) and the Bank Group received 21% of Tanzania's debt service.
Including Tanzania's share of obligations under East Africa Community
loans, the Bank's exposure was 17% (and the Bank Group share, 36%). This
level of Bank exposure reflects in part the impact of recent debt
write-offs, totalling US$277 million in 1978 and 1979. We are projecting
the Bank Group's share in debt service to fall over the coming decade owing
to the reduced IBRD component in the lending program and the continued need
for Tanzania to borrow funds on less concessional terms from other sources.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
21.       Tanzania joined the Bank, IDA and IFC in 1962.  Beginning with an
IDA credit for education in 1963, 54 IDA credits and 19 Bank loans, two of
these on Third Window terms, amounting to US$1046.8 million have so far
been approved for Tanzania. In addition, Tanzania has been a beneficiary
of 10 loans totalling US$244.8 million which were extended for the
development of the common services and development bank operated regionally
by Tanzania, Kenya and Uganda through their association in the East African
Community. IFC investments in Tanzania, totalling US$4.7 million, were
made to the Kilombero Sugar Company in 1960 and 1964. This Company
encountered financial difficulties and in 1969, IFC and other investors
sold their interest in the Company to the Government. A new IFC investment
of US$1.7 million in soap manufacturing in Mbeya was approved by the
Executive Directors on June 8, 1978 and an investment of US$1.5 million in
metal product manufacturing was approved in May, 1979. Annex II contains
summary statements of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments to
Tanzania and the East African Community organizations and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects.
22.       Bank Group lending in Tanzania has been centered on:  (i)
agriculture; (ii) transport and communications; (iii) industry; and (iv)
education and manpower development. Since FY81, new Bank Group lending has
been focussed primarily on rehabilitation and use of existing productive
facilities and the introduction of infrastructure and services (such as
power generation and education facilities) of long term use to the
economy. Projects have been designed to minimize new demands on the
Government's recurrent, development and foreign exchange budgets; have been



- 8 -
centered on already experienced or financially healthy institutions; have
been logistically insulated, as far as possible, from general supply
difficulties in the economy; and have included considerable technical
assistance and training for better maintenance and use of existing capital
facilities and more effective resource allocati on in the economy. Recent
lending along these lines has included a seconcd petroleum exploration
project, a third technical assistance credit (focussed on key manpower gaps
in the agricultural sector), and a rehabilitati-on project i-or the Dar es
Salaam sewerage system.
23.        A small number of other projects may be proposed in the
agriculture, energy and transport sectors during the next three years.  A
fourth power project, a rehabilitation program for the port of Dar es
Salaam and an eighth education project have been appraised.  A sixth
highways project, involving mainly the reconstruction of sections of the
Tanzania-Zambia highway, and a sugar and cotton rehabilitation project are
also under preparation. However, the design of viable pro jects in the
productive sectors of the economy, especially aLgriculture and industry,
will remain problematical iDn the absence of a wide ranging economic
adjustment program.
24.        In addition to financing specific prcjects, the Bank Group has
provided non-project assistance on three occasions in support of
Government efforts to deal with its balance of payments dif-ficulties. The
first such Credit was made in 1974, the second in 1977, ancd the most
recent, an Export Rehabilitation Program Credit (No. 11.33-TA), in April
1981.
25.        Project implementation in Tanzania has been adversely affected
during the last four years by the disruptions of the Uganda. War and the
country's extreme foreign exchange difficulties, which haves resulted in
shortages of fuel and building materials, even when budgetary allocations
for, purchasing them have been adequate. External financing agencies have
been increasing the share of direct and indirect foreign exchange costs
covered by project budgets; however, it is impossible to cuishion projects
completely, particularly in remote areas, from the ramifications of the
economic crisis. Despite implem[entation difficulties, disbursements have
remained remarkably steady; Bank Group disbursements grew from US$58
million in FY78 to US$81 million in FY81 and reached US$114 million in
FY82. A comparison with other portfolios in the Eastern Africa Region
indicates that Tanzanian disbursements have been slightly below average for
the Region, ranging as a proportion of outstanding commiitments at the start
of the financial year, from 18.9% in 1976 to 15.7% in 1980 (compared with
20.6% and 16.5% in the same years for the Region as a whole).
26.        Supervision missions have been concerned with adapting project
implementation to difficult factors facing the country or individual
sectors, which were not anticzipated or have proved worse than expected at
appraisal. A major Country Implementation Review was held in Dar es Salaam
in October 1982 during which Government officials and Bank staff agreed to
recommend the restructuring or discontinuation of several projects which
have faced persistent implementation problems. At the same time it was
agreed that the Project Implementation Monitoring Unit at the Ministry of
Planning and Economic Affairs would be strengthened as a focal point for
further consolidation and imi?rovements in the Bank Group program.



- 9 -
Intensive supervision, and in the case of the Mufindi Pulp and Paper
Project, timely assistance from co-financiers have already had some
remedial results. Even in the agricultural sector, where constraints on
implementation have been most severe, there have been important
improvements in some projects, e.g. Dairy Development. However,
considerable work remains to be done in improving project implementation
and disbursements. The next Country Implementation Review will be held in
October 1983.
East African Community (EAC)
27.        Developments affecting the East African Community (EAC) were
outlined to the Executive Directors in a memorandum, dated December 29,
1977, (R77-312) and in a statement made on May 6, 1980 (Sec M80-364). One
of the positive results of the ongoing mediation effort has been the
Partner States' decision, taken upon the mediator's recommendation, that
the East Africa Development Bank (EADB) -- one of the former Community's
institutions -- should continue, and a revised charter to this effect has
been enacted. The three Governments commented on the mediator's proposals
for the three Partner States during their meeting in Nairobi in July 1981,
and decided to commence negotiations based on the mediator's proposals.
The negotiations started in December 1981 in Arusha and continued in April
1982 in Jinja, September 1982 in Nairobi and December 1982 in Kampala.
The discussions have passed the fact finding stage and are now focussing on
details of a division formula for assets and debts. While it is generally
accepted that both location of assets and the principle of equal rights of
all former EAC partners should be taken into account, the weight to be
given to these principles from case to case remains the major issue in the
continuing negotiations.
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
28.       At Independence in 1961, Tanzania had only a rudimentary
industrial structure, with cotton ginning being the single largest
manufacturing sub-sector. Total manufacturing employment was only about
20,000 out of a total labor force of around 5 million and manufacturing and
handicrafts together contributed less than 5% of GDP.
29.       With the new orientation of economic policies after the Arusha
Declaration of 1967, industrial development became a major concern of the
Government, the primary focus being on import substitution in essential
consumer goods and meeting the basic needs of the population. The Basic
Industrial Strategy, which was adopted by the Government in 1974, provided
the guidelines for restricting the range of products by placing emphasis on
the use of domestic resources in the production of import substitutes.
Major manufacturing plants were brought under the newly established
Government parastatals (companies), and these parastatals became the
leading investors in medium and larger scale industrial units. However,
even with the increase in parastatal activity, the private sector still
accounted for more than two thirds of manufacturing value added.



- 10 -
30.       The expansion of public ownership of manufacturing enterprises
has been accompanied by increasing reliance on direct controls in
allocation decisions.  Components of the control system include centralized
decision making on investments, detailed allocations of foreign exchange
through import licensing, credit allocations according to the annual
Finance and Credit Plan, wage setting, and price controls.
31.       The growth of industry until the early 1970s was significant.
During 1966 to 1973, the manufacturing sector grew by 7.82 per annum and
its share in total GDP incr,sased from 8% to 11%. The major contributions
to this growth came from the newly developed large-scale industries.
However, even before the impact of the adverse events of the mid-1970s, the
growth rate was beginning tD slow. Furthermore, despite the emphasis on
the development of industries producing capital and intermediate goods, the
dominant activity remained the production of consumer goods: by the
mid-1970s, basic consumer goods--viz. food processing, beverages, tobacco,
cotton, textiles and shoes--still accounted for more than one-half of value
added and two-thirds of empLoyment in manufacturing.
32.       After 1973, the performance of the industrial sector deteriorated
in the wake of steep increases in the prices of imported commodities and
the acute balance of paymenls problem. From 1973 to 1979, manufacturing
value added grew by only 1.7% per annum in real terms, with an actual
decline of 5.2% in 1979; as a result, in 1980 value added was no higher
than in 1973.
33.       The principal problems facing the industrial sector at present
are the critical shortage ol- foreign exchange and low capacity
utilization. In 1981, due 1:o tihe lack of foreign exchange, manufacturing
enterprises received only 14% of their requested imports of raw materials
compared to 50% in 1978, andl this was further reduced in 1982. At the same
time, despite the stagnation in output, investment in new capacity
increased sharply after 1975 and more than tripled over the next four
years. With rising import prices, the foreign exchange allocated to
industry simply has been too small to allow firms to operate efficiently.
As a result, with the exception of firms producing beer and cigarettes
where capacity utilization iis high, average capacity utilization has now
dropped to 30% compared to 70% in 1978. Other factors such as
interruptions in power and water supplies, inadlequate and costly transport,
machinery breakdowns, lack of skilled labor andi experienced management, and
irregular supplies of domestic inputs have also constrained industrial
output. Employment, however, continued to grow by more than 8 percent per
year between 1973 and 1979, despite the dismal trend in output. The
decline in productivity which this implied was particularly noticeable
among the parastatals.
34.       Manufacturing exports accounted for only 6% of total exports in
1978.  Since 1978, the Government has given prjiority to industrial export
promotion and has achieved some success. The value of manuafactured goods
exports increased from about: US',30 million in ]978 to US$815 million in 1980
and were an estimated US$62.5 mi'llion in 1981.  Most of this increase has
been through the expansion of trade with neighboring countries under
bilateral trade agreements. The difficulty with this pattern of trade is
that most of these countries are experiencing severe balance of payments



- 11 -
difficulties and payments to Tanzania in hard currencies are problematical.
Tanzania has also begun discussions and concluded bilateral trade
agreements with various Eastern European countries.
35.       Faced with a deepening economic crisis, the Government is showing
flexibility in the implementation of some of its policies. The
Government's Structural Adjustment Program of 1982 recognizes the
shortcomings of past policies and the need to rationalize and streamline
the country's industrial structure, including the possibilities of
postponing, redesigning and cancelling some existing projects and closing
down inefficient firms. At the same time, the Program gives priority to
increasing the capacity utilization of the efficient firms producing
essential goods for the domestic market and completing projects based on
local resources with significant export potential (e.g. Mufindi). The
coverage of price controls has been substantially reduced from over 2,000
to around 500 items. Furthermore, enterprises have been encouraged to
introduce payment-by-results schemes and to boost labor productivity.
Under the IDA financed Export Rehabilitation Program (Cr. No. 1133-TA)
approved in 1981, the Government introduced a number of specific measures
to encourage nontraditional exports, including a cash export bonus scheme.
National Development Corporation and the Southern Paper Mills Company
36.       The National Development Corporation (NDC) and its subsidiary,
the Southern Paper Mills Company (SPM), are the co-sponsors of the proposed
project. NDC was the sponsor of the Mufindi Pulp and Paper Project
(Mufindi Project) financed by the Bank and IDA (Loan No. 1650-TA/Credit
No. 875-TA) in 1979. SPM, which is responsible for the implementation and
operation of the Mufindi project, would be the ultimate beneficiary of the
proposed credit.
37.       NDC was established in 1964 with its headquarters in Dar es
Salaam. It is Tanzania's largest parastatal holding company, in terms of
total investment, with its plants effectively operating as separate legal
and financial entities, and the country's principal instrument for
industrial investment until the Government reorganization of the industrial
sector which took place during 1979/80.
38.       In 1979/1980 new corporate groups were established to be
independent of NDC. All leather tanning and processing companies formed
the "Tanzania Leather Associated Industries" (TLAI); paper converting,
printing and publishing companies were grouped together as the "Tanzania
Karatasi Associated Industries" (TKAI); the Tanzania Cigarette Company and
Tanzania Breweries became autonomous organizations reporting directly to
the Ministry of Industry; Tanganyika Instant Coffee was transferred from
NDC to the Tanzania Coffee Authority (TCA); chemicals and allied products
companies formed "The National Chemical Industries" (NCI); and, all motor
vehicle activities were transferred from NDC to the State Motor
Corporation.
39.       NDC's ten-man Board of Directors functions as a policy making and
controlling body as well as a liaison and coordinating group between NDC
and the Government. The influence of the Government on financial and
investment planning is strong, although there is little direct involve-



- 12 -
ment in day-to-day operational matters. NDC is: well managed and has
demonstrated great competence in. the implementation of the Mufindi
Project. NDC has 227 staff (excluding the employees in subsidiary
companies) of whom 98 are professionals (including two expatriates) serving
in five operating departments: -- (i) Planning aLnd Finance; (ii) Accounting;
(iii) Manpower Development; (iv) Administration; and (v) Inuustrial
Development. The Industrial Development Department, which prepares and
implements projects for NDC as well as monitors existing operations, is
organized into five Divisions, each responsible for a specific group of
sectors of NDC's activities. This Department, together with SPM, is
responsible for the implementation of the Mufindi Project.
40.        NDC holds shares in 13 operating companies of which 12 are
classified as subsidiaries (over 50% NDC shareholding). Its total
portfolio is currently Tshs 488.5 million (US$52 million).  The 13
companies operate in the fields of metal working, mechanical and electrical
engineering employing a total of 4,200 people.  The consolidated operations
of the NDC Group companies have been profitable every year since 1975. The
overall capitalization of NDC had a debt/equity ratio cf 7/93 as of
December 31, 1981.
41.        SPM was formed as a limited liability company under Tanzanian
industrial and commercial laws.  Its initial authorized share capital of
TSh 10 million has been increased to TSh 1,500 million to provide for
additional equity subscriptions as execution of the project proceeds.
While NDC will own all the company's shares, the management of SPM will be
autonomous; NDC would invest the proceeds of the proposed credit to
increase its shareholding in SPM. The total staff of SPM, after the start
of operations, is planned to reach about 1,500 people.
Forest Resources and Industries
42.        Almost half of Tanzania's land area is classified as forest land,
although most of this is dominated by slow growing scattered trees which
yield little commercial timber. There are however, about 900,000 hectares
of commercial forests, of which about one quarter is being exploited.
Most of the balance is eithe r in-accessible or poorly stocked. The
indigenous forests supply most of the fuelwood and timber for the
population.
43.        The most valuable forest resources of the country consist of
about 60,000 hectares of sofitwood plantations. A,bout half of this is
scattered throughout the country and the other half is at Sao Hill, where
pine plantations have been developed with Bank Group financing. The Sao
Hill plantation presently supplies wood to the Tanzania Wood Industries
Corporation (TWICO) sawmill at Sao Hill, and wi:Ll be the source of the main
raw material for the Mufindi Pulp and Paper Pro,ect.
44.        Forest-based industries are not highly developed in Tanzania.
There are about 150 small andL ill-equipped sawmills producing about
150,000 cubic meters per year. The TWICO mill, the only sawmill of
reasonably efficient design and size, produces about 12,000 cubic meters
per year.  It has an annual design capacity of 45,000 cubic meters per year
but is restricted in its output by a shortage of foreign currency which



- 13 -
results in poor maintenance, breakdowns of logging trucks, and a resulting
shortage of sawlogs.
45.       Tanzania's paper industry is very small and most of the country's
paper is imported. Kibo Paper Industries Limited, an NDC subsidiary, began
operating near Dar es Salaam in June 1978, producing 10 tons per day of low
grade papers and board from waste paper and imported pulp. In the fall of
1982, Kibo Match Company started up another small board plant with a
capacity of 36 tons per day at Moshi, producing a reasonable quality of
board from waste paper and groundwood prepared on-site from pine and
imported pulp. The Dar es Salaam plant is being expanded as a sub-project
under the Bank Group's fourth line of credit to the Tanzania Investment
Bank (Ln. 1750-TA), to produce 30 tons of paper per day. The grades
produced at Kibo Paper and at Kibo Match all contain waste paper and are
threfore of a lower quality and are aimed -at a different end use than the
grades to be produced at Mufindi (see paragraphs 59-60 below).
Bank Group Experience in Industry and Forestry
46.       The Bank Group has approved projects totalling US$215 million in
Tanzania's industry and forestry sectors. These include four lines of
credit to the Tanzania Investment Bank (TIB) (US$61 million); one line of
credit to the Tanganyika Development Finance Limited (TDFL) (US$11
million); two textile projects at Mwanza and Morogoro (US$60 million); an
industrial estate project at Morogoro (US$23 million); and an integrated
pulp and paper project at Mufindi (US$60 million). The two forestry
projects (Sao Hill Phases I and II), involved Bank Group assistance of
US$19 million.
47.       The Bank Group has been involved with TIB and TDFL since they
were established to provide medium and long-term finance for investments in
the productive sectors.  These development finance companies have become
relatively mature organizations with substantially increased operations.
However, in view of the severe foreign exchange crisis since 1979, TIB has
reoriented its operational strategy in the near term towards assisting its
borrowers to rehabilitate or modernize their plants, improve capacity
utilization, and promote exports.
48.       The two textile investments were made in subsidiaries of the
National Textile Corporation. The first loan of US$15 million
(Ln. 1128-TA) financed the expansion of the Mwanza Textile Corporation mill
by 20 million square meters per annum. The project was completed on
schedule, well within budget, and operated extremely well for 18 months,
until it experienced serious difficulties due to power failures and the
lack of foreign exchange for import of supplies and spare parts. The
second project, the Morogoro Textile Project (Ln. 833-TA of US$20 million
and Ln. 1607-TA of US$25 million) involved the construction of an
integrated polyester textile mill with an annual capacity of 21.5 million
meters of blended fabrics and 650 tons of yarns. Implementation of this
project has been delayed by about three years, largely due to delays in
awarding the main civil works contract and the lack of funds previously
committed to the project. Furthermore, in view of Tanzania's foreign
exchange difficulties, the project has been modified to produce 100% cotton
fabrics instead of polyester blends. The modified project is now expected
to be completed by the end of 1984 with a cost overrun of about 25%.



- 14 -
49.       The Morogoro Industrial Complex Project (Loans 1385-TA and
1386-TA of US$11.5 million each) is essentially, complete. However, the
operation of one of its components - a shoe factory - has ifaced serious
difficulties and operated at only a fraction of capacity, owing to poor
management and a severe shortage! of foreign exchange for spare parts and
some imported materials. The Gcovernment, with the assiLstance of UNIDO
consultants, is studying various options to restructure and strengthen the
leather and shoe industry. Progress of implementation of the Mufindi Pulp
and Paper Project (Loan No. 1650-TA and Credit 875-TA of US$30 million) is
dealt with in paragraphs 51-66 below.
50.       A Bank loan of US$7.0 million (No. 1307-TA) was approved in 1976
for the First Sao Hill Forestry Project. This project was completed in
late 1981. About 18,000 ha of plantations have been estab:Lished, exceeding
the original target by about 10%. The Second Sao Hill Project, financed
under Credit No. 1229-TA of US$12 million, of April 1982, will finance the
further development of about 18,000 ha of existing plantat:ions and the
establishment and development of about 10,000 ha of new plantations.
Implementation of this project has just begun. The above projects,
particularly those that have started operationE;, have demonstrated the
paramount importance of good marnagement and training and adequate foreign
exchange funds for recurrent operating needs to ensure efficient and high
utilization of plant capacity.  These lessons are the principal foundation
of the proposed project.
The Mufindi Pulp and Paper Project
51.       Introduction.  The proposed project would be a follow-up to the
Mufindi Pulp and Paper Project (Mufindi Project) which was financed in 1979
by the Bank Group, the Swedish International Development Authority (SIDA),
the Federal Republic of Germiany (KfW), the Commonwealth Development
Corporation (CDC), the Kuwait Fund, the OPEC Special Fund, and the Nordic
Investment Bank (NIB), and i.s now reaching the final stages of
implementation. The financing required for the follow--up project is
estimated at US$45 million equivalent, including US$40 mil:Lion in foreign
exchange, for three components: operating management assistance and
training; energy conversion; ancl imported operating supplies for about
three years of operations.
52.       Operating management assistance and training, which would be the
major part of the proposed project, were foreseen as necessary at the time
of the original Mufindi Project appraisal in view of the country's lack of
skilled personnel to operate such a pulp and paper mill. The energy
conversion component, which includes the modification of the power boiler
and provision of necessary equipment to harvest, prepare and deliver
fuelwood to the mill, is made necessary because of the high cost of both
imported coal and oil and the delays Tanzania has experieneed in developing
its indigenous coal resource.s, which at the time of thes MuEindi Project
appraisal, were expected to be the primary fue:L for the mill. The
deterioration of the Tanzanian economy in the intervening years and the
present severe lack of foreign exchange has resulted in thie need to provide
the Mufindi mill with foreign funds to finance imported operating materials
for the first few years unti.l the mill can support itself through export
earnings. The implementation of the proposed project is tied directly to



- 15 -
the completion schedule of the Mufindi mill and its associated
infrastructure.
53.       Description.  The Mufindi Project is under construction in Iringa
District, some 800 km southwest of Dar es Salaam. The mill is designed to
utilize the forest resources of the nearby Sao Hill plantations, and will
have a production capacity of 60,000 tons per annum (tpa) of various
categories of pulp, paper and paperboard. It will produce printing and
writing papers, newsprint, kraft sack paper, and linerboard and will supply
all of the country's requirements except for certain grades such as
tissues, cigarette paper, bank note, and similar low volume specialized
grades. A small amount of semi-bleached kraft pulp will also be produced
for sale to other mills in Tanzania. A significant portion of the mill's
output will be exported.
54.       Modern but appropriate technology has been applied in the design
of the mill which will use a standard bleached kraft pulping process with
chemical recovery and a conventional stone groundwood mill, to supply pulp
to two paper machines. The mill also includes an electro-chemical plant
for the manufacture of the chlorine and caustic soda required in the pulp
bleaching process, as well as primary and secondary effluent treatment
facilities.
55.       Status of Implementation.  Physical implementation of the Mufindi
Project is proceeding well although anticipated completion is about 18
months behind the appraisal estimate. This delay is due mainly to delays
in making all of the project financing effective. The civil works are now
complete. All of the major process equipment packages have been purchased
and are on site. Erection of the equipment has been started. The two
paper machines are currently scheduled for start-up in July 1984 and
January 1985. The present implementation schedule is given in Annex IV.
56.       Several key items of infrastructure essential to the Mufindi
Project, including the power line, railway sidings, escarpment road and
township for mill personnel are being implemented by the Government and
financed outside the Project. These infrastructure items have been delayed
to varying degrees but are now under control. The power line and railway
siding are essentially complete . Construction of the escarpment road for
delivery of wood to the mill is underway, after some delays due to
procedural problems in making the foreign loan (EEC) effective and in
appointing the consultants and contractor for the work. Since the
completion of the road is not expected until August 1984 - following the
start-up of the first paper machine (July 1984) - alternative temporary
arrangements will be made to transport the wood to the mill site via the
railway. The township is now under construction using supplementary
financing of US$25 million from the Kuwait Fund, and will be completed in
February 1985. However, with the purchase of the contractors' houses,
there will be sufficient housing to accommodate the operating personnel
(mostly bachelors) for the start-up of the mill. In summary, implemen-
tation of the Mufindi project has proceeded remarkably well despite
Tanzania's difficult economic circumstances.
57.       Project Cost and Financing Plan.  The following table summarizes
the current (February 1983) and appraisal estimates of the project cost.
Further details are presented in Annex V.



- 16 -
Mufindi Project - Summary Cost Estimate
(US$ million)
Appraisal                 Current
Local  Foreign  Total  L.ocal  Foreign  Total
Plant Cost                       21.8    130.3  152.1    39.2    171.2  210.4
Other a/                          7.7     11.8   19.5      7.8      16.5   24.3
Base Cost Estimate               29.5    142.1  171.6    47.0    187.7  234.7
Contingencies & Escalation        9.5     36.6   46.1      3.0       5.3    8.3
Installed Cost                   39.0    178.7  217.7    50.0    193.0  243.0
Working Capital                   4.0      2.7    6.7      4.8       5.2   10.0
Interest During Construction   15.1       12.2  _27.3    17.8        5.6   23.4
Total Financing Required         58.1    193.6  251.7    72.6    203.8  276.4
a/  Includes logging capital and pre-operating cost.
The total financing required for the Mufindi Project is currently estimated
at US$276.4 million equivalent, about a 10% increase over the appraisal
estimate of US$251.7 million. The revised total foreign exchange
requirement of US$203.8 million represents an increase of about 5% compared
to the appraisal estimate of US$193.6 million. These cost increases are
due primarily to the delay in project implementation. The present cost
estimates of the project, shown above, are based largely on. fixed price
contracts already awarded and are therefore considered reasonably firm.
58.       As seen from the above table, the project which was fully
financed at the time of appraisal now has higher financing requirements,
amounting to US$14.5 million equivalent in local currency and US$10.2
million in foreign exchange. The Mufindi Project has been assigned high
priority by the Government and has received all the local currency needed
throughout project implementation. In FY83 the Government has provided
TSh 233 million (US$24 million) and will allocate TSh 200 million (US$21.3
million) in the budget for FY84. The additional foreign exchange
requirements have been met through a supplier's credit (Yugoslavia) in
connection with the mechanical erection contract. The costs of the
infrastructure still under construction, namely the township and escarpment
road, have been fully financed by the Government, the EEC, and the Kuwait
Fund.
59.       Mufindi Market Prospects.  The Mufindi Project was originally
intended to supply primarily the domestic market and, at the time of
appraisal, it was estimated that, on average, less than 6,000 tons per year
would be available for export during the first eight years of operation.
By 1990, it was expected that the domestic market would consume all of the
mill's output. However, the domestic market has stagnated, due to both a



- 17 -
shortage of foreign exchange for imports and a general decline in economic
activity in the country. Actual consumption over the past several years
was as follows:
Paper Consumption in Tanzania
Year                           (tons)
1977                           37,500
1978                           30,500
1979                           24,800
1980                           24,500
1981                           26,500
Sources: Government Statistics
60.       A large part of the country's paper imports in recent years has
been made through commodity aid programs from Sweden and Canada.  An
analysis of the grades of paper and paper board consumed in 1981 indicates
that, of a total of 26,500 tons, approximately 21,900 tons were of the
grades that can be produced by the Mufindi mill; the balance of 4,600 tons
consisted of board paper and other grades which were either produced
locally (paragraph 45) or imported.   Current estimates are that the
shortage of foreign exchange will limit paper imports and hence constrain
domestic consumption at existing levels until mill start-up, but it is
expected that consumption will increase by 20% to about 32,000 tons in 1985
to fill latent demand.This represents only 85% of the level of consumption
reached in 1977. Thereafter, the market is projected to grow at 5.6%
annually to satisfy incremental demand and reach about 43,000 tons by
1990. This will leave a significant exportable surplus that will amount to
about 36% of the total output of the mill in its first five years, assuming
it operates at near to full capacity. Should the market stagnate at the
1986 level, the mill would have to export 42% of its total production
during this five year period.
Mufindi Mill - Production and Exportable Surplus
(Thousand tons)
Exportable
Year               Mufindi Production    Domestic Demand a/         Surplus
1984                    7.5                      26.3
1985                   33.0                      27.8                 5.2
1986                   44.0                      29.4                14.6
1987                   51.4                      31.0                20.4
1988                   56.9                      32.6                24.3
1989                   60.0                      34.5                25.5
1990                   60.0                      36.4 b/             23.6
a/ Only the grades to be produced by Mufindi.
b/ The balance of the domestic demand of 6,600 tons would be met from the
production of the other two mills (Kibo Paper Industries and Kibo Match
Company) as well as imports (about 2,000 tons).



- 18 -
61.        The grades considered most suitable for export are those which
are widely traded throughout the world, namely newsprint and sack kraft
(cement bag paper), and to a lesser extent, printing and writing papers.
The major potential marketing areas are the Middle East and the Indian
sub-continent. Neighboring Eastern African countries will offer additional
marketing opportunities although these will be limited by the lack of
foreign exchange in these countries.
62.       Newsprint is the major item of potential sale tc) India, which  in
1981 imported over 300,000 tons of this grade. The total quantity of
newsprint to be exported from Mufindi (i.e. about 15,000 tons) would be
less than 5% of India's imports. All of the Middle East countries are net
importers of paper. In 1980, their combined imports were about 830,000
tons. Mufindi's total exports would be about 2% of this figure, and half
of that would probably be sold to India as newsprint. With the marketing
know-how to be provided under the project's operating management assistance
and the intimate knowledge that one of the parties in this assistance, the
Seshasayee Paper and Board Company of Madras (paragraph 70) has of the
Indian market, it is expected that Mufindi's exportable surplus will be
successfully marketed.Furthermore, the operating management contract (OMC)
contains strong export incentives as the management firm would receive a
significant bonus based on sales. Because of its modern equipment, high
quality wood supply and the technical skill of the management team, Mufindi
will also produce paper of internationally acceptable quality.
Nevertheless, it is expected that in the initial years of operation,
Mufindi will have to offer )rice discounts to penetrate the market. Under
the operating contract discussed in paragraphs 69-71 below, the expatriate
management of the Mufindi mill would be required to prepare annual
marketing plans, the first of which would be ready by March 31, 1984, i.e.,
three months before the start of the first paper machine (Section 3.05 of
the draft Joint Financing Agreement).
63.       Prices of pulp and paper products have been rising sharply since
1979, due to higher costs of wood and energy, which together account for
about 60% of production cost.  In the past year, however, because of
oversupply, prf.ces have dec:lined by about 15%, and in the first quarter of
1983 have returned to the levels of mid-1980. These trends are graphically
illustrated in Annex VI. It is anticipated that in about two years, the
supply demand situation wil:L be in balance and prices will return to their
previous trend. In the case of newsprint, for example, it is anticipated
that by 1985, when Mufindi wouldl be starting production, the international
price f.o.b. Canada, the world's major newsprint exporter, will reach
US$550/ton in current terms, which was the price prevailing in 1982/83.
Equivalent prices for other grades to be produced by Mufindi are US$600/ton
for sackkraft and US$925/ton for printing and writing paper. The
corresponding c.i.f. prices at Dar es Salaam, landed prices (after addition
of the prevailing 15% imporl: duty) and the ex-mill prices used in the
projections for both domestic sales and export are summarized below from
Annex VI. As shown in Annex VI, the assumed c.i.f. prices for paper at DaLr
es Salaam are slightly lower than the corresponding c.i.f. prices in IndiaL
which imports large quantities of paper and pays freight charges very close
to those paid by Tanzania for its paper imports. The ex-mill price is
calculated by deducting from the landed price of paper the transport cost



- 19 -
of paper from Mufindi to Dar es Salaam (US$30-40/ton equivalent), the
largest consuming center of paper in Tanzania.
Import and Mufindi Mill Net Prices
C.I.F.        Landed in            Mill Net Price
Dar es Salaam  Dar es Salaam         Domestic    Export
--------------------1985 US$/ton---------------------
Newsprint                   675               775              745         525
Sackkraft                  725                835              804         575
Printing and Writing    1,075               1,240            1,200          -
64.       At present the Government sets the prices of paper at the c.i.f.
import price, plus 15% import duty.  The Government has reconfirmed its
previous commitment to establish prices at levels which will permit SPM,
operating efficiently, to obtain revenues sufficient to cover all of its
costs, to service all of its debts and to earn a reasonable return on its
invested capital (Section 5.07 of the draft Joint Financing Agreement).
This will require that the existing modest import duty be maintained to
enable the project to cover its initial start-up cost as well as high
infrastructure cost that any new mill has to carry. As regards exports, it
is assumed that the Mufindi mill may have to provide a US$50 discount per
ton on its exports which would seem sufficient to penetrate the market.
Although export prices would be lower than corresponding domestic prices,
they would still be higher than the production cost (US$400/ton for
newsprint and $510/ton for sackkraft in 1985 prices) and would allow the
company to generate the foreign exchange required to operate the mill.
65.       Raw Materials and Fuel Supplies.  The primary raw material for
the Mufindi mill is the pine resource from the Bank-financed Sao Hill
plantations. When the Mufindi mill is at full production in 1990,
availability of pine from Sao Hill will be 350,000 cubic meters per year on
a sustained yield basis, which will easily meet the pine demand of about
250,000 cubic meters per year for Mufindi and 50,000 cubic meters per year
for the Sao Hill Sawmill. The pulpmill's requirement of short-fibered wood
will be met from eucalyptus also planted under the Sao Hill Project. The
annual allowable cut of eucalyptus is over 50,000 cubic meters per year
compared with the pulpmill's requirement of about 11,000 cubic meters per
year at full production rate. The total volume and the ratio between pine
and eucalyptus required by Mufindi mill will depend on the grade mix of
papers produced. The majority of chemicals for the Mufindi mill will need
to be imported. The two exceptions are limestone which is available from
domestic quarries, and salt, obtained by solar evaporation of seawater.
66.       At the time of appraisal, it was expected that the Songwe-Kiwira
coal deposit would be developed and provide the main source of fuel for the
power boiler of the Mufindi mill. This development has not taken place and
it is for this reason, plus the difficult logistics and high cost of
imported coal or oil that the proposed new project would contain a major
component to convert the boiler to burn fuelwood. The source of this wood,
and the proposed scheme of harvesting and delivering it are discussed in



- 20 -
detail in paragraphs 72-74 below. In order to simplify operations at
start-up, it is envisaged that during the initial months of operation, the
boiler will burn fuel oil obtained from a domestic refinery operating on
imported crude or coal imported from a neighboring country. The power
supply for the mill will be obtained from the existing interconnected grid
system, which was recently expanded to serve the Mufindi area.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Background, Objectives and Description
67.       The eventual financing of technical assistance for the Mufindi
mill has been a recurrent topic of project supervision missions and
periodic consultations with the co-financiers. The proposed OMC contract
was prepared by NDC, with the assistance of its legal advisers and Bank
staff, and negotiated during the period August-November 1982. The proposed
project was appraised in February 1983. Negotiations were held in
Washington D.C. on April 22, 1983. The Tanzanian delegation was led by
Mr. Francis Byabato, Assistant Commissioner, Ministry of Finance, and
included Mr. Arnold Kilewo, Chairman and Managing Director, NDC. A Credit
and Project Summary is given at the beginning of this report. A
Supplementary Project Data Slheet is attached as Annex III.
68.       With the Mufindi Project expected to be completed in mid-1984, a
major effort will be require,d to manage and operate the mill and market its
output. This is the main objective of the proposed project which would:
(i) provide Southern Paper Mills Company (SPM) with expatriate
operating management and training services for six years, including about
one year prior to the start-uip of the first paper machine in July 1984;
(ii)  convert the existing power boiler from dependence on oil and
coal to one that can also use wood fuel readily available from the nearby
Sao Hill plantations; and
(iii) provide SPM wiLth imported inputs such as fuel and pulp for
the first six months of operation, i.e., until the wood fuel is available,
and other materials and supp:Lies (chemicals, spares, consumables, etc.) for
about the first three years of operations.
Detailed Features
69.       Operating Management Contract.  As envisaged in the Staff
Appraisal Report of the Mufindi Project dated December 14, 1978 (Report
No. 1929-TA, paragraphs 5.27--5.33) the Mufindi mill cannot be operated
without the assistance of expatriate management, due to the unavailability
of local skilled personnel w:ith pulp and paper nill operating experience.
NDC/SPM have negotiated an operating management contract (OMC) with
Stothert International Corporation (Stothert), to manage SP]M and operate
the Mufindi mill for a period of approximately six years, including about
one year prior to start-up. Stothert is a Canadian consulting firm located
in Vancouver that specializes in pulp and paper and other forest-based



- 21 -
industries. It was founded in 1966 and is associated with C. D. Schultz
and Co., also of Vancouver, which is the oldest established forestry
consulting firm in Canada. Stothert have undertaken major operating
management assignments in Canada and in Nigeria. The personnel to be
assigned to Mufindi have acquired extensive management and operating
experience in pulp and paper industries located in developing countries.
The General Manager to be assigned by Stothert has more than 20 years
experience in operating mills in Colombia, Peru, Thailand, Guatemala, and
Nigeria. Stothert's forestry associates have worked for more than 35 years
in assignments throughout the world, including a National Forest Inventory
in Tanzania in 1970.
70.       Under the OMC, Stothert, together with its subcontractor,
Seshasayee Paper and Board (SPB) of India, would manage the entire company,
including personnel relations, financial activities, mill operation,
forestry operations, domestic and export marketing, and matters related to
the township. The General Manager would be responsible to the Board of
Directors of SPM. A Tanzanian General Manager Designate would work in
parallel with the Contractor's General Manager. An organization chart for
SPM is presented in Annex VII. Stothert personnel would fill the top 15
management and supervisory positions in SPM, and through the sub-contract
provide 131 operating and maintenance personnel from SPB. In total, the
contract provides for 4,857 man-months of services, of which 552 man-months
would be from Stothert directly, and 4,305 man-months from SPB. The
distribution of man-months by category and year is given in Annex VIII and
is considered satisfactory to allow sufficient time to train Tanzanians and
give them the necessary operating experience before assuming key positions.
71.       In addition to managing the company, Stothert would train and
develop Tanzanians systematically to take over all positions in the
company. This training, which supplements manpower development already
carried out during implementation of the Mufindi project (for about 170
people), would take place before and after mill start-up, commencing with
ovetseas courses for about 100 Tanzanians who would eventually occupy key
operating and supervisory positions in SPM.   Under this contract, the OMC
would prepare annual training programs, the first of which would be
completed by December 31, 1983 and actual training progress will be
reviewed quarterly by the Board of Directors of SPM. A bonus of US$0.6
million would be paid to the OMC based on achieving specific training
results. A detailed training program would be submitted to the Association
for its review by December 31, 1983 (Section 3.06 of the draft Joint
Financing Agreement).  Furthermore, SPM would submit to the Association by
June 30, 1984, a compensation and incentive system for its personnel to
attract and retain qualified Tanzanians (Section 4.02 of the draft Joint
Financing Agreement).
72.       Energy Conversion Component.  The lack of sufficient domestic
coal and the high cost and difficult logistics of importing coal or oil has
led to the decision to convert the power boiler to burn fuelwood as well as
these other two fuels. The proposed project would provide funds to
undertake the boiler conversion work and to harvest, prepare, and deliver
fuelwood to the mill. While considerable work is planned to develop
Tanzania's domestic coal deposits (including exploration activity under
a proposed coal engineering credit from IDA), there is uncertainty about
the cost at which this coal will be available. At recent production rates,



- 22 -
the only existing mine at Ilima will be exhausted by the end of 1983 and
production to replace it will not begin until late 1986 at the earliest.
The proposed energy conversion component would allow the Mufindi mill
considerable versatility and permit it to start production, using local
fuel resources, at a capital cost which would be recovered in three to four
years. It is also possible that it will remain more economic for the mill
to use fuelwood for its boiler, even once domestic coal becomes available,
in view of comparative transport costs. The alternative of importing coal
for a limited period, until domestic supplies are better assessed, has been
examined and found to be less attractive in view of the eventual disruption
to output which would be caused by converting the boiler at a later
date,once it was installed and operating.
73.       The present boiler is designed to produce 50 tons of steam per
hour by burning low quality domestic coal plus bark frcom pulplogs. A study
of the boiler design underta'ken by EKONO (Finland) has revealed that with
relatively minor changes to the boiler and its ancillary equipment, it can
produce the same amount of steam, necessary for running the mill at full
capacity, while burning only green fuelwood (50% moisture). This
capability has been confirmed by the boiler manufacturer, Mitsubishi Heavy
Industries (Japan) who have also provided a fixed price! for the boiler
alterations to reach its guarantee production level. This work can be
undertaken during the erection of the boiler which has already commenced.
74.        In order to generate the average steam load, EKONO estimates
that about 38,300 tons per annum, of green fuelwood (50% moisture content)
will be required. Tests undertaken by Mufindi's forestry consultants,
Swedeforest (Sweden), in the Sac Hill plantations have showm that more
than twice this amount of bio-mass will be left behind as logging residue
after pulpwood harvesting. At present, this residue must be piled and
burned in the forest in order to, clear the land for replanting.  This
material instead can be gathered., chipped and delivered to the mill to be
used as fuelwood. All of the equipment to recover this bio-mass and feed
it into portable diesel powered chippers is available as standard equipment
from several manufacturers, and would be financed under the project. It is
well proven in many installations around the world. The resulting chipped
fuelwood will be discharged to side-dumping box trailers and pulled to the
mill by truck, an average haul of 55 km.
75.       Import Requirements.  Given the difficult econom:ic environment
and the experience of other industrial enterprises in Tanzania, it is
unlikely that the mill could. operate unless imported raw materials were
made available. Therefore, the project would provide funds for this purpose
for the first three years of operation until SPM had built up a steady flow
of foreign exchange revenues' from exports. The Government has also agreed
in principle that SPM would retain part of its export earnings in a foreign
exchange account.  This account would be opened by December 31, 1983 and
adequate portions of SPM's e!xport revenues would be retained in this
account to meet its operating requirements (Section 4.04 of the draft JoirLt
Financing Agreement).  It is estimated that ret:ention of 30-40% of such
earnings would be necessary, depending on the :Level of export sales.
Furthermore, since SPM will need ready access to foreign funds for payments
to suppliers of materials and consumables long before it can be expected to
generate export revenues (irn late 1985), it would be necessary to establish



- 23 -
a revolving fund of about US$1.0 million for use by SPM to meet its
requirements of about three months. Appropriate arrangements to this
effect between the Government, SIDA and KfW were discussed during
negotiations.
Project Cost and Financing
76.       The total project cost is estimated at about US$45.0 million
equivalent, of which US$40.0 million would be in foreign exchange.
Detailed estimates are shown in the Credit and Project Summary and in
Annex IX of this Report. The OMC and overseas training is expected to cost
US$24.5 million of which US$20.5 million would be in foreign exchange. The
average cost per month for Stothert personnel is US$13,000 and for SPB,
US$2,500, including all reimbursable foreign and local expenses. These
man-month rates are considered reasonable. The training incentive bonus
(US$0.6 million) is payable only after achieving specific results.
Advisory, legal and technical services (US$0.5 million) would also be
provided to allow SPM to monitor the performance of the OMC. The estimated
sales incentive bonus (US$1.4 million) is calculated from the contract
formula which is summarized in Annex VIII. The sales and training bonuses
would represent about one third of the contractor's estimated profit. The
amount shown for escalation (US$3.4 million) includes price contingencies
on the man-month rates which are zero for the first two years and 5% per
annum fixed thereafter, as provided in the contract with Stothert.
Provision has also been made for possible escalation of 7% per annum on the
import requirement and energy conversion components. The project would be
exempted from identifiable taxes and duties.
77.       The proposed credit of SDR 16.7 million (US$18.0 million
equivalent) would cover 40% of total project costs. Complementary
financing on grant terms from SIDA (US$13.5 million equivalent) and the
Federal Republic of Germany (KfW) (US$8.5 million equivalent) would cover
30% and 19% of total costs respectively. External funds would meet 100% of
the foreign exchange costs, while the Government would finance the balance
of US$5 million in local costs (16% of total costs). The credit would be
made to Government on standard IDA terms. The proceeds of the credit would
be passed on to NDC and SPM as equity, in view of the need to maintain a
sound financial structure and debt service coverage for SPM (paragraph 82).
The following table is a summary of the project cost and financing plan.
Summary Project Cost and Financing Plan
(current US$ million)
Project Cost                 Financing Plan
Component               Local  Foreign  Total   Govt   IDA  SIDA  KfW  Total
Operating Management    4.0    20.5        24.5    4.0  15.0   5.5   -    24.5
Energy Conversion
-Boiler               0.5      3.0      3.5    0.5   3.0    -    -        3.5
-Fuelwood             0.5      5.0      5.5    0.5   -       5.0   -      5.5
Import Requirements       -      11.5      11.5     -    -      3.0  8.5   11.5
Total                    5.0    40.0       45.0    5.0  18.0  13.5  8.5   45.0



- 24 -
Procurement and Disbursement
78.        The selection of the Operating Management firm was determined in
accordance with Bank Group guide:Lines for the selection of consultants.
Throughout the bidding and evaluation process, the cofinanciers were
consulted and kept fully informed.  The agreed draft contrazc has been
carefully reviewed and approved lby the Association and the cofinanciers.
79.        Equipment for the alteration of the boiler would be procured
through a new contract with t:he boiler manufacturer, Mitsubishi (Japan) who
have already given a firm pr:Lce bid valid until June 1983. Erection would
be undertaken as an extra task by the existing erection contractor, INGRA
(Yugoslavia), who is already on site.  Equipment external to the boiler,
which is primarily off-the-shelf conveyor systems and equipment for
fuelwood harvesting, preparation, and delivery would be tendered from
bidders who have already quoted prices on the main forestry equipment in
accordance with internationa:L competitive bidding procedures.    Bidding on
the portable chippers, estimated to cost approx:imately US$1.0 million,
would be limited to the few firms that specialize in this equipment.
Imported operating materials and supplies would be procured in accordance
with SIDA and KfW procedures.
80.        The credit would be disbursed against 100% of foreign
expenditures on consultants' services, training and support equipment
(mainly vehicles and teaching aids) and 100% of foreign expenditures on
the boiler conversion component.  The Association and SIDA would jointly
finance the OMC contract, in the ratio of 2.7:1, while SIDA and Germany
(KfW) would cofinance other expenditures on a parallel basis. The IDA
credit would be fully disbursed by December 31, 1989 (see Annex X).
Financial Position and Prospects
81.        SPM is not expected to start up its operations and generate
revenues until July 1984, because of the 18-month delay in project
implementation.  As a result, SPM will not be in a position to service
the first loan repayments due in 1983-84. The Government, therefore, has
agreed in principle to extend the grace period of all the subsidiary loans
to SPM related to the Mufindi Project by about two years, and to amend the
existing subsidiary loan agreements with NDC/SPM accordingly by December
31, 1983.
82.        Under existing loan agreements, one-third of the IDA credit and
SIDA grant are to be passed on to SPM as loan funds and the remaining
two-thirds as a Government equity contribution iin order for SPM to maintain
a reasonable debt-equity rati o of 50/50. Since this equity contribution
has been reduced as a result of the depreciation of the Swedish Kroner
vis-a-vis the US$ (from  SKr 4.2/US$1.0 at the time of the loan agreement to
Skr 7.2/US$1.0 ) and to safeguard SPM's financial position from further
realignment of the Tanzanian shi:Lling, the Government has agreed that the
previously on-lent portions of the IDA credit and SIDA granit will be
converted to equity (Section 3.04 of the draft Joint Financing Agreement).
These arrangements will be reviewed by the Government at regular intervals
(every 2-3 years) beginning on July 1, 1986 in the light of SPM's actual
cash position and earning prospects at the time,, with a view to converting
the equity contribution to loan terms, if possible, at prevailing
parastatal borrowing rates.



- 25 -
83.       The financial prospects of SPM for 1984 to 1990, which are
summarized in Annex XI, have been projected on the basis of the following
principal assumptions: SPM's two paper machines will commence production
in July 1984 and January 1985 respectively; Mufindi will gradually build up
its production to capacity level by 1989 (see table below); and domestic
and import prices will be at levels discussed in paragraphs 63-64 above.
The mill is shown to operate eventually at 100% of capacity, which may
appear optimistic in Tanzanian conditions. However, it should be noted
that the 100% level represents 60,000 tons per year which is the guaranteed
design level rather than the ultimate mill capacity. In fact, the paper
machines and all other major process departments could accomodate 75,000
tons of production per year; thus, 60,000 tons per yearrepresents 80% of
the design capacity.
SPM Summary of Projected Financial Data 1984-90 a/
(in current US$ million unless otherwise stated)
Year Ending December 31    1984    1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
(1/2 yr)
Capacity Utilization %       12.5    55.0   73.0   86.0   95.0   100    100
Income Cash Flow
Statements
Sales Revenue                 6.8    31.2   41.2   49.6   57.5   60.8   61.7
Manufacturing Costs          10.9    21.7   26.5   28.9   31.4   31.7   30.2
Depreciation and              4.2    17.0   17.7   18.0   18.3   18.5   18.7
Amortization
Interest                      -        9.5    8.9    8.2    7.5    6.8    6.2
Net Income (Loss) After    (8.3)  (17.0) (11.9)  (5.5)   0.4    3.8    6.6
Taxes
Cash Generation Before
Interest Payment           (4.1)    9.5   14.7   20.7   26.2   29.1   31.5
Debt Service                  1.6    11.1   13.3   15.5   14.8   14.1   11.9
Balance Sheet
Current Assets                3.9      9.2   16.5   21.6   31.8   44.0   59.6
Current Liabilities           2.9      7.6   11.4   12.3   13.1   11.7   11.7
Long-Term Debt               97.3    92.9   85.6   78.3   71.0   65.3   59.6
Equity                      179.9   173.9  173.0  170.5  172.9  177.7  184.3
Ratios
Current Ratio                 1.3      1.2    1.4    1.8    2.4    3.8    5.1
Debt/Equity Ratio           35/65   35/65  33/67  31/69  29/71  26/74  24/76
Debt Service Coverage         -         .9    1.1    1.3    1.8    2.1    2.6
(times)
a/  After taking into account the extension of grace period of the
subsidiary loans and the conversion to equity the portions of IDA and
SIDA funds that were to be passed on as loans.



- 26 -
84.       The above table indicates that SPM is expected to incur net
losses every year during the first four years of operation, reaching a
maximum of US$17.0 million e(quivialent in 1985 when SPM would just begin its
production buildup. Howewer, SPM is expected to earn net income after
taxes of US$0.4 million equivalent in 1988, increasing to US$6.6 million in
1990.  SPM's cash generation would be tight during the initial years.  Debt:
service coverage would be very marginal during 1985-86, but would reach a
level of 1.3 in 1987 and improve to a comfortable level thereafter. The
debt-equity ratios ranging from 24/76 to 35/65 during 1984-90, and other
financial ratios appear stronger than they really are considering that
practically all of the long-term loans are in foreign exchange for which
SPM assumes the foreign exchange risk.
85.       The above projections are based on the domestic and export market
sales levels discussed earlier (paragraph 60). Should the domestic market
continue to stagnate and remain at the 1986 level, thereby requiring more
exports, the mill would be exporting about 42% of its output and its sales
revenue would be reduced by about 3%. The effect of such sales on SPM's
cash position and debt service would be as follows:
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
Sales Revenue                6.8   31.2   41.2   48.7   55.6   57.7   57.7
Cash Generation             (4.1)   9.5   14.7   19.8   24.2   26.0   27.5
Debt Service                 1.6   11.1   13.3   15.5   14.8   14.1   11.9
Debt Service Coverage         -      0.9    1.1    1.3    1.6    1.8    2.3
(times)
86.       To ensure prudent financial management, the following financial
covenants, which are included in. the existing Joint Financing Agreement
dated April 6, 1979 for the Mufindi Project, would be repeated with some
modification under the proposed project: SPM should not incur any debt
(beyond that already contracted) which would raLise its debt-equity ratio
above 50:50 and reduce its debt service coverage below 1.5.; it should
maintain a current ratio of not less than 1.2 and not make dividend
payments if by doing so the current ratio fell below 1.5 (Sections
5.03-5.06 of the draft Joint: Financing Agreement).
87.       As a capital intensive project, the Mufindi mill requires a high.
rate of capacity utilization before it reaches the project break-even
point.  For the first year of full operation in 1989, the profit break-even
point is expected to be about 82% of capacity.  The initial tight financial
position of SPM and the high break-even point indicate that it is
imperative for the mill to reach full production as quickly as possible and
to preserve a sound financial structure and liquidity position particularly
in the initial years of opeIations.



- 27 -
Auditing and Reporting
88.       As for all parastatal entities, SPM accounts are audited by the
Tanzania Audit Corporation (TAC), which is a satisfactory arrangement.
SPM's audited annual accounts, together with the auditor's report would be
submitted to the Association within four months of the end of the financial
year (Section 5.02(b) of the draft Joint Financing Agreement). In
addition, SPM would submit quarterly financial statements and project
progress reports including training and marketing plans within 45 calendar
days after each quarter. At the end of the project, SPM would submit a
Project Completion Report to the Association within three months of the
Closing Date of the credit (Sections 3.03(b) and (c) of the draft Joint
Financing Agreement).
Project Justification and Benefits
89.       As mentioned earlier, the implementation of the Mufindi project
has proceeded satisfactorily in view of its size and complexity as well as
current difficult conditions in Tanzania. However, starting up the mill
and keeping it operating will require the assistance of expatriate
operating management as well as foreign exchange funds to import chemicals,
spare parts and other consumables. The OMC and import financing components
of the proposed project would address these needs directly.
90.       The energy conversion component of the project would be justified
because it would be more economical for the Mufindi mill to burn wood than
imported fuel oil or coal. The internal rate of return on this component
would be 46% compared with the fuel oil alternative and 18% compared with
imported coal. The ready availability of fuel wood in sufficient
quantities from the existing plantations close to the mill site will also
ensure the continuous firing of the power boiler of the mill.
91.       The Mufindi Pulp and Paper Project is the most important
industrial project underway in Tanzania. It accounted for 10% of all
development expenditures during the Third Five Year Plan period (1976-81)
and about 50% of all industrial investment during the last five years.
While the original rate of return for the project (11%) was low for a large
investment, and has been further reduced by lower than expected domestic
demand for paper products and an overall increase in project costs, the
investment of additional resources is essential for generating some return
on a very sizeable sunk investment. The Government has shown strong
commitment to the project, especially by meeting the full local cost
requirements of the project in a timely manner, despite growing pressures
on the development budget and the decision to consolidate public
investments in less critical areas. Most importantly, with the financing
provided for the proposed project, the Mufindi mill could significantly
improve the net foreign exchange flow to the country, which is expected to
accumulate to about US$77 million by the end of 1990, when the project
would attain full capacity operations.



- 28 -
Mufindi Project - Summary of Foreign Exchange Effect of Proposed Project
(US$ Million)
1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
Foreign Exchange Revenues
Import Substitution         5.7   24.1   27.5   31.1   35.0   36.8   38.7
Export                       -      3.0    8.8   13.0   16.4   17.3   16.0
Total                     5.7   27.1   36.3   44.1   51.4   54.1   54.7
Foreign Exchange Operating Costs
Direct                      3.2    4.3    5.3    6.1    7.1    7.4    7.5
Indirect                    0.9    3.9    5.3    6.7    8.0    8.4    8.5
OMC                         3.8    4.6    5.1    3.1    2.1    1.3         -
Total                     7.9   12.8   15.7   15.9   17.2   17.1   16.0
Debt Service (Foreign Exchange)
Interest and Principal   10.7   14.8   14.4   13.9   13.5   13.5   13.2
Foreign Exchange Surplus
(Deficit)                 (12.9)  (0.5)   6.2   14.3   20.7   23.5   25.5
Cumulative Surplus          (12.9) (13.4)  (7.2)   7.1   27.8   51.3   76.8
(Deficit)
Should the domestic market stagnate at the 1986 level, the cumulative
foreign exchange savings resulting from the Muf:indi operation would be
reduced to US$70 million by the end of 1990.
92.       The economic rate of return on the Mufindi Project, taking into
account the revised project cost including the cost of energy conversion
and operating management, and production build-up, is about 5%, compared to
the appraisal estimate of 11%,. 'If all project expenditures as of March
1983 are taken as sunk costs, the economic rate of return would be about
20%. The following major assumptions have been used in the economic
analysis: (i) border prices have been used for all tradeab:Le goods; (ii)
infrastructure costs not recovered through direct charges have been added
to the project capital costs; and (iii) a shadow rate of exchange of
TSh 18.6 to the US dollar has been used for all local inlputs.  Details are
shown in Annex XII.
93.       The reduction in economic rate of return compared with the
appraisal estimate results primarily from lower projected revenues and the
initial delays in implementing the project.  The lower revenlues are caused
by slower than anticipated growth of the domestic market, and the
consequent need to export more of' the mill's production. The higher
freight cost on exports results in a lower mill net revenue on exports.
Furthermore, to penetrate export markets a discount of US$50/ton has been



- 29 -
placed on international prices. Higher costs for the township and
escarpment road also contribute to the lower rate of return.
94.       Sensitivity tests have been made on the above economic rate of
return vis-a-vis sales revenues, manufacturing costs and capacity
utilization. The rate of return is most sensitive to sales revenues; a 10%
reduction in revenues would lower the return to about 4% on a full cost
basis and to about 17% on a sunk cost basis.
Risks
95.,      Industrial enterprises in Tanzania face several common
difficulties. Among these are: the lack of trained people with industrial
management and operating experience; lack .of spare parts, fuel and other
imported materials due to shortage of foreign exchange; and failure of the
infrastructural systems such as railways and electrical power. In addition
to these difficulties, Mufindi is faced with a potential export marketing
problem. The proposed project is designed to insulate the mill as far as
possible from these problems.
96.       The Operating Management Contractor would be the key to Mufindi's
success. The selected contractor is competent and experienced and the
contract provides him with the authority, means, and financial incentives
(bonus) to manage the company effectively and train Tanzanians. However,
there is always a risk that trained Tanzanians will seek employment
elsewhere. Although the possibility of losing trained people will be
reduced by providing the employee with a suitable compensation and
incentive system (paragraph 71), SPM will nevertheless have to train more
people than actually will be required. The proposed project includes
provision for financing of such additional people.
97.       The provision of foreign exchange for imported materials and
spare parts for the first three years of Mufindi's operation, would ease
one of the major problems facing most Tanzanian industry. After a secured
start-up and three years of operation, the mill could be expected to export
and become self-sufficient in foreign exchange, and would operate its own
foreign exchange account in order to have an assured supply of critical
materials and spares. The energy conversion component of the project would
assure the mill of a reliable supply of cheap fuel which is also
indigenous, renewable and physically close to the mill. A storage tank for
fuel oil would also be installed as a back-up for the main wood fuel.
98.       The mill is linked with the interconnected power grid and to the
TAZARA railway through a new spur. The power supply to the mill is
reliable, as the grid system is based almost entirely on hydroelectric
generation and does not depend on imported fuel.
99.       Penetration of export markets is a challenging problem for any
new mill. Mufindi will have the advantage of an OMC collaborator with an
intimate knowledge of the major importing countries, particularly India,
and the incentive to export in order to maximize his production bonus which
is calculated on tons sold. In the event that the domestic market
continued to stagnate, even more paper would have to be exported. While no
major difficulties are foreseen in disposing of additional tonnage in



- 30 -
export markets, the lower mill net prices will have an effect on the cash
position of SPM.  If the domestic market remained at the 1986 level, sales
revenue would decline by about US$10 million in total during, the four-year
period up to 1990, and it would not be until 1989 that the Company could
post a positive net profit (US$0.7 million).  However, the Company would
still maintain acceptable debt service coverage and cash flow.
100.      In the event that the project faced a persistent combination of
adverse circumstances, namely a 10% reduction in sales volumes, plus a 10%
reduction in sales prices, plus aL 10% increase in production costs, a cash
deficit, after debt service, would continue until 1989 by which time it
would have accumulated to approximately US$22 million, and the accumulation
would not become positive until 1993. However, since the Company will have
a competent Operating Management Contractor, the foreign exchange for
initial years of import requirements, a reliable fuel supply, and a
built-in surplus capacity, the above combination. of circumstances is
considered unlikely to occur.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENT AND AUTHORITY
101.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the United
Republic of Tanzania and the Association, the draft Joint Financing
Agreement among the United Republic of Tanzania, the Kingdom of Sweden, the
Association, Southern Paper Mills Company Limited and the National
Development Corporation and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
Special conditions of the credit are listed in Section III of Annex III.
102.      It would be conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit
(a) that the Subsidiary Financing Agreement had been executed on behalf of
the Government, SPM and NDC, (b) that all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the Swedish grant agreement had been fulfilled, (c) that
satisfactory evidence had been obtained that the German contribution to the
project would be available, and (d) that the management consultants to
operate the Mufindi mill had been employed (Section 4.01 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement.)
103.      I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
104.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachment
May 2, 1983
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
- 31 -                                   Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
TANZANIA - SOCIAI. INDICATORS DATA SHIEFT
TANZANIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEICHTED AVERACES
AREA (TIIOUSAND SQ. FM.)                                                            - MOST RECENT ESTTMATE4
TOtAL            94.).1                                  HOST RECENT           LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCCME
AGRICULTURAL    401.4                 1960  lb   1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
CNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    70.0       130.0    280.0,U               250.8                 1053.2
ENERGY CONSUMFTTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRANS Of COAL EQUIVALENT)        41.1        63.0      50.5                 66.5                  610.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISriCS
POPULATION, NiL-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   10201.0    13300.0  18650.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)    4.8         6.9      11.8                 17.8                   28.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        36.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         110.5
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2100
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                         10.8        14.1      19.1                 27.7                   54.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       26.6        33.4      44.9                 86.7                  129.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           42.7        44.4      46.0                 44.8                   46.0
15-64 YRS.                           54.3        52.5      50.9                 52.3                   51.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.0         3.1       3.0                  2.9                    2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.2         2.7       3.4                  2.7                    2.8
URBAN                                5.0         6.3       8.7                  6.2                    5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       46.6        46.8      46.3                 47.3                   47.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       22.4        18.6      15.1                 19.5                   15.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.0         3.1       3.2                  3.2                    3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..          ..      93.6/c
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)      ..          ..        ..                   ..                     .
FOOD AND SUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)            95.0       104.0      89.0                 88.7                   90.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     90.0        91.0      86.5/d               90.2                   93.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            46.3        48.8      47.6Td               53.1                   54.8
OF WHICH ANLMAL AND PULSE         17.8        21.2      20.5/i               18.4                   17.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       33.1        25.6      19.4                 26.7                   23.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)      41.7        46.7      51.6                 45.6                   51.0
INFANrT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            151.5       125.3    102.9                 129.9                  118.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        13.0      39.0/e               23.9
URBAN                                 ..        61.0      88.07i               54.9
RURAL                                 ..         9.0      36.07e               18.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..      17.0/e               25.8
URBAN                                 ..          ..      88.07e               63.1
RURAL                                 ..          ..      14.07e               20.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           18216.1    22240.8  17553.1/d              32097.3                14185.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      11886.9/f.  7162.1   2387.5Ta               3264.6                 2213.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              595.5/      717.8    499.8/d              1225.0                 1036.4
URBAN                               55.3        58.6      81.37d              249.5                  430.8
RURAL                             1532.9!A        ..   1191.1/d              1712.1                 3678.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..         4.4/       .
URBAN                                3.1/h       3.27i      *
RURAL                                 ..         4.571     5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL
URBAN                                1.8/h
RURAL                                 ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELlINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..          ..
URKAN                                 *           .
_ RURAL         .       _.



ANNFX I
- 32 -                              Page 2 o f 6
Pago 2
TABLE 3A
TANZA -TXST-CrAL INDICATORS DATA sHE.ET
TANtANIA                        REFERENCE GROLPS (WEIGCSTED AVFRACES
- MOST RECENT ES.lYATE) IA
MOST RECENT          =bW  TR             INCOMF
1960  Lb    1970 Jb ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOU.TH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAFHARA
EDUCATION
1 =,4TD ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARYS     TOTAL                  25.0        39.0      104.0                  63.2                      83.3
MALE                  33.0         47.0     113.0                   72.7                     96.1
FEMALE                18.0         31.0      94.0                   50.3                     80.4
SECOh'DARY:   TOTAL                  2.0         3.0        4.0                  10.2                      15.3
KALE                   2.0          4.0       5.0                   13.2                     19.4
FEMALE                 1.0          2.0       2.0                    6.6                     11.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY) 22.6              ..       1.6                    7.9                      4.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             45.3        45.9       41.4                  47.4                      38.6
SECONDARY                           19.6        18.4       19.0                  26.2                      23.4
AOULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          9,5J       28.1/i    66.0/c                 34.0                      35.6
CONSUL'PT ION
PASSENGQE  CARS PER ITOUSAND
POPULATION                           2.4         2.5        2.6/d                 3.0                      31.9
RLADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           2.0        11.3       27.7                  34.8                      71.8
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPL'LATION                           ..         0.3        0.3                   1.7                      17,9
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY CENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    2.5           ,,      10.1                   2.9                      19.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.5             ..       0.2/d                 1.1                       0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL1 LAbOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      4734.7      5841.7    7660.5
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   37.2         36.7       36.0                  34.1                      36.5
AGRICULTLRE (PERCENT)               89.0        86.0       83.0                  78.4                      56.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  4.0          5.0        6.0                   9.2                      17.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                        -        46.4         43.9      41.1                   41.4                     37.0
YjILE                                 59.1         56.3      53.1                   53.9                     46.9
FEMALE                                34.0        31.8       29.2                  29.1                      27.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0          1.1       1.2                    1.2                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION' 
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGhEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..        24.7
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          50.4
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         5.8
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..        16.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUEE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     147.0                 134.3                     507.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..     109.0                  82.9                     200.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     125.0                  96.4                     523.9
RURAL                                 ..           ..      74.0                  60.4                     203.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      10.0                  39.3
RURAL                                 ..           ..      60.0                  69.0
Not available
Ndt applicable.
1iOTES
/s   The group averagea for each indicator are population-welghted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
anong the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1976; /d 1977; /e 1975; /f Registered, not *Il  practicing in the country; LI 1962; /h 1958;
/i 1967T Lj for Mainland lanzania only.
May, 1982



-33-
ANNEX I
_____T_____OF __SOCIAL        __                                                     Page    3   of    6
Sat.nAltk-at the data -p  de-  foss esere  pe-valy ldgd the   st atbootatta  md reliable. it  h.eni  also he -rd thee they my _t he inte-
eateIlp tewerabie bstns  of the 1tk of stadrdised deftitii. sad  -estep    ned by dtiffret  Moere   n  olcigthedt.The jes  re
tbelaa  enfol to descibe orders of meetd.tdloate tred.. sad tha-rscteiecer.in sajor difference  hetescontres
Th. reeec  uop   r  (1) the  te  couotry group of the ebjct coutry, and (2) a coun try group  ith eeitthigh-e iveog  toom  th- the c-otry group
of the ebjoct onuotry (ocept for   "High Income   Oil Reporters' groop  hars "Middle Imoo  North Africa sod Middle Eas" Is thosso bocee- of stronger
aaca-clrralffodree .    rho rafar-r  gro   dar  eha  -rrgaa ar- oplroreigh-ad srltb-tic -ne  for each Jadda-u  and shoo  only elp
maJority of the co_trios to . ftO  ho. dote for tht In~dicaor   StLc  the co-erge of co              osa g the idicators depends on the avilobilicy of date
adIe set n_tfer_, cant.o  sc he enencted to rlalting  -vege  of or  indicator to onther.  The.- acrgs areony nefu1 to coportog the vein  of
one   ddeto  en a ti- a-g  the coutry end ref-efoc  groups.
ARSA (tho-on  aq.hn.)                                                                         Pporolt ine  "ErOptl  d- total. urhe. adrrl-Pplte itl
Totl   Tota  aufa-  nre  o-poielutg land ena and blend stars; 1979 data,                      urban, end rua)divi,        b  thei  rePeciv  oute  of hospital1 bed.
Aapii-nto.l - Otee   fagro          -ulae  .aes  teepnrrll  on permaenely                     -osllblo do pabua1an  pruraI genral sad speland boepual sa
or crope. p.stue.-   -rha  and kitchen gerda   op to lie fellot; 1979 dais.                hbhilietaiu  o-t-er . gopital  ece eenllshsnte preotly staffed
hy et Isagi no. physkic-n  REtAbIiements providieg. priipally  .uato-
GNP PER CAPITA fUS$) - GMP Foo capita  -sistes at oroaot macAt prto-a  cl1-                     dIalten_ re non totuded.  Renal bspitel., hneve, toinde health
ruleted by  as   ootiot ethod as Seld Saak Atlas (197"O0 baeis); 1960.                        and sedica1.. cetare tot perantly stffed by a phyatcl-n (bnt bya
19 70.  nd 1900 data                                                                          mdira- eis n  one,ideife, etc.) ehiob offer ta-patien  'ICc
datton and provide a limIted  rag   of medical facilitiae.  for  -tatia
gENERGY CONSUMTllION PER CAPITA - dauicnuctto-orl  energy 1(o                                  tira1 purposes nbs  ho-pitala. i-stldo Slp oitplgeea   estss
and lignite, pe trofene  nroral gsa and bydro-, oudarad gotema   1c                           en .rra  hospitti, 1-01 ur rore1 bospfsle sod  eddoa and saterody
triricy) toilogas   f coal aqdaetper .epita; 1960. 1970. end 1979                             teeter.  Spsoained hospyttolstore itelnded only under ltotl.
data.                                                                                       Adeietoa rpIoerra   ad - Toal  uto  of udmlseJoo  to or dicbsrgss
from hospitalsdivided by the unae  of beds.
PPULtATtION aMe VITAL STATISTICS
Tota  poelanion. Mld-Teon (tfnc_sda)   As of July 1; 1960, 1970, and 1980                fHOUSING
data.                                                                                     Average Sine o     -oehold (pErsn  pe I household  -  totl   rhoI      nd
trbae Pooulidon (nerco  of  Uoal  - Satl  of uphu  to fofal populaton;                        A h-nenhoLd cslts of a  roup  fWidndol   h  shar  Hofgqse
differrt daflit ion   of urba  arso  say affect co rability of date                         od their sal  mei.  A brdnr or lodgr say or say tot be toclnded to
S                     asong~~~~_.  coun,ire  1960, 1970. and 19Bl deta.                                           the household forstiatiticl purpocee.
Ppul'ationPojcisAverag  -tbe-o   eeu  pe  ro-tta,ura, and rorl.1 -average one-
totlcpopu1latio  by aE und set und thei  sort -lily end fertility rates.                 doilog,  epectively.  Oellngetlnde   oprato    trtorsad
Projrctlon pA-mtera C. on-etality rates  . oPliaeofthree Io.-Is anu-                      unoccpied pats.
itg life e-p-t..ty at birthlcraia   tch counry' per ca pita ios-ccs  to flecfic tt, (-ecet of dseelltte) - tota, urban, and nune  -
leve, ad femal  life onpectanoy atsbileIng  t 71.5 y-an.  Tbs pam.-                       Conv-tioeal deelllng  cIt eIer1nioty in ILtvtgquntrn
-trs for fertility rot  ainn heve three  eeassulgdcIetof tarot, orhat, aedrro  d-nelgli-gar -pnoivl.
ferility according to Incom   1-1e sod paa  f. ely planin  petrsna
Each country In thro  ..aaegd one  f tbeae ote  atotut   f   -otlicy                 OITCATIWl
snd ferti lity t_sds foo  roj-ction purposes.                                           Adjuatn  nn-1l-t Rettue
Station..  pony ta  - Io a noa tionary popalotian thrre in -0 gpoehaiace                    P~isay tohoi - total, esleand P o1al  - Groa  tota, sale and fesai
the birth -t,rn lo qool t  the deeth cane. ad tla  thtagentracturre                         arirt   f all agon  t th. prie-Y loveI - procntogas of tespocttve
sianctant   Th t achi-nd only after feotlkdi  rote  decine to                              ' pr_so  schoo-age popoluti-u:ta;oslly lclaWdeachIdldre  aged 6-Il
the replacsn  lee f unit vet repood-cto   atn, he. each geertoyer  hut adjusted fardifferen  lengiba of prinJo  edoco.tion; far
uf e-   elce Ic f  .nactlp.- The  -tti-tay ptueinor Ocoat tri.e  itth noiveran  educo..                                          eo-a-11-t ay enceed 100 perrent
ralcd o  the huais of thn projected caatrtrc f the pouaunstnn-popila onbhi.  or aho- tho off icia  school ANn.
athe yea  2700. sod rod- ram  of dclu  of fnpralilyrareto~rnplaoo-                        Iaod       col-total sole aed demean - Cospn-daos bone;erodsry
snot level.                                                    nducatiotreqnireaat~~~~~~~~~ .e.st f-na  ynae of approved poisny ins ltotln
Tn-rs-tlatar   p            L.tuei  reached - Tho yea-ae h t.. ourypopalnitt                  providee genera.  noatnrl  o  taher-rtIng inarctofI or ynilo
nine         I-lheechod.                                                                    aeely o   )t   7yerof sn   oraadcron                          re generally
Pea. b. -Mid-pen  population pt  square kil te- (1~00 hnotate) of                     Voainl          Ir et(ecn  o   oodt) - Vcaiona  i-aitatoo
ctlsa;1910, 170 and 1979 data.                                                      include  sbocl   Inati,o   t     prarn   bc   prt  noed
Pet at.he. astcalttrllscd- Coop-rd aa above ion enpi-1tun    land                    -1tyora  departente of oeondnry iontitnti-oe
ol;10,1970ad"179 dern.                                                            1pil-teeche  natin - orieoc ..ad a-codary -Voa  scd eots  -r oild in
PouaI'nAge t-rut-o  (peoce..t) - Child-e  (0-14 yenra) aoic-g    15-                      posyadocoay 1enel  dIvided by to-e_  of teechero It  h.a
64 yeo.n).  an oIrod  Y6 .-or  and oe s  pretgtoaId-year papa-                              c1rspoi           _evl.-
fation; 16.17,ad10  data.                                                                 AdnIl doterey rote (pnerceet  - Lacerate adat- lab le to reed and -irann
Population  Irnth Sate foorctat- to tal - ono  grochnata-  of -otn  old-                      aspretn    f tato  odalt paaltit  nd 15 poor. end over.
petppuainfor 1950-6.   60-71,anI971-00.
Popalocirn Gr-ti Reto (percet) -crban- hotun  groirtn  of ubo- papa-                      COSUMlfPTION
lsto.. far 19510.0 1960-70, and 1970-800                                                  Ponte   as(er thousand1 popltn)-Pnagr  oncarn   co
(pads Birth Mate   per cheaand) - odaol livo birtha per cto--ad at old-pent                   aaoeoig  es  hu  ih  pett;  oldonotlee,    ne   n
oP. a-inti; 1961. 19701..ad 1980 doc.t.nziliteryvehitoos
(rode leath Race (p-r thea..ad) - OAu.. Identho per th-ae-d  of oid-par                     raiotei_r  (Pe r thoc..nId papalni-n) -All typpn  atocienfor radio
Population; 1960. 1970, and 19f0 dote.                                                      broedcaa.ca to 000001IpbI~c pot thoa.end of populatlt; ..ciadn  a--
Groan  ardac~tio  Rat.-Anetoga nbrof daughtennr             cnoili hea  In                   l1 ice..dircinr    -acutrian and in poarn oh.. refi-ttrs   to f radio
her  orsl   prd-ctv-rP peiod tf aheep-rl-c    prns-t ag-.P-cf   fo-                         note 'sa  to infct; data for neoc  per synneop-rble otoce
tiiitynnnsannly   ie. et.,          Inu    tda  ic  960  _91.ad 1981.                       soot      tIan abolished Illc-tsto
Ponily Pleniog -Accetra. dco..al (thruenadi) A-,.Iue  rater af accptor.                     TV  ecira(nor, theaa...d.p...tn..-TVro rtep  far hroadceat to
of both-coocrI devicna une   uptcao -          taa f1I_ily pania  oaga                      general pnlic per th--nu  PopittlIeeclad. aaulicense  TV recions
Ps_ll  Pla:ttta    ee(ec:Pfstid  ee)-precgo   ane                                             i   aort   n   tyasoo  reiatttion of TV sets  a  in edtect.
nnof(Iidbora   g   (1-44 peera) -hc .e  dt-ot    d-nleat -                            N-p:nro  tnrltio(a  .bo.aad pn ro(-Shore I                         Ia aErd  rIp-
oI iorld  Iaeotoe    age grout.p.                                                      c_oioo   dal            ea    __trta  tepapo-", defined napniodtc.
pabliontio d- atd pri-rlly to recrding gena..  o1ne.  In in catst de-d
pOOe ANt NTRaITcON                                                                              no be  daiy   if itoppeoneeiln..nt fou  tisno a-ktb
loden of food Pcdactla  -o  CapIta (19-1-100   Iodea ofppcptMouo                             in.Ata  Atteodanc  mrl (anit  per Yea-saned anthe ratr  f
prodctio  of  ll fod cesadtlen   Prdnri-annc1adeannPd- endfed and              'tinhtl     od  aigth   en  inldlgdnio_ta  od irei  cio_so
Ia on-caoado  peer baan.  C_ditie aoe  poiteny goods (eg.oeraend enbile  -itt..
iantand of su-a) ehih ore  dible  c  t'taitotres(g -cffee nod
te  ap  mc, ioded).I dggrete pradacino  If nach ct..otny ia base.d veL1400  PORCE
ost iana  averag  prdacog picn  eight   1991465, 1970,..ad 1980 data.                     Tota  Labor farce (thou...eda) - Zoaoootcally  -ci-r pernon..  includira
Per cop nco soppy of caois(eca   f raaatre-tf) - Coapa-d fralpie  farces nod unesplynd bat  -1c lding  ooevs   ndoa   t.
enerY oquivnn  odnt   food aple   -ilabln in coutry par  .pitt                              coeing popaetin of all ege Dftaitiot ..             onta    r0 ris-r
Frr day.  A-a.eI. -appline cspriae dometic prod-ctin, iporIt  lent                          not ca.ar-bln; 1961, 1970 atd 1961 data.
roparte, adchnoni  aat   ne  npyIiet nclade s-ios1 fred, seedn,                             Pe.-I. (procen.t) - PeaIr labor farce aa pocn-ge of tota  Iebr farce.
q-aniti-a cae  in. food~ y-oc.ssng, _cd  ...eet it distrihation.  Saq.iro-                 agricutr  (percent  -labo  forc bit C tro         . foretry, ha-ino sod
7.st~teeee-citrd by PAdO hoard an yhyedoaglcfoesfrnra   cft-                                  fishin  on ~ pocntag  of tota   lao  farce; 196d, 1970 aod 1900 data.
oity _en Ibeh c..asidarlt ag nonnotnlteapneine, ldy neght,% ago                            Industry (peocet) - Labor f-rc  tn siniog,    srcio,soatarilg
and nan di_tibatioo al papalatia-  and n11ibig 10 perceoc for noao an                         en   lcrct,otrad got us pec-cgo  ftcra Ie     fra
hoaebad loel  1615, 1070 and 1977 data.                                                 161, 19   end 1990t dota.
PerF ctadr  oupply of or-rl  (apse  oI day) - Pro nea  -rte-  of p-rcapica                  Pnccpoinbaefnron  -  orl 1sl, aad fonlr -rPniiolnO
_t spply a  fodprdy.  net ePM  of food In defin -do   ah.  b e,.R-                       n-tinity nataor  cuaated anota, sal., aod fasal  labor faren
qaitesnor  f or al   uoien .torblinbhd by USDA provide far siti-                            oocnne   f ntalt         ooadinaepplroco   l   gs  epciey
allosn-p  of 60 gra_  of ntalprtt        opr1a  and  _1go    faia   cd                      1960. 1701.ad 1980 dat.Tes t be...d an ILO'n  participative rates
puls  pranit,o shich 10 gre   hul   esisl protnt.  Thea.atand-                              inlcigoesn  canr   ftepopultio..  ond Lng time trend,
ooi-a  protein .  on avers  for the solId, prapo..ed by PAP ic the Third                 novoona  flpedooc.ySatin - Sain of pplti uder 15 and 65 nod oven
go-1d Poad taroy; 1961465, 1970 and 1907 dan.to th  total laborface
Po -cnla  rnel  eppnly   ra  -nIna  and p0I.. - Pr oteic sappiy of food dt-.
nia   ry _asaaad          pulr .ogaapr day; I i91-5. 1970 snd 1977 da.t             INCOMEf DISTRIBUTION
Child (agS,  1-h4) ntiSae- ne  rh oa)-anvldeaths pr thuadi                                   ocneeofPianlce   bt   to-I end KlOd) - D'ceived by riches
agrrop14  cn, no cldron On thus age gr. p,fa  soar Icoig coonI-                                     _ eoa,rchs   0prto,popr2  porcat. so   pores  4  pro
ttnie date derived fro  lift tobine; 1960, i970 aod 1990 dota.                              of house holds,
HEAL,TH                                                                                     PapVnTY TARGE0T GOlglP
life Enpctaruy at Binth (peara)   A--Avrge  -ar of ya-o  of lift  -eatitg &                 The folloaieg estosi          - ae  ey   poi     eoe   f povrty 1eosi,
ectbirth; 1960, 1970 and 1960 dats..                                                        and eboo1d be ioteryretd  inth nonstd-rbloca.t.... I
Infant fl-rtaity Sate (P,r thonsad) - AnnuI desha  f infant  under ov  yea                  etiated Ahanlat Po-try Inco._lve  (111  ercaitn) -  rbat etd rural1
of age per thensad live births; 1961. 1970 and 1980 dar.                                    Abelte povety tnin 1-v1 is rhat inname leve  belon  hioh a sLai-I
doatoSafe            ..ar ..rco  ad. nlto)- total ubtn, sod rural - On-                  aartialYadeqvre dier pine ... osetal noo-food rqdo ei   a
her of Ppeni  (tota1l,rba., ed I-tel) slo  r-e-nbel           es  to saf                    affordable.
enter sopply (inoldea treated sof        etee or antreated hat unoteminatd                Satiste   Relation Poverty Inc-   Level (US$ per- caita) - rhn sod Iorel1
-atr .ncha  thet free pretaoted  _hphoe1    siprig, sadsntr   ells) as                      r-el relaive poorey to-e  leve  is oe-third of...rgepr. spt
pac=etagno  the it  -npectn-        oast ne. t  -o urban arn a public                       person   leans of the conty.  (rbee leve  Is dariod fe  the cara
I     Iataa  rtrsdpast Ilacard no  sop  than 200 steps from a house sy he                   level sith adjumen  fo f fnls  nos of ittg On urbanaee
runei4sced as beig v1iabi  rasonble acsof that house   . In rural area                    Satisad   uoaalnSae   boueboet,oeslvlfnnet     ra
esaeebia  -ass   -Ind isply that the ha-edo. or -.ers of she bnnseld                        and pars1  P- Poee  of Ppopola-n  fre  s.      Ins) t   areatana
do at har  to  pand a disproportlaant  paet of the day  in~ fetobtig the                     ...
lae to eei  (neal n.a          f an Zrco) srvdby  nc     dispsa=    a
Pec tsngss of thatc rs-p-ttv  pepulatn.-   Ueocet dtepoanl nap Onlod
the  niaaa  a.d diayeaei sigh at vithsI  -tee-A. of kinse  seeen
asd oasi-tser byonter-hern  sYsa  -e she.e of pit priien sod sim-
isenntin et Phego   -Foraltien diidad by  ..fla  of p-stli.g rhyst-                                                       Ro-saic and getil Nata Diobio
t_sn I qanifle  free a saditl'  aneAl an aoe-iny tovet                                                                   Reesool  ea-lysis an  Projenasas   Sapects
Poseetia pe gsesng  senn -PeyiaItien dtoidsd by asue  of pr-lisgig                                                                   Map 19B2
sae-ndtlegedgn  soa . aista   saan, posetgol  nes  n



- 3 4 -                                             ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
PoPulation         17.5 m illion (mid-1979)
G.P Per Capita:  US$270 (1979)
TANi'A. NA -- ECONOMIC INDICATORs
Amount
(million USS at           _         _                    AnnuLal Growth Rates 1.)
Indicator                 current prices)                                                   a__   Projecte_d
1979          1976       1977      ;978       1979     '980-      1981       1982      1983       1934      1985
NATIONA' ACC UN1T1'S
Gross domest!c product/ el            4,564.3            6.7       4,7       5.4        3.9      -1.5        3.7       3.6       3.6        3.S       3.6
Agriculturee/                        2,210.2           9.8        7,5       7.4        8.0      -6.1       4.2        3.6       3.6        3.6       3.6
Industry                               549.0           0.9        3.1      -2.2       3.1          -       3.0       4.0        4.0       4.0        4.0
Services                             1,374.8            3.4       5.5       6.5        3.4       4.0       3.4        3.4       3.4       3.4        I,
C,nsu.mpt ion                          4,115.8            1.6      12.3      14.6       -3.4       1.7       4.6        1.9       3.2        3.1       '.2
Gross investment                          958.6          11.5       2.1        3.8      10.9      -6.2        3.6       3.6        3.6       3.6       3.6
Exports of (NFS                           647.9          16.8    -22.8       -2.4       -2.8      -9.6        1.7       7.9       5.2        5.2       5.3
Imports of GNFS                        1,158.0            0.5       4.4      34.9    -19.2         1.5      -2.9       -1.1       2.9        2.6       3.0
Gross national sasings                    468.0          64.5      -6.8     -58.0       99.4    -16.9    -23.9         19.0       8.8        9.7       8.H
PRICES
GDP deflator (1978 = 100)                                77.2      92.4    100.0    108.5    124.8    140.4    154.4    168.3    181.3    194.5
Excin3ge rate (T.Sh. per US$)                             8.4       8.3       7.7        8.3       8.2       8.2        8.2       8.2        8.2       8.2
Share of GDP at Market Prices (7)                     Average Annual Increase (7)
_  (ar currencj1rices)        _                 (at    stant 1978 prices;
1970      1975      !980       19d5      :990      1970-75      ;975-80      1980-55      1985-90
Gross d,.)restic productel                             100.0    103.3       100.     100.0    100.0            4.9         4.1          3.6          3.6
Agriculure-/l                                          36.9      36.9      47.5      47.8       47.9        2.1          5.8          3.7          3.6
Induztry                                              15.5       14.5      11.9      12.3       12.3        3.7          0.7          3.9         4.0
Services                                              37.2       37.R      31.1      30.8       30.6        6.5          4.6          3.4          3.4
Con'lrlPci.n r81.9                                                 91.7      90.3      88.2       86.4        5.9          6.0          3.1          3.1
G-oss investsenc                                        22.5       2'.1      20.0       18.0      18.0         0.2         4.6          2.1          3.6
rxDor2, ONFS                                           -24.3    -13.2       -12.'         -13.9  -15.2       -5.3         -5.2          5.3         5.4
,.ports GNFS                                            28.4       31.0      22.5      20.2       19.7       -3.8          4.2          1.1         3.0
Gros. national savings                                  18.3        7.6       9.97     11.6      13.5        -2.4         -3.6         5.7          7.0
As 7. of GD?
_-3LIr F'N4ANICF                                                    1970    1975      1979
Curre.w  - e.-niee j17.5    20.2    13.5
Current expendiiires                                              16.2     20.2    23.9
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                         1.3        -    -5.4
Ca.iral expenditire                                                8.3     11.6    12.7
Foreign financi-g                                                  2.0      5.4      6.7
1970-75     1975-80    1980-85    1985-90
OT9137. INDICATORS
GUN  growth rate (.)                                     4.7         4.2          3.6          3.6
GNP per capita growth rate (7.)                          1.3         0.8          0.2         0.2
ICOR                                                    5.0          5.5          5.1         5.1
Marginal savings rate                                   -0.1        -0.1          0.1          0.2
Import elasticity                                      -0.8          1.0          0.3         0.8
a!  Ers'imate
b/  Apart from trade projectiorm, which include small but offsetting amounts of Zanzibar trade, all data ini thls table are for Mainland
Tanzania only.
el  Projected years at constant prices.
d' At market prices; components are expressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
e/  Historical trend frori 1973 to 1979 is based on official estimates, which include subsistence productiorn growth rate of 8.67. per
ana,um.  We estimate that a more realistic growth rate for subsistence production over this period would be nearer 42 per annun,
reducing agricultural growth to 3.47. per annum and GDP grotith to 3.67. per annum.



- 35 -                                         ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
Population        17.5 milliori (mid-1979)
C!P Per Capita; US$270 (1979)
TANZANIA - EXTERNAL TRADE-
Amount                                            Annual Crowth Rates (.)
Indicator            (million US$ at                                       (at constant 1978 prices)
current prices)                        Actual                    a    -                Projected
1979           1976      1977      1978      1979      1980-    1981       1982      1983      1984      1985
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports             543.6            7.8   -_9.4        -6.5       6.1    -7.8        2.1       8.5       5.3       5.3       5.3
Major primary products       339.5             9.5    -20.1       -9.7      -0.1    -4.8        3.0       8.8       4.1       4.1       4.1
Others                       204.1             3.3    -18.1        2.7      21.5   -14.0          -       8.0       8.0       8.0       8.0
Merchandise imports          1,099.6           -16.4       7.7      36.8    -18.8       1.0      -3.4      -1.5       2.8       2.3       2.9
Foodgrains                    19.3           -65.2      23.3    -14.7    -42.4   334.0         -3.0    -47.5          -         -         -
Petroleum                    171.7            11.0    -11.5       12.8      -8.9      2.1      -7.9       5.0       3.1       3.3       3.4
Machinery and equipment    515.0             -15.2      25.1      55.1    -10.0    -7.6        -5.4       2.9       2.9       2.9       2.9
Others                       393.6           -13.9       0.7      33.9    -28.9    -7.6         0.7       3.0       3.0       3.0       3.0
?r(ICES
Export price index                              77.4    106.9    100.0    106.9   122.1    116.6    123.8    136.2    149.4    163.4
Import price index                              81.1      89.5    100.0    118.2   138.2    155.7    173.3    188.5    204.4    220.9
Terms of trade index                            95.4    119.4    L00.0        90.4    88.3       74.9      71.4      72.2      73.1   - 74.0
Composition of Merchandise Trade (-/i)                 Average Annual Increase(7.)
(at current prices)                           (at constant 1978 prices)
1970     1975      1980      1985    '1990       1970-75     1975-80    1980-85    1985-90
Exports                                        100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0           -4.5        -5.2         5.6          5.5
Major primary products                        59.2      66.3      69.2      67.6     63.5         0.2        -6.9         5.0         4.1
Others                                        40.8      33.7      30.8      32.4      36.5      -12.9        -1.0         6.8          8.0
Imports                                        100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0            1.8         2.6         0.9         3.0
Foodgrains                                     2.5      15.3       9.2       4.5       3.9      44.8         -5.8       -14.1            -
Petroleum                                      8.5      11.9      12.7     13.1       13.7        4.8           -         2.0         3.9
Machinery and equipment                       35.2      30.8      41.2      38.8      36.9        0.7        11.1         1.7         2.9
Others                                        53.8      42.0      36.9      43.6     45.5        -1.7        -3.3         2.7         3.1
Share of Trade with          Share of Trade with                   Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (%)    Developing Countries (%)    Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (7.)
1970    1975    1978          1970    1975    1978                 1970    1975    1978
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                                       54.0    48.2    68.0           40.0    43.3    73.2                 0.6       0.4     0.7
Imports                                       57.9    59.7    74.2           27.3    25.1    17.9                 1.2      3.2      0.8
at Estimate
Sl Data are for all Tanzania (Mainland and Zanzibar)



- 36--ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
P.cp.lation     :  17.5 etillon (mid-1979)
GYP P r Capit.:  USS 270 million (19795
TA112ANIA   BALAhrEOF PAfMtrNT5 XTFFRIAL CA3iTA:.ANr) :i3t
(million USS at current pr0ce,)
Indic-tor                      1970        1976        1977   _   1978        1979       198a-       1981       1982        1983       198'.      'q85       19= 0
BAtAN5E OF PAYtENTS
Export of goods an.l services                  350.4      647.2       669.6      631.2       705.6      740.6       741.8      851.1       979.2    1,123.7    1,286.1   2,289.9
of which   Merchandise f.o.b.               259.3       492.4      547.7       479.2      543.5       572.7      558,2       643.2       744.8      86b1.4     991.8   1.796.3
Imports of goods ant services                  377.9      729.6      853.4   1,271.1    1,224.3   1,452.7    1,596.5   1,756.3    1,965.2    2,182.8   2,423.7   3,9C0.7
of thich: lefchan-dise c.i.f.               318.4       630.5      750.3   1,146.5   1,099.6    1,299.1    1,412.9    1,549.1    1,732.6    1,932.3   2,149.;1  3,488.1
Se,t raSfens-                                    5.6      -16.4        11.9       19.2        28.1       20.0        21.6       23.3        25.2       27.2        29.4        43.2
Currenc account balance                        -21.9      -98.8    -171.9       -620.7    -490.6       -692.1      -833.1    -881.9    -959.7  -1,031.9  -1.108.2  -1,567.6
Official grant receipts                          6.2   1 19.0         135.0      214.1       321.4      380.9       410,4      443.2       478.7      517.0       558.1      820.4
M & LT laanS  (net)                             38.1       97.1       162.3      15i.1       255.8      329.3       392.7      408.7       451.0      484.9       569.6l     772. 2
Offi cI,1                                    41.2       107.1       168.0      158.1      162.4       196.1      341.9       377.5      439.8       476.6       577.3      775.9
Pri.v,t                                      -3.1       -10.0       -5.7        -7.0       93.4       133.1       50.9        31.2        11.3        8.3        -8.i       -3.6
Other capital                                  -29.8      -67.7        10.5      -1S.6        -4.7        2.9        53.0       50.0        50.0           -      -36.0
Change In reserves (--increa,e)                  7.4      -49.6       135.9      270.1       -81.9      -20.0       -20.0      -20.0       -23.0      -20.0       -20.3      -25.0
Internatlonal r.serves                        107.5       164.4      300.3        30.2      112.1       132.1       152.1      172.1       192.1      212.1      232.1       357.i
Reserves as months imports                       3.4        712         4,2        0.3         1.1        1.1         1.1        1.2         1.2         1.2        !.2         1.1
EXtR'AI CAPITAL AND DET8
,ross Jisb.rsements                             60.5      238.2       326.3      382.5      596.9       763.8
3fficisl grcots                               6.2       119.0      135.0       214.1      321.4       380.0
Co-e ssional loans                           40.4        93.6      149.5       112.6      103.8       179.7
DACL                                       20.1        58'0       73.7       64.1        33.2        33.1
o'?C                                           -        1.0        6.5         1.2        1.2        35.5
IDA                                         9.4        29.0       39.3       24.4        39.0       49.4
Other                                      10.9         5.6-      30.0        22.9       30.4        61.6
Nov-concessional loans                        13.9       25.6        41.8       63.4       171.7      204.1
Officia1 export credits                        -        7.3           -       21.7       32.1         6.8
1BRD                                        4.8        17.1       30.4       31.3        36.6       31.8
Other essOtilateral                            -          -        3.1         7.6        5.3        14.4
Private                                     9.1         1.2        8.3         2.8       97.7      151.0
EtternAl Debt
Debt outstanding and d:sbursed              322.7   1,026.3   1,318.6   1,260.1    1,422.0    1,751.3
Official                                  193.4       965.7    1,158.5   1,201.4   1,266.6   1,462.7
Private                                   129.3        60,6       60.1       58.7       155.4      288.5
Undisbursed debt                            408.4       536.6      560.4       617.5      699.6       679.7
Debt service
Total s.rvice pa.yneats                     -26.3       -41.7      -51.2       -49.6       49.7       -98.2
Interest                                  -10.1      -19.5       -22.3      -24.7       -30.0      -43.7
Payments as 7. exports                         7.5        6.4         7.6        7.9        7.1        13.3
Average Interest rate on new loans't)            1.6        2.6         3.1         2.6        5.5        4.5
Official                                       1.5        2.3         3.1        2.6        4.0
Private                                       7.0         8.3        9.3         ..         8.5
Average maturity of new loans (years)           38.8       38.0        34.7       35.4        21.1       27.3
Official                                     39.7        39.9        14.7  i   35.4        27.0          .
Private                                       7.2         5.0       :14.8        ..         9.7
As 7. of Debt Outstanding
at End of Most Recent
Year (1979)
Maturlty structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                                                                28.4
Maturities doe within 10 yearn                                                                              62.7
Interest struct.re of debt outstanding
Interest due 'ithi. first year                                                                                3.0
a/ Estimate
b/  E,,Iudes official grant receipt..
c/ Includes financing of projected gap oa IDA terms.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 16
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TANZANIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO TANZANIA
AS OF MARCH 31, 1983
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellation
No.       Year  Borrower           Purpose                    Bank'   TW      IDAt  Undisbursed
Eight loans, one Third Window loan, and twenty
credits fully disbursed.                                  121.24  29.99  184.74
454-TA  1974  Tanzania   Cotton2                                            17.50    1.62
507-TA  1974  Tanzania   Highway Maintenance                                10.20    1.16
580-TA  1975  Tanzania   Dairy                                              10.00    4.25
1128-TA  1975  Tanzania   Mwanza Textile2                    15.00                     0.53
601-TA  1976  Tanzania   Technical Assistance2                               6.00    0.80
606-TA  1976  Tanzania   National Maize Program2                            18.00    4.33
607-TA  1976  Tanzania   Fifth Education                                    11.00    4.55
1307-TA  1976  Tanzania   Forestry2                           7.00                     0.74
652-TA  1976  Tanzania   Fisheries                                           9.00    5.36
658-TA  1976  Tanzania   Tobacco Processing2                                 8.00    0.46
1354-TA  1977  Tanzania   Urban Water Supply                 15.00                     0.29
1385T-TA  1977  Tanzania   Morogoro Industrial Complex                11.50             1.12
1386-TA  1977  Tanzania   Morogoro Industrial Complex    11.50                         0.69
703-TA  1977  Tanzania   Rural Development (Tabora)                          7.20    3.95
732-TA  1977  Tanzania   Second Sites and Services                          12.00    5.24
743-TA  1977  Tanzania   Trucking                                           15.00    3.78
1498-TA  1977  TIB         Tanzania Investment Bank          15.00                     1.47
801-TA  1978  Tanzania   Second Cashewnut                                   27.50    6.72
802-TA  1978  Tanzania   Tobacco Handling                                   14.00    9.74
803-TA  1978  Tanzania   Rural Dev. (Mwanza/Shinyanga)                      12.00    5.33
1607-TA  1978  Tanzania   Morogoro Textile                   25.00                    24.50
833-TA  1978  Tanzania   Morogoro Textile                                   20.00    5.04
860-TA  1979  Tanzania   Tourism Rehabilitation                             14.00    9.69
861-TA  1979  Tanzania   Sixth Education                                    12.00   10.32
875-TA  1979  Tanzania   Mufindi Pulp and Paper                             30.00    0.07
1650-TA  1979  Tanzania   Mufindi Pulp and Paper             30.00                    26.64
876-TA  1979  Tanzania   Fifth Highway                                      20.50   14.29
1745-TA  1979  TDFL        Tanganyika Dev. Fin. Co., Ltd. 11.00                        3.24
1750-TA  1979  TIB         Tanzania Investment Bank          25.00                    14.25
S-24-TA  1979  Tanzania   Dar es Salaam Port Engineering                      2.50    0.25
987-TA  1980  Tanzania   Tanzania Rural Dev. Bank                           10.00    9.89
1007-TA  1980  Tanzania   Pyrethrum                                          10.00    7.15
1015-TA  1980  Tanzania   Grain Storage and Milling                          43.00   39.36
1037-TA  1980  Tanzania   Smallholder Tea                                    14.00   12.58
1056-TA  1981  Tanzania   Seventh Education                                  25.00   24.58
1060-TA  1981  Tanzania   Technical Assistance II3                           11.00    8.16
1070-TA  1981  Tanzania   Coconut Pilot3                                      6.60    4.96
1133-TA  1981  Tanzania   Export Rehabilitation Program3                     47.10    5.82
1173-TA  1982  Tanzania   Telecommunications I3                              25.30   25.30
1199-TA  1982  Tanzania   Songo-Songo Petroleum II3                          20.30    4.10
1206-TA  1982  Tanzania   Technical Assistance III3                          12.00   10.56
1229-TA  1982  Tanzania   Sao Hill Forestry-Phase I13                        12.00   12.00
1271-TA  1982  Tanzania   Urban Water Supply (Suppl.)3 4                      4.00    4.00
1312-TA  1983  Tanzania   Dar es Salaam Sewerage and                         22.50   22.50
Sanitation  4
Total                                                       275.74  41.49  723.94
of which has been repaid                                   29.94    -      10.70
Total now outstanding                                     245.80  41.49  713.24
Amount sold                                 .09
of which has been repaid                  .09
Total now held by Bank and IDA1                             245.80  41.49  713.24
Total undisbursed                                            72.35   1.12  287.91  361.38
1  Net of exchange adjustments.
2 Since these projects have recently been completed, loan/credit
accounts will soon be closed.
3 Sixth replenishment; approximate US$ equivalent of SDR's.
4 Not yet effective.



38 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 16
B. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF MARCH 31, 1983
(US$ million)
Loan                                              Amount (less cancellations)
No.     Year    Borrower        Purpose                 Bank'  Undisbursed
Seven loans fully disbursed                             135.80
638-EA  1969    EAHC          Harbours                 35.00        0.52
865-EA  1972    EAHC          Harbours                 26.50        0.35
914-EA  1973    EAPTC         Telecommunications       32.50        0.28
1204-EA  1976    EADB         Development Finance       15.00        0.95
Total                                        244.80        2.10
of which has been repaid                    80.99
Total now outstanding                        163.81
Amount sold                   24.36
of which has been repaid  24.36              0.00
Total now held by Bank                       163.81
Total undisbursed                              2.10        2.10
lNet of exchange adjustments.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 16
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION'
(As of March 31, 1983)
There are currently 41 projects under execution in Tanzania.
AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Credit No. 454-TA - Geita Cotton Project: US$17.5 million
Credit of January 17, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
April 5, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
The project was completed on schedule and credit account will be
closed. Most of the civil works, including roads construction have been
completed and trial results have established an effective spray regime
although viable packages for fertilizer use have not been identified. The
project was involved in the villagization process, land use planning and
the establishment of block farming. Staff continuity and higher level
staff training have been good. However, most appraisal targets have not
been achieved. Cotton production is now declining. A Project Completion
Report is under preparation.
Credit No. 652-TA - Fisheries Development Project: US$9.0
million Credit of July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
The Project faced major implementation difficulties, including a
delay in the procurement of boats for the Kigoma Commercial Center, a major
shortfall in the purchase of boats for the coastal centers and a
postponement of procurement of lake transport facilities. There were
problems affecting the quality of wooden boats constructed under the
project and delivered to the coastal center. After considerable discussion
of a possible extension of the project, project activities were terminated
on December 31, 1982.
Credit No. 606-TA - National Maize Project: US$18.0 million
Credit of Janury 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - May 28,
1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
The project was redesigned in order to intensify project
activities during a three-year extension period from July 1979 to June
1982; however, this redesign had little impact on the production of food
crops because of drought conditions. Inadequate research, extension and
'These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this context, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weak-
nesses in project execution.



-- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 16
prices also discouraged proper crop husbandry. Construction of staff
houses and village stores was delayed due to shor tage of bui]Lding
materials. The December 1982 mission found no improvement in project
implementation and project activities were terminated on sche!Lule.
Credit account will soon be closed.
Credit No. 580-TA - Dairy Development Project: US$1.0.0
million Credit of August. 15, 1975; Date of Effectiveness -
November 13, 1975; Closing Date - March. 31, 1983
The project has begun to show overall improvemetnt in its
implementation. Milk production, technical parameters and budgeting
control have improved, and production cost has been reduced. The large
price increase in July 1980 was responsible in great part for the improved
financial position of the dairies. However, implementation problems
remain, and the closing date has not been extended past March. 31, 1983.
Loan No. 1307-TA - Sao Hill Forestry Project (Phase I):
US$7.0 million Loan Df July 12, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
October 12, 1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982
This first phase project has been completed. While the Closing
Date was not formally postponed, disbursement of committed amounts
continued until September 30, 11982. Credit account will be closed.
Credit No. 658-TA - Tobacco Processing Project: US$8.0
million Credit of September 16, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
February 15, 1977; C:Losing Date - December 31, 1981
The Closing Date of t:his Credit was December 31, 1981. However,
the credit account was kept open to allow the project authorities to submit
belated withdrawal applications for two eligible expenditures - security
lighting and firefighting equipment.  Credit accotnt is now being closed.
Credit No. 703-TA ancl Credit No. 703-5-TA - Tabora Rural
Development Project: US$1.2.0 million Credit2 of May 11,
1977; Date of Effectiveness - November 11, 1977:;
Closing Date - June 3i0, 1]983
Overall project implementation has improved with the easing of
cement shortages and the improved arrangement for diesel fuel supply.
Specifically, the agriculture, land. use, and roads components are making
satisfactory progress and the water resource development has improved.
With close supervision, disbursement of credit funds has also improved.
The Government has submitted proposals for restructuring and extending the
project beyond the current Closing Date. These proposals were reviewed
during a supervision mission in October 1982. However, the mission found
some deterioration in the key crop and livestock components of the project
and concluded that an extension would not be justified. Project account
will be closed on schedule.
2Credit No. 703-5-TA (US$4.;3 million) is financed under the special
CIDA arrangements; Credit no. 7133-TA is an IDA Credit of US$7.2 million.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 16
Credit No. 801-TA - Second Cashewnut Development Project;
US$27.5 million Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of Effectiveness -
October 2, 1978; Closing Date - December 31, 1984
Factory construction is satisfactory. However, the project is
seriously affected by technical, managerial, and financial problems.
Particularly, the inadequate supply of raw nuts is worrisome. In addition,
the appointment of key staff and the maintenance of up-to-date accounts at
existing cashewnut factories continue to pose difficulties. The prospects
for operation of the new facilities at full capacity are rather poor.
Credit No. 802-TA - Tobacco Handling Project: US$14.0 million
Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of Effectiveness - January 5, 1979,
Closing Date - April 30, 1983
The project has faced major difficulties. Despite the low volume
of tobacco handled, TAT's administrative costs remain very high. Tobacco
losses during handling remain significant and TAT's ability to organize and
follow through on corrective measures has been limited. It has hence been
agreed that the project should be scaled down and terminated on schedule on
April 30, 1983.
Credit No. 803-TA - Mwanza/Shinyanga Rural Development Project:
US$12.0 million Credit of June 14, 1978; Date of Effectiveness -
March 5, 1979; Closing Date - December 31, 1984
Although some infrastructure components are proceeding
satisfactorily, and housing and vehicles have been provided, the project's
agricultural components are not making significant progress. This is due
not only to problems of project implementation but also to general factors
affecting the entire agricultural sector such as the pricing of
agricultural produce and inputs, marketing problems, input supply
constraints, and deficiencies of agricultural services (e.g. research,
extension and credit). The Government has submitted proposals for project
redesign and a joint IDA/IFAD mission visited Tanzania in December 1982 to
discuss these proposals with the Government and project staff.  The
redesign proposals were amplified during the mission, and it was agreed in
principle that the greatly reduced investment program should be
implemented.
Credit No. 987-TA - Tanzania Rural Development Bank (TRDB)
Project: US$10.0 million credit of October 24, 1980; Effective-
ness Date - May 18, 1981; Closing Date - December 31, 1983
TRDB is facing growing financial and managerial problems, due in
part to the pervasive problems of the agricultural sector. TRDB is
preparing programs to deal with the issues.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 16
Credit No. 1007-TA - Pyrethrum Project: US$10.0 million
Credit of October 24, 1980; Date of Eff'ectiveness - April 20,
1981; Closing Date -- December 31, 1985
The Tanganyika Pyrethrunm Board's operating costs are proving much
higher than expected at appraisal and it may not be possible to reduce them
sufficiently in the course of the project to ensure economic production.
The closure of the extraction plant at Mafinga will result in important
transport savings for TPB; however, these will not be significant enough to
improve prospects for the crop.  Urgent steps are to be taken to reduce the
operating costs of TPB and to improve the marketing of its products.
Expenditures for certain new investments (e.g. headquarters building for
TPB, staff housing and possibly some road improvement) are to be
eliminated.
Credit No. 1037-TA - Smallholder Tea Project: U'S$14.0 million
Credit of August 20, 1980; Effectiveness Date - April 27, 1981;
Closing Date - June 30, 1985
The project started slowly due to delays in appointing the
General Manager and the Chief Engineer. Some start has been made in the
tea nursery and fuelwood plant'ing. The Ukalawa factory site has been
selected but the construction of tlhis facility may be delayed, pending a
significant increase in tea production.
Credit No. 1070-TA - Coconut Pilot Project: US$6.8 million
Credit of October 24, 1980; Date of Effectiveness - April 20,
1981; Closing Date - March 31, 1986
Implementation of the project is progressing well, largely due to
the quality of staff in the field.  However, the Mainland Govenment has
decided to allocate only TSh 3 million of the TSh 9.5 million in local
currency needed for the project: in 1982/83. Management is hence attempting
to resolve this problem.
Credit No. 1015-TA - Grain Storage and Milling Project:
US$43.0 million Credit of April 15, 1981; Date of Effectiveness -
July 15, 1981; Closing DaLte - June 30, 1987
Because of the uncertainties regarding the organizational
structure and future responsibilities of the National Milling Corporation
(NMC), project implementation has been substantially delayed. Detailed
proposals for the reorganization of cereals handling and distribution are
still being discussed in Tanzania. The Bank will now suggest that
Government provide adequate re-design proposals which will then be
appraised.
Credit No. 1229-TA - Sao Hill Forestry Project (Phase II):
US$12.0 million Credit of May 19, 1982; Date of Effectiveness -
March 16, 1983; Closiag Date - December 31, 1987
This credit, which is a follow-up to the first phase project,
became effective on March 16, 1983. The afforestation program consisting



-- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 16
of planting, replanting, weeding, pruning and fire break maintenance are
being implemented well; however, the ancilliary and support services are
experiencing some difficulties.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 607-TA - Fifth Education Project: US$11.0 million
Credit of January 29, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - March 23,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1982          _
Overall project completion has reached 65% and about $6.3 million
have been disbrused. However, because of the domestic financial
constraints, the shortage of building materials and the dispersed locations
of the village staff housing program, it will not be possible to complete
the project as planned. The Credit account will soon be closed.
Credit 861-TA - Sixth Education Project - US$12.0 million
Credit of January 22, 1979; Date of Effectiveness - June 25,
1979; Closing Date - June 30, 1985
Civil works are underway at two vocational training centers and
three technical secondary schools and are due to start on the Dar es Salaam
School of Accountancy. Implementation is slow with resultant cost
increases. However, all components (with the possible exception of the
postponed MANTEP - management training for education personnel) are
expected to be completed by project closing date.
Credit 1056-TA - Seventh Education Project: US$25.0 million
Credit of September 26, 1980; Date of Effectiveness -
December 29, 1980; Closing Date - December 30, 1986
Implementation is proceeding slowly due to (i) staff constraints
in the Project Implementation Section; (ii) delay in Government decision on
location and staffing of the Coordinating Unit for Research and Education;
(iii) delay in staffing and equipping of the National Examination Council
and of the Tanzania Elimu Supplies; and (iv) shortages of materials.
However, in Zanzibar, work on the new Teacher Training College is ahead of
schedule, staff houses are now available at the Nkrumah Training College
and preliminary surveys of sites have been made.
TOURISM SECTOR
Credit No. 860-TA - Tourism Rehabilitation Project: US$14.0
million Credit of January 22, 1979; Date of Effectiveness -
August 24, 1979; Closing Date - June 30, 1983
Project implementation generally is progressing much slower than
anticipated at the time of appraisal mainly due to delays in execution of
building works for hotel rehabilitation. All posts for technical
assistance staff have been filled. The construction site identified for the
Hotel and Tourism Training Institute (HTTI) proved to be unsuitable because
of size and shape, thereby delaying implementation of this component. An
alternative site has been located and preparation of preliminary design is



-- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 8  of 16
about to start. Improvements to the airport terminal were clropped because
the Government was able to secure bilateral financing for a new passenger
terminal building.  Vehicles for anti-poaching aLctivities have been
received and allocated to TANAPA and the Ngorongoro Conservation
Authority. The Closing Date will need to be postponed if IDA involvement
is to continue.
TRANSPORT SECTOR
Credit No. 507-TA - Highway Maintenance Project: US$10.2
million Credit of August 21, 1974; Date of Effectiveness -
November 20, 1974; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
After a slow start, project implementation improved and all
equipment procured through IC'B has been delivered. However, it became
necessary to recast the project by amending its scope to address organiza-
tional problems encountered in its implementation. The previous Closing
Date of December 31, 1980 has been postponed to December 31, 1982 to allow
adequate time for completion of the project. However, withdrawal
applications will be accepted up to June 30, 198:3 to allow an orderly
termination of project activities.
Credit No. 743-TA - Trucking Industry Rehabilitation
and Improvement Project: US$15 million Credit of
November 3, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - April 3, 1978
Closing Date - June 30, 1983_
Although implementation has been slow due to delays in creating
Regional Transport Companies and in procuring trucks, improvement has been
recorded recently with the delivery of all original estimates of trucks and
the Government's contribution to the National Trucking Company for equity
in the transport companies has been increased. Technical assistance has
been extended since 1978; currently about 15 experts are assisting in the
project implementation. All five regional trucking companies were created
in early 1981 and a Board of Directors was appointed, with adequate
management staff to support it. They are all operational and have recorded
profits between 12-25% for the first half of the current financial year.
Credit No. 876-TA - Fifth Highway Project; US$20.0 million
Credit of March 2, 1979; Date of Effectiveness - December 3,
1980; Closing Date - December 31, 1984 _
This is a follow-up to credit No. 507-TA in the maintenance of
the national trunk road system. A-l three key advisers and six key local
staff are now in post.  However, technical assistance for the Morogoro
Training School has yet to be recruited and an action program for
recruitment and training of staff has yet to be prepared.  All 120 students
are receiving training in various engineering colleges overseas and are
making good progress. Contract:s for the supply of road maintenance
equipment have recently been awarded and some of the equipment have been
delivered.



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 16
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR
Credit No. 1173-TA - Telecommunications I Project; US$27.0
million Credit of March 4, 1982; Date of Effectiveness -
November 1, 1982; Closing Date - June 30, 1986
This credit became effective on November 1, 1982. Physical
implementation of the project is well underway. TPTC's financial position
is also considered acceptable.
PORTS SECTOR
Credit No. S-24-TA - Dar es Salaam Port Engineering Project:
US$2.5 million Credit of February 27, 1980; Date of Effectiveness
- August 13, 1980; Closing Date - June 30, 1983
Project implementation is progressing well. The consultants have
submitted a number of reports and drawings to the Tanzania Harbours Author-
ity (THA) for their review and comment. The only major problem is one of
coordination concerning the commissioning of the new oil jetty which re-
quires that the pipe work link to the refinery and the existing network be
completed and ready for use at the same time as the jetty. THA has been
asked to decide on who will design and carry out the actual site work, as
well as finance the foreign exchange costs. The original Closing Date of
September 30, 1981 was postponed a second time in order to complete project
work.
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 732-TA - Second National Sites and Services Project:
US$12.0 million Credit of Novemger 3, 1977; Date of Effective-
ness - April 3, 1978; Closing Date - June 30, 1984
The project was reshaped in 1981 to accelerate progress, to trim
the scope, complexity and cost to a more achievable level commensurate with
emerging experience of actual implementing capacity and to recognize newly
recreated city councils, which did not exist at the time of project
appraisal. Some problems are still being experienced due to shortages of
trained and experienced management and manpower and equipment and spares,
but overall progress is satisfactory.  All civil works contracts have been
let and 83% of the work has been completed. Special units have been
recently established to address the continuing problem of consolidation
under the first project and to initiate cost recovery. Progress is evident
on both fronts. Collections are now underway in all Urban I sites and are
starting up in Urban II sites as works are completed.
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1354-TA - Urban Water Supply Project: US$15.0 million
Loan of Janury 5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness - March 2, 1977;
Closing Date - December 31, 1984
The Borrower's performance under the project has generally been
good. Water treatment and distribution facilities have been largely



- 46 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 Of 16
completed.  Establishment of a National Urban Water Authority (NUWA) which
is to own and operate major urban water supply systems in the country, was
approved by the Parliament in April 1981. Implementation of the project
has, however, been dominated by the poor performance of the main civil
works contractor for the Mindu dam. After being given several
opportunities to improve his performance, the contractor was dismissed in
August 1981 and a new contract: was awarded to the second lowest evaluated
bidder at the time of the original contract award in December 1978.  In
view of the major delays and problems which have affected the completion of
the dam, the project's foreign exchange cost increased by about US$11.0
million over the appraisal estimate. Completion of the project is being
financed by a supplementary credit from IDA (US$4 million) and a grant from
CIDA (US$3.2 million). US$3.8 million is being provided fronl Ln. 1354-TA
by diverting funds intended for other project comiponents..
Credit No. 1271-TA - Urban Water Supply Project
(Supplementary): US$4.0 million Credit of December 9, 1982;
Closing Date - December 31, 1984 _         _   _
This credit is not yet effective.
Credit No. 1312-TA - Dar es Salaam Sewerage and Sanitation
Project: US$22.5 million Credit of December 21, 1982; Closing
Date - December 31, 1987
This credit is not yet effective.
ENERGY SECTOR
Credit S-27-TA - Songo Songo Petroleum Exploration Project:
US$30.0 million Credit of June 30, 1980; Date of Effectiveness -
September 12, 1980; Closing Date - September 30, 1982
Drilling of the onshore well under the project has been abandoned
because of various technical di'fficulties which were aggravated by manage-
rial problems, particularly the absence of close and effective project
control.  Drilling of the offshore well has been completed.  The credit has
been fully disbursed and credit: account will be closed.
Credit 1199-TA - Songo Songo Petroleum II: US$20.0 million
Credit of January 13, 1982; Date of Effectiveness -
February 23, 1982; Closing Date - December 31, 1983.
This credit became effective on February 23, 1982. Drilling and
testing of the second well, Well SS-8, is now virtually completed. The
Association and the OPEC Fund have agreed to finance a third well for
purposes of confirming the extent of the natural gas reservoir at Songo
Songo.



- 47 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 16
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Loan No. 1498-TA - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of December 28, 1977; Date of Effectiveness -
April 3, 1978; Closing Date - June 30, 1983
This loan is now fully committed and disbursements are proceeding
satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1750-TA3 - Tanzania Investment Bank: US$25.0 million
Loan of August 20, 1979; Date of Effectiveness - February 5,
1980; Closing Date - June 30, 1984
Commitments and disbursements are progressing satisfactorily.
In the light of the difficult situation in Tanzania, particularly the
severe foreign exchange shortage, TIB is revising its operational strategy
to focus in the near-term on providing funds which would enable projects to
replace, balance, or modernize their machinery and equipment, improve
capacity utilization, promote exports, and otherwise assist improvement of
balance of payments. TIB is also being encouraged to use a portion of the
Bank's loan, on an exceptional basis, to meet part of the requirements for
imported inputs of some of its high-priority projects which are likely to
face very low capacity operation, or even closure, following meagre
allocation of foreign exchange.
Loan No. 1128-TA - Mwanza Textile Project: US$15.0 million
Loan of June 19, 1975; Date of Effectiveness - October 6,
1975; Closing Date - December 31, 1981
Project implementation performance has been acceptable and all
technical installations are now operating satisfactorily. The National
Textile Corporation (TEXCO), the holding company for state-owned textile
mills, has agreed to institute an immediate action progam to improve the
operating performance of existing mills. The project was technically
completed in October 1978 with a savings of about US$1.7 million. In order
to utilize this amount for rehabilitation of the existing facilities, which
are essential parts of the project, and in order to finalize disbursements
on the awarded contracts, the Closing Date was postponed by six months to
December 31, 1981. The remaining balance under the loan was cancelled on
February 1, 1982.
Credit No. 601-TA - Technical Assistance Project: US$6.0
million Credit of January 9, 1976; Date of Effectiveness -
September 14, 1976; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
The project was designed to assist the Government in implementing
its program of economic development through financing preinvestment and
feasibility studies for projects in the productive sectors, special studies
for improving efficiency and capacity utilization investments, and training
3In addition, a US$15.0 million EEC Special Action Credit in support
of this project is being administered by IDA.



-- 48 -
ANNEX II
Page 12eOf 16
for Tanzanians in project preparation, implementation, evaluation and
related techniques.  The credit is fully committed and virtually completely
disbursed.  The credit account will soon be closed' and the remaining small
undisbursed balance will be cancelled.
Loan No. 1385-T-TA/Loan No. 1386-TA - Morogoro ]:ndustrial
Complex: US$11.5 million Loan on Third Window Terms and US$11.5
million Bank loan, both of April 6, 1977; Date of Effectiveness
- July 6, 1977; Closing Date - December 31, 1982
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily in spite of
some initial delays in the appointment of consultants and start-up of
procurement. Because of some delays in the start-up of individual
components of the Industrial Complex, the project was not completed in July
1982 as scheduled. Revised capital cost estimates are only slightly higher
than those contained in the Appraisal Report. The most recent supervision
mission for this project recommended that the Closing Date be postponed to
June 30, 1984 to permit construction and equipping of an effluent treatment
plant to serve the Morogoro Induastrial Estate as well as the Morogoro
Textile Mill which is being constructed.
Credit No. 833-TA/Loan No. 1607-TA - Morogoro Textile Project:
US$20.0 million Credit and US$25.0 million both of June 29,
1978; Date of Effectiveness - May 7, 1979; Closing Date -
June 30, 1985
Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily in spite of
some problems encountered with t:he awarding of the civil works contract.
No further delay is anticipated in project complet:ion.
Credit No. 875-TA/Loan No. 1650-TA - Mufindi Pulp and Paper
Project: US$30.0 million credit and US$30 million Loan, both
of April 6, 1979; Date of Effectiveness -- April 15, 1980;
Closing Date - Decembe!r 31], 1983
Overall project implementEation, including arrangements for
project management, has improved.   Project completion is now expected by
mid-1984.  Project cost has been significantly reduced with savings in
civil works, equipment and particularly in erection. The rebidding of the
mechanical, electrical and instrumentation installaLtion contract (MEI) has
resulted in savings of about US$9 million. However, supplementary foreign
funds will be required to finance the conversion of the mill's boilers to
burn wood fuel as well as coal and ciil, to provide additional start-up
technical assistance, and to provide sufficient fuel, materials and other
supplies for the first three years cf mill operation.
Loan No. 1745-TA - Tanganyika Development Finance Company, Ltd.
(TDFL) Project: US$11.0 million Loan of July 27, 19791; Date of
Effectiveness - November 1, 1979; Closing Date - December 31,
1983                       _
The loan is fully committed and disbursement is proceeding
satisfactorily. However, there has been a deterioration in the quality of
TDFL's portfolio because of the foreign exchange constraints. An



- 49 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 16
increasing number of TDFL assisted enterprises which mainly depend on
imported input are operating at less than break-even capacity. As a
result, arrears in the loan portfolio have increased in the past year.
Credit No. 1060-TA - Second Technical Assistance Project: US$11
millon Credit of October 24, 1980; Date of Effectiveness -
February 10, 1981, Closing Date - June 30, 1985
As of March 31, 1983, 24% of consultants' services allocation has
been committed for 9 projects. Commitments and disbursements under the
training component are proceeding satisfactorily.  The Technical Assistance
Unit is functioning efficiently. Some of the previous problems of delayed
submission of subprojects on training have been overcome.
Credit No. 1206-TA - Third Technical Assistance Project: US$12.0
million equivalent Credit of March 4, 1982; Closing Date -
June 30, 1987
This credit became effective on April 1, 1982. The
FAO/Government contract for the supply of the major portion of consulting
services was signed in January 1983 and the Technical Assistance Advisory
Committee was established in March 1983. However recruitment of experts is
still at an early stage.
EXPORT REHABILITATION PROGRAM
Credit No. 1133-TA - Export Rehabilitation Program: US$50.0
million Credit of April 24, 1981; Date of Effectiveness -
May 12, 1981; Closing Date - March 31, 1983
Performance in achieving the stated agricultural objectives of
the project has been generally disappointing. In other policy areas,
recent Government actions show some improvements. Important steps remain
to be taken on pricing, decentralization of internal distribution and
ensuring greater accountability in public sector organization.
EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY
There are currently four projects in execution in the East
African Community.4
4Since October 1, 1977, the East African Community loans (excluding
the East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive Directors
dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12, 1978, is
given in this Annex. The Closing Date for loans 638-EA, and 865-EA have
passed. However, since the amount allocated to and guaranteed by each
Partner State is clearly identified under the terms of the Agreement signed
on January 25, 1978 as proposed in the above report (R77-312), we are
continuing disbursements.



-- 50 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 16
Loan No. 638-EA - Seconld Harbours Project: US$35.0 million
Loan of August 25, 19693; Date of Effectiveness - December 16,
1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Thirtd Harbours Project: US$26.5 million
Loan of December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness - April 16,
1973; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single bay tanker terminal for the Port of Dar es
Salaam; two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa; tugs,
lighters, cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improve-
ments for both ports. The Third Harbours project included three new deep
water berths, modernization of two berths and a lighterage quay, a training;
school building and central repair area for Dar es Salaam; mnodernization of
several berths and a lighterage quay, construction of a tug berth, cold
storage facilities and a trai ning building in Mombasa and improvement of a
lighterage quay in Tanga.  Construction of all major project elements has
been completed and a joint project completion report was issued in January
1979.  Because of shortage of funds under both :Loans, the following minor
project elements have not been submitted for Bank financing:  the second
phase of modernization of the lighterage quay and a training school for Dar
es Salaam, modernization of t:he 'Lighterage quay and a training school for
Mombasa. Locally financed contracts have been awarded for these project
elements with the exception of the modernization of the lighterage quay in
Mombasa.  General cargo throughput has increased above appraisal forecasts
for Dar es Salaam, and cargo handling productiviLty has improved with
increasing throughput; howevetr, port labor productivity has stagnated in
Mombasa where general cargo throughout has decl-ined considerably. Legis-
lation to establish a Tanzania Harbours Authority and a Kenya Ports Author-
ity has been enacted. Management of Ports in both countries is competent.
Since work under the projects has been compledted, the remaining balance of
US$516,897.23 under Loan 638--EA and US$349,884.28 under Loan 865-EA were
cancelled on November 10, 1982. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds
of October 1, 1977 between the countries concerned is given below:
For Loan No. 638-EA                           (US$ milLion)
Kenya                                         0.7
Tanzania                                      0.6
Total                                      1.3
For Loan No. 865-EAk
Kenya                                         1.7
Tanzania                                      0.3
Total                                      2.0



- 51 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 16
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Project: US$32.5
million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 19, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment,
and training. All project items have been completed; the undisbursed
balance of US$284,975.20 under the loan will soon be cancelled and the loan
account closed. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds as at October
1, 1977 among the countries concerned is as follows:
US$ million
Kenya                      2.4
Tanzania                  3.5
Uganda                     0.1
Total                   6.0
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0
million Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - June 7,
1976; Closing Date - June 30, 1983
The environment within the Community has continued to have a
negative impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for appraisal
and supervision has been depressed, but there has been some improvement in
the state of the portfolio with the arrears affected portfolio falling from
50% as of June 30, 1977 to 43% as of June 30, 1979. Some US$13.65 million
of the loan has been disbursed to date.



- 52 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 16
D. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT IN TANZANIA
AS OF MARCH 31, 1983
Fiscal                                                   Amount in US$ Million
Year           Obligor            Type of Business        Loan  Equity  Total
1960 &   Kilombero Sugar    'Food Processing              3.96   0.70    4.66
1964       Company
1978     Highland Soap and   Soap Manufacture             1.38   0.36    1.74
Allied Products
Limited
1979     Metal Products        Household Utensils         1.33   0.18    1.51
Limited
Total gross commitments                  6.67   1.24    7.91
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                  4.17   0.69    4.86
Total commitments now held by IFC        2.50   0.55    3.05
Total undisbursed.                      0.06      -    0.06



- 53 -
ANNEX III
TANZANIA
MUFINDI PULP AND PAPER MILL - TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
AND ENERGY CONVERSION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  First Association mission to review project.               April 1975
(b)  Approval of original Bank Group Financing.               January 1979
(c)  Effectiveness of Bank Group Financing.                     April 1980
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission.                         February 1983
(e)  Completion of negotiations.                                April 1983
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness.                              July 1983
Section II: Special Association Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) SPM would prepare annual marketing plans, the first of which would
be ready by March 31, 1984 (paragraph 62).
(b) A detailed training program for SPM personnel would be submitted to
the Association for its review by December 31, 1983 and a personnel
compensation and incentive scheme would be submitted by June 30, 1984
(paragraph 71).
(c) The Government would allow SPM to retain in a foreign exchange account
a portion of its export earnings sufficient to meet its operating
import requirements (paragraph 75).



TANZANIA
MUFINDI PULP AND PAPER PROJECT
Proposed Technical Assistance and Energy Conversion Project
Project Implementation Schedule
1979                1980                1981                1982                1983                 1984                1985                1986
1    2   3    4 _1   2    3         1    2         4    1       34    12 3 4                     1   2   3    4    1 2 3    4                  2    3 4
A. MUFINDsI PULP & PAPER PROJECT
Site Preparation             ~11111
Civil Construction                          lot         III    I  IIII   l    l
Equipment Erection                                                                                      los-  -l-s-l-st
Staort-up PM 2                                                                                                              Ioii iii sill 
Start-up PM 1                                                                                                    0I IIllE I                                               rn
Railway Spur & Sidings                                     ---              ~~ 
Power Line                                                      Il         l   a   NR   la
Township                                                                                                                                        LJ - -  n   - 
Escarpmnent Road                                                               n IIII  I  Il 11   NORU                            m               mi
C. PROPOSED PROJECT
1 Operating Manaigement
- Contract Finalizaition
- Financing Committrnent
- Organizaition Visit by Contractor
- Contractor Mobilizing
-   Start-up   &   O peration ail Assist ajnce-                                                                                                    , -  I -         mI           II           - I 
2. Energy Conversion
- Order Equipment
-Boiler Revision Construction
- Fuelwood Harvesting TrialsZ
- First Delivery at Fuel Wood4
- Boiler Fired on Oil/Coal 
- Boiler Fired on Wood                                                                                                                                                             -i         i
0   lIClumucum 1    1  Appraisal Estimate
X       EO      Current Estimate or Actual                                                                                                                                             Worldl Bankr-24813



- 55 -
ANNEX V
TANZANIA - MUFINDI PULP AND PAPER PROJECT
PROPOSED TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND ENERGY CONVERSION PROJECT
Capital Cost of Mufindi Project
(USS million)
Appraisal          Revised Estimate  a/
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total   _
Civil Works                  6.6      15.5    22.1   14.2    25.1    39.3   16.7
Machinery Equipment
& Spares                   2.8     77.0    79.8    6.9    83.7    90.6   38.6
Erection                     6.0      15.8    21.8    9.6    25.6    35.2   15.0
Construction Overhead        3.4       6.4     9.8    6.2    10.3    16.5    7.0
Eng. & Project Mgmt.         3.0      15.6    18.6    2.3    26.5    28.8   12.3
Total Plant Cost            21.8    130.3   152.1   39.2   171.2   210.4   89.6
Logging Capital              0.6       3.5     4.1    1.1    10.4    11.5    4.9
Railway Spur                 2.1        -      2.1    1.0        -      1.0    0.5
Senior Staff Housing b/    1.3        0.3      1.6      -       -        -      -
Pre-Operating Expense        1.5       0.8     2.3    4.4       1.5     5.9    2.5
Tech. Assist. & Training   2.2         7.2     9.4    1.3       4.6     5.9    2.5
Subtotal                     7.7      11.8    19.5    7.8    16.5    24.3   10.4
Base Cost Estimate          29.5    142.1   171.6   47.0   187.7   234.7  100.0
Physical Contingencies       2.9      14.1    17.0    1.2       3.3     4.5
Price Escalation             6.6      22.5    29.1    1.8       2.0     3.8
Installed Cost              39.0    178.7   217.7   50.0   193.0   243.0
Working Capital              4.0       2.7     6.7    4.8       5.2    10.0
Interest During
Construction              15.1     12.2    27.3   17.8       5.6    23.4
Total Financing Required  58.1    193.6   251.7   72.6   203.8   276.4
a/ February 1983.
b/ Now included in township.



- 56 -
Al1NEX VI
Page 1 of 3
TANZANIA - MUFINDI PULP AND PAPER PROJECT
PROPOSED TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND ENERGY CONVERSIOC. PROJECT
Projection of Paper Prices
Tanzania has been imnporting most of its paper requirements from
Sweden and Canada under bilateral Trade Agreements. As the quantity of its
imports are fairly small they are being bought at spot prices; these prices
fluctuated widely and therefore cannot be reliable indicators of long-term
prices. Accordingly, the financial and economic projections are based on
f.o.b. paper prices from Canada, which is one of the Jargest exporters of
paper in the world, and the c i.f. prices in India , which imports large
quantities of paper and pays freight charges very close to those paid by
Tanzania for its paper imports.
The following table shows the price history for newsprint, f.o.b.
Canada, and the actual c.i.f. pric:es in India:
Newsprint Prices
(Current US$/ton)
FOB Canada          CIF India
1975              286
1976              286
1977              314
1978              335                 444
1979              352                 475
1980              440                 554
1981              533                 616
1982              533                 651
1983              467                 600
Source: Paper Trade Journal and Government of India.
The above data are illustrated in the graph below which also shows
the anticipated price trend.  In general pulp and paper prices have been
rising sharply since 1979 due t:o the higher cost of wood and energy which
together accunt for about 60% cf production cost.  In the past year, however,
because of oversupply and inventory drawdown., f.o.b. prices have declined by
about 15%, and in the first quarter of 1983 have returned to the levels of
mid-1980.  It is anticipated that in about two years the supply/demand
situation will he in balance and prices will return to their previous trend.
In the case of newsprint, it is anticipated that by 1985, when the Mufindi



- 57 -
ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 3
mill would be starting production, the international price f.o.b. Canada will
reach US$550/ton. Equivalent prices for other grades are US$600/ton for
sackkraft and US$925 for printing and writing paper. The corresponding
c.i.f. prices at Dar es Salaam, landed prices (after addition of the
prevailing 15% import duty) and the ex-mill prices are shown below in both
1985 and 1982 US dollars.
700
projected 1985
600_                                                  price US$550/ton
500_ actual CIF India  -.4
Current
US$/Ton       _
400_
300_    actual FOB North America
200                   I          I          I       I
75   76   77   78   79   80   81   82   83   84   85   86
Projected Prices for Paper Sold
(US$/ton)
Printing
Newsprint    Sackkraft       & Writing
Demand
Projected 1985 fob North America              550           600             925
Ocean Freight and Insurance                   125            125            150
cif Dar es Salaam                             675           725          1,075
15% Duty                                      100           109             161
Landed Dar es Salaam                          775           836           1,236
Inland Freight from Mill to Dar es Salaam   30               30              36
Mill Net in 1985 US$                          745            804          1,200
Mill Net in 1982 US$                          610            650            980
(discounted at 7% per year)



- 58 -
ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 3
Newsprint Sack.kraft
Export
Projected 1985 fob North America                    550         600
Ocean Freight and Insurance                         125         125
cif India                                           675         725
Export Discount on Mufindi Products                  50          50
Ocean Freight from Dar es Salaam                     70          70
Inland Freight from Mill to Dar es Salaam            30          30
Mill Net in 1985 US$                                525         575
Mill Net in 1982 US$                                430         470
(discounted at 7% per year)
Industry Department
March 1983



- 59 -
TANZANIA
MUFINDI PULP AND PAPER PROJECT                                                                                     \ M.X  V
Proposed Technical Assistance and Energy Conversion Project
Southem Paper Mills Company Limited Corporation and Managemrent Organization
- - uBoMano3a - -                                                                                                                     -n1l  - - - -s.s- - -
I         I                   I                   I
5050           Sr55                c                                     5005               551505E 5.5   5                                                                                                             05
'~ ~   ~    ~ ~~ S                           Sr                  55                 S5                                      Sr '                         S,55005' 55051      S,0555,5,5           550055t
Wcod ffl  6   | S a LOW10: [   Houllnil   S 01 9                                                                               w,                 G9           M0555555l 5,555            P05555
M    |   | 5 55MC                                                                                                                                                                       N ecou05l 
~~~Sr-SSrSr50 SOsoet 55555 (55                                                                                                                                                                 s,0 5505-545t5M



- 60 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 1 of 2
TANZANIA - MUFINDI PULP AND PAPER PROJECT
PROPOSED TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND ENERGY CONVERSION 2ROJECT
Operating Management Contract
A. Training Incentive Fee
Payment of the US$600,000 training fee will be paid after achieving
the following milestones:
1.  Upon completing training for Tanzanian candidates to fill 106
key operating positions , and preparation of the operating and
maintenance manuals - US$250,000.
2.  Upon replacement of 50% of the Contractor's personnel (146
positions) with trained Tanzanians while maintaining production
and sales volume at no less than 90% of the agreed learning1/
curve for 90 days aflter replacement - US$175,000.
3.  Upon replacement of 90% of the Contractor's personnel with
trained Tanzanians while maintaining production and sales volume
at not less than 90% of agreed learning curve for 180 days after
the replacement - US$175,000.
B. Production Incentive Fee
Payment of the production incentive fee is based on achieving sales
of on-grade paper at a specified percentage of the agreed learning curve.
For sales between 90% and 100% of the curve, the contractor will receive
US$30/ton. Above 100% he will receive US$50/ton. The sales targets for bonus
payments are calculated on a cumulative basis for each 365 day period after
the start-up of the first paper machine, and assume the two machines start six
months apart. The accumulated tonnage on which the bonus is paid is as
follows:
1/ The agreed learning curve states that for each paper machine, the average
rate of sales during each consecutive 365 day period after the start-up of
each machine will be:
365 day period      % of 30,000 tpa capacity
1                        40.1
2                         58.0
3                         78.0
4                         88.0
5                         95.0



- 61 -
ANNEX VIII
Page 2 of 2
365 Day Calculation Period                 US$30/Ton                 US$50/Ton
First period                              14,400 to 16,000 tons   Over 16,000 tons
Second period                             43,200 to 48,000 tons   Over 48,000 tons
Third period                              82,800 to 92,000 tons   Over 92,000 tons
Fourth period                          129,600 to 144,000 tons  Over 144,000 tons
Fifth period                            180,000 to 200,000 tons  Over 200,000 tons
The bonus is paid at the end of each calculation period and tonnage
on which bonus was paid in preceding periods is deducted.  If the start-up of
the second machine is delayed past the six months planned, agreed adjustments
are made to the above figures. Production must be achieved within agreed unit
consumption of chemicals and electric power. Adjustments are agreed for
changes in the grade mix.
C. Timetable for Contractor's Personnel
TIMETABLE OF CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL
Category               No. of MIen                        Man-months
Stothert                             Yr.1   Yr.2  Yr.3  Yr.4  Yr.5  Yr.6    Total
Senior Management           5         50      60    50    48    32    24         264
Production management       2         16      24    18      2      -      -        60
Technical                   2         20      24    24       4     -      -        72
Woodlands                    2        20      24    14       2     -      -        60
Training                    4         28      48    20      -      -      -        96
Sub-Total Stothert         15        134    180   126    56    32    24           552
SPB
M4anagement & Technical    8           26     36    46    78    84    42          312
Superintendents             8         24      92    96    96    83    49         440
Foremen                    20         30    210   240   228   135    45           888
Mill Operators             63         40    599   712   255    38         -    1,644
Mill Maintenance           30         87    360   332    96    50    18           943
W4oodlands Maintenance      2         20      24    24    10       -      -        78
Sub-Total SPB             131        227  1,321  1,450  763   390   154    4,305
Grand Total               146        361  1,501  1,576  319   422   178    4,857
Industry Department
March 1983



- 62 -
ANNEX IX
TANZANIA - MUFINDI PULP AND PAPER PROJECT
PROPOSED TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND ENERGY CONVERSION PROJECT
Cost Estimate of Proposed Project
(US$ Million)
Local   Foreign   Total    Z
Operating Management Services; and Training
Operating Management Contract
Man-months Rates                                -       1.3.1    13.1    33.2
Reimburseable Costs                            3.5        2.6     6.1    15.4
Sales and Training Incentives                  -         2.0      2.0      5.0
Overseas Training                                  -         0.7     0.7      1.8
Advisory Services                                  -         0.5     0.5      1.3
Subtotal                                 3.5       18.9    22.4    56.7
Energy Conversion Component
Boiler Conversion
Equipment and Machine                           -         1.5     1.5      3.8
Erection                                       0.2        0.4     0.6      1.5
Civil Works                                    0.1       0.3      0.4      1.0
Engineering                                     -        0.3      0.3      0M8
Fuelwood harvesting, chipping & delivery          0.3        4.0     4.3    10.9
equipment
Subtotal                                 0.6        6.5      7.1    18.0
Import Requirements                                   -        1 0.0    10.0    25.3
Base Cost Estimate                                   4.1       35.4    39.5   100.0
Physical Contingencies                               0.4        1.2     1.6
Price Escalation                                     0.5        3.4     3.9
Total Financing Requirement                          5.0       40.0    45.0
Industry Department
March 1983



- 63 -
ANNEX X
TANZANIA - MUFINDI PULP AND PAPER PROJECT
PROPOSED TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND ENERGY CONVERSION PROJECT
Disbursement of IDA Credit
Calendar Year         Fiscal Year
and Quarter           and Quarter        By Quarter        Cumulative
1983   III            1984      I            0.1              0.1
IV                    II             1.7             1.8
1984      I                   III            0.8              2.6
II                    IV             0.8             3.4
III           1985      I             0.8              4.2
IV                    II            0.8              5.0
1985      I                   III             1.0             6.0
II                    IV             1.2             7.2
III           1986      I             1.3             8.5
IV                    II             1.5            10.0
1986      I                   III             1.3            11.3
II                    IV             1.0            12.3
III           1987      I             1.0            13.3
IV                    II             0.8            14.1
1987      I                   III            0.4             14.5
II                    IV             0.4            14.9
III           1988      I             0.4            15.3
IV                    II            0.4             15.7
1988      I                   III            0.4             16.1
II                    IV            0.4             16.5
III           1989      I             0.3             16.8
IV                    II             0.3            17.1
1989      1                   III            0.3             17.4
II                    IV             0.2            17.6
III           1990      I             0.2            17.8
IV                    II            0.2             18.0
Industry Department
March 1983



-64-                                     ANNEX XI
Page 1 of 7
TANZANIA - IMUFINDI PULP AND PAPER PROJECT
PROPOSED TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND ENERGY COTVERSION PROJECT
Assumptions Used in Financial Projections and Projected Financial Staements
1.         Start-up of Paper Y .achi.ne No. 2:  July 1984; Start-up of Paper Machine
No. 1: January 1985.
2.         Capacity Build-up for each Paper Machine.
Calendar Year          PM1  -   PM2           Total
1984               -         25            13
1985              50          60           55
1986              70         76            73
1987              83          88           86
1988              93         97            95
1989             100         100          100
1990             100         100          100
3.         The financial analysis is done in current terms through 1988 and in
constant 1988 terms thereafter. The yearly escalation rates used are given below:
Paper Prices           Manufacturing Costs
Foreign      Domestic      Foreign       Domestic
1984                  7.5           8.0          7.5            8.0
1985                  7.0           6.9           7.0           6.9
1986-1988             6.0           7.0          6.0            7.0
4.         Project Life:  16 years after the attainment of full production
5.         Technical Assistance for Operating Management
Payment for each year has been estimated as follows:
1983    1.984    1985    1986    1987    1988
--(in current US$ million)                
Foreign          3.9      4.7      5.2      3.2      2.2      1.3
Local            0.8      0.9      1.0      0.6      0.4      0.3
Total            4.7      5.6      6.2      3.8      2.6      1.6



- 65 -
ANNEX XI
Page 2 of 7
6. Production Costs
a) Unit Consumption (per ton of final product)
Printing &    Sack &        Liner
Newsprint   Writing        Kraft         Board
Pulp Wood (US$19/m3)          3.2          4.6          5.4           5.4
Chemicals (1982 US$)        14.5          89.3         59.2         59.2
b)  Total'Consumption (at 100% capacity)
In Constant 1982         of Which   of Which
Unit         Annual US$ Million         Direct    Indirect
Input        Price   Variable   Fixed    Total  Foreign %  Foreign %
Fuel
Fuel Wood   100,000 m3    US$14/m3         1.4       -        1.4        -         50
Oil            2,500 tons  US$235/ton   0.6          -        0.6       63         37
Power           76,000 MWh   US$36.3/MWh  2.4         0.4       2.8        -         30
Spare Parts &
Consumables                                1.3      1.2       2.5       50         25
Labor                 654 man-years           -       1.2       1.2        -
Administration &
Overhead                                    -       2.2       2.2       20         10
Total                                    5.7      5.0      10.7
c)  Unit production costs by grade are as follows (1982 US$):
Printing &   Sack-         Liner
Newsprint   Writing        Kraft         Board
Wood                         60.8         87.4         102.6       102.6
Chemicals                   14.5          89.3          59.2        59.2
Other Variables             95.0          95.0          95.0        95.0
Fixed                       83.3          83.3          83.3        83.3
Total                      253.6         355.0         340.1       340.1
7. Amendment to Subsidiary Loan Agreement
(i)   The grace period of existing loans will be extended by two years and the
first repayment will be December 1986;
(ii)   All funds from the Government will be transferred into equity;
(iii)   Loan portion of SIDA and IDA will be converted to GOT's equity contribution
to SPM by the end of 1983.
8. Recurrent Cost
US$4 million is scheduled to be spent as recurrent cost, of which US$3
million is for replacement of logging and fuelwood capital.
9. Financing Plan for Mufindi II
All funds are assumed to be passed on as equity for SPM.



- 66 -                                   ANNEX_X
Page 3 of 7
TANZANIA - MUFINDI PULP AND PAPER PROJECT
Projected Sales Volume and Revenue
1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
Domestic Sales
Volume
Newsprint                       4,300   4,500   4,800   5,100   5,300   5,600   6,000
Printing & Writing              3,200  12,700  13,400  14,100  14,900  15,800  16,600
Sackkraft                                8,900   9,400   9,900  10,400  11,000  11,600
Kraft Liner                        _    1,700   1,800   1,900   2,000   2,100   2,200
Sub-total                     7,500  27,800  29,400  31,000  32,600  34,500  36,400
Export Sales Volume
Newsprint                        -         800   4,800   7,300   8,800   8,600   7,400
Sackkraft                        -       4,400   9,800  13,100  15,500  16,900  16,200
Sub-total                      -      5,200  14,600  20,400  24,300  25,500  23,600
Total Paper Sales Volume        7,500  33,000  44,000  51,400  56,900  60,000  60,000
Capacity Utilization (1) :L2.5%            55%      73%   85.6%      95%    100%    100%
Aniual Net Mill Sales Revenue
(US'; million in current terms)
Domestic Paper Sales              6.7    27.6    31.3    35.3    39.7    42.1    44.3
Export Paper Sales                  -      3.2      9.5    14.0    17.7    18.6    17.3
Pulp Sales Revenue                  --    0.6       1.0     1.1      1.2      1.2     1.2
Total                           6.7    31.4    41.8    50.4    58.6    61.9    62.8



- 67 -
ANNEX XI
Page 4 of 7
Annual Amount
Unit Price      1982    1988
Manufacturing Cost              Unit   Quantity  (1982 Prices)  Prices  Prices
(US$)         (US$ million)
Wood                        m3    280,000          19          5.3      8.4
Chemical                                                            3.4       5-3
Fuel:  Wood                     BDT      38,300         31.4        1.4       2.2
Oil                      tons     2,500        235           0.6      0.9
Power                         MWh      76,000         36.3        2.8       4.3
Spare Parts & Consumables                                           2.5       3.8
Labor (654 manyears)                                                1.2       1.9
Administrative & Overhead                                           2.2       3.4
Total Direct Manufacturing Cost                                    19.4      30.2
The cost of fuelwood delivered to the mill is estimated as follows:
Cost of Fuelwood Delivered to Millsite
(excluding depreciation)a/
Item                                         US$/Green Ton
Piling residue after logging                                  0.60
Chipping                                                      8.30
Transporting chipped residue to mill                          4.40
Overhead                                                      0.40
Contingency                                                   2.00
Total                                                        15.70 b/
a/  Depreciation of equipment is estimated at US$9.00/green ton.
bI This is the cost per green ton at 50% moisture content. The cost per
bone dry ton is double this or US$31.40.



-68                                       ANNEX XI
Page 5 of 7
Projected Income Statement a/
(US$ Million)
1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    lQ90
Net Sales Revenue
Domestic Paper Sales               6.7    27.6    31.3    35.3    39.7    42.1    44.3
Export Paper Sales                  -       3.2      9.5    14.0    17.7    18.6    17.3
Pulp Sales Revenue                  -       0.6      1.0      1.1      1.2     1.2      1.2
Sub-total                        6.7    31.4    4L.8    50.4    58.6    61.9    62.8
Manufacturing Costs
Wood                               2.4      3.6      5.5      6.7      8.0      8.4     8.4
Chemicals                          0.4      2.7      3.6      4.3      5.0     5.2      5.3
Fuel and Power                     0.6      3.2      3.9      6.0      7.0      7.4     7.4
Other Materials                    0.9      2.4      2.9      3.3      3.7     3.8      3.8
Labor                              0.7      1.5       L.6     1.7      1.8      1.8     1.9
Admin. and Overhead                1.3      2.8      2.9      3.2      3.3      3.3     3.4
OMC                                4.6      5.5      6.1      3.7      2.5     1.6        -
Sub-total                       10.9    21.7    26.5    28.9    31.3    31.7    30.2
Depreciation and Amort.            4.2    17.0    17.7    18.0    18.3    18.5    18.7
Operating Income                  (8..4)   (7.3)   (2.4)    3.5        9.0    11.7    13.9
Interest on Loans                    -      9.5      8.9      8.2      7.5     6.8      6.2
Income Before Tax                 (8.4)  (16.8)  (11.3)   (4.7)    1.5         4.9      7.7
Accumulated Losses                (8.4)  (25.2)  (36.6)  (41.2)  (39.7)  (34.9) (27.2)
Taxes                                                                    -        -      -
Net Income                        (8.4)  (16.8)  (11.3)   (4.7)    1.5         4.9      7.7
Accumulated Met Income            (8.4)  (25.2)  (36.6)  (41.2)  (39.7)  (34.9)  (27.2)
a/   Error due to roundings.



ANNEX XI
-69 -                                     Page 6 of 7
Projected Cash Flow Statement
(US$ Million)
1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
Cash Generation
Net Income                   -    (8.4)  (16.8)  (11.3)   (4.7)         1.5     4.9      7.7
Deprec. and Amort.           -      4.2    17.0    17.7    18.0    18.3    18.5    18.7
Interest                     -        -     9.5      8.9      8.2      7.5      6.8      6.2
Sub-total                 -    (4.2)    9.7    15.3    21.5    27.3    30.2    32.6
Capital Funds
Equity 1 (Existing)    44.2    22.3            -        -        -        -        -        -
Equity 2 (Proposed)        4.0      8.0    11.0    11.0        3.0     2.0      1.0         -
Total Long-Term Debt   53.9    16.5            -        -        -        -        -
Sub-total             102.1    46.8    11.0    11.0         3.0      2.0      1.0        -
Total Cash Available  102.1    42.6    20.7    26.3    24.5    29.3    31.2    32.6
Capital Expenditure
Plant                    98.1    38.8          -        -        -        -        -        -
Recur. Cap. Expend.          -        -     4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0
Other Cap. Expend.         2.0      2.0      2.0     2.0         -        -        -        -
Total Cap. Expend.  100.1    40.8         6.0      6.0      4.0      4.0      4.0      4.0
Debt Service
Interest on Loans            -        -     9.5      8.9      8.2      7.5      6.8      6.2
Principal Repayment          -      1.6      1.6     4.4      7.3      7.3      7.3      5.7
Sub-total                 -      1.6    11.1    13.3    15.5    14.8    14.1          11.9
Change in Work. Capital   -        0.9      2.3      1.4       1.4     0.6      1.1         -
Total Cash Required   100.1         43.3   19.4    20.7    20.9    19.4    19.2    15.9
Ann..Net Cash Surplus   2.0    ( 0.7)   1.3           5.6      3.6     9.9    12.0    16.7
Accum. Cash Surplus        2.0      1.3     2.6      8.2    11.8    21.7    33.7    50.4
Debt Service
Coverage  (Times)         -    (2.6)    0.9        1.1      1.4      1.8      2.1      2.7



APTPFYX Xi
Page 7 of 7
- 70 -
F'rojected Balance Sheet a/
(US$ Million)
1982   1S83   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990
Assets
Current Assets
Cash D/                     -    2.3    2.3    4.5   10.4   14.6   24.4   37.3   53.9
Accounts Receivable         -       -    0.6    2.8    4.2    5.3    6.3    6.6    6.6
Inventories                 -       -    0.9    2.0    2.5    3.2    3.6    3.8    3.8
Sub-total                 -    2.3    3.8    9.3   17.1   23.1   34.3   47.7   64.3
Fixed Assets
Plant                   139.5  237.6  276.4  276.4  276.4  276.4  276.4  276.4  276.4
Recurr. Cap. Expend.        -       -       -    4.0    8.0   12.0   16.0   20.0   24.0
Other Cap. Expend.          -    2.0    4.0    6.0    8.0    8.0    8.0    8.0    8.0
Total Cap. Expend.      139.5  239.6  280.4  286.4  292.4  296.4  300.4  304.4  308.4
Less Deprec. & Amort.       -       -    4.2   21.2   38.9   56.9   75.2   93.7  112.4
Net Fixed Assets        139.5  239.6  276.2  265.2  253.5  239.5  225.2  210.7  196.0
Total Assets            139.5  241.9  280.0  274.5  270.6  262.6  259.5  258.4  260.3
Liabilities
Current Liabilities
Payables                    -       -    1.3    3.2    4.1    5.0    5.8    6.0    6.0
Current Maturities          -    1.6    1.6    4.4    7.3    7.3    7.3    5.7    5.7
Sub-total                 -    1.6    2.9    7.6   L1.4   12.3   13.1   11.7   11.7
Long-term Debt (excl.
current portion)   - 29.8   82.4   97.3   92.9   85.6   78.3   71.0   65.3   59.6
Equity
Share Capital           109.7  157.9  188.2  199.2  210.2  213.2  215.2  216.2  2:L6.2
Retained Earnings           -       -   (8.4) (25.2) (36.6) (41.2) (39.7) (34.9) (27.2)
Sub-total             109.7  157.9  179.8  174.0  173.6  172.0  175.5  181.4  189.0
Total Liabilities
and Equity            139.5  241.9  280.0  274.5  270.6  262.6  259.5  258.4  260.3
Ratios
Current Ratio             0.0    1.4    1.3    1.2        1.5    1.9    2.6    4.1    5.5
Debt/Equity             21/79  34/66  35/65  35/65  33/67  31/69  29/71  26/74  24/76
a/ Error due to roundings.
b/ Includes cash in operations.



- 71 -
ANNEX XII
Page 1 of 2
TANZANIA - MUFINDI PULP AND PAPER PROJECT
PROPOSED TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND ENERGY CONWERSION PROJECT
Assumptions for Economic Analysis
1.         Shadow Prices:  Major input, and output prices.  The economic costs and
benefits have been valued at international price, tradeable items at border prices,
and non-tradeable items through application of conversion factors. Under the
assumption of an overall shadow exchange rate of TSh 18.6 to the US Dollar, the
general conversion factor of 0.5 has been used for all the non-tradeable input
items except for unskilled labor. For unskilled labor, a conversion factor of 0.25
has been applied. It is estimated that on average, 27% of input costs are indirect
foreign cost. Prices of output used in economic analysis are international prices,
that is, f.o.b. Dar es Salaam for exports and c.i.f. Dar es Salaam for imports.
2.         Capital Cost and Disbursement Schedule:  Based on the same assumptions
used in the financial analysis, project cost and payment schedule have been
projected as follows:
(In million constant 1982 US$)
Plant                  Town and Road
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign  Total
1983          20.9      63.9      84.8       7.3      18.4    25.7
1984           7.0      18.9      25.9       2.5       5.6     8.1
27.9     82.8    110.7        9.8      24.0    33.8
Economic costs of plant, township and road, based on a shadow exchange rate of
TSh. 18.6 per US$1.00, would be as follows:
Local           Foreign            Total
Plant a/                22.9              82.8            105.7
Town and Road b/         2.7               8.4              11.1
25.6             91.2             116.8
a/   35% of local cost has been assumed to be non-tradeable items and 3% of total
cost has been assumed to be unskilled labor and subjected to corresponding
conversion factors.
b/   25% of cost of township and 50% of cost of road are assumed to be borne by
SPM Project.



- 72 -
ANNEX XLI
Page 2 of 2
3.         Project Start-up and Capacity Utilization:  The same assumptions have
been made as in the Financial Projections.
4.         Project's Domestic and Export Market:  The same assumptions have been
taken as in the Financial Projections. Consequently, SPM's production from PM2
(newsprint and printing and writing paper) will be absorbed completely by the
domestic market in the year 1996. However, for simplicity, mid-point between 1990
and 1997 has been taken (year 1994) as an average for 1990-1997 period for
calculation of product mix, product value and operating costs. Similarly, 1998 was
taken as an average year for the period after 1998.
5.         Sensitivity tests have been made on the economic rate of return vis-a-vis
sales revenue, manufacturing costs and capacity utilization as shown below:
IMufindi Project - Sensitivity Tests on Economic Rate of Return
Variations (%)             Full Cost (%)            Sunk Cost (%)a/
Base Case                        6.1                      19.8
Sales Revenue
+10                         7.6                      22.4
+20                         8.7                       25.0
-10                         4.4                       16.7
-20                         2.7                       13.6
Manufacturing Costs
+10                         5.7                       18.9
+20                         5.1                       18.0
Capacity Utilization
-10                         4.8                       17.4
-20                         3.6                       15.2
a/   Sunk cost including expenditures that have been incurred up to MIarch 1983.



IBRD 13486
/    , _   ,                                               *}                            ,~~ MARO, t9<
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
>   g   1  o  A  t u r ! > > xs ~~ _ _; *_OAEMAy/TC<                                            1~ x         7s\n  
.-   - - - --,
St-
\    raN2ANI  sW@rre t;F  <  X 4   e 2 E V        X>  n        X    ..ANZANIASmt i 
M                                              PL   N 3P    P -ROJECT
> t  ' *awf  t--}-_< =$  (  A 2g 
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,o)es),   z<,P-i -,' ,  -
'SI,;I                                        '  ~V*_     S                                            WA 'OA !2 T
/ -- ;k,t                  (     t2< D            >
< *S~~~~f >,, t                            /A-  N' ' l                                      _   r Me's and St,ee's.
, ;~~~~~ r                                                                                      ---  - __- __rFSOJ  0.
,                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~MUFINDI PULP AND PAPER PROJECT
_~   ~    3 .                                                                          TANZANIA               _ _



