DO)CU       SwCREDIT NUMBER 1370 TA
Development Credit Agreement
(Mufindi Pulp and Paper Project - Technical Assistance)
between
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated         se4"q, 1983


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1370 TA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated          Sto 144A&r . z            , 1983,
between UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA (hereinafter called the
Borrower) aad INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS in 1979 the Borrower has entered into the First
Joint Financing Agreement for the financing of the Mufindi Pulp
and Paper Project, both as hereinafter defined;
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Kingdom of
Sweden, the Federal Republic of Germany through Kreditanstalt fUr
Wiederaufbau and the Association to assist in the financing of
the Project as defined hereinafter;
(B) the Project will be carried out and the proceeds of the
Credit will be applied in accordance with a joint financing
agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter called the Joint
Financing Agreement) among the Borrower, the Kingdom of Sweden,
the Association, the Southern Paper Mills Company Limited
(hereinafter called SPM) and the National Development Corporation
(hereinafter called NDC); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Joint
Financing Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein;
provided, however, that paragraph 9 of Section 2.01 is modified
to read as follows: "The term Project means the project for which
the Credit is granted as described in Schedule 1 to the Joint
Financing Agreement, concluded for the purpose of the Project
between the Borrower, the Kingdom of Sweden, the Association and
several other parties of even date with the Development Credit
Agreement, and as the description thereof may be amended from


﻿- 2 -
time to time by agreement among the parties to said joint financ-
ing agreement" (said General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, as so modified, being here-
inafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "First Joint Financing Agreement" means the joint
financing agreement, dated April 6, 1979, among the Borrower,
the Kingdom of Sweden, the Bank, the Association, SPM and NDC.
(b) "Subsidiary Financing Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into among the Borrower, NDC and SPM pursuant to
Section 3.04 of the Joint Financing Agreement, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Subsidiary Financing Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to sixteen million seven hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 16,700,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to the Joint Financing Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the parties to
that Agreement, for expenditures made (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by Section 3.02 of the Joint Financing Agree-
ment.


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1989,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the teriritory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 15
and October 15 commencing October 15, 1993, and ending April 15,
2033, each installment to and including the installment payable
on April 15, 2003, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United Kingdom is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.10. NDC is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.


﻿4-
ARTICLE III
Remedies of the Association
Section 3.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the Borrower or SPM or NDC shall have failed to perform
any of its respective obligations under the First Joint Financing
Agreement or the Joint Financing Agreement;
(b) the organization, powers or responsibilities of SPM or
NDC shall have been terminated or altered so as to affect mate-
rially and adversely the performance by SPM or NDC of any of its
respective obligations under the First Joint Financing Agreement
or the Joint Financing Agreement; and
(c) (i) subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant, loan or credit made to
the Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have   been  suspended, cancelled   or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the agreement providing there-
for, or
(B) any such loan or credit shall have become due
and payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof;
(ii)   subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if: -
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obliga-
tions under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower or NDC or SPM from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent
with the obligations of the Borrower under


﻿- 5 -
this Agreement or with the respective obliga-
tions of NDC or SPM under the Joint Financing
Agreement.
Section 3.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 3.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Associa-
tion to the Borrower, NDC and SPM;
(b) any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 3.01 of
this Agreement shall occur; and
(c)   any event specified in paragraph (c) (i) (B) of Nec-
tion 3.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso
of subparagraph (ii) of that paragraph.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Section 4.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower, SPM and NDC;
(b) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
development cooperation agreement between the Kingdom of Sweden
and the Borrower referred to in the Preamble to the Joint Financ-
ing Agreement have been fulfilled save only the effectiveness of
this Agreement;
(c) the Association has been furnished with evidence satis-
factory to the Association showing that financing for Part C of
the Project has been made available; and
(d) the management consultants referred to in Section
3.02 (c) of the Joint Financing Agreement have been employed in
accordance with the provisions of that Section,


﻿-6-
Section 4.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Joint Financing Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower, SPM and NDC, and is
legally binding upon the Borrower, SPM and NDC in accordance with
its terms; and
(b) that the Subsidiary Financing Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the P-rrower, SPM and NDC, and is
legally binding upon the Borrower, SPM and NDC in accordance with
its terms.
Section 4.03. The date                            is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 4.04. The provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agree-
ment shall cease and determine on the date on which the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 10 years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE V
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 5.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for Finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Principal Secretary
Ministry of Finance
P. 0. Box 9111
Dar es Salaam
United Republic of Tanzania


﻿-7-
Cable address:                       Telex:
TREASURY                           41329
Dar es Salaam
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto   duly  authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
Byf(            OL14" "A
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s(    49'        9. W 4O   t4 ROO4
RegionarVice President
Eastern Africa


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the      "     day of
1983
FOR SECRETARY


