Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3274 
Project Name 
Avian and Human Influenza Control and Prevention 
Region 
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA 
Sector 
Agricultural extension and research (40%);Animal production 
(40%);General public administration sector (20%) 
Project ID 
P102807 
Borrower(s) 
EGYPT, ARAB REPUBLIC 
Implementing Agency 
General Organization for Veterinary Services (GOVS), Ministry 
of Agriculture and Land Reclamation 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
August 20, 2007 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
N/A 
Date of Board Approval 
N/A 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
Egypt lies on the North Eastern region of the African continent along the main wild birds 
migratory route between Asia, Europe and Africa. The total population is 77 million and most of 
it is concentrated in the Delta region and along the Nile River. Households keep an average 
number of 10 to 50 birds and intensive poultry production is widely spread among most of the 27 
governorates. Nearly one-third of Egyptians and around one half of the rural population owns 
poultry. Although the total number owned by the very poor is smaller than that owned by the less 
poor, the contribution to household income is higher in the poorer areas, such as Upper Egypt. 
Poultry products, including table eggs, represent an important source of cheap proteins. 
 
The H5N1 virus was first confirmed on February 17, 2006. It spread extremely rapidly and 
widely in most parts of the country within three months, affecting most of the poultry production 
system, from large and small commercial productions units, and in back yard productions, 
village (rural) and roof-top (urban ) settings. Such a rapid spread could not be ascribed to 
movement of the virus with wild birds alone. It seems clear that a range of other disease vectors 
has been involved. Since February 2006, when the first highly pathogenic avian influenza 
(HPAI) cases were recorded, its devastating potential has been seen in several H5N1 outbreak 
“waves”, spreading with unexpected frequencies over a 5-week period. Egypt has reported the 
highest number of human infections on the African continent with 22 confirmed cases, including 
13 deaths (60% percent case fatality). From October 2005 to May 2006, the economic losses due 
to sharp decline to poultry prices, ban on poultry exported from Egypt, closing of poultry farms, 
costs of culling and decontamination are estimated about 4 billion Egyptian pounds or US 700 
million dollars. During the same period, over 50 million poultry have been either culled or have 
died from the disease. 
 
Combating this disease is made more difficult given Egypt’s poultry systems and the social and 
cultural factors that have assisted the disease’s rapid spread in this country so far. Prior to this 
Page  2
outbreak, nearly one-third of Egyptians owned poultry (around one-half of the rural population). 
Although the total numbers owned by the very poor was smaller than that owned by the less-
poor, the contribution to household income was highest in the poorer areas, such as Upper Egypt. 
There is clearly a high value in poultry proteins for the Egyptian community where poultry has 
traditionally been a significant part of the diet. Village-scale poultry production has both 
contributed to the family diet and provided a small but significant income when the surplus is 
sold. It has also involved free-range duck farming, in conjunction with chickens. This presents 
special risks from avian influenza. Poultry meat is mainly traded through live markets. The lack 
of refrigeration, the limited processing capacity, and the traditional and cultural preference for 
purchasing live birds mean that only a small amount of chicken meat output is sold frozen or 
chilled. As part of the control measures, live bird marketing has been banned. Realistically, given 
the overall situation, live bird marketing will be continuing, even if in an underground fashion. In 
urban areas, poultry production occurs with birds sometimes reared within high rise 
accommodation that would normally be tenanted by people. 
 
The Government's response to the outbreak in poultry, and later humans, has been swift despite 
limited resources and logistical difficulties on the ground. Egypt has adopted the strategic use of 
vaccines in addition to other control measures such as stamping out, biosecurity, disinfection and 
hazard free disposal. Compulsory vaccination using inactivated vaccine is used in response to 
outbreaks within a ring of 10 kilometer diameter from the border of the epidemic zone. 
 
Priority investment areas in the Egypt poultry sector are described in details in the Integrated 
National Plan for Avian Influenza attached in Section 5 of the proposal. Gaps and weaknesses of 
the country's preparedness reveal that investment should be focused on developing the national 
response capacity with resources and training, increasing epidemiological resources and 
providing capital and consumable items that can maintain and expand the diagnostic and 
surveillance tasks. Measures such as the control of movements, the prevention of exposure of 
susceptible birds to infection (“on-farm biosecurity”), and “stamping-out” should be considered 
as key means of avian influenza control in Egypt. Vaccination should also be continued to reduce 
the on-going pressure of the virus in the short and medium term. While the large commercial 
broiler farms need to further address on-farm biosecurity in the immediate future, birds 
vaccination will be critical in the short and medium terms. However, this should be phased out in 
the long term in lieu of a range of improved production processes that provide better security. 
Commercial layer farms will also be reliant on vaccination except in the long term when better 
biosecurity and safer marketing systems are widely adopted. Small commercial farms face the 
closure of existing live bird markets in the immediate term but it is likely that alternative means 
of marketing will arise. Vaccination will then be necessary until the change to more advanced 
processing and marketing is possible. Better, safer systems for raising village birds will also need 
to be developed and promoted. In the interim, vaccination, at least of disease “hotspots”, is the 
only tool available. 
 
While this is logistically possible, the task remains great and costly. By May 2006, 
approximately 50 million doses of vaccine had been used through government subsidized 
programs for backyard poultry vaccination. However, the lack of resources has seriously limited 
the scope of the vaccination program. It is estimated that less that 20% of the backyard poultry 
population has been vaccinated so far. 
Page  3
The diagnostic system relies on the main Cairo laboratory (the Central Laboratory for Quality 
Control of Poultry Production). The laboratory is not well equipped for serological work and 
does not undertake any live virus isolation for safety reasons. It will be essential to maintain and 
develop the central testing capabilities of the Cairo laboratory. Each Governorate has a nominal 
laboratory but their capabilities are minimal and the skills sets needed to undertake testing only 
reside in Cairo. In the short term, the Cairo laboratory should be upgraded. The workplace health 
and safety should be secured by providing necessary protective equipment to staff, including bio-
safety hoods. Serological capabilities and virus isolation abilities should also be developed in 
combination with sustained provision of laboratory consumables and materials to enable sample 
submission and testing. Meanwhile expertise should be established in each Governorate to 
ensure that samples submitted are of high quality. In terms of field epidemiological surveillance 
and extension on biosecurity measures, it is necessary to strengthen the national animal disease 
surveillance and diagnostic capacity mostly through the provision of training to field and 
quarantine staff and adequate equipment and transport for field monitoring and surveillance 
teams. 
 
2. Objectives 
 
The overall development objective of the grant is to minimize the threat posed to human health 
and poultry in Egypt by HPAI infection and other zoonoses in domestic poultry, and to prepare 
for, control and respond to an influenza pandemic and other infectious disease emergencies in 
humans.
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
The World Bank has the funds and capacity to provide Egypt with technical expertise and 
advice, and assistance on HPAI contingency responsiveness.
 
4. Description 
 
Priority activities would consist of the following components: (1) Improved Disease 
Management and Surveillance; (2) Review of Regulatory and Legal Framework of Veterinary 
Services; (3) Improved Cairo Laboratory Services Capacity: the Central Laboratory for Quality 
Control of Poultry Production; and (4) Project Management Unit. The project would provide a 
large amount of funds to purchase animal vaccines to support vaccination programs aimed at 
backyard poultry farms. 
 
Component A: Improved Disease Management and Surveillance 
 
This component will provide support for the strengthening of disease control and surveillance 
capacity by providing equipment and training: 
(i) Strengthening disease control and management capacity: this component will support the 
following activities: (a) culling of infected and at-risk poultry; (b) disposal of carcasses and 
potentially infective materials in a bio-secured and environmentally acceptable manner; (c) 
enhanced bio-security at poultry farms and associated premises, through bio-containment and 
bio-exclusion training and community awareness programs; (d) vaccination programs for 
Page  4
backyard poultry and purchase of good quality and non anti-viral HPAI vaccines produced 
according to OIE standards and implemented according to FAO/OIE guidelines. The grant will 
provide funds to equip staff with basic bio-security equipment such as sprayers and protective 
equipment. This component focuses on providing large amounts of animal vaccine to respond to 
the GOE national strategic priority to vaccinate poultry, with a special focus on backyard farms. 
(ii) Strengthened animal disease surveillance and diagnostic capacity building through: (a) 
provision of training to field and quarantine staff; (b) improvement of animal health information 
flow among relevant agencies; (c) rapid detection, reporting and follow-up of reported cases; (d) 
routine serological surveys and epidemio-surveillance at migratory birds habitats and backyard 
levels; and (e) adequate equipment and transport for field monitoring and surveillance teams. 
 
Component B: Review of Regulatory and Legal Framework of Veterinary Services 
 
This component will support a review of the current regulatory and legal framework of 
veterinary services to ensure adherence to FAO and OIE standards. It will also support the 
strengthening of the Cairo laboratory services. These activities are aimed at improving the 
country's capacity to withstand veterinary emergencies. The goal of this component is to improve 
the regulatory and legal framework of veterinary services. This component will provide technical 
assistance to support reviews of existing regulation and policies to address key policies issues to 
ensure that the recommended disease control, prevention and eradication measures are 
implemented in a uniform way and in accordance with OIE standards and guidelines. The review 
will also provide support for key diagnostic and assessment studies, including an efficient 
compensation strategy framework, vaccination regulation and exit strategy and sector 
restructuring options. 
 
Component C: Improved Cairo Laboratory Services Capacity 
 
The diagnostic capacity of public veterinary services will be improved through the upgrading of 
the existing veterinary laboratory in Cairo: the Central Laboratory for Quality Control of Poultry 
Production. Each Governorate has a nominal laboratory but their current capabilities are very 
minimal. At present, the needed skills for laboratory testing reside only in Cairo and the focus of 
the component will be to improve and continue to utilize this existing facility. Support will also 
be provided for training of laboratory technicians. This component will provide support for rapid 
testing capacity and acquisition of modern laboratory equipment. The objectives are to: (a) 
maintain and develop the central testing capabilities of the Cairo laboratory; (b) fund the 
provision of laboratory consumables and materials to enable sample submission and testing; (c) 
ensure that workplace health and safety is secured by providing necessary protective equipment 
to staff, including bio-safety hoods; (d) develop serological capabilities and virus isolation 
abilities in Cairo; (e) establish expertise in each Governorate to ensure that samples submitted 
are of high quality; and (f) transfer some serological testing capability closer to Upper Egypt and 
to the Nile Delta areas in the longer term. The component will also support training for 
laboratory staff to enable the isolation and bio-typing of AI viruses (third safety level). 
 
Component D: Project Management 
 
Page  5
This component will support the establishment of a Project Management Unit (PMU) within the 
Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation, at the General Organization for Veterinary 
Services (GOVS) level. It will finance staff costs, office supplies and equipment. The PMU will 
be composed of three main staff: a project manager, a financial management specialist and a 
procurement specialist. These staff will not be civil servants nor on the government payroll but 
rather fixed term consultants recruited for the duration of the project and for the sole purpose of 
project implementation. This component will also support consultancy services for the 
preparation of the project's Environmental Management Plan (EMP) as well as financial audit 
services which will be conducted once a year. 
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
Avian and Human Influenza Facility 
7.14 
 Total 
7.14 
 
6. Implementation 
 
A
Project Management Unit (PMU) will be established within the Ministry of Agriculture and 
Land Reclamation, at the General Organization for Veterinary Services (GOVS) level. The PMU 
will be composed of three main staff: a project manager, a financial management specialist and a 
procurement specialist. These staff will not be civil servants but rather fixed term consultants 
recruited for the duration of the project and for the sole purpose of project implementation. 
 
The PMU will be overseen by a Steering Committee chaired by the Minister of Agriculture and 
Land Reclamation. Members of the Steering Committee would include and not be limited to: a 
representative from FAO, a representative from the Minister of International Cooperation, a 
representative of the Minister of Finance and a representative of the Supreme Avian Influenza 
Committee. 
 
Prior to the recruitment of the three main staff of the PMU (Project manager, Financial 
Management specialist and Procurement specialist), the World Bank should receive for review 
and no objection the memorandum from the selection committee meeting, which should include: 
the short list for the three positions, the persons proposed for recruitment as well as their CVs, 
together with the reasons for the selection. 
 
7. Sustainability 
 
This Grant will provide sustainable capacity building for civil servants working at the GOVS.  
It will support the improvement of the diagnostic capacity of public veterinary services through 
the upgrading of the existing Central Laboratory for Quality Control of Poultry Production and 
technical training of laboratory technicians in testing capacity and samples collections. The 
Grant will also help strengthen animal disease surveillance and build diagnostic capacity 
through: (a) provision of technical training to field and quarantine staff; (b) improvement of 
animal health information flow among relevant agencies; (c) rapid detection, reporting and 
follow-up of reported cases; (d) routine serological surveys and epidemio-surveillance at 
Page  6
migratory birds habitats and backyard levels; and (e) adequate equipment and transport for field 
monitoring and surveillance teams.  
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
4.01) 
[ X] 
[ ] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[
]
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
X] [ 
] 
Physical Cultural Resources (
OP/BP 4.11
)
[
]
[
]
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[
]
[
]
Indigenous Peoples (
OP
/
BP
4.10)
 
[
]
[
]
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[
]
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[
]
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
7.60)
*
[
]
[
]
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
7.50)
 
[
]
[
]
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
Egypt 
–
Avian and Human Influenza Facility proposal 
11. Contact point 
Contact: Jean-Philippe Tre 
Title: Agric. Economist 
Tel: (202) 458-7519 
Fax:  
Email: jtre@worldbank.org 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  7
