Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AC3096 
 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 08/22/2007 
 
I.  BASIC INFORMATION 
 
A.  Basic Project Data 
 
Country: Egypt, Arab Republic of 
Project ID: P102807 
Project Name: Avian and Human Influenza Control and Prevention 
Task Team Leader: Jean-Philippe Tre 
Estimated Appraisal Date:  
Estimated Board Date:  
Managing Unit: MNSSD 
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery 
Loan 
Sector: Agricultural extension and research (40%);Animal production (40%);General 
public administration sector (20%) 
Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P);Other rural development (S) 
SPF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
0.00 
 
Avian and Human Influenza Facility 
7.14
7.14 
B.  Project Objectives [from section 2 of PCN] 
The overall development objective of the grant is to minimize the threat posed to human health 
and poultry in Egypt by HPAI infection and other zoonoses in domestic poultry, and to prepare 
for, control and respond to an influenza pandemic and other infectious disease emergencies in 
humans.   
 
C.  Project Description [from section 3 of PCN] 
This project focuses on animal health and veterinary services issues. Priority activities will 
consist of the following components: (1) Improved Disease Management and Surveillance; (2) 
Review of Regulatory and Legal Framework of Veterinary Services;  (3) Improved Cairo 
Laboratory Services Capacity: the Central Laboratory for Quality Control of Poultry Production; 
and (4) Project Management Unit. The project will provide a large amount of funds to purchase 
animal vaccines to support vaccination programs aimed at backyard poultry farms.  
 
Component A 
Improved Disease Management and Surveillance  
 
Page  2
This component will provide support for the strengthening of disease control and surveillance 
capacity by providing equipment and training.  
 
1. Strengthening disease control and management capacity: this component will support the 
following activities: (a) culling of infected and at-risk poultry;  (b) disposal of carcasses and 
potentially infective materials in a bio-secured and environmentally acceptable manner; (c) 
enhanced bio-security at poultry farms and associated premises, through bio-containment and 
bio-exclusion training and community awareness programs; (d) vaccination programs for 
backyard poultry and purchase of good quality and non anti-viral HPAI vaccines produced 
according to OIE standards and implemented according to OIE guidelines. The grant will 
provide funds to equip staff with basic bio-security equipment such as sprayers and protective 
equipment. This component also focuses on providing large amounts of animal vaccine to 
respond to the GOE national strategic priority to vaccinate poultry, with a special focus on 
backyard farms.  
 
2.  Strengthened animal disease surveillance and diagnostic capacity building through: (a) 
provision of training to field and quarantine staff; (b) improvement of animal health information 
flow among relevant agencies; (c) rapid detection, reporting and follow-up of reported cases; (d) 
routine serological surveys and epidemio-surveillance at migratory birds habitats and backyard 
levels; and (e) adequate equipment and transport for field monitoring and surveillance teams.  
 
Component B  
Review of Regulatory and Legal Framework of Veterinary Services  
 
This component will support a review of the  current regulatory and legal framework of 
veterinary services to ensure adherence to OIE standards. It will also support the strengthening of 
the Cairo laboratory services.  These activities are aimed at improving the country's capacity to 
withstand veterinary emergencies.  
 
The goal of this component is to improve the  regulatory and legal framework of veterinary 
services.  This component will provide technical assistance to support reviews of existing 
regulation and policies to address key policies issues to ensure that the recommended disease 
control, prevention and eradication measures are implemented in a uniform way and in 
accordance with OIE standards and guidelines.  The review will also provide support for key 
diagnostic and assessment studies, including an efficient compensation strategy framework, 
vaccination regulation and exit strategy and sector restructuring options. As a  preliminary step 
to this component, a Performance Vision Strategy (PVS) evaluation of local veterinary services 
will be conducted to better inform donors, including the Bank, on key policies issues to address 
in Egypt veterinary services. This prerequisite PVS evaluation will be carried out in May 2007 
and funded through the OIE World Animal Health and Welfare Fund.  
 
Component C 
Improved Cairo Laboratory Services Capacity  
 
The diagnostic capacity of public veterinary services will be improved through the upgrading of 
the existing veterinary laboratory in Cairo: the Central Laboratory for Quality Control of Poultry 
Production. Each Governorate has a nominal laboratory but their current capabilities are very 
Page  3
minimal. At present, the needed skills for laboratory testing reside only in Cairo and the focus of 
the component will be to improve and continue to utilize this existing facility.  Support will also 
be provided for training of laboratory technicians. This component will provide support for rapid 
testing capacity and acquisition of modern laboratory equipment. The objectives are to: (a) 
maintain and develop the central testing capabilities of the Cairo laboratory; (b) fund the 
provision of laboratory consumables and materials to enable sample submission and testing; (c) 
ensure that workplace health and safety is secured by providing necessary protective equipment 
to staff, including bio-safety hoods; (d) develop serological capabilities and virus isolation 
abilities in Cairo; (e) establish expertise in each Governorate to ensure that samples submitted 
are of high quality; and (f) transfer some serological testing capability closer to Upper Egypt and 
to the Nile Delta areas in the longer term. The component will also support training for 
laboratory staff to enable the isolation and bio-typing of AI viruses (third safety level).  
 
Component D 
Project Management  
 
This component will support the establishment of a Project Management Unit (PMU) within the 
Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation, at the General Organization for Veterinary 
Services (GOVS) level. It will finance staff costs, office supplies and equipment. The PMU will 
be composed of three main staff: a project manager, a financial management specialist and a 
procurement specialist.  These staff will not be civil servants nor on the government payroll but 
rather fixed term consultants recruited for the duration of the project and for the sole purpose of 
project implementation. This component will also support consultancy services for the 
preparation of the project's Environmental Management Plan (EMP) as well as financial audit 
services which will be conducted once a year.   
 
D.  Project location (if known) 
This project will be implemented nationwide in Egypt.  
 
For specific components, certain provinces are targeted where reference and regional 
laboratories exist (for strengthening of animal disease surveillance capacity).   
 
E.  Borrower’s Institutional Capacity for Safeguard Policies [from PCN] 
The counterpart will need capacity building regarding safeguards policies, and quality control 
assistance.   
 
F.  Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Ms Huong-Giang Lucie Tran (MNSSD) 
Mr Gregorio Bettiza (MNSSD) 
 
II.  SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY 
Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No TBD 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
The safeguard issues which pertain to the Project are (i) selection and implementation of 
culling methods; (ii) selection and implementation of disposal methods for culled poultry and 
associated waste; (ii) safe disposal of medical waste; and (iv) mitigating the negative economic 
impacts of disease
-
inducted death and/or mandated culling of poultry on small
-
scale and 
Page  4
Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No TBD 
backyard poultry producers.  
 
Overall, the Project would assist the government entities to develop a strategy for managing 
future emerging and re-emerging diseases outbreaks. As such the project will improve 
environmental and social safeguards in following areas: (i) mainstreaming environmental 
safeguards into protocols and procedures for the culling and disposal of animals during an 
outbreak, in particular by adopting OIE standards in these areas, and improving bio-medical-
waste management systems in health facilities and laboratories; (ii) financing safe culling and 
disposal options; and (iii) development of policies on compensation for poultry farmers affected 
by future outbreaks.   
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X  
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X  
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
X
It is very likely that chemicals will be used for the culling of birds. The procurement of any 
pesticide will be contingent on an assessment of the nature and degree of associated risks, taking 
into account the proposed use and the intended users. The Project will require that any pesticides 
it finances be manufactured, packaged, labeled, handled, stored, disposed of, and applied 
according to standards acceptable to the Bank. The Bank does not finance formulated products 
that fall in WHO classes IA and IB, or formulations of products in Class II, if (a) the country 
lacks restrictions on their distribution and use; or (b) they are likely to be used by, or be 
accessible to, lay personnel, farmers, or others without training, equipment, and facilities to 
handle, store, and apply these products properly.  
 
Whatever medical waste is generated in health care facilities and waste from the animal 
health component will be managed using existing guidelines in the countries. The country project 
will also support updating these guidelines, training of health care workers to manage medicinal 
waste following these guidelines and the purchase of equipment for the proper handling and 
disposal of medical waste in selected facilities. This provision would be included in the project 
operational manual (or equivalent).   
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X  
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X  
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X  
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X  
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X  
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X  
Environmental Category:
 
B
-
Partial Assessment 
 
III.  SAFEGUARD PREPARATION PLAN 
 
A.  Target date for the Quality Enhancement Review (QER), at which time the PAD-stage ISDS 
would be prepared:  N/A 
 
Page  5
B.  For simple projects that will not require a QER, the target date for preparing the PAD-stage 
ISDS:  08/31/2007 
 
C.  Time frame for launching and completing the safeguard-related studies that may be needed.  
The specific studies and their timing
1
should be specified in the PAD-stage ISDS. 
Since the project supports investments for the culling and disposal of carcasses and 
laboratory wastes, a short Environmental Management Plan (EMP) will be prepared. The 
EMP will cover the selection of appropriate culling methods, clean-up of animal wastes of 
infected and culled poultry; selection and management of disposal facilities. The scope of 
this EMP will be specified during the initial period of Project implementation.   
 
IV.  APPROVALS 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Jean-Philippe Tre 
08/16/2007 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Sherif Kamel F. Arif 
08/22/2007 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Luis F. Constantino 
08/22/2007 
Comments:   
1
Reminder: The Bank's Disclosure Policy requires that safeguard-related documents be disclosed before appraisal (i) at the 
InfoShop and (ii) in-country, at publicly accessible locations and in a form and language that are accessible to potentially affected 
persons.
 
Page  6
