                        Document of
                     The World Bank


                                                  Report No: 55401 v1




                  RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                          ON A

             PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                           OF
AVIAN AND HUMAN INFLUENZA CONTROL AND PREVENTION PROJECT
                        (TF058320)

                        10/29/2007


                         TO THE

                  ARAB REPUBLIC OF EGYPT



                       June 23, 2010
                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AHI     Avian and Human Influenza
BSL-3   Biosafety Level 3
CLQP    Central Laboratory for Quality Control of Poultry Production
GOVS    General Organization for Veterinary Services
HPAI    Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza
MALR    Ministry of Agriculture and Land Reclamation
MoIC    Ministry of International Cooperation




                     Vice President:       Shamshad Akhtar
                   Country Director:       A. David Craig
                    Sector Manager:        Luis F. Constantino
                  Task Team Leader:        Maurice Saade




                                       2
                         EGYPT
AVIAN AND HUMAN INFLUENZA CONTROL AND PREVENTION PROJECT


                                                      CONTENTS

                                                                                                                          Page
SUMMARY........................................................................................................................ 4
PROJECT STATUS.......................................................................................................... 4
PROPOSED CHANGES .................................................................................................. 5




                                                               3
AVIAN AND HUMAN INFLUENZA CONTROL AND PREVENTION PROJECT
                   RESTRUCTURING PAPER


SUMMARY

1. The proposed changes would reallocate the savings from the cancelled $2.1 million
procurement of Avian Influenza vaccines to provide laboratory equipments for a
proposed Biosafety Level 3 (BSL3) laboratory facility at the Ministry of Agriculture1.
Savings from cancelled procurement of vaccination equipment and from other completed
contracts add up to additional savings of about $1.1 million. It is proposed that the
additional savings would be used to procure motorcycles and information technology
equipment (laptop computers, internet connection, faxes) for the benefit of local
veterinary clinics to enhance their capacity for disease management, surveillance and
reporting. To implement the above proposed changes, it is proposed to extend the closing
date of the Grant by 12 months, ending on June 30, 2011. If approved, this would be the
4th extension for this project.

PROJECT STATUS

2. As indicated in the last ISR (December 2009), the pace of project implementation has
continued to improve throughout 2009. This is clearly indicated by the level of
disbursement which currently stands at $3.83 million compared to only $874,000 in June
2009. To date, most project activities have been successfully completed. The only major
exception was the poultry vaccination campaign, which was cancelled in November 2009
due to doubts about the effectiveness of vaccination in the poultry backyard sector (as
recommended by a recent FAO study). The cancellation of the $2.1 million procurement
of vaccines, as well as the $560,000 procurement of vaccination equipment, created
substantial savings for the Project. Additional savings from other completed contracts
further increased the amounts saved to a total of about $3.2 million ,which is
approximately 45 percent of the total budget of $7.14 million.

3. The re-allocation of the uncommitted savings and revision of the PIP were delayed
due to a request by the Ministry of Health (in December 2009) to re-allocate $2.5 million
from the Grant for the purchase of H1N1 vaccines. This request was dropped in February
2010 as a result of very limited public response to the H1N1 vaccination campaign. On
February 18, 2010, the GoE requested a re-allocation of $2.0 million to provide
laboratory equipments for a proposed BSL3 laboratory facility at the Ministry of
Agriculture. The Bank agreed to provide a 3-month extension of the closing date (until
June 30, 2010) to allow the project team to carry out the necessary background work to
provide accurate costing of the proposed facility to ensure that the Grant will have

1
  The establishment of a BSL-3 laboratory is clearly identified as a priority for the Ministry of Agriculture
as indicated in the 2007 Integrated National Plan for Avian and Human Influenza (section 1.2.2). Thus,
funding for equipping such a laboratory is in line with the requirements established by the Avian and
Human Influenza (AHI) Facility from which the Egypt AHI Grant is funded.
                                                      4
  sufficient funds to finance it. The Bank agreed to provide a 12-month extension of the closing
  date (until June 30, 2011).

  4. On May 20, 2010, the Ministry of Agriculture submitted two re-allocation proposals
  from the two implementing agencies: (i) A proposal from the Central Laboratory for
  Quality Control of Poultry Production (CLQP) providing a list of laboratory equipments
  to be funded by the Grant for a total of $2.1 million. The CLQP indicated a commitment
  in principle to use its own resources to supplement the contribution of the Grant in order
  to ensure that the proposed BSL-3 laboratory will be fully operational by the time the
  Grant is closed; and (ii) A proposal from the General Organization for Veterinary
  Services (GOVS) requesting funding for the procurement of goods2 to be funded by the
  Grant for a total of $1.1 million.

  5. The annual external audit was due no later than December 31, 2009. Due to
  unfortunate mishandling by the project's procurement and financial experts, the external
  audit contract was not signed until March 8, 2010. The final audit report, which was
  submitted on June 15, 2010, did not identify any non-compliance issues.

  6. A Financial Management Implementation Support Mission visited the project on May
  13, 2010, and concluded that the project's financial management arrangements are
  "Unsatisfactory". In addition to the excessive delays in submitting the audit report, the
  mission noted that the project does not maintain acceptable financial management
  arrangements and does not comply with the reporting and accounting requirements stated
  in the loan agreement. In order to address the FM shortcomings, the PMU submitted on
  June 14, 2010, a time-bound action plan for the delivery of the unaudited financial reports
  and audited financial statements before June 30, 2010. The Bank FM team visited the
  project on June 22, 2010, and concluded that the necessary actions taken by the project to
  address the FM shortcomings are satisfactory to the Bank FM team.

  7. The PMU also submitted a revised PIP to cover the implementation of the proposed
  activities during the requested extension period of 12 months. The Bank team considers
  this revised PIP to be acceptable to allow completion of all project activities within the
  proposed 12 month extension period. The Bank team anticipates that project
  implementation would pick up again ensuring that the project would still achieve all of its
  objectives within the proposed 12-month period of extension.

PROPOSED CHANGES

  8. The proposed changes are based on the findings of a Restructuring Mission which
  visited the Project May 12-13, 2010, as detailed in the mission's Aide Memoire.

  ·   Components



  2
    Mainly motorcycles and information technology equipment (laptop computers, internet connection, faxes)
  for the benefit of local veterinary clinics to enhance their capacity for disease management, surveillance
  and reporting.
                                                      5
9. The Project includes four components:
    Component A: Improved disease management and surveillance
    Component B: Review of regulatory and legal framework of the veterinary services
    Component C: Improved Cairo laboratory services capacity
    Component D: Project management

10. As indicated in the Table below, Components A and C account for more than 99% of
the total budget. Component A is implemented by the General Organization for
Veterinary Services (GOVS), while Component C is implemented by the Central
Laboratory for Quality Control of Poultry Production (CLQP).


                                  Project Costs (USD)
                    Components                           Current          Proposed

 Component A: Improved disease management and
 surveillance (implemented by GOVS)                        4,938,891          2,977,852

 Component B: Review of regulatory and legal                  45,000                  0
 framework of the veterinary services (implemented
 by CQLP)
 Component C: Improved Cairo laboratory services           2,059,951          4,059,951
 capacity
 Component D: Project management                              98,000            104,039
                                            TOTAL          7,141,842          7,141,842


11. The proposed changes will involve re-allocation of funds primarily from Component
A to Component C, as follows:

   -   Re-allocation of $2.0 million from Component A to Component C: Savings
       from the cancelled poultry vaccination contract (Component A) will be used to
       procure laboratory equipment for CLQP (under Component C). This re-allocation
       will partially cover the costs of equipping the proposed BSL3 facility, as
       requested by the GoE (February 18, 2010). This facility will substantially
       enhance the biosafety of CLQP staff, as well as public safety, in handling lethal
       micro-organisms, including the current AI strains as well as any potential future
       strains. The building which will house this new facility is already constructed.
       The GoE is requesting that the Bank provides $2.0 million in funding for the
       purchase of laboratory equipment only. The implementing agency (CLQP) has
       verbally informed the Bank that the GoE is committed to provide any additional
       funding needed to have a safe and operational BSL-3 facility by the end of the
       project closing date.

   -   Savings from cancelling the procurement of vaccination equipment and from
       other completed contracts add up to additional savings of about $1.1 million.
       It is proposed that these additional savings will remain under Component A and
       will be used for the purchase of motorcycles and information technology
                                              6
          equipment (laptop computers, internet connection, faxes) for the benefit of local
          veterinary clinics to enhance their capacity for disease management, surveillance
          and reporting.

    -     Component B: Given that the activities (studies) planned under Component B
          have already been implemented by the OIE and FAO at no cost to the project, the
          funds allocated for this component will be re-allocated to Component A.

    -     Component D: The allocation for the Project Management component (D) will
          be slightly increased to cover the salaries of PMU staff during the additional
          extension period.

·   Financing

        o Reallocations: The above-mentioned re-allocations between categories will have
          an insignificant impact on the total allocation for Goods (see below Table).
          Allocations for Consultant Services will increase by 11% to cover the costs of
          additional technical consultants needed to assist in project implementation,
          particularly under the expanded Component C. Allocations for Operational
          Expenses will be reduced by about 10% given the cancellation of the vaccination
          campaign.

          Category of Expenditure                        Allocation (USD)
                                                   Current              Proposed
(1) Goods

(a) For Part A.1. of the Project
(b) For other parts of the Project
(2) Consultants Services

(3) Training

(a) For Part A.1. of the Project
(b) For other parts of the Project
(4) Operational expenses

TOTAL AMOUNT


    ·     Closing date: To implement the above proposed changes, it is recommended to
          extend the closing date of the Grant by 12 months, ending on June 30, 2011. The
          original closing date was July 31, 2009, as specified in the Grant Agreement. If
          approved, this would be the 4th extension for this project.




                                              7
