Document of
The World Bank    FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2752-MOR
REPORT AND RECONMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
'TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR A
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
March 27, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
FISCAL YEAR-
January 1 - December 31
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                            Dirham (DH)
DH 1                                     US$0.263
US$1                                     DH 3.80
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                            British/US System
1 meter (m)                              3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                         0.62 miles (mi)
1 sq. kilometer (km2)                    0.386  sq. miles (mi2)
1 metric ton (m ton)                     0.984 long ton (lg ton)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
ER    -  Economic Return
LPEE  -  Soils and Materials Laboratory ("Laboratoire Public
dAEssais et d'Etudes")
MOT   -  Ministry of Transportation ("Ministare des Transports")
MPW   -  Ministry of Public Works ("Ministare de 1'Equipement et
de la Promotion Nationale")
RD    -  Roads Department ("Direction des Routes"i



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MOROCCO: THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:       The Kingdom of Morocco
Amount:         US$62.0 million equivalent in various currencies
Terms:          Amortization in 19 years including a 4-year grace period
at 8.25 percent per annum.
Project
Description:  The proposed project aims to help the Government protect past
investments in the road network by bringing into operation
a rational system of road maintenance and by initiating a
long-term program of pavement strengthening and resurfacing.
To this end the project comprises: (a) a three and a half
year time slice of a pavement strengthening and preservation
program, on about 1,700 km of primary and secondary roads;
(b) a three and a half year program of routine and periodic
road maintenance, including the purchase of equipment; and (c)
technical assistance to the Ministry of Public Works (MPW), to
help in preparing and implementing the above. The project also
aims at strengthening the formulation and implementation of
transportation policy by the Ministry of Transportation (MOT),
by providing technical assistance in transportation planning
and economics, as well as by furnishing weighing scales to help
in enforcing vehicle loading limits. The main beneficiaries
will be road users, who would face quickly rising transporta-
tion costs if deterioration of the network were allowed to
continue. The project will continue the long-term process of
institutional strengthening begun under the two previous Bank-
financed highway projects in Morocco. The principal risk it
faces is shortage of funds for recurrent maintenance costs,
which would cause some activities to be delayed; this would not
seriously affect the economic return. In order to ensure the
Government's commitment to carrying out the proposed activi-
ties, an overall action plan covering maintenance as well as
pavement strengthening was agreed during negotiations and
annual programs consistent with this action plan will be sent
to the Bank for review and comment.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated
Capital Cost:                                       US$ Million      _        Foreign
Local   Foreign   Total   Exchange
Pavement strengthening and preservation          20.9      38.8      59.7        65
Road maintenance and laboratory equipment         4.2       8.8      13.0        68
Technical assistance for
-  road maintenance (MPW)                         0.1       0.4       0.5        77
-  transportation policy (MOT)                    0.1       0.6       0.7        85
Weighing scales                                   0.2       0.3       0.5        64
Expected price increases                          6.8      13.1      19.9        66
Total                                       32.3      62.0      94.3        66
Estimated
Recurrent Cost:                                      US$ Million          % Foreign
Local   Foreign   Total   Exchange
Periodic maintenance                             16.1      37.8      53.9        70
Routine maintenance                              16.1      10.5      26.6        40
Expected price increases                          9.7      14.5      24.2        60
Total                                       41.9      62.8    104.7         60
Financing Plan:                                        US$ Million
Local   Foreign   Total
IBRD Loan                                         0        62.0      62.0
Kingdom of Morocco                               74.2      62.8    137.0
Total                                       74.2    124.8    199.0
Estimated
Disbursement:                                             US$ Million
FY81    FY82    FY83    FY84
Annual                                            0.8    15.8    31.0    14.4
Cumulative                                        0.8    16.6    47.6    62.0
Rate of Return:      Over 50 percent
Staff Appraisal
Report:             Report No. 2816-MOR, dated March 21, 1980
Highways and Aviation Division
Projects Department, EMENA Region



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
LOAN TO THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO FOR A
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Kingdom of Morocco for the equivalent of US$62 million, to help finance
a Third Highway Project. The loan would have a term of 19 years, including 4
years of grace, with interest at 8.25 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report entitled "Country Economic Memorandum on Morocco" (1473-
MOR) was distributed to the Executive Directors in June 1977. An economic
mission visited Morocco in February/March 1978, followed by a basic economic
mission in November 1978, and updating missions in September and December
1979. A draft basic economic report was discussed with the Government at the
end of 1979, and is due to be issued in mid-1980. Preliminary findings and
conclusions of this report and the missions are reflected in the following
paragraphs. Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex I.
Recent Developments
3.        In 1977, Morocco's political system moved in the direction of a
constitutional monarchy. Having marshalled a strong national consensus over
the Western Sahara issue, King Hassan II called municipal, provincial and
national elections between November 1976 and April 1977. Opposition parties
with platforms stressing social reform scored strongly in municipal elections
in the larger cities, while at the provincial level, rural constituents
supported Government candidates, who eventually obtained a majority of 141
seats out of 264 in the National Assembly. With the Government formed in
October 1977, both the Istiqlal party which had been in the opposition since
1963, and the Mouvement Populaire whose main support is in the Berber popula-
tion returned to power. The Cabinet was appointed with the mandate to prepare
and implement economic austerity measures, the first of which were introduced
in the 1978 Budget Law, and to pursue the social development objectives set
out in the 1973-77 Development Plan. A new Cabinet formed in March 1979 is
pursuing the same policies.
4.        Morocco's economic and financial situation became increasingly unbal-
anced towards the end of the 1973-77 Plan. The rapid growth of investments and
imports which occurred in 1974-75 when phosphate export revenues had reached
1/   This Part updates paragraphs 2 to 17 of the President's Report No.
P-2618-MOR on a Loan for a Vegetable Production and Marketing Project,
dated August 22, 1979, approved on September 11, 1979.



- 2 -
an all-time high, continued in 1976-77, while the world demand for Morocco's
main exports, especially phosphate, weakened. At the same time, efforts to
increase budgetary savings were insufficient to meet the continued increase in
investment and military expenditures. As a result, in 1977 Morocco faced a
large resource gap (22 percent of GDP) and overall budget deficit (17 percent
of GDP). These imbalances have since been reduced, but continue to be substan-
tial (12 and 8 percent of GDP, respectively, in 1979). During this period,
Morocco resorted to external borrowing on a large scale. Gross disbursements
on public medium and long term loans rose to about $1.3 billion in 1977, as
compared to $600-$700 million annually in 1975-76, and less than $300 million
a year in the early 1970s. This substantial increase was achieved mainly
through increases in borrowing from Arab and commercial sources. Since then,
the level of external public borrowing, in particular from commercial banks,
has been curtailed to about $1 billion annually in an effort to moderate the
growth of debt service payments. On the domestic side, monetary expansion,
though it remained rapid, abated somewhat in 1979, reflecting reduced Treasury
borrowing in that year. Consumer prices rose 9.7 percent in 1978 and 8.3
percent in 1979.
5.        The Government has now succeeded in regaining a measure of control
over the excessive increases in investment and external borrowing experienced
towards the end of the 1973-77 Plan. This was achieved through budgetary
austerity, including severe cuts in public investment, restraint in current
spending and some tax increases. Public investment was reduced by nearly 40
percent in 1978 and continued to be severely restrained in 1979. In addition,
in 1979, government revenue increased nearly 20 percent with a set of emergency
tax measures adopted at midyear. Finally, import restrictions and controls on
private credit were applied in 1978 and intensified in 1979. The impact of
these policies was a significant deceleration of growth. In 1978, a good
agricultural crop helped sustain growth, despite a sharp decline in industry
and construction largely resulting from the public investment cuts. In 1979,
there was some recovery of activity in the secondary sector, particularly
mining. Overall, GDP grew by about 3 percent a year in 1978 and 1979, against
7 percent in 1973-77.
6.        The Government will have to pursue austerity policies for a while,
considering the continued excessive resource gap and low exports and savings
which cannot be increased quickly for reasons largely beyond the Government's
control. Instead of the 1978-82 Plan, the Government introduced a three-
year interim plan (1978-80) which was approved by Parliament in December 1978,
together with the 1979 Budget Law. Its main objectives were to reduce the
budget and current balance of payments deficits and to concentrate avail-
able resources (after meeting defense requirements) on productive projects,
education and health, especially insofar as these benefit the neediest popu-
lation groups. Implementation of major public projects not meeting these
criteria was to be postponed, while the measures designed to preserve growth
in the private sector were to be strengthened.
7.        The financial stringency required to rebalance the economy has
limited the scope for stepping up social programs in the past two years and
the Government is anxious to resume the more dynamic social policy stance



- 3 -
which characterized Moroccan development during the 1973-77 Plan. Preparation
of the 1981-85 Plan has begun and attention is being given to long-term reforms
which are needed if a resumption of more rapid economic and social progress is
to be achieved.
Economic Development Issues and Prospects
8.         Bank projections summarized in Annex I assume sharp structural
adjustments to keep the economy on a financially viable growth path over the
long run, and also reflect the desire to maintain adequate GDP and employment
growth during the stabilization period, and to achieve further progress to-
wards the country's social objectives. The projections suggest that invest-
ment would have to be restrained and GDP growth would remain modest for the
next several years. During this period, Morocco will need substantial capital
transfers from abroad on terms as favorable as possible to sustain project
investment and GDP growth at 3 to 4 percent per year. After the required
adjustment has been made, export prospects should enable Morocco to resume
growth of investments, output and employment while progressively reducing the
relative burden of debt and debt service.
9.         Following the large windfalls in foreign exchange and domestic
savings caused by high phosphate prices in 1974-75, the investment target was
raised to meet cost increases, to permit some real expansion of original
investment programs, and to undertake large capital-intensive projects geared
to import substitution (in particular for sugar, chemicals, shipping and
steel). Thus the GDP growth target for 1973-77 was nearly met, and investment
rose to nearly 32 percent of GDP in 1977 from less than 14 percent in 1972.
In the process, Morocco built up its capacity to prepare and implement projects
not only in traditional sectors such as irrigation, import-substitution
industries and physical infrastructure, but also in new and more difficult
sectors such as rainfed and small-scale agriculture, export industries, and
socially-oriented programs. There is little doubt that Morocco can achieve
the investment levels assumed in the Bank projections, the main constraints
being domestic savings and foreign exchange availability.
10.       Domestic savings have been falling in relation to GDP after the
brief increase during the phosphate windfall years, mainly due to low public
savings. Successful efforts to raise public revenues were offset by increases
in current government spending, particularly for education and health, as
well as for price subsidies and defense. Tax reform measures and unpopular
price policy decisions, such as reduction of subsidies to urban consumers,
farmers and industrial investors, will be required to increase public savings.
Interest rate adjustments to reflect changes in the rate of domestic price
inflation would also be called for.
11.       During the 1973-77 Plan period, exports rose by less than 4 percent
p.a. in real terms (the Plan target was 10 percent). This lackluster per-
formance was largely due to weak external demand for Morocco's main export
products since 1974, especially phosphate, other minerals and agricultural
products. Moreover, with some exceptions such as textiles, export production
and marketing efforts were not sufficient, and new markets were not aggres-
sively sought. Morocco continued to depend on demand from the EEC, especially



- 4 -
France. Morocco would have considerable export potential if only products and
markets were diversified. Programs designed to boost foreign exchange earn-
ings are now under preparation particularly for phosphate and its derivatives,
fresh and processed foodstuffs, and tourism.
12.       While the emphasis on completion of high-return projects will have
to continue, Morocco should delay or shift away from highly capital-intensive,
import substitution investments, as well as from some ambitious programs for
physical infrastructure. A changed investment pattern should reduce the
external resource gap, and also contribute to higher growth and employment at
lower investment and import costs than in recent years. This would call for
improvements in policy planning and investment programming. The 1978-80 Plan
started implementing a new industrial investment strategy, which should
facilitate better investment selection.
Social Development Strategy
13.       Comparatively slow economic growth and employment creation up to the
early 1970s were accompanied by widening income disparities and a decline in
real consumption by the weaker sections of Morocco's population. As a major
objective, the 1973-77 Plan set out to reverse these trends. The Government's
strategy since 1973 has emphasized: (i) acceleration of employment creation;
(ii) measures aimed at reducing income disparities; and (iii) specific invest-
ment programs to benefit the least favored population groups.
14.       Some progress has been made towards these objectives, as witnessed
by increased expenditures for social sectors (from 5 percent of GDP in 1972
to 8 percent in 1977). However, the institutions created to meet social
sector objectives are in many cases still fragile. Understaffing, weak policy
analysis and inadequate program formulation are common. As a result, public
programs to improve productivity, collective amenities and social services
are reaching relatively small proportions of the population, especially in
rural areas. In addition, during the period of financial stringency ahead,
Morocco may not be able to sustain the current level of expenditures in
socially-oriented sectors; some cuts were made in 1978 as part of the measures
to re-balance the economy.
External Debt and Debt Service
15.       Morocco sharply increased external borrowings after 1974 (para. 4).
Nearly all of the increase came from Arab and commercial sources. With a
hardening of terms on new commitments, average maturity dropped from 18 to 11
years and average interest rose from 5.2 to 7.7 percent between 1974 and 1978.
Morocco also drew on the IMF automatic credit facilities in early 1976, and
obtained about $70 million in IMF compensatory financing in August 1978. From
the low levels of 1974-75, Morocco's external debt rose rapidly to an esti-
mated $5.2 billion (disbursed only) by December 1979. 1/ In 1979 debt service
1/   A recent debt mission has revised this estimate to about $6 billion.  The
new estimate for debt service in 1979 has been increased to about $800
million.



amounted to $750 million (nearly 22 percent of tDtal exports of goods and
services, includireg workers' remittances).  As a rf sul  ,   eent and plo-
jected borrowings, debt and deb5 serv-e may be         ct   t  -i-res  fu-rth-2
in the years immediately ahead, with the debt serv_ ce ratio reaching 24 to 25
percent in 1980-85. but declining progressively therea'terr  The country's net
foreign assets would remain at a relatively low le-el.  Because of the grow-ng
burden of debt service, external debt management has become more restrictive
and selective since 1978. If debt service is to stay manageable, Morocco will
have to continue this policy over the next few years. Additional comnercial
borrowing should be limited, and efforts should be continued to seek loans
on softer terms. Overall, external borrowing needs would remain sizeable in
1980-85, ranging between $1 and 1.5 billion. However, in view of the deter-
mined effort being made by the Government to regain control of domestic demand
and with good long term prospects for exports and, in particular, assured
sales of phosphate rock and derivatives, Morocco continues to be creditworthy
for further Bank lending.
16.       Loan commitments from multilateral and bilateraL official sources
to Morocco rose from $286 million in 1975 to $296 million in 1976, and to
$862 million in 1977, dropping to $434 million in 1978. Major sources of aid
were France, Saudi Arabia, the UAE, the U.S., Germany and the Bank Group. At
the end of 1978, the Bank Group's share in Morocco's outstanding and disbursed
external public debt was 8.4 percent. The share of the Bank Group in debt
service was 24 percent in 1976 and declined to 18 percent in 1977, and 10
percent in 1978. By 1985 the Bank Group's shares in debt outstanding and in
debt service are expected to be about 17 percent and 14 percent respectively.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MOROCCO
17.       Bank and IDA lending to Morocco has supported 44 projects, financing
a total of $1,325.9 million (net of cancellations), of which $840 million has
been lent since the beginning of FY1975. IDA credits, totalling $50 million,
have been made available for five projects. A Third Window loan for $25
miLlion for the third education project was approved in March 1976. IFC
investments have amounted to $42.9 million ($40.8 million after cancellations,
terminations, repayments and sales). Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of January 31, 1980, and
notes on the execution of ongoing IBRD/IDA projects. In some cases, delays
in project implementation have been caused by management difficulties; how-
ever, overall performance in project execution has been improving and remains
satisfactory. Total disbursements as of December 31, 1979, amounted to 70
percent of original appraisal forecasts, and 73 percent of revised forecasts.
18.       Past Bank Group lending has been concentrated in the agricultural
and industrial sectors, which have accounted for 38 and 27 percent respec-
tively of total commitments; the balance is represented by utilities (13
percent), education (12 percent), tourism (5 percent), roads (3 percent),



-6-
and urban development (1 percent). While limited as regards the transfer of
resources to Morocco (Bank Group gross disbursements amounted to 3.2 percent
of total fixed investment during the 1973-77 Plan period), the main objectives
of Bank lending in the early years of Bank operations in Morocco were to
foster and strengthen development institutions, provide technical assistance
especially for project preparation, and increase productive capacity, in order
to improve the balance of payments.
19.       While these objectives remain, over the last few years, greater
emphasis has been given to preparing projects that support the Government's
policy of fostering social development and improving income distribution. An
increasing share of Bank Group lending is being devoted to projects directly
or indirectly developing the productive capacity of the lowest urban and rural
income groups and meeting their basic needs.
20.       Past lending for agriculture has supported irrigation development,
credit, agroindustries and, starting in FY1975, improvement in the produc-
tivity of rainfed farming. Continued selective lending for irrigation is
envisaged but emphasis will be increasingly given to supporting small farmers
and shepherds and the development of rainfed areas. The Fes-Karia-Tissa
Agriculture Project, approved in June 1978, directly addresses these objec-
tives in the favorable cereal producing zone. An agricultural development and
erosion control project, including forestry and livestock, in the Loukkos area
will be submitted to the Executive Directors shortly. It would address major
issues in developing Morocco's relatively densely populated but poorly endowed
mountainous regions, and is expected to have a significant poverty impact. An
extensive livestock project in central Morocco and an integrated rural devel-
opment project in the Khemisset province are also under preparation. A fourth
line of credit to the National Agricultural Credit Bank (CNCA) and a loan
providing investment and credit for vegetable production and marketing,
particularly for export, were approved in FY1979 and FY1980, respectively.
21.       Projects in industry and tourism have had as key objectives increased
foreign exchange earnings or savings and the improvement of sectoral policies,
which have taken on increased importance in view of the country's short-term
resource constraints. The eighth loan to Banque Nationale pour le Developpe-
ment Economique (BNDE) which was approved in 1977, included a pilot small-
scale industry component to promote labor intensive investments. This pilot
effort led to the recently approved Integrated Project for Small Scale Industry
Development. The loan to Maroc Phosphore made in 1978 will help increase
Morocco's foreign exchange earnings. Continued lending for industry through
the BNDE is contemplated as well as lending for industrial estates, and further
lending to the Credit Immobilier et Hotelier (CIH) for tourism development.
22.       Previous lending for utilities has consisted of two loans for water
supply, two loans for power generation, a loan for village electrification
and an engineering loan for the preparation of a sewerage project for Casa-
blanca. A third water supply project, designed to provide access to safe
water for small towns and semi-rural areas as well as for low-income popula-
tion in the larger cities, is under preparation.



23.       In order to reduce the impact of the oil import burden on the
Moroccan economy, a project is being submitted for consideration by the
Executive Directors which would contribute to the Government's efforts to
accelerate the exploration and development of its petroleum potential.
24.       Education continues to need attention to ensure Morocco's manpower
development. Two credits and a loan have been made to develop secondary
education and teacher training, to improve technical and vocational training,
and to expand facilities in rural areas. A fourth project with emphasis on
technical education was approved in FY1979 and preparation has begun on a
fifth project focusing on technical training and research, teacher training
and rural primary school facilities.
25.       The Rabat Urban Project (FY1978) was the first Bank-financed project
in the urban sector. Preparation of a follow-up project is nearing completion
and would support the Government's program for slum upgrading and urban devel-
opment through the provision of basic infrastructure, housing and social
services and the creation of employment opportunities in Meknes and Kenitra.
26.       A family health project is under preparation with the Ministry
of Public Health as a first phase of the Government's program to extend
basic health services, particularly in rural areas, including improvements
in nutrition, environmental sanitation and family planning programs, as
well as providing support to the Ministry of Public Health in planning and
administering its programs.
PART III - THE TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
Sector Structure
27.       All the basic transportation modes are present in tho Moroccan
system: a network of 25,000 km of paved roads, serving a fleet of some
320,000 vehicles; a railway system of 1,760 km connecting the major popu-
lation centers; six major ports handling 13 million tons of general cargo
imports and exports per year; and eight major airports and a national air-
line with an extensive international network.
28.       Roads are the dominant mode.  A relatively large vehicle fleet
and a fairly dense network of low-standard paved roads were developed before
independence in 1956 to connect the main agricultural areas with the cities
and ports, and have been gradually upgraded since then. The ports in turn
have linked Morocco with the markets for its fruits and vegetables and
minerals in Europe. The railway and certain ports have a special-purpose
role in exporting phosphate, while the airports and national airline are
particularly geared to promoting tourism. In the late 1970s, roads accounted
for about 95 percent of total passenger-km and over 80 percent of freight ton-
km excluding phosphate (or 60 percent including phosphate). Total expenditure
on road transportation by users is estimated for 1978 at $2 billion per year.



- 8 -
29.       The road network is generally adequate as regards its density, but
its quality is deteriorating for want of sufficient maintenance and renewal.
The classified network consists of 55,200 km of roads, of which 45 percent are
paved. Most of the network is situated in the plain between the Atlantic
Ocean and the Atlas mountain ranges. Historically, the network has evolved
through gradual upgrading of existing roads rather than by the construction
of new ones. Between 1972 and 1977, the total network increased by 7 percent,
and the length of paved roads by 14 percent.
30.       Traffic volumes on the Moroccan road network are relatively high,
averaging about 2,000 vehicles per day on primary roads, 800 on secondary and
300 on tertiary roads. Traffic in the main corridors is expected to grow over
the next few years at 5-9 percent per year, faster in and around the secondary
cities and slower in the Rabat-Casablanca corridor and in rural areas.
31.       Road-side surveys in 1977 and 1978 under the Second Highway Project
showed a generally efficient utilization of the fleet with regard to annual
distance driven and loading. Buses carried over half of all intercity
passenger traffic. Trucks under 5.5 tons gross vehicle weight, which are
unregulated, performed nearly two-fifths of all intercity ton-km, despite
their cost disadvantage, in theory at least, compared to large trucks, which
are regulated as to their number, rates and operating area. The Ministry of
Transportation (MOT) recognizes that small trucks play an important role in
meeting transportation demand effectively, particularly in rural areas, as
well as in generating small-scale employment, but believes that they have been
holding down their costs per ton by neglect of vehicle maintenance and severe
overloading, making their trucks a safety hazard on the road. The MOT there-
fore intends to improve the enforcement of proper vehicle loading (see para-
graph 56, below).
Sector Organization
32.       Transportation services are operated variously by wholly private,
wholly government-owned or mixed-capital enterprises on broadly commercial
lines, in a framework of government regulation intended to assure uniform
and equitable levels of service to different users. In recognition of the
growing demand for coordination of transportation policy and planning amongst
this variety of enterprises, the MOT was established in 1977 separate from the
Ministry of Public Works (MPW), to combine supervision of the railway, civil
aviation, shipping, general cargo port operations and state-owned bus and
freight-forwarding companies, as well as to regulate private road transporta-
tion. The MOT's Transportation Studies, Planning and Coordination Department,
set up initially as a sector-wide planning unit within the MPW under the
Second Highway Project, is responsible for intermodal coordination and in
particular the collection of data on costs and pricing. The MPW (now called
the "Ministere de l'Equipement et de la Promotion Nationale") retains control
over road and port infrastructure, and the infrastructure plans of the two
ministries are coordinated by the Secretary of State for Planning.
33.       The MPW's Roads Department (RD) is responsible for the classified
network. The central divisions have an overall planning and coordination
function, while programming, contract awards and supervision of works are



- 9 -
substantially delegated to 18 regional offices. Unclassified roads are
administered by the local authorities using provincial budget funds and, if
necessary, technical assistance from the RD.
34.       Although the engineering staff of the RD is generally well-
qualified, it is not yet sufficient in number and is lacking in practical
experience, as recently graduated engineers and technicians are immediately
posted in the higher echelons. This situation is expected to be transitional,
as the demand for additional qualified staff in highway engineering is being
adequately addressed by training facilities at the university level (Ecole
Hassania) and by the technician training courses and refresher seminars and
workshops offered within the MPW itself. However, the RD wishes to review its
present training of staff in charge of heavy equipment, and has requested the
services of an outside expert for this purpose under the project. The RD has
also identified a need for specific short-term expertise in cost accounting
and procedures for equipment maintenance, which will be provided under the
proposed project (see paragraph 53, below).
35.       Construction and reconstruction of roads is done through private
contractors, often operating as joint ventures between local and foreign
firms. Patching of asphalt pavements is done by RD's own forces as part
of routine maintenance, while the strengthening of asphalt pavements through
overlays and preservation through surface treatments are done by contractors.
There are a number of domestic firms qualified to carry out major pavement
overlay and surface dressing, and competition between them is strong. Con-
tracts for road works are awarded after competitive bidding, and the quality
of work is generally good. The supervision of construction is normally
done by RD's regional staff, assisted by the autonomous soils and materials
laboratory ("Laboratoire Public d'Essais et d'Etudes"-LPEE) in Casablanca.
36.       Routine road maintenance such as minor pavement repairs, grading
of shoulders, and cleaning of drainage ditches and culverts, is done by RD's
own crews under the supervision of the district offices. The policy of
the RD to handle only strict routine operations by its own forces applies
also to maintenance of mechanical equipment. Major repairs or overhaul are
therefore done by outside specialized workshops.
Principal Sector Issues
37.       The major problems facing the transportation sector in Morocco are:
a large railway deficit which constitutes a significant drain on resources;
costly investments in ports, whose productivity is less than optimum due to
managerial and institutional problems; deterioration of the road network;
and lack of intermodal coordination. The proposed project will address the
latter two issues, which are discussed further in the following paragraphs.
38.       Deterioration of Road Network.  Under the 1973-77 Plan, with the
injection of higher phosphate revenues, an ambitious program of port, railway
and shipping expansion was started, and these ongoing projects proved difficult
to cut back when the drop in phosphate revenues severely restricted government



- 10 -
investment under the current Plan (1978-80). The investment cutback has been
most heavily felt in the area of road construction and maintenance; under the
1978-80 Plan, the construction of new roads has virtually come to a standstill,
although master plans for upgrading national and regional roads have identified
a large program of economically feasible projects. Annual investments in road
construction and preservation in 1978 and 1979 amounted to less than $30
million per year, compared to an average of $70 million during the 1973-77
Plan. While the funds allocated to maintenance have dropped only slighly in
current terms since 1975 ($18-19 million per year), in real terms expendi-
tures per km in 1979 were only 55 percent of the 1975 level. In 1979 prices,
this constitutes a decline from over $1,100 per km of the network (excluding
tracks) to about $600 per km, whereas, at a minimum, maintenance expenditures
should have increased in real terms to keep pace with traffic growth. As a
result of the decline in real terms, the 1979 expenditure level allowed for
resurfacing of the paved road network only once every 15 years, about twice as
long as the recommended frequency. Furthermore, the RD has not been able to
secure sufficient funds to regularly replace obsolete mechanical equipment,
and, the cost of repairing the aging equipment has become disproportionately
high, leaving less and less funds available for other operational expenditures.
39.       While the geometric design standards of the classified roads are
generally satisfactory, the pavement structures of many roads have become
inadequate to carry present traffic. Because of the severe cut in the roads
investment budget, the RD has had to apply temporary preservation measures
like patching and surface dressing on road sections, where pavement strength-
ening through overlays or base reconstruction would have been more economical
in the long run. The RD is now seeking funds on a sufficient scale to allow
it to select the most economic method of pavement preservation from a range of
alternatives that include those with a larger initial investment.
40.       The result has been that routine road maintenance has gradually
diminished to maintenance of the major roads only. Insufficient maintenance
of the secondary and tertiary roads is leading to near isolation of some rural
areas and to uneconomically high transportation costs for most of the tertiary
and some of the secondary roads. If the downward trend in road investment and
maintenance is not reversed to halt further damage to already distressed
pavement, it will lead to extensive deterioration of the entire road network,
with consequent rising vehicle operating costs, including increased imports
of spare parts and replacement vehicles. Moreover, continued delay in road
maintenance will necessitate investments in more costly road reconstruction
at a later date. In the short run, more resources must be allocated to both
routine maintenance and road strengthening and preservation, and the proposed
project will assist the Government in these two areas. In the medium term,
once the ongoing projects in ports, shipping and rail expansion have been
completed, greater balance must be restored to the distribution of investments
among the subsectors to give greater weight to the needs of the road transpor-
tation system.
41.       Need for Improved Planning and Coordination.  In the climate of
fiscal austerity prevailing since 1978, the principal emphasis in transporta-
tion planning in Morocco has been on organizational and managerial changes



- 11 -
that can improve the productivity of existing facilities and the financial
performance of the transport agencies, so that growth in demand can be met
with a minimum of new infrastructure. Establishment of the MOT as a separate
organization was a first step in improving the overall planning process.
However, the MOT is a relatively new agency, still in the process of building
up its own staff, and thus has identified a need for additional expertise in
planning, studies and coordination for the sector as a whole. Though the
Planning Department conducts studies on a cooperative basis with the modal
agencies, effective policy formulation and intermodal coordination are at an
early stage. The main issues and priorities have been identified in general
terms, but detailed analysis and remedial actions are still needed. An active
debate is taking place in Morocco on the economics of existing transport
regulations. The MOT is engaged in disseminating relevant operating cost and
traffic data and in coordinating this policy debate. The technical assistance
in transport policy and economics to be financed under the project will
provide an avenue for a continuing dialogue between the Government and the
Bank on ways to lower overall transport costs, including regulatory changes,
and will contribute to studies in the railway, port and road sectors necessary
to develop and implement the appropriate policies (see paragraph 55 below).
42.        In order to lower overall transportation costs and reduce the safety
hazard presented by overloaded, unregulated small trucks, the MOT is preparing
various measures aimed at shifting freight, where economical, from smaller to
larger trucks. It is currently seeking to develop and propagate a better
understanding of the economic arguments involved in trucking regulation, as
well as the economic trade-offs involved in the proposed shift to larger
vehicles: lower operating costs per ton carried against an increase in road
pavement deterioration. In the same context, the MOT is endeavoring to
improve its enforcement of proper vehicle loading.
Previous Bank Involvements in the Highway Sub-sector
43.        Two previous highway projects have helped build up the expertise
of the agencies responsible for road construction and maintenance and set
up an initial organizational structure for rational transportation planning
and coordination. The First Highway Project (Loan 642-MOR/Credit 167-MOR)
for $14.6 million, signed in November 1969, included construction of one
new primary road, a program of localized improvements on selected primary
roads, and the purchase of maintenance equipment and spare parts. The
project was completed in a timely way with only minor cost overruns. Institu-
tional benefits included the good performance of local contractors, and
efficient construction supervision undertaken by Moroccan engineers of the
MPW (see Project Performance Audit Report No. 1565 of April 1977).
44.       A transportation survey also carried out under the First Highway
Project laid the groundwork for the Second Highway Project five years later,
for which a $29 million loan (955-MOR) was signed in January 1974. This
included (a) construction of part of the Casablanca-Rabat expressway; (b) a
further program of road improvements throughout the country; (c) renewal and
some expansion of maintenance equipment; (d) traffic studies for Casablanca



- 12 -
and Rabat; and (e) technical assistance for setting up a transportation plan-
ning office. This project was physically completed in late 1979. Implementa-
tion performance was again good. Local contractors carried out all the civil
works competently. Cost accounting methods for road maintenance recommended
under the First Project were introduced. The technical assistance team,
through a program of traffic and financial surveys, laid valuable ground-
work for the MOT in its planning and policy-making function; however, such
institution-building is a long-term process and thus will be further rein-
forced under the present project.
45.       A further 1,650 km of roads have been or will be constructed or
improved under six agricultural projects since 1974, for a combined loan
amount of $44.9 million. These works range from widening and resurfacing of
sections of classified roads to construction of unpaved farm access roads, in
support of irrigation and other agricultural development investments.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Origin of the Project
46.       The idea of a Bank-assisted highway project concentrating on road
maintenance and rehabilitation was first suggested by a supervision mission
for the Second Highway Project in April 1978 and confirmed by the Government
in November 1978. The project was prepared by the RD in consultation with
subsequent Bank missions, and was appraised in September 1979. Negotiations
were held in Washington in February 1980; Mr. Hassan Belkoura of the Prime
Minister's Office headed the Moroccan delegation. The Staff Appraisal Report
(No. 2816-MOR, dated March 21, 1980) is being distributed separately.
Special conditions in the Loan Agreement are summarized in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
47.       The objective of the proposed project is to help the Government
to continue the institution building process started under the First and
Second Highway Projects. It conforms to the Government's policy, reinforced
under the current austerity program, of protecting its past investments in
the highway sector, rather than constructing new roads. To this end, the
project will help to: (i) bring into operation a rational system of road
maintenance, including the maintenance of secondary and tertiary roads;
(ii) establish and partly execute a long-term program for pavement strengthen-
ing; (iii) improve the capability of the RD to manage its road maintenance
operations; and (iv) strengthen the formulation of transportation policy
recommendations by the MOT and help in their implementation.
48.       The proposed project consists of:  (i) a three and a half-year time
slice of RD's pavement strengthening and preservation program; (ii) a three and
a half-year time slice of RD's routine and periodic road maintenance program
including the renewal of mechanical equipment; (iii) assistance to the RD by
providing: (a) 23 man-months of consultant services to improve its maintenance



- 13 -
operations; and (b) laboratory equipment for a pavement evaluation center;
and (c) advisory services by the soils and materials laboratory (LPEE) in
preparing the pavement strengthening and preservation program; and (iv) assis-
tance to the MOT by providing: (a) consultant services in transportation
planning and economics (totalling 64 man-months); and (b) weighing scales to
check vehicle ioading.
49.        Pavement Strengthening and Preservation.  In 1976, the RD commis-
sioned and financed a study by consultants on pavement strengthening and
preservation which recommended a five-year program, involving about 3,400
km of roads and costing $117 million at 1976 prices. Because of budget
restrictions since 1978, only a modest beginning has been made with the
execution of this program. About 700 km of pavement strengthening and about
1000 km of preservation works are included in the proposed project. The works
will generally consist of applying asphaltic concrete overlays to strengthen
existing asphalt pavements and of preserving the existing road surfaces
through surface dressing. In some cases, existing roads will also be widened.
50.       The road sections to be treated will be selected from the program
recommended by the consultants. The initial selection for the first year of
execution of the pavement strengthening work was made after visual inspections,
taking into account deflection measurements made by the LPEE, and finalized
during negotiations on the basis of detailed engineering and economic evalua-
tion. For the remaining years of the project, road sections for strengthening
and preservation would be selected on the basis of (a) an economic evaluation
submitted to the Bank and prepared by the RD in accordance with a methodology
and criteria agreed with the Bank, and (b) a technical evaluation acceptable
to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 2.03(b)). During negotiations, under-
standings were reached on the methodology for the economic evaluation of
road sections and that the criteria for their approval would be: (i) the
ER of the investment exceeds the opportunity cost of capital in Morocco; and
(ii) the first year benefit-cost ratio at least equals the opportunity cost
of capital in Morocco. The experience RD will gain in working with this
methodology will strengthen its capacity to evaluate and prepare future main-
tenance programs. The program for the remaining years, including the sections
to be resurfaced, will be finalized from mid-1980 to end 1981. Depending on
the outcome of engineering and economic studies and on the ultimate cost of
the works, the total length to be treated under the project may differ from
the presently estimated 1,700 km.
51.       Routine and Periodic Maintenance.  The proposed road maintenance
program will extend adequate routine maintenance to the entire paved network
and on a selective basis to the unpaved network. Recurrent expenditures for
periodic maintenance will be increased to a level which would permit resur-
facing the paved primary and secondary roads approximately once every eight
years and the paved tertiary roads once every twelve years, which are reason
able frequencies from an engineering and economic point of view. The Govern-
ment has requested Bank financing for the renewal of priority items of road
maintenance equipment required as part of this program. The equipment is
to be procured in two lots, with delivery of the first lot to be completed
by late 1981 and the second lot by late 1982. This delivery schedule will
facilitate the transition to unfamiliar equipment for equipment operators and
maintenance mechanics.



- 14 -
52.       During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on
an overall action plan, defined in physical and budgetary terms, for routine
and periodic maintenance as well as pavement strengthening and preservation,
to ensure the Government's commitment to providing not only the capital costs
not covered by the proposed loan, but also all of the recurrent costs needed
for the execution of a balanced maintenance program. Annual programs consis-
tent with this action plan and showing the works to be carried out in the
following year, will be sent to the Bank by September 30 each year, starting
in 1980, for review and comment before being finalized, in order to permit an
ongoing dialogue between the Government and the Bank on appropriate levels of
maintenance needed to reverse the deterioration of the road network (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.02).
53.       Technical Assistance to RD.  The technical assistance requested by
the RD will consist of: (i) a cost accountant to advise on improving present
cost accounting methods (5 man-months); (ii) an expert to help develop proce-
dures for the maintenance of equipment (9 man-months); and (iii) an expert
to advise on staff recruitment and training needs for the operation and main-
tenance of heavy equipment (9 man-months). To prepare the engineering for
the pavement strengthening and preservation program, the RD needs the services
of the LPEE. Agreement was reached that the LPEE will provide such services,
including the advisory services of two experienced pavement design and main-
tenance specialists. They will assist the RD in the evaluation of the
laboratory results and in the selection of road sections to be included in
the strengthening and preservation program. The cost of the LPEE's services
for the first year of the program are entirely financed by the RD. The
foreign cost of the services for the remainder of the program are to be
financed from the proposed loan, under a negotiated contract with the RD
acceptable to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.03(b)).
54.       The Belgian Government has agreed to assist the RD in setting up a
pavement evaluation center. The Belgian National Road Research Center will
help establish a highway data bank and it will assist in training Moroccan
staff to man the new center. Since the Belgian assistance will not provide
for the financing of non-Belgian equipment, the RD has requested the Bank to
include this equipment in the proposed project.
55.       Transportation Planning.  To assist the MOT's Planning Department
in developing policy recommendations for land, air, maritime, and urban
transportation, the proposed project would finance the services of a team of
consultants, comprising a team leader (24 man-months) and an expert for each
of the land, air, maritime, and urban transportation subsectors (4 X 10 man-
months). These consultants would assist in the preparation and execution of
studies needed in order to examine policy tradeoffs within the transportation
subsectors and to recommend concrete measures, including regulatory changes,
which would promote greater productivity and intermodal coordination. Agree-
ment was reached that the government would recruit the consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms of employment would be satisfactory to
the Bank, no later than July 1, 1981 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.03(a)).



- 13 -
operations; and (b) laboratory equipment for a pavement evaluation center;
and (c) advisory services by the soils and materials laboratory (LPEE) in
preparing the pavement strengthening and preservation program; and (iv) assis-
tance to the MOT by providing: (a) consultant services in transportation
planning and economics (totalling 64 man-months); and (b) weighing scales to
check vehicle ioading.
49.       Pavement Strengthening and Preservation.  In 1976, the RD commis-
sioned and financed a study by consultants on pavement strengthening and
preservation which recommended a five-year program, involving about 3,400
km of roads and costing $117 million at 1976 prices. Because of budget
restrictions since 1978, only a modest beginning has been made with the
execution of this program. About 700 km of pavement strengthening and about
1000 km of preservation works are included in the proposed project. The works
will generally consist of applying asphaltic concrete overlays to strengthen
existing asphalt pavements and of preserving the existing road surfaces
through surface dressing. In some cases, existing roads will also be widened.
50.       The road sections to be treated will be selected from the program
recommended by the consultants. The initial selection for the first year of
execution of the pavement strengthening work was made after visual inspections,
taking into account deflection measurements made by the LPEE, and finalized
during negotiations on the basis of detailed engineering and economic evalua-
tion. For the remaining years of the project, road sections for strengthening
and preservation would be selected on the basis of (a) an economic evaluation
submitted to the Bank and prepared by the RD in accordance with a methodology
and criteria agreed with the Bank, and (b) a technical evaluation acceptable
to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 2.03(b)). During negotiations, under-
standings were reached on the methodology for the economic evaluation of
road sections and that the criteria for their approval would be: (i) the
ER of the investment exceeds the opportunity cost of capital in Morocco; and
(ii) the first year benefit-cost ratio at least equals the opportunity cost
of capital in Morocco. The experience RD will gain in working with this
methodology will strengthen its capacity to evaluate and prepare future main-
tenance programs. The program for the remaining years, including the sections
to be resurfaced, will be finalized from mid-1980 to end 1981. Depending on
the outcome of engineering and economic studies and on the ultimate cost of
the works, the total length to be treated under the project may differ from
the presently estimated 1,700 km.
51.       Routine and Periodic Maintenance.  The proposed road maintenance
program will extend adequate routine maintenance to the entire paved network
and on a selective basis to the unpaved network. Recurrent expenditures for
periodic maintenance will be increased to a level which would permit resur-
facing the paved primary and secondary roads approximately once every eight
years and the paved tertiary roads once every twelve years, which are reason
able frequencies from an engineering and economic point of view. The Govern-
ment has requested Bank financing for the renewal of priority items of road
maintenance equipment required as part of this program. The equipment is
to be procured in two lots, with delivery of the first lot to be completed
by late 1981 and the second lot by late 1982. This delivery schedule will
facilitate the transition to unfamiliar equipment for equipment operators and
maintenance mechanics.



- 14 -
52.       During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on
an overall action plan, defined in physical and budgetary terms, for routine
and periodic maintenance as well as pavement strengthening and preservation,
to ensure the Government's commitment to providing not only the capital costs
not covered by the proposed loan, but also all of the recurrent costs needed
for the execution of a balanced maintenance program. Annual programs consis-
tent with this action plan and showing the works to be carried out in the
following year, will be sent to the Bank by September 30 each year, starting
in 1980, for review and comment before being finalized, in order to permit an
ongoing dialogue between the Government and the Bank on appropriate levels of
maintenance needed to reverse the deterioration of the road network (Loan
Agreement, Section 3.02).
53.       Technical Assistance to RD.  The technical assistance requested by
the RD will consist of: (i) a cost accountant to advise on improving present
cost accounting methods (5 man-months); (ii) an expert to help develop proce-
dures for the maintenance of equipment (9 man-months); and (iii) an expert
to advise on staff recruitment and training needs for the operation and main-
tenance of heavy equipment (9 man-months). To prepare the engineering for
the pavement strengthening and preservation program, the RD needs the services
of the LPEE. Agreement was reached that the LPEE will provide such services,
including the advisory services of two experienced pavement design and main-
tenance specialists. They will assist the RD in the evaluation of the
laboratory results and in the selection of road sections to be included in
the strengthening and preservation program. The cost of the LPEE's services
for the first year of the program are entirely financed by the RD. The
foreign cost of the services for the remainder of the program are to be
financed from the proposed loan, under a negotiated contract with the RD
acceptable to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.03(b)).
54.       The Belgian Government has agreed to assist the RD in setting up a
pavement evaluation center. The Belgian National Road Research Center will
help establish a highway data bank and it will assist in training Moroccan
staff to man the new center. Since the Belgian assistance will not provide
for the financing of non-Belgian equipment, the RD has requested the Bank to
include this equipment in the proposed project.
55.       Transportation Planning.  To assist the MOT's Planning Department
in developing policy recommendations for land, air, maritime, and urban
transportation, the proposed project would finance the services of a team of
consultants, comprising a team leader (24 man-months) and an expert for each
of the land, air, maritime, and urban transportation subsectors (4 X 10 man-
months). These consultants would assist in the preparation and execution of
studies needed in order to examine policy tradeoffs within the transportation
subsectors and to recommend concrete measures, including regulatory changes,
which would promote greater productivity and intermodal coordination. Agree-
ment was reached that the government would recruit the consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms of employment would be satisfactory to
the Bank, no later than July 1, 1981 (Loan Agreement, Section 3.03(a)).



- 15 -
56.       Weighing Scales.  The Moroccan authorities intend to intensify the
enforcement of the legal maximum axle loads. Because of the damage to the
pavements by overloaded vehicles, more intense checks on overloading by roving
enforcement units is also strongly supported by the RD. To this end, ten
mobile weighing scales and four fixed weighing stations have been included in
the proposed project. The MOT will be responsible for organizing and operat-
ing the control system, for which the necessary legislation and administrative
systems already exist. The fixed stations will be centered around Casablanca,
which is the origin or destination of about one-third of total freight traffic
by road in the country.
Cost Estimates and Financing
57.       The total capital cost 1/ of the project is estimated at $94.3
million, including a foreign exchange cost of $62.0 million (see page (ii),
Loan and Project Summary). These costs do not include taxes or customs duties
and do include price contingencies (22 percent), but not physical contingen-
cies, since the physical program may be adjusted on the basis of the ultimate
cost. The Bank loan contributes to a national road rehabilitation and main-
tenance program, which includes not only capital costs relating to civil
works, equipment and technical assistance, but also recurrent costs for
routine and periodic maintenance. The total recurrent cost for the three and
a half-year time slice of the periodic and routine maintenance program (mid-
1980 to end-1983) is estimated at $104.7 million. The proposed loan amount
of $62 million would finance 100 percent of the foreign capital expenditures.
The Government would finance the local capital cost amounting to $32.3 mil-
lion equivalent and the entire recurrent cost of $104.7 million equivalent.
58.       The estimated cost of the overall pavement strengthening and preser-
vation program is derived from the preliminary design for the first year's
program. The estimates for road maintenance equipment and miscellaneous
equipment are based on past offers by manufacturers, while those for technical
assistance, including the services of the LPEE, reflect costs in the past for
similar activities, updated to mid-1979. All cost estimates were confirmed
during negotiations. The average base foreign cost of technical assistance
per man-month, including international transportation and per diem in Morocco,
is about $7,400 for the Roads Department and about $8,900 for the Ministry
of Transportation. These amounts reflect the costs of recruitment on a world-
wide basis.
Project Implementation
59.       The RD and MOT will be responsible for implementing their respective
project items. RD's regional offices will invite bids from contractors for
the pavement works, and will supervise their execution. The Road Maintenance
1/   The definition of capital costs under the project includes some items
(pavement preservation and some of the equipment for routine maintenance),
which in Morocco are financed from the recurrent budget.



- 16 -
Division in RD's Head Office will procure the routine road maintenance equip-
ment and supervise the technical assistance in the area of road maintenance.
RD's Technical Division will be responsible for procuring the laboratory
equipment for the pavement evaluation center and will coordinate and supervise
the advisory services by the LPEE. The MOT will directly supervise the work
of the technical assistance team for transportation planning and procure and
operate the weighing scales.
Procurement
60.       Contracts for the pavement works, the road maintenance equipment and
the weighing scales will be awarded after international competitive bidding
according to the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement." Bids for the equipment
for the pavement evaluation center will be invited on the basis of limited
international tendering because there is only a limited number of suppliers
for this very specialized type of equipment. Bitumen (a petroleum by-product)
will be procured by the semi-public agency SEBLIMA, which purchases it in
bulk under a contract with the RD, following its standard procedures, and
provides it directly to private contractors. This is considered to be an
economic and efficient arrangement.
61.       To make bidding for civil works more attractive for foreign and
local bidders, the pavement contracts will, wherever practical, be combined
into larger lots. Contractors will be allowed to bid for one or more lots,
separately or in combination. Because of the presence of six or seven locally
established pavement contractors, including joint-ventures, it is unlikely
that a foreign contractor not now operating in Morocco will win a bid.
Disbursement
62.       Disbursement for the various project items will be as follows:  (a)
65 percent of total expenditures for pavement strengthening and preservation;
(b) 100 percent of the foreign expenditures and 73 percent of local expendi-
tures for equipment; (c) 85 percent of the total expenditures for consultants'
services; and (d) 70 percent of the total expenditures for the services of the
LPEE.
63.       Disbursements are expected to begin by July 1980 and be completed by
June 30, 1984.
Environmental Impact
64.       The pavement strengthening will not detrimentally affect the
environment. The improved maintenance of secondary and tertiary roads will
increase the reliability of access to markets, schools and medical facilities
and thus improve the rural environment.
Main Benefits and Beneficiaries
65.       Unless the present downward trend in road maintenance expenditure
is reversed, the condition of the road network will continue to deteriorate.
This would raise transportation costs, reduce the accessibility of remoter



- 17 -
parts of the country, and burden the Government with costly reconstruction
works at a later date. The proposed programs of pavement strengthening and
preservation as well as improved routine and periodic maintenance will pay for
themselves many times over through the avoidance of accelerated wear and tear
on road vehicles, which would necessitate increased imports of spare parts and
replacement vehicles, as well as expensive road reconstruction. The overall
economic return is estimated at over 50 percent, consisting of slightly less
than 50 percent on the pavement works and well over 50 percent on the routine
maintenance improvements. The benefit-cost ratio is over 4 to 1.
66.       The benefits will be widely distributed geographically.  About 55
percent of the operating cost savings will accrue to truckers, 40 percent to
passenger car owners, and 5 percent to bus operators. Given the existence of
keen competition in the trucking industry as well as the regular revisions to
public carrier rates and fares in response to cost changes, it is reasonable
to expect that the operating benefits will be passed on to the general public
within one to two years through slower increases in rates than would otherwise
occur.
Project Risk
67.       There is a risk that the Government's financial situation might
prevent it from providing financing for the local capital cost and the recur-
rent cost of the project, particularly in view of the high foreign exchange
component of the recurrent cost. In such a case, the planned improvements in
pavement strengthening and preservation and the road maintenance and rehabili-
tation would be delayed and the country would forego substantial benefits. As
a safeguard against such a contingency, the annual review by the Bank of the
Government's proposed maintenance program for the following year (paragraph
52) will focus on keeping a technically and economically sound balance in the
program. The planned pavement works are easily divisible, so that any cutback
would not harm the economic justification of the remaining works; but if any
cuts were proposed, the Government would be reminded during the annual reviews
of the benefits which would accrue from the overall maintenance program that
had been agreed during negotiations.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
68.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Kingdom of Morocco
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed.to the Executive Directors
separately.
69.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
70.       1 am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 18 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
71.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 27, 1980
Washington, D.C.



19                                                  ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                             Page  1  of  6
MOROCCO - SOCIAL InDICATORS DATA SHEET
M)ROCCO                     ERSFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AYRACES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. ZM.)                                                    - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) -
TOTAL            647.0Jf                                                   SAME         SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL     203.371                                MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME        INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                   190.0       300.0      670.0           1532.5      467.5       1097.7
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      148.0        180.0     273.0            838.1       262.1        730.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      11.6         15.1       18.3
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 29.3          34.6       37.4             49.0-      24.6         49.0
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        34.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          71.0
YZAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2090
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. IX.                        26.0         34.0      41.0             19.9        45.3        44.6
PER SQ. IM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      59.0         76.0      90.0             99.0       149.0        140.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          44.0         47.5       46.0            45.6        45.2         41.3
15-64 YRS.                          53.0         48.3      52.0             51.4        51.9        53.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.0          4.2        2.0             2.8         2.8          3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.6          2.7       2.8              3.0         2.7         2.4
URBAN                               6.4          4.3       4.1              5.2         4.3         4.5
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      50.0         48.0       45.0            43.7        39.4         31.1
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      21.0         17.0       13.0            13.5        11.7         9.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.4/1        3.4        3.2              3.2        2.7          2.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..        25.1      78.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           1.0        5.4              ..        13.2        34.7
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          116.3         98.0      67.0             90.8        99.6        104.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    90.0        102.0     108.0             99.0        94.7       105.0
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           43.0         64.0      70.5             63.6        54.3        64.4
OF WHICS ANIMAL AND PULSE          ..         14.0/h    15.6             16.0        17.4        23.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      30.0         22.0       17.0            15.9        11.4          8.6
HEIALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (TEARS)    47.0          52.0       55.0            53.8        54.7        60.2
INFANT MORTALITY
RATE (PER THOUSAND)                  ..           ..         ..              ..        68.1        46.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..        51.0      55.0             56.4        34.4        60.8
URBAN                                *-         92.0     100.0             83.4        57.9        75.7
RURAL                                ..         28.0       25.0            34.3        21.2        40.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         29.0                       59.1        40.8        46.0
URBAN                                ..         75.0                       78.2        71.3        46.0
RURAL                                 *-         4.0         *-            26.4        27.7        22.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           9400.O0    12650.0   11100.0            3677.0      6799..      2262.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..       2820.0    1700.0           1730.6      1522.1      1195.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             680.0        660.0     710.0            577.0       726.5       453.4
URBAN                                ..        460.0                                  272.7       253.1
RURAL                                 *-      2980.0                                 1404.4      2732.4
ADKISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..         15.5       16.5            21.8        27.5        22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               4.8          5.5        ..              5.3         5.4         5.3
URBAN                               4.3          4.9        ..              5.5         5.2         5.2
RURAL                               5.1          5.8        *-              6.0         5.5         5.4
AVERACE NMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               2.2          2.4        ..               ..          ..          1.9
URBAN                               2.1          2.1        ..               ..          ..          1.6
RURAL                               2.3          2.6        ..               ..          ..         2.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              76.0/i         ..         ..            45.1        28.1        50.0
URBAN                              85.471       68.4      55.0             67.9        45.1        71.7
RURAL                              31.07-                                               9.9        17.3



20                                                A   I
TAsLr!  A                                         ..page  2  6f  6
MOROCCC - SOCIAL INDICATORS rAT, SHEET
REFERENCE CROUPS (A.mSTED A!jERAGES
MOROCCO~~~~~ Y OST RECENT EST MATE1 '
SAME        SA.4      NEXT HIGHER
40ST RECENT     GEOGRAPH1C   tYCOME         LYC0,'E
1960 lb     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION Ic   CROUP 7d    CROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJ1USTED ENROLLMSN! RATIOS
PRLY.UY:      O-AL                 47.0        52.0       65.0            85.0        82.7        102.5
MALE                 67.0         67.0      82.0            103.7        87.3       108.6
EMALE                27.0         36.0      47.0             66.0        75.8        97.1
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                   5.0        13.0       17.0            27.6        21.4        33.5
MALE                  7.0         18.0      22.0             39.2        33.0        38.4
FEMALE                2.0          7.0      12.0             20.8        15.5        30.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (t OF SECONDARY)    ..          2.0        3.0              4.3        9.8         11.5
PlPIL-TEAC1 RATIO
PR I .AR                           43.0        34.0       40.0            32.6        34.1        35.8
SECONDARY                            ..        20.0       21.0            23.4        23.4        22.9
ADUXLT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       14.0        21.0       28.0            41.4        54.0        64.0
CONSU 'PTION
PASSENCER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPVLATIOS                         11.0        15.0       20.2            16.7         9.3        13.5
RAD'O RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULAutON                         46.0        60.0       92.0           147.9        76.9       122.7
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPnLATION                          0.4        11.0       27.0            36.0        13.5        38.3
NrEWSPA.PER ("DAILY CENERAL
-NTERZST') CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  22.0        16.0       21.0            17.9        18.3        40.0
CINEMA ANIdUAL AITENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0           ..       1.6              2.9        2.5          3.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABCR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      3254.0      3981.0    4670.0
FEMALE (PERCE.NT)                  10.6        15.2       19.0             8.6        29.2        25.0
ACRICI'LTURE (PERCENT)             62.5        56.9       53.0            43.0        62.7        43.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 13.8        17.4       19.0            23.7        11.9        21.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                29.0        26.1       26.1            26.7        37.1        33.5
MALE                                 52.1        45.2       44.4            46.4        48.8        48.0
FEMALE                                5.9         7.5        7.9             5.1        20.4        16.S
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               2.0          1.9       1.8              1.8        1.4          1.4
INCOME DISTERISU-10N
PERCENT OF rRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   I8.Oz        2O.O/        ..            21.4        15.2        20.8
RICHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  43.3j        4i9.Oz       *-            48.6        48.2        52.1
LOWEST 20 PERC-NT OF ROUSEhOLDS    7.OLI        4.0/       ..             5.3         6.3         3.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF ROUSEHOLDS   18.02        12.j        ..            15.0        16.3        12.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLS-E POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                             107.0       157.0      319.0           201.3       241.3       270.0
RURAL                              66.0       101.0      167.0           134.2       136.6       183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..      242.0           288.6       179.7       282.5
RURAL                                ..          ..      157.0           170.0       103.7       248.9
ESTIMATED POPF'tLATON BELOWV ABSOLUTE
POVERTY. INCOtME LEVEL (PERCEN`T)
URSAN                                ..          ..       34.0            22.9        24.8        20.5
RURAL                                ..          ..      45.0             31.2        37.5        35.3
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are populatiov-welghted geometric seans, excludIng the extreme
values of the indicator and the mosc aoaulated country in each gro.p.  Coverage of countries .-og the
indicators depends on availability of  a:a and is not uniform.
/b    'ilss eTherh-eee noted. dat. for :960 refer to an7 year betweeo 1959 and 1961; for 1970, bet.cen 1969
ag,d 1971; and for 'lost Recent Fst:nace, bectaen 1974 and 1977.
/c    North :f' 7i. S Mlddle East;   id   Lo.et Y1dAle Income ($81-550 per capita, 1976);   Ie  Intermediate Middle
Incone 1$55i-1135 pe! capIa, 1976);   If  lxcludes Moroccan pioviuces in W. Sabra,        /   19f2;   /h  Av. 1'9i-h6
/1  Brick huilding only;   /1  Consuspcinn expcnditures of householda.
Most Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.
August, 1979



21                                                                ANNEX I
txgymvto-s o,  rMUMICTage   3   o 
53Js: the adjusted group #ererags for esAh liWicAtec wet popnlacioe-veighcat seometric earsm, excluding the extrem vals..e of the Indicator and C.e marc
popu;ated Country int each scooP. CorSrsga Of ceWaries mums the inietiaors aepend.. on availahillt7 of dats and is not unif or. Dze to lack of deca.
group areragee for Capica.. S.urplus. 011 LEportars and indiAteore of acces to ester and screta disposal. bousiog. income disctrb.tion And Poverty arm
limple populetinovigbted geioeatric. eass ithou the seaclusion of estremd values..
LOD5  A RA (thousand sq. km)                                                             ?opOOtlstion p5y hospital bed - total, urba. and rural, - Population    ca.
Total - 'ocal, s.rfaco armea  oarislne land ar"ea nd iciet waters,                         urba., a   rural.; di,,dee by tne.Lr raspecci.. ru-ber of oospital Ien.
Aarlccl.tural - Most r.csat *stineta of aoticu.ltural area used teeporartly                avail,able In public an  privaet  amoral, -dlopeclAIic.o hcuyiz;  -oa r.-
or pereecently fnr crops, Pastures. SoMck  and hitches gardans or to                    hbobilitation centers.  Hospitals are eszahlloismntso p.rnmanec.: utrf!au I
Iie fallo".                                                                              Cr lase  se physician.  Etatbii.ananta Providing ;rincipa.lly c-tIcitlla
carer accn  included.  Rural hospital...  Muscvs. incld. hoalth ann  .odi-
GP? PEI CAPITA (UM0  - M? per capita estimats at current earkec primes,                     ca    W cecrs no   emnnl   cofdh     bscen(u   y*nd l as-
cal.culated by msa  con-ersio. schet aso flord lena Atlas (1975-fl heeis);               ijctaCt  curse. midwife. eCC.) so,ch offer 1.n-ptcient szowwmda:ios end
1960. 1970, And 1977 data.                                                              provid  a Ilaited ramS. of mLedial faci,tis..
Adeisaelos ,er hospital. bed - Iscel Maher of adalissose to or discharges
IMEROT CClrO-TMTtO  ?'-I CAPITA - Annual CeOUspciom  of CemeNrCial neargy                   froe sospicala divided by the amber of bade.
(cnal end 1ignite, pecrelom.  acural. We  end bydra-. nucl.ear and gao-
thermal. electricity) in kilograma of coal equivalent pier capica.                  VSfl40
A-eras. isiz of household (P.rsons a,e Mouaehold) - total. i4rban. aO rural -
PCPMLATICS AM? VITAL SCATIFTICS                                                            k nouaennld coneists of a Srour of individuals who sa-re .1,,.04 quarters
total ,oeu.Ato. old-Ioar tatillio-S) - As of July 1; if not available.                    ant their main seals.  A bOarter or iodgec may or nay not 'a inciuded in
avweg   nr  v. .o-ysa  ectiacas  1960. 1970. ant 1977 daca,                    the household for satistaical p.r"oea.  StatIstical dafiaitione, of house-
urban oaoul.ato  (perce   o   oAll -  AdsC Of whean tC total papule-                      hold  arcy.
tdon; diffarent definitions of  rban Seraem nAy affect roaprmhility                   Aenrazt amberc of person. Per rose - total, urban, a"t rural - A"veage son-
of dta Soong couscriLes.                                                                her of   rae pers onseo in 1  all. ocean, and  -ura  Occupied eonventlosa.1
Psoolaion density                                                                         domllings. reepectively.  DeelU.inga eacj.ode non-pormament sc,ic:urcs and
U0    o   n     Mi-year population per square hilanecex (100 hactmes)            unacrupiedt pats.
of total, area.                                                ~~~~~~~~~~Acctess to electricity (poercn  of decllinac) -  .totl, urbn, and  -rural -
?erfo.A.osiutc  land - Computed en  1share for agricultural lead                         Con.oet-nal deelliAlo with alectricity in. living qua.rters AS percentage
only.                                                                                   of total, urhen. and rural dunlings respectirair.
Poplactioa  ac  structure (percenc) - Chi.drse (0-lb ycars), enching-ege
(1-5yso.and retired  ,b5 years and Over) as parmaencgoe of nit-            tbOCATfOl(
-ea  popuLlti.                                                                       Adluet.d scroilnast retina
Population orouth r-ae (;6rranti - total. and urban - Compound anua.l                   Prizarv school, - total. and !eale - Tocal and fomale .srollesnt izf all ages
growh rare. Of total and urban n3od-yaw  POPUlAto    fOr 1950-60.                       at the primacy lerel aSo prercccagee of rospeotilrc   prianay ecbnl-.age,
1960-70. set 19 70- '5.                                                                 pnpulscone; nornally forludee Children aged 6-Ll years hut adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annul Lire birthos per theseat of                       different langthe of primary educaciAc; for countries etch unirerel adw-
aid-year population. ten-year arirnutct aretages ceding in 1960 end                     "Clano enoilnent may eamced 100 nernet cLan. so"e Puasl are below  n
1)70 a"d fira-year averatte endingi in 1975 f or most recent aetloat.                   above the offlitial School ago.
Crd. dsach rtac  (vor thousand) - Annual meanh per Choussad of mid-                     Seconedr, school - total. and female - Computed at above; secondary etuca-
year pnpuelcioft  tan-yerarwithn CIdi  &avrages ending in 1960 and 1970                ctan rquires at least four yerar  of approred prisary lOstructiac; pro-
and five-year a"Crl. ending in 1975 for seat recent estlmetr.                           rides general rocational *Or ceacher training  sinscructones tor pupils
Gces. raoroiuctl.on rats - Average atabar of dsushrners a    anes will boar               saucily of 12 to 1  years of age; torreepeadasco curses are smnsrall,
in  -a rorm.l :.rorouctir- period If oh. earperoenc   present  Vu-                      enclude.
specllic fertIlIty rates; usually f irc-ymer averages ending in 1960.                 7ocationaL sarollmat (pareent of setocdiarv) -Vocational lca:tutzcns 10-
1970. end 1975.                                                                         tise   tcChnial., incutrtal,,  r other (rotras -oitC.h opearte Lad*7mtcant(.
Family olannino - acteoc-o. annua  (thomusds)- An ualoebcr of                            or as dopartmnts of seccoa"ry institutions.
oc..pcros of birth-cnnrol devices  .d. suap.Lzo  of eac-eal f sally                  P i-tahrerati  - orsar.sad ...anor." - Total  Custodene arrilud -n
planning progam.                                                                        primary and smameary lesels dinteed by nvawar  If cactAhsc  In. tie torre-
Family almanint - users (percent of arriod  e)- Peroecage of                              spending lerala.
oarrlas toe  of colId-bearlIg ago  _3t  yeas) nh  "a birth-ccarol                    Madle litercm, rote 'osrc-t) - Literate mdales (able ro rand and -rIt., as
devices to all seorred emom  in Sam  age group,                                           parc-tga of total adult population. aged IS years em  o.er.
TM0  AnP NTMtlfOU                                                                       OEOIr
Lade  of food ndrodu:o       y:c1ots (1970-100) - 556m          os of p.o              eesmctr  (go- Chanoness  ooeul iat ) - Passegc asr  conprisa nocor Cars
capita anua  prdutn of al  food comocicise.                                           asatlog la"s tha  eight persons; caciud" abouice. boarse  mat nilltary
'Mr taIC. suonlr of saiaries (ecent of rmoulressnts) - CQuIsad from                     robic.Les
energy equiraloat of not fond ouppliac ararlahi  a i  countr3y per caPita            15do recelves Igor thousasn  2*wulatiod) - All. cypes of recoirers for radio
per day.  Arejiabic suppli.. ct"ria    doemacic prodution. impaccs las.               broadcasts to general public per teousond of Population: escludes  mOLcsamoi
amparta. anid chegsga in acech.. Net cuppliso ancciud ealeal fond. modsa, receivers, in countries sod in years whan registration of -adio sets -aes in,
quantitiese used in food processing. end loesas in dAltributioo.  ks-                 ef foct  data f or rcannt yeats may  a  t he compazaola since sact countries
quisenento cer  etoimated by FAD beasd on phyalologinal needs for nor-                sabliobhd licensing.
ml activity And health conaidarlOg eorlreasataL temraturo. body                      TI receivers ( ar thousand oeeuilmton) - TV :erlarvnc   for broadScas  to gencd.
emighta. age end mse  dietrribucinn  of popualation. end alloviag 10 per-               public per thousand population; enCloda  unll-coad. IV roceiweza in zown-
eLt fjor wace at household level,                                                       trie  eat in  Setse sa  rogistcrmo  of TV sacs usa in effect.
0or .otse 1,i of vroC.in (aeves I.r dan) - protats nonren  of owr                Seusyaper irclaatio  (::c rhuae  ss larles  - Shove the ar-reg  c-rrul,.-
capita nat opply Of cost per "ay.  Net supply of foot is defined aSoto    fdil                              os intrst          Ipaa'  toin"d So a poriodical.  c.tli,,
shore.  gaquirso"nto !or al  countriaa establisaht by USDA prwvide for                  catio  devoted primasciy  torcdig aarles.                      scoierdt
.=mini- allovence of hO0 green of total. procain ow  day aba 20 grcm                   be d.aily" if it ap-ers at Loaser four tines a  -te.
ofaanimalnsd pulse protein, of vio,t 1.0 gr-am  hocd heb eoa  prcaim.               Cinma annual ettoodaao  per cacits oar ..ear -Oe  On cb. muaor of tickets
Thea.  Scandards are lover than thoac of 75 grams of total, protein end                  -Id during Cb. year, Loicluding emnissions to f.crl-."L   loas  em  000.1ai.
23 grees if  ---al prosaic as en aerarge for the writd* proposed by                     salts.
Per  asio potan o=si fran a in   and pulse - frotein oupkply of font             LMOIM
derire  fromaniase  pulosa in gross Par day.                                         Total  &.aor force (thousands) - ierwnomcall,y sctv  Persons. including creed
tido(c.14   ortality retc (per tMosand) - Anua"l deaths per thouo-                      fortes and %emoployed but excluding houaavies. st.*ec. atr.  Detici-
and in age grou  1-4 yeaws  C.t children La this age group,                             tines in vraious countries are oatouprn.
Imwale (oe.rcmt) - Famnie Labor force at preronag. if cocl "babr force.
HEALTH                                                                                  Agrclulture (,erconc) - Labor forts in fealming  forescry. hirting and fishing
Life !Rptctenr  at birth, (rar-        Average Sooer of years of  ifs                     aSo parsancago of total labor fortes.
ren   Inga  bit;uaa,yfr-year aeverges ending in 1960. 1970.                          toduerr  (sevoent)  _Labor force in n1inint. tonacruction. mouaca  turing and
acd 1975.                                                                               electricity, meter end sas as percentage of totaL lsabr forces.
tofant nortalIty rota (per thousand) -  nua "ethe of infants under                     Part ci!:%t. a rets 'Perrenc) - total. sale, and fecal* - Total. male. ana
one year of age per tMomaad Liv- hirhts.                                                'sa.laor !*re. se percentages of their reapectivoypu,ocos
Actos rrtaf  wae   ocin f roats)- total, urblan. td rural                                 Those sro 2,0-  adjusted partcipaction raee. reflecting .......
(lse  ofpol   ttl   ra.anrrl) nItb raenansola acress to                             erructror  of rh.o opuiacias. end long itc Treed..
afe  .a"'C supply (includes treated ourface "oncar or untreated but                  I -mod. daopendOc', ratio - Setic of -opulacior =odr 15 aod 65 and over 
uoon-tuinstad voter auch so that fran protctecd herahies. springs.                       cbs lab.r Lorce is ago groc   of5-64 rears.-
an   aitar  wall) as parnen.cagen of cthir rsspcive  Mapule*CZ,n."
to on urba  area a public fountain or scandOost located  Mot ears%                 flC4C0, ZSTFIOCTON
then ZOJO macarcrom . bhuo  na.y bOs   ..said.rcOas Oct0  wi.thin res-               'atoucof orirate ino.. (both in tcah and kied) retel,,n o   ri fchest 
eocaabl.a aSet o. f coatCuM.    Ic rual areas rasecesoi  acc.a. would                   potn,rcsc 13~ .C ..ca. p.o ...  20 percent, and Ioor..t 10 paro...r
inlyIotcb  ,couaaw-if a or  aMowers of the Muwsehld do net bays to                   ufMuaeholdo.
Maend odispr.oprtlonata pact of th. day Le fstching the family.
wetor.. seds.                                                                       yOVt177y -AR=t 1102F
Across to encrote iisoe... l oorroot of  rtu.ac     ta   cc., urban. sod               torOe   hnuapverty Locee. level (USS ;.r z.yic. -  -rhan ad  %ura 
rural. - limber of peopis (total, irhan. and rural) served oy sancrca                     Looitccvetytoe   ,.,*I is chat Latone l..cI tml,O  u.ca   ii.
disposal as parrecages of their respective populations.  Eocr.ce                        cutritionally adequate niat plus cseetial eon-feed r#quir-amtso    . tt
di.opeal sea  Include the aollectIon and disposal.. vlt  or vithur                      aff.eraba..
tce.cnnt . of rams. scret. and ueste-vot.r by flier-borte systcm                     Ettinc.d rolati-e -oosrt  Intone 1-v1 (VS5 oa    -iota, -  -.c-s ad r-rs 
or 'he .se of pit privts   oa      -iiler Installations.                                Rlaltive poverty income latel La that intens levelLeoa that ace-c-rcr
Peuainor phat~n- Ppulaction divided by caterC of Practicing                        yar capita personal. iston, of the  onty
ryrcirians ~ual.;fi   free a medIcaI school at Lni,,ersity loyal.                    Zocictea Ooc. ale  baby p-vor-, ioc.- (oval opsr-t) - ifla  so  -iral,
_odlclc nor  -ursirs irors     -Ppatcdivided by amnbec if                               P-rtact of oooulaiarn   krbchn end rural)  har ore arthst 'aisdl,t. y.tr  yr
practicing 3s.1. and (COals fraduate nurses. practical nrocoo  and                      "rlaie  or" whichever is greater.
esiotrocoo..
.....mx  ad Soc_Sl Cuts  liu,
tuooit Anaivc La   d Pr-etet  Inrcoo;-



22
Population:       18.3 million (mid-1978)
GNIP per capita:  US $670 (1978)                                                                                          ANNE  I
MOROCCO - ECONOMIC INDICATORS                                            Page 4 of 6
Indicator           (MilliA=o9    at                                 Annual Growth Rates (Z)
current prices)                 Actual                                              Projected
1978      1974   1975   1976    1977    1978    19791             1980    1981    1982   1983
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic oroduct a/  12,426         5.8    9.3   11.8        6.0    3.1       2.7             2.9     3.1    3.8      3.7
Agriculture                 2,248      10.0   -8.6   10.6    -13.4   18.2    -10.0               6.2      1.6    1.6      1.7
Industry                    3,928      4.0   13.8   10.0        11.3   -0.7       4.9            1.4      3.1    3.8      4.5
Services                    6,250       4.5   12.0   14.0        6.9    4.1       5.1            2.9      3.0    3.5      3.8
Consumption                  11,138       5.5    8.4   11.7        2.0    2.1       2.5            3.6      5.7    3.6      2.9
Gross investment              3,094      77.0   24.0   20.1       23.5   -3.6    -17.4           -14.3   -15.0    1.2       4.1
Exports of GNFS               2,167      -4.9  -16.0    6.3        7.4    3.6       6.0            3.4      6.9    5.8      8.5
Imports of GNPS               3,980      11.1   24.1   23.8       13.5  -13.9      -9.0          -10.9      1.0    2.4      4.1
Gross national savings        1,702      53.1   20.8   -5.1       19.9   -0.2       ..              .
PRICES
GDP deflator (100 - 1969)       .       149.9  148.7  150.9    161.3  172.9   188.44                *
Exchange rate (US$ per DE)    ,         .229   .247   .226       .222   .240         .256
Share of GDP at Mirket Prices (.)                            Average Annual Increase (7)
(at current prices) b/                                       (at constant 1969 prices)
1960      1970   1975   1980    1985    1990    1960-70   1970-75  1975-80  1980-85  1985-90
Gross domestic product                                                              4.0        6.7       5.1       3.9      5.4
Agriculture                 29.1       20.5   17.4   12.7    11.6    10.4         3.5       -0.5       1.7       1.8      2.5
Industry                    23.5       27.3   34.7   30.6    31.3    32.7         4.7        8.6      5.1       4.4       6.6
Services                    47.4       52.2   47.9   56.7    57.1    56.9         4.1        5.5       5.8      3.8       5.3
Consumption                   89.2       87.3   84.4   86.1    84.9    81.2         4.1        4.7       4.8       3.2      4.7
Gross investment              10.3       16.7   26.5   17.7    15.7    19.1         8.0       15.9      -1.8       3.5      8.0
Exports GNFS                  27.4       18.2   22.5   14.8    17.3    17.5         1.3        2.6       5.1       7.4      5.6
Imports GNFS                  26.9       22.2   33.3   18.5    18.0    17.8         3.5        7.2      -0.4       3.4      5.8
Gross national savings        11.0       12.3   20.4   16.6    18.3    20.5         3.5       18.4      -0.8       5.8       7.9
As 7 of GDP
1960     1970      1975      1978
PUBLIC FINANCE c/
Current revenues                                   16.5      16.6     22.9      21.8
Current expenditures                               15.6      14.9     23.3      25.6
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                          0.9       1.7     -0.4      -3.8
Capital expenditure                                 3.8       5.9      9.1       7.7
Foreign financing                                    -        1.4      3.7       6.7
1960-70       1970-75       1975-80       1980-85       1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (Z)                       4.0           6.1           5.1           3.7           5.3
GNP per capita growtb rate (7.)           1.6           3.1           1.7           0.5           2.1
Energy consumption growth rate (7)        3.8           6.7           4.3           5.1           7.0
ICOR                                      3.09          2.77          4.10          3.90          3.30
Marginal savings rate                     0.10          0.47          0.02          0.30          0.24
Import elasticity                         0.95          1.11         -0.08          0.89          0.99
a/   At market prices.                                                                                                   March 3, 1980
bi   Projected years at constant prices.
c/   Current revenues are consolidated Treasury resources (including Special Accounts).                                  EMENA CP Il-B
Current expenditures include subsidies, interest on debt, and all military expenditures.
Capital expenditure includes transfers for non-governmental investment projects.
e/   Estimate.



23
Population:       18.3 million (mid-1978)                                                                    ANNEX I
GNP per capita:  US$670 (1978)                                                                               page 5 of 6
MOROCCO - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount                            Annual Growth Rates (%)
Indicator            (million US$ at                        (at constant 1969 prices)
current prices)                    Actual                                 Projected
1978     1974    1975    1976   1977   1978   1979e/    1980   1981   1982   1983
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports(FOB)   1,488       -5.2   -11.8    12.7    9.7    7.9    6.2          3.8    7.0    5.4    9.0
Primary                   1,131      -7.6   -23.5    10.1    2.0    7.7    2.3         4.6    3.3    3.3    3.3
Phosphates                488      16.3   -29.9    12.0    7.5    9.6   -1.7         9.9    5.0    5.0    5.0
Others                    643    -18.2   -19.5       9.1   -1.1    6.5    4.9         1.6    2.2    2.2    2.2
Manufactures                357      13.2   -11.4    26.3   45.0    8.6   18.4          1.1   17.5   10.5   34.8
Merchandise imports(CIF)   2,987       13.4    21.4      7.6   18.1  -14.1  -13.2        -7.7    3.4    2.5    4.6
Food                        577      -1.1    35.9   -25.3   31.3    8.5   -2.1         -7.6    7.7    2.9    1.4
Petroleum                   438      10.9    12.8      3.2   14.5    6.9   -0.8        -2.8    6.7    5.5    5.2
Machinery and equipment    813       77.0    51.7    20.5   33.2  -31.4  -18.6        -20.3    -       -     11.4
Others                    1,159       3.7     3.3    18.0    4.0  -12.4   -4.8         -1.9    2.5    3.0    3.4
PRICES (100 = 1969)
Export price index              .     245.2   205.4   207.2  198.7  196.9  217.4        237.8  263.2  287.0  316.1         -
Import price index              .     199.8   205.0   211.7  223.4  244.7  260.6        298.5  323.5  351.0  379.5
Terms of trade index            .     122.7   100.3    97.8   88.9   87.8   83.4         79.7   81.3   81.8   83.3
Composition of Merchandise Trade (Z)            Average Annual Increase (%)
(at current prices)                       (at constant 1969 prices)
1960     1970    1975    1980   1985   1990   1960-70 1970-75 1975-80 1980-85 1985-90
Exports                                                                             2.0    -1.2     8.1      7.6     5.2
Primary                       89.5      89.3   86.0      72.0   59.2   55.9       ..     -2.1     5.3      3.3     3.3
Manufactures                   10.5     10.7   14.0      28.0   40.8   44.1       ..      6.1    18.9    16.1      8.0
Imports                                                                            4.0      8.1    -1.5      4.1     5.9
Food                          27.3      19.1   24.8      16.2   14.4   12.2      ..      15.3    -0.3      2.4     3.5
Petroleum                      7.4       5.4   10.7      24.6   28.4   31.0      ..       9.5     4.0      5.6     6.7
Machinery and equipment         6.7     24.0   23.9      17.7   19.2   22.1       ..     12.8    -7.0      7.0     9.4
Others                        58.6      51.5   40.6      41.5   38.0   34.7      ..       2.9    -1.0      3.3     4.9
Share of Trade with         Share of Trade with          Share of Trade with Capital
Industrial Countries (%)   Developinrg Countries (%)       Surplus Oil Exporters  (7o)
1960     1970      1975     1960      1970     1975      1960     1970      1975
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                        72.3      69.0      64.7     27.7      28.0     31.5       ..       3.0       3.8
Imports                        76.7      67.0     67.5      23.3      29.0     25.9       ..       4.0       6.6
not available.                                                                                March 19. 1980
e/  Estimate.                                                                                     EMENA CP II-B



Population!       18.3 million (mid-1978)                                                                                                 ANNEX I
GNP Per Capita:  US$670 (1978)                                                                                                            Page 6 of 6
MOROCCO - BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
(millions US$ at current prices)
intiicator                                         ~~~~~~~~~~Actual            1979otec82                                  ted40
Indicstor                               19701i974 1975              1976     1977      1978       979             1980       1981                  9 9 0
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and services             775      2500   2583      2285     2485      2955      3506             3873      4440   5003   5782    7640  12869
of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.          48B       1694   1531      1246     1283      1488      1738             1972      2336   2685   3223   4507   7807
Imports of goods and services            946       2282   3137      3687     4364      4353      4510            4654       5099   5651   6325   7948  13847
Of which:  Merchlandise f.o.b.         625       1679   2268      2519     2820      2629      3188             3371      3778  '4203   4758   6141  11482
Net transfers                             27         19      8        70       52        49        50               50        54      57     61      70      90
Current account balance                 -144        237   -546    -1331    -1827      -1349      -954             -731      -606   -591   -484   -235   -888
Private capital Inflow (net'~             21         36     -         38       53        45       -25               -         50      56     63      79    158,
KT  loans (net)             '             90        166    526       650     1170       683       519              621       699    668    535    296    994
Other capital                              56      -316       3      627 a/   597 a/   613 a/   360 A/             134 I/    -69    -42      -2    -1        +1
Change in reserves                       -23       -123      17       16        6         8       100              -24       -74    -91   -112   -139   -265
international reserves                   161        504   437        549      609       772
Of which:  cold                         21        113      85       82      104       154
Reserves as months imports               2.0        2.7    1.8       1.8      1.7       2.1
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT                                                                                                                                              X.,
Gross disbursements                    175        290   646        762     1313       985      1001            1249       1383   1416   1480   1438   2432
official grants                       20         31     29        29       38        30
Concesslonal loans                               58    133      104       176       177       171             2D6        213    223    270    339    294
Non-concessioonal loans                         201   484       629      1099       778       830            1043       1170   1193   1210   1099   2138
Official export credit"                         5      3       28        59       396       58              337        389    462    461    410    750
IBRO                                16         63    110       59        69        72       83              139        196    226    247    276    366
Other multilateral                   -          1      3        -         1        19       23               42         49     64      63     61      80
Private                             25        132    368      542       970       291      665              525       536    441    439    351    942
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed         703       1197   1690     2288      3478      4636     5193             5794      6463   7049   7578   8177  10529
Undisbursed debt                       239        636    781      932      1638      1722      1699            1552       1541   1644   1752   1908   2036
Debt rervice                               58        135   137       140      234        505      746             983       1089   1201   1435   1667   2044
iotal servece payments                23         42    47        57       129       232      264           - 356         405    453    489    526    606
Payments as   exports                    5         5.4   5.3      6.1        9.4     17.1    21.3              25.4       24.5   24.0   24.8   21.8   15.9
Average interest rate on new loans (%) 4.4           5.2   6.8       7.7       7.3       7.7      7.7             7.1        7.2    7.0    7.1      7.0    7.3
Average maturity of new loans (years)  18.5         17.8  16.5    11.5       10.6      11.4    14.0              17.0       11.6   12.3   12.1   12,3  10.2
As 7. of Debt Outstandink at End of Moet Recent Year (1978)
Maturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                    20.6
Maturities due within 10 years                                   53.2
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                   4,Z
a/ Including special grants for defense,
.. Not available.                                                                                                                         March 5, 1980
e/ Estimate.                                                                                                                              aEMeA CPII-B



ANNEX II
25                         Page i of 8
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of January 31, 1980)
Loan or                                                              US$Million
Credit                                                    Amount  (less cancellations)
Number      Year     Borrower              Purpose          Bank       IDA    Undisbursed
Fourteen   Loans    Fully disbursed                        244.9
Four        Cr dits  Fully disbursed                                     36.0
643       1969      Kingdom of Morroco  Irrigation         46.0                    0.3
850       1972      ONEP                  Water Supply    48.0                      1.1
955       1974      Kingdom of Morocco  Highway            29.0                     1.6
1017        1974     Maroc-Phosphore       Industry          50.0                    1.2
1018        1974     Kingdom of Morocco  Agriculture         32.0                   12.5
555       1975      Kingdom of Morocco  Agriculture                     14.0      13.7
1123        1975     Kingdom of Morocco  Agriculture         18.5                    5.9
1201       1976      Kingdom of Morocco  Agriculture         30.0                   14.5
1202        1976     Kingdom of Morocco  Tourism             21.0                   14.8
1220-T      1976     Kingdom of Morocco  Education           25.0                   25.0
1279       1976      CIH                   DFC (Tourism)   25.0                      0.8
1299        1976     Kingdom of Morocco  Power               49.0                    8.5
1361        1977     CNCA                  Agriculture       35.0                   2.3
1383       1977      CIOR                  Industry          45.0                    2.4
1416        1977     Kingdom of Morocco  Agriculture        41.0                   40.3
1428        1977     BNDE                  DFC              45.0                   29.5
5-7       1977      Kingdom of Morocco  Engineering          1.5                   1.5
1528        1978     Kingdom of Morocco  Urban Develop.  18.0                       18.0
1602        1978     Kingdom of Morocco  Fes Karie Tissa 65.0                       65.0
1625        1978     Maroc-Phosphore       Industry          50.0                   21.1
1681        1979     Kingdom of Morocco  Education          113.0                 113.0
1687        1979     Kingdom of Morocco  DFC (SSI)           25.0                   25.0
1695 1/    1979      Kingdom of Morocco  Power               42.0                   42.0
1704        1979     CNCA                  Agriculture       70.0                   70.0
1724        1979     Kingdom of Morocco  Water Supply    49.0                       49.0
1757 1/    1980      Kingdom of Morocco  Agriculture         58.0                   58.0
Total                                                1275.9        50.0      637.0
of which has been repaid                            143.2         0.5
Total now outstanding                                1132.7        49.5
Amcunt Sold                           20.7
of which has been repaid              10.7              9.3
Total now held by Bank and IDA                       1123.4         49.5
Total undisbursed                                     623.3         13.7      637.0
NOTE
1/ Signed, but not yet effective.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT
(As of January 31, 1980)
US$Million
Loan    Equity   Total
1963/1978            BNDE                  Devel. Bank            -        2.7      2.7
1966                 CIL                   Canning Factory       0.9       0.5      1.4
1976                 Marrakech Cement    Cenent Factory           -        1.4      1.4
1977                 Ramara Cement         Cement Factory        4.8       2.4      7.2
1979                 Agadir                Cement Factory       12.5       2.4    14.9
1980                 SOMIFER               Copper Mining        12.9       2.3    15.2
Total Gross Commitments                                         31.1      11.7    42.9
Less cancellation, terminations,
repayments and sales                                    0.9       1.2      2.1
Total commitments now held by IFC                         30.2      10.5    40.8
Total undisbursed                                         25.4       5.1    30.5



26                            ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Ln. No. 643 Rharb-Sebou Irrigation Project: US$46 million Loan of November
13, 1969; Date of Effectiveness: June 8, 1970; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
Progress in implementing the project was delayed by problems ini-
tially experienced with management and procurement of canalettes and by severe
flooding in February 1977 which caused damage to crops and irrigation works.
The major project structure, Idriss 1   Dam, is completed and 32,400 ha out
of a total of 35,200 ha are already equipped. Additional infrastructure for
the project area, including a sugar cane processing factory, are being pro-
vided by Loan No. 1018-MOR.
Ln. No. 850 Water Supply Project; US$48 million Loan of July 19, 1972;
Date of Effectiveness: May 2, 1973; Closing Date: June 30,
1980.
The dam which was the major component of the project was inaugurated
in August 1974. All project elements are completed except for the training
school, which is under construction and expected to be completed in early 1980;
training courses are presently being given in temporary facilities. Although
tariff increases were implem^nted in October 1977, the higher revenues did not
compensate for steep increases in operating cost. The Government has estab-
lished an interministerial commission to review the situation.
Ln. No. 955 Second Highway Project; US$29 million of January 11, 1974; Date
of Effectiveness: May 21, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Construction of the Rabat-Casablanca expressway which began in early
1975 - about 8 months behind schedule - and the maintenance equipment and
highway improvement programs are complete.
Ln. No. 1017 Maroc-Phosphore I Project; US$50.0 million of June 27, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: February 27, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The project was physically completed in October 1976 and the
phosphoric acid plant is now in commercial operation. Disbursements would
be completed before June 30, 1980.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
27                            Page 3 of 8 pages
Ln. No. 1018  Sebou II Development Project; US$32.0 million of June 27, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: February 28, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The sugar cane processing factory was essentially completed on
schedule in 1975. The project area roads construction program was com-
pleted in 1977, and the farm roads program in 1978. The Government recently
requested that funds earmarked for the construction of flood protection dykes
be transferred to other infrastructure works related to the Sebou I and II
projects, in view of the high costs of such works, and the advancement of the
construction of the M'Jara Dam which greatly curtails the risk of flooding.
A decision on this request is under review. The study on pollution control
is now proceeding satisfactorily.  Since the start of the project, the
Ministry of Public Health initiated a nationwide survey and control program
of bilharzia; a separate survey on the Rharb plain is no longer required.
Ln. No. 1123  Souss Groundwater Project; US$18.5 million of June 11, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: September 26, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The 49 wells required for new irrigated area (6,300 ha) were com-
pleted and tested one year ahead of appraisal schedule. Land clearing and
construction of the Project Headquarters and Development Centers have been
completed. Land distribution to Agrarian Reform beneficiaries has been
completed. Works related to the social components of the project which
suffered from substantial delay are now underway. Budgetary constraints
facing Morocco resulted in cutbacks in the operating budget and held back
the assignment of additional personnel, causing some delay in project imple-
mentation. While this issue has been partially solved for the area equipped
so far, developments will need to be watched carefully as more area is put
under irrigation in the future.
Cr. No. 555 Meknes Agricultural Development Project; US$14.0 million of
June 11, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 14, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981.
The Project has faced substantial delays in project implementation
due mainly to the difficulty of land consolidation in a rainfed area, attempted
for the first time in Morocco under the project. The cadastral surveys are
now underway, and commitments of funds under the project have been initiated.
Project management and the coordination of project activities between the
project authority and the central offices of the Ministry of Agriculture have
improved but continue to require close monitoring. A revised land reform and
redistribution program which meets the project's objectives is currently under
preparation. A nationwide study on collective lands has been postponed.



ANNEX II
28                          Page 4 of 8 pages
Ln. No. 1201 Doukkala Irrigation Project; US$30.0 million of February 27,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 20, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
The project includes sprinkler irrigation for 15,400 ha and infra-
structure and equipment. Progress of construction is satisfactory after
initial delays. The first 4,600 ha have been completed and put in service.
Completion of the remainder of sectors is underway and expected to be on
schedule. Agricultural development has been very satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1202 Bay of Agadir Tourism Project; US$21.0 million of February 27,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: October 29, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project is intended to develop Agadir into a major tourism area
and consists of infrastructure works and public facilities for the development
of a new tourism section on 260 ha on which 7,000 hotel beds and 2,600 hous-
ing units are expected to be constructed. The project includes also regional
infrastructure and facilities for the development of Agadir's tourism assets.
The major project component, UAT-Founty land development, has entered its
construction phase and is expected to be completed by mid-1980. The imple-
mentation of other components experienced some delays but these are not
expected to affect overall project implementation.
Ln. No. 1220 Third Education Project; US$25.0 million of March 18, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: October 1, 1976; Closing Date:
May 1, 1981.
The project is designed to expand and improve primary and secondary
education in rural areas and specialized training to meet urgent manpower
needs in education, agriculture, health and tourism. Project implementation
of physical aspects is slow with the exception of the rural development and
extension training center, construction of which has recently started. All
sites have been selected and design development is at an advanced stage.
Recruitment of experts under the technical assistance program has been slow.
It is expected that the overall situation will improve, and progress is being
closely monitored by supervision missions.
Ln. No. 1279 Third Hotel Development Project; US$25.0 million of July 2,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 18, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Implementation of the project is proceeding well. The Loan is ex-
pected to be disbursed somewhat ahead of schedule. The loan is fully com-
mitted. CIH has been successful in mobilizing foreign exchange resources
other than the Bank's and in reducing outstanding arrears in accordance with
understandings reached during negotiations.



ANNEX II
29                          Page 5 of 8 pages
Ln. No. 1299 Sidi Cheho - Al Massira Hydro Project; US$49.0 million of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 16, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The 'roject comprises the construction of the Al-Massira concrete
dam on the Oum er Rbia river, a 120-MWA power station including a 225-KV sub-
station, construction of about 200 Km of 225 kV transmission lines, and prepa-
ration of preliminary designs and bid documents for the Merija compensating
dam and power station. Procurement of the main project items is underway
and physical progress of the project is satisfactory. The hydro plant should
start operation by early 1980.
Ln. No. 1361  Third Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million Loan to
Caisse Nationale de Credit Agricole (CNCA) of February 7, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: August 11, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The project aims at increasing Morocco's agricultural production
and at expanding the capability of CNCA as a sound agricultural institution.
The project covered most of CNCA's program for medium- and long-term lending
through August 1979 and included related technical assistance. Disbursements
of IBRD funds aim at financing on-farm investments of small farmers, coopera-
tives and farmers' associations. About 95 percent of the Bank loan has been
disbursed, and the remainder is expected to be disbursed by mid-1980, as
scheduled.
Ln. No. 1383 CIOR Cement Project; US$45.0 million of April 29, 1977; Date
of Effectiveness: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project comprises construction of a 1.2 million tons per year
cement plant near Oujda in the Eastern Region of Morocco, and related distri-
bution facilities. Overall project implementation is satisfactory, within
original cost estimates and with a delay of about three months. Training of
key personnel is almost complete, and recruitment is adequate. The plant
started operation in January 1979, and 95 percent of the Bank loan has been
disbursed.
Ln. No. 1416 Doukkala II Irrigation Project; US$41.0 million of June 16,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The project aims at extending irrigation and related agricultural
development in the Doukkala perimeter by 16,600 hectares; it also calls for
provision of extension and credit services, and village infrastructure. The
land consolidation program and the enlargement of the main canal are proceed-
ing according to schedule. Equipment of the project area has been slowed down
due to budgetary constraints facing Morocco and are likely to result in two-
year delay in completing the project.



ANNEX II
30                           Page 6 of 8 pages
Ln. No. 1428 Eighth BNDE Project; US$45.0 million of June 16, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: December 21, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981.
The project is designed to meet part of BNDE's requirements for
financing of the import component of specific industrial enterprises, and
of a small-scale industry pilot project for which up to $5 million of Bank
financing is included. While disbursements are behind schedule, commit-
ments as of January 31, 1980 amounted to US$36.5 million.
Ln. No. S-7 Sewerage Engineering Project; US$1.5 million of August 30, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: August 26, 1978; Closing Date: April 30,
1981.
The project includes the preparation of a sewerage Master Plan
for the Casablanca-Mohammedia region and of a priority first stage project.
It would assist Morocco in developing the design and planning criteria for
urban sewer systems and strengthening the institutional and financial bases
for the development of this sector. Project implementation has been delayed
by about 15 months, due to administrative and budgetary difficulties, which
have now been resolved.
Ln. No. 1528 Rabat Urban Development Project; US$18.0 million of March 31,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: November 21, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1982.
The project is designed to improve living conditions of the urban
poor in Rabat. It includes (i) comprehensive squatter upgrading; (ii) an
experimental sites and services housing schemes; (iii) an employment gen-
eration program; (iv) community services equipment; and (v) technical assis-
tance to strengthen the institutional arrangements and technical capabilities
of the executing agencies. Construction is proceeding satisfactorily, although
there has been some delay in the non-physical aspects of the project.
Ln. No. 1602 Fes-Karia Tissa Agriculture Project; US$65.0 million of
September 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: February 13, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
The project aims at (i) improving the standard of living of about
33,900 farm families cultivating about 256,000 hectares in the Fes-Karia-
Tissa region, and (ii) contributing to the growth of agricultural production
and to a reduction in Moroccan dependence on imported food commodities. These
aims would be achieved through a reorganization and strengthening of agricul-
tural services and provision of infrastructure. Implementation has been
running about 6 months behind schedule. However, since operating funds have
become available, the Project Authority is accelerating project implementation
and civil works, training and cooperative organization are proceeding satis-
factorily.



ANNEX II
31                           Page 7 of 8 pages
Ln. No. 1625 Maroc Phosphore Expansion Project; US$50.0 million of
October 27, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: March 23, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The project consists of expansion of production facilities at Safi
through (i) the erection, on the site of the existing Maroc Phosphore plant,
of an additional unit to produce for export 165,000 tpy of phosphoric acid,
complete with ancillary facilities and related civil works; and (ii) the con-
struction of sulphur melting units and sulphur storage facilities; and the
construction of new phosphoric acid concentration and storage facilities.
Implementation is proceeding satisfactorily.
*         Ln. No. 1681 Fourth Education Project; US$113.0 million on April 25, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: October 16, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
The project consists of (i) construction, furnishing and equipping
of 11 technical lycees, a technical teacher training college, two higher
institutes of technology, an institute of applied engineering and an extension
of Mohammedia Engineering College; (ii) technical assistance associated with
the project items and for strengthening the Project Implementation Unit in the
Ministry of National Education; (iii) pre-investment designs. Implementation
has been proceeding slowly.
Ln. No. 1687 Small Scale Industry Integrated Development Project; US$25.0
million of April 25, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: December 17,
1979; Closing Date: December 31,1983.
The project consists of a two-year slice of a Government program
to assist small and labor intensive industries through policies, technical,
managerial and financial assistance.
Ln. No. 1695 Village Electrification Project; US$42.0 million of May 22, 1979;
Effectiveness Limit: April 30, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
This project which is the first stage of a 15-year village elec-
trification program would provide electricity to about 60,000 dwellings in 220
villages located in 17 provinces.
Ln. No. 1704 Fourth Agricultural Credit Project; US$70.0 million of May 23,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: December 5, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
The project aims at increasing Morocco's agricultural production
thereby improving the standard of living of about 475,000 of Morocco's
farm families. The project will cover most of CNCA's medium- and long-term
lending program and farm investment program through August 1982.



ANNEX II
32                            Page 8 of 8 pages
Ln. No. 1724 Second Water Supply Project; US$49.0 million of July 2, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: February 4, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
The project is designed to improve access to safe water supplies of
the population of the Mid-Atlantic Coast and the Greater Agadir area. It
consists of: (i) the expansion of bulk water production and transmission
facilities along the Mid-Atlantic Coast; (ii) the expansion of bulk water
production and transmission facilities in Agadir and (iii) the establishment
of a revolving fund to facilitate house connections for low income families,
and (iv) studies on accounting and management systems.
Ln. No. 1757 Vegetable Production and Marketing Project; US$58.0 million
Approved September 11, 1979; Effectiveness Limit: May 19,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project is the first phase of Morocco's Five-Year Plan for
development of off-season vegetables for export. $50.0 million of the loan
is to be on-lent for long and medium-term farm investments and incremental
short-term production costs of vegetable quality control centers, for two
small producer packing stations, and for seedling greenhouses benefitting
about 8,000 farm families and creating seasonal employment. The balance of
the loan would help finance infrastructure in the proiect area, and technical
assistance.



33                                  ANNEX 1ii
MOROCCO
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Trends
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the
project:                                              About one year (February
1979 to February 1980)
(b)  The agency which has prepared the project:            Roads Department of
Ministry of Public Works
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank and
date of the first Bank mission to consider
the project:                                          November 1978,
February 1979
(d)  Appraisal mission departure:                          September 1979
(e)  Negotiations completed:                               February 1980
(f)  Loan effectiveness planned:                           July 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions in the Loan Agreement
The Government shall:
(a) submit the economic and technical evaluation of the proposed pave-
ment works on individual road sections for the Bank's approval,
according to an agreed methodology and criteria before calling for
tenders (paragraph 50);
(b) through the Roads Department (RD), carry out the pavement strengthen-
ing program and the road maintenance program in accordance with an
overall action plan agreed between the Bank and the Borrower; and,
each year before the budget is finalized, submit to the Bank for its
review and comment an annual program consistent with the action plan
and showing the pavement strengthening and road maintenance works
to be carried out during the following year, and send the Bank the
final program approved by the Government (paragraph 52); and
(c) recruit consultants and negotiate a contract between RD and the
soils and materials laboratory (LPEE) (paragraphs 53 and 55).



