LOAN NUMBER 1830 MOR
Loan Agreement
(Third Highway Project)
between
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                              , 1980


﻿LOAN ?UMBER 1830 MOR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated             u, 1980, between
the KINGDOM OF MOROCCO (hereinafteV called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "RD" means the department responsible for roads in
the Borrower's ministry responsible for public works.
(b) "MOT" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for
transportation.
(c) "LPEE" means the Laboratoire Public d'Essais et d'Etudes
located in Casablanca.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
sixty two million dollars ($62,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from


﻿-2-
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be finance, out of the
proceeds of the Loan, shall be governed by the p-ovisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b) Before bids for pavements works under the Project
are invited, the Borrower and the Bank shall agree on the execu-
tion of such pavement works on individual road sections as selec-
ted on the basis of (i) an economic evaluation submitted to the
Bank and prepared in accordance with a methodology and criteria
agreed to between the Borrower and the Bank and (ii) a technical
evaluation acceptable to the Bank.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1984,
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eight and twenty-five hundredths per cent (8.25%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the prii. ipal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization s-iLedule set
fo-rth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through RD and MOT with due diligence and efficiency and in


﻿-3-
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and engi-
neering practices, and shall provide, p-emptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall, through RD: (i) carry
out the pavement strengthening and road maintenance programs
described in Parts A and B of the Project in accordance with
an action plan as agreed to between the Borrower and the Bank;
(ii) each year not later than September 30, beginning Septem-
ber 30, 1980 and until completion of the action plan, submit to
the Bank for its review and comments an annual program, consistent
with the action plan and showing the pavement strengthening and
road maintenance works to be carried out in the following year;
and (iii) upon receipt of the Bank's comments promptly finalize
such annual program and return it to the Bank for information.
Section 3.03. (a) In order to assist: (i) RD in carrying
out its road maintenance operations as described in Part C.1 of
the Project and (ii) MOT in the development and implementation of
recommendations on transportation planning and coordination as
described in Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall, not later
than July 1, 1981 employ consultants whose qualifications, experi-
ence and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory
to the Bank.
(b) In order to assist RD in the preparation of the pavement
strengthening and preservation program as described in Part C.2 of
the Project the Borrower shall retain the services of LPEE
under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, all goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,


﻿-4-
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit
of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on
any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the alloca-
tion, realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien


﻿-5-
shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no
cost to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on a-sets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for payment of the purchase price of such
property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term       public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held
by Banque du Maroc or any institution performing the functions of
a central bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar func-
tions, for the Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the opera-
tions, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause its national
highway network to be adequately maintained and shall cause
all necessary repairs thereof to be made promptly, all in accord-
ance with appropriate engineering practices, and shall provide or
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the foregoing.
(b) The Borrower shall adequately operate, maintain, renew
and acquire as necessary, the machinery, equipment, spare parts,


﻿- 6 -
workshops and other repair facilities required therefor, all in
accordance with appropriate engineering and economic practices.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall continue to improve the
collecting and recording, in accordance with appropriate statis-
tical methods and procedures including regular and systematic
traffic counts, of such technical, economical and financial
information as shall be reasonably required for proper planning of
maintenance, improvements and extensions of its public highway
system.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall through the MOT take all
reasonable measures, including the enforcement of appropriate
limitations on size and weight of vehicles necessary to ensure the
prorer use of its national highway system.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The date                0) \) 0    , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the, Borrower:
Ministere des Finances
Rabat
Kingdom of Morocco


﻿-7-
Cable address:                       Telex:
Ministire Finances
Rabat, Morocco                      31936 M
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
city of Rabat, Kingdom of Morocco, as of the day and year first
above written.
KINGDOM OF MOROCr'O
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By          1!~         U~~7tj
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 8 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works                 45,000,000      65%
(2) Equipment                   10,450,000      100% of foreign
expenditures and
73% of local
expenditures
(3) Consultants'                   850,000      85%
Services
(4) Road Laboratory                300,000      70%
Services (LPEE)
(5) Unallocated                  5,400,000
TOTAL          62,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goodt or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.


﻿-9-
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in
respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments iade for expendi-
tures prior to the datc of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
I above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduc. the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order chat
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under
the Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents
the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:
A three and a half-year phase of a long-term pavement
strengthening and preservation program covering approximately
700 km of road sections to be strengthened and approximately
1,000 km of road sections to be resurfaced, all such sections
to be selected in agreement with the Bank.
Part B:
A three and a half-year phase of RD's routine and periodic
maintenance program for the Borrower's classified highway network
including the acquisition of mechanical equipment.
Part C:
Strengthening the management of RD's road maintenance opera-
tions by:
(1) strengthening RD's cost accounting of routin? mainte-
nance operations, management of road maintenance equipment and
training of road maintenance personnel, all with the assistance of
about 23 man-months of consultants' services;
(2) assisting in the preparation of the pavement strengthen-
ing and preservation program through the provision of advisory
services by LPEE; and
(3) equipping the Centre Nationale d'Auscultation des
Chaussees with pavement testing equipment.
Part D:
Assistance to MOT in the development and implementation
of recommendations on transportation planning and coordination
through the provision of 64 man-months of consultants' services.


﻿- 11 -
Part E:
Provision of mobile weighing scales and fixed weighing
stations to intensify the enforcement by MOT of legal maximum axle
loads.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning October 15, 1984
through   October 15, 1998                 2,065,000
On April 15, 1999                               2,115,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 13 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.30%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                    2.60%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                             4.80%
More than eleven years but not
more than fourteen years
before maturity                             6.10%
More than fourteen years but not
more than seventeen years
before maturity                             7.40%
More than seventeen years
before maturity                             8.25%


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Contracts for civil works, highway maintenance equipment
and weighing scales shall be awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods or works
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   Grouping of contracts - contracts for pavement works wherever
practical, shall be grouped to form appropriate bid packages.
Bidders shall be allowed to bid for one contract or a combination
of contracts.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. "port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.


﻿- 15 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
the Kingdom of Morocco may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the Kingdom of Morocco if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and
the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in the Kingdom of Morocco
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price
of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eva-
luated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would


﻿- 16 -
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   All goods required for Part C.3 of the Project may
be procured on the basis of limited international tendering
procedures acceptable to the Bank whereby bids shall be solicited
from at least 5 selected reputable suppliers, from at least 3
different countries.
2.   Bitumen shall be procured in accordance with standard
procedures followed by the Borrower.
D.   Review of Procurement Decision by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works, highway
maintenance equipment and weighing scales estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that


﻿- 17 -
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Acrount in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 25% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  L       day of        ,19109.
FOR SECRETARY


