Docum_t of
The World Bank
FOCR OMCL USE ONLY
RepwtNt. 5763
PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
TURKEY - SECOND AND THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOANS
(LOANS 1987-TU AND 2158-TU)
June 28, 1985
Operations Evaluation Department
ThRk dmet_ hS a rlkWd d_aftW=  ad  ay be  eSd by re1Plets ey In the pnfoame oF
tb& ged  dudes lb Caut  ma  " ohewbe be Wdsedi wi_*ut Wodi Bak aulh.rh0k



FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
DSI     -   State Hydraulic Work
DYB     -   State Investment Bank
EDI    -   Economic Development Institute
IMF     -   International Monetary Fund
OECD    -   Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PETKIM  -   Petrochemical Corporation
SDR     -   Special Drawing Right
SEE     -   State Economic Enterprises
SPO     -   State Planning Organization
TEI     -   Turkish Coal Enterprises
TEK     -   Turkish Electricity Authority
TPAO    -   Turkish Petroleum Corporation
TL      -   Turkish Lira
VAT     -   Value Added Tax
IThis document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recpients only in the perfomane of
tfiofficial dutile Is contents may not oterwe be discosed without Wodd Bank authoizatiomn



PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
TURKEY - SECOND AND THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOANS
(LOANS 1987-TU and 2158-TU)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface ........................................................... ......i
Basic Data Sheets ........................................ ......... ii-iii
Highlights .            .....................  iv
PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
I.  BACKGROUND           ...............................................          I
II.  THE SAL PROGRAM: OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES ....                .............    2
A. The Design of SAL II ................................                  2
B. The Design of SAL III .....          ......................            4
III.  EVALUATION OF SAL DESIGN .................................                    5
A. Need for Program Aid .....         ..................                  5
B. Realism of Conditionalities .....            ....................      6
C. Nonitorability of the Action Program ...............           .       7
D. Complementarity with IMF Program ....................                  8
IV.  IMPLEMENTATION OF SAL PROGRAMS ..... .............                            8
A.  Domestic Resource Mobilization              .....................     9
B.  Export Promotion ...................................                 11
C.  Import Liberalization .....            .........................     13
D.  Rationalization of Public Investment ...........          ....       14
E.  Energy Sector Policy ..            .............................     15
F.  Agricultural Sector Policy .....            ....................     16
G.  Reform of State Economic Enterprises ...              ............   17
H. Summary on Program Implementation                 ....    20
I.  IMF Operations .......        ..............................         21
V.  MAJOR ISSUES .............................................                  21
A. Reform and Pricing Policy of the SEEs             ...............     22
B. Public Investment Reform .           ...........................      24
C. Financial Market Instability .....            ...................     25
D. Interest Rates and the Exchange Rate .............           ...      28
E. Medium-Term Strategy and Reviving Private
Investment ........................................                31
F. Trade Policy              ........................................    32
G. SEE Prices, Inflation, and Interest Rates ... ........                34



TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)
Page No.
VI.  SUSTAINABILITY OF REFORMS ................................                  37
A. Institutional Reforms ...............................                 38
B. Economic Policy .....................................                 39
C. Conclusion on Sustainability ........................                 41
VII.  IMPACT OF STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM .............           .....        42
A.  Economic Growth .................       ..     .................     42
B.  Balance of Payments ................................                 43
C.  Financial Stabilization .............       ..     .............     45
D.  Social Impact ..................       ..     ..................     47
VIII.  ROLE OF THE BANK .........................................                   49
IX.  PERFORMANCE OF BORROWER ..................................                  52
X.  CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS ..................................                  53
Annexes:
1.  Letter of Development Policies (SAL II)  .......... ..            ...........    56
2.  Letter of Development Policies (SAL III) ......... ..             ...........    73
3.  Schedule 4 of Loan Agreement (SAL II) .........................                  83
4.  Schedule 4 of Loan Agreement (SAL III) ........................                  84
5.  Turkey:  Review of the Second Structural Adjustment Loan ......                  85
6.  Turkey:  Review of the Third Structural Adjustment Loan .......                  90
Attachment - Comments from Borrower ................................                  94
PROGRAM COMPLETION REPORT
I.  Introduction .............................................                  97
II.  The Structural Adjustment Program ........................                  97
III.  Monitoring the SAL Process ...............................                  98
IV.  Loan Impact and Implementation ...........................                 113
V.  Summary and Conclusions ..................................                 114



- i -
PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
TURKEY - SECOND AND THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOANS
(LOANS 1987-TU and 2158-TU)
PREFACE
This is a performance audit of the Bank's second and third struc-
tural adjustment loans (SALs) to Turkey.   The second SAL (Loan 1987-TU,
US$300 million) was approved on April 20, 1981, signed on May 15, 1981 and
was fully disbursed by November 30, 1982.  The third SAL (Loan 2158-TU,
US$304.5 million) was approved on May 27, 1982, signed on May 28, 1982, and
was fully disbursed by June 30, 1983.
The audit consists of a Program Performance Audit Memorandum (PPAM)
prepared by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) and a Program Comple-
tion Report (PCR), prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office.  The PPAM is based on a review of the President's Reports
(No. P-3034-TU, dated April 20, 1981 and No. P-3273-TU, dated May 7, 1982),
the Loan Agreements, the summaries of Board Discussions, the combined PCR and
related documents in the Bank's files. Bank staff associated with the SALs
have been interviewed, and discussions have been held with IMF staff. An OED
mission visited Turkey in July/August 1984 to review the structural adjust-
ment operations with Government officials and private sector representa-
tives. The valuable assistance provided by representatives of the Borrower
is gratefully acknowledged.
Copies of the draft report were sent to the representatives of the
Borrower  in April,  1985.   Comments have been received from the Acting
Directo--General of External Economic Relations in the Undersecretariat for
Treasury and Foreign Trade; they have been reflected in the report and are
reproduced as an attachment to the PPAM.



PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
TURKEY - SECOND STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 1987-TU)
BASIC DATA SHEET
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN DATA
(amounts in US$ million)
Original    Disbursed    Cancelled    Repaid   Outstanding
Loan 1987-TU          300          300           0            0         300
Actual or
Original Loan Dates      Re-estimated
Initiating Memorandum                   10/31/80               10/31/80
Letter of Development Policies                                 02/20/81
Negotiations                            04/1/81                04/-/81
Board Approval                          04/20/81               05/12/81
Loan Agreement                          05115/81               05/15/81
Effectiveness                           05/15/81               05/15/81
Loan Closing                                                   11/30/82
Actual Completion                                              11/30/82
CUMULATIVE LOAN DISBURSEMENT
FY81          FY82
(i)  Planned              200            100
(ii)  Actual               200            100
(iii)  (ii) as X of (i)     100            10O
MISSION DATA
No.of     No. of         Late of
Month/Year      '1_ks     Persons         Report
Appraisal                02/-/81                    6
Supervision I         11/8-20/81         2          7
Superviancn II        12/07/81           2          2            12/30/81
Supervision III
Supervision IV
Completion
FOLLOW-ON SAL OPERATIONS
Turkey Third Strutural Adjustment Loan 2158-TU, approved on May 27, 1982, in
the amount of US$304.5 million.



- iii -
PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
TURKEY - THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(LOAN 2158-TU)
BASIC DATA SHEET
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN DATA
(amounts in US$ million)
Original    Disbursed    Cancelled    Repaid   Outstanding
Loan 2158-TU         304.5        304.5          0            0        304.5
Actual or
Original Loan Dates      Re-estimated
Initiating Hemorandum                   10/22/81               10/22/81
Letter of Development Policies          04/24/82               04/24/82
Negotiations                            05/--/82               05/1/82
Board Approval                          05/27/82               05/27/82
Loan Agreement                          05/28/82               05/28/82
Effectiveness                           06/-/82                07/16/82
Loan Closing                            12/15/83               12/15/83
Actual Completion                                              06/30/83
CUMULATIVE LOAN DISBURSEMENT
FY81        FY82
'i)  Planned               50.0         254.5
(ii)  Actual                50.0         245.5
(iii)  (ii) as Z of (i)       100          100
MISSION DATA
No.of   No. of     Man-       Date of
Month/Year    Weeks   Persons    weeks      Report
Appraisal             02/--/82
Supervision I         10/18-27/82      4        4          4         n.a.
Supervision II        0'/27-29/83      1        2
Supervision III       02/28-03/83      1        4                    n.a.
FOLLOW-ON SAL OPERATIONS
Turkey Fourth Structural Adjustment Loan 2321-TU, approved on June 23, 1983,
in the amount of US$300.8 million. Fifth Structural Adjustment Loan 2441-TU,
approved on June 14, 1984. in the amount of US$376 million.



iv -
PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
TURKEY - SECOND AND THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOANS
(LOANS 1987-TU and 2158-TU)
HIGHLIGHTS
During the First and Second Plan periods (1963-72), Turkey's
strategy of economic development, based on import substitution with heavy
protection, had provided it with growth r&tes averaging 6.6 percent
annually.   However, with the onset of the first oil criniq in the early
seventies, and tb,e subsequent ecor-omic slow-down in OECD zountries, Turkey
encountered severe resource constraints. It responded by adopting policies
which relied on drawing down foreign exchange reserves and heavy short-term
borrowing abroad to maintain high levels of investment and consumption. For
a short time this approach succeeded in maintaining and even increasing the
economic growth rate to an unprecedented 7.7 percent annually during 1973-76,
which was the period of the Third Plan.   The prosperity came to an abrupt
halt in mid-1977, culminating in a sharp deterioration in external payments
and creditworthiness, severe import shortages and disruptions in industrial
production, and rising unemployment. GNP growth declined from an annual rate
of 4 percent in 1977 to a negative figure in 1979 and domestic inflation
accelerated over the same period from 24 pc:cent to 64 percent.  Economic
difficulties were aggravated by political and social unrest (PPAM, paras.
i-3).
The Government responded to the economic crisis by introducing
major reforms if 1980 which relied more heavily on market forces and encour-
aged exports in preference to production for the home market.   The reform
program included demand restraint to quell inflation and deregulation of
interest rates to promote savings and optimize investment decisions.   A
realistic exchange rate was combined with fiscal and credit incentives to
accelerate exports.   A reform of the tax system and improved budgetary
management were supported by measures to reduce the operacing deficits of the
State Economic Enterprises (SEEs).  Imports were selectively liberalized to
promote competition among domestic producers and to enhance their competi-
tiveness in export markets (PPAM, paras. 3-4; PCR, paras. 2-3).
In support of its reform program the Government negotiated a
Stand-by Arrangement with the IMF for the period 1980-83; this was renewed in
December, 1983. A First Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) was approved by the
Bank in March 1980 and complemented the IMF stabilization program (PPAM,
paras. 5-7; PCR, paras. 17-18).   This was followed by four furti.er SALs
during 1981-84.   The programs of action for the second and third SALs,
approved in 1981 and 1982, focussed on export promotion, import liberaliza-
tion, domestic resource mobilization, rationalization of public investment



programs, increased agricultural efficiency, energy conservation and resource
development, and improved performance of the SEEs (PPAM, paras. 10-11).
The Government demonstrated a strong commitment to the SAL program
throughout and fulfilled all major undertakings.   It recognized that the
process of adjustment would at times be painful, as it necessitated some
decline in real incomes as well as the tolerance of higher levels of
unemploy3ment. The Government did not falter in its resolve to proceed with
the corrective measures but a number of difficulties surfaced in the process
of implementation.   First, several laws had to be passed in an exceedingly
short period. Second, an overworked bureaucracy that was being depleted of
staff resources, had to cope with the impact of a broad spectrum of policy
changes and difficulties in implementation surfaced, especially in the
agriculture and energy sectors (PPAM, paras. 171-174; PCR, para. 7). Third,
the concern with short-term financial results for the SEEs clouded the
longer-term objective of achieving improvements in management and operational
efficiency. Fourth, some reforms were hastily prepared, as in the case of
the value added tax, and had to be postponed till their impact was carefully
assessed.
In contrast to the situation which existed at the time of the first
SAL, the Bank was better prepared for the subsequent SALs. A well focussed
program of analytical economic and sector work was executed and Bank staff
regularly supervised the SAL program and carried out a close dialogue with
Government representatives to prepare further SALs.   The tranching of the
loans enhanced the chances of full compliance, though the second tranche of
SAL II had to be delayed, pending passage of agreed legislation on SEEs which
had been delayed till the assumption of office by the new Government.
Disbursement and procurement proceeded smoothly under both loans. The Bank's
lending program supported the SAL process by concentrating on agriculture,
industry,  energy  and  transportation.    Training  courses  were  held  to
strengthen the capacity of key control points in the administration (PPAM,
paras. 162-170; PCR, para. 5).
Overall the programs connected with SALs II and III are deemed to
have been a success.   Exports grew rapidly in response to a plethora of
incentives and markets were diversified.   The flexible use of the exchange
rate and import liberalization policies improved resource allocation.
Delinking of SEEs from the Treasury improved their financial self-reliance.
Fiscal and credit incentives widened the opportunities for many producers,
many of whom had previously relied excessively on domestic markets.   Finan-
cial deregulation and policies for strengthening the func ioning of capital
markets improved financial intermediation. Finally, institutional reforms in
agriculture  helped  to  improve  productivity over  the longer-term.   Major
reforms were also instituted to conserve as well as to exploit Turkey's
energy resources (PPAM, paras. 147-149; PCR, paras. 8-15).
Nevertheless, a number of problems still exist. inflation and high
levels of unemployment persist. High interest rates, combined with stringent
monetary management and full cost monopoly pricing by SEEs are curtailing



- vi -
investment needed for long-run growth (PPAM, para. 148). The social impact
of five years of structural adjustment has yet to be addressed (PPAM, paras.
157-161). Exports are propped up by subsidies and preferential credits and
the future of some newly won markets remains uncertain (PPAM, paras. 150-
152).   Hopefully, these and other ongoing problems of adjustment will be
addressed within the context of the medium-term strategy embodied in the
Fifth Five-Year Plan (1984-89) (PCR, para. 45).
The lessons emerging from SALs II and III are:
-   the need for strong political commitment  to the program  (PPAM,
para. 171; PCR, para. 2);
-   the availability of thorough analytical work to back up the policy
prescription (PPAM, paras. 169-170);
-   the design of programs that are consistent with institutional and
administrative constraints of the Borrower; (PPAM, paras. 127-138,
146); and
-   the adoption of time frames for action that are appropriate to the
exigencies of the Borrower's legislature (PPAM, paras. 172-173).



PROGRAM PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
TURKEY - SECOND AND THIRD STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOANS
(LOANS 1987-TU and 2158-TU)
I. BACKGROUND
1.        Turkey's economic policies from the early 1960s until 1972 con-
tributed to the achievement of rapid growth in GNP (6.6 percent a year,
1963-1972), with substantial growth in industrial capacity. During the Third
Plan period, 1973-77, Turkey maintained, even increased, its growth rate (7.7
percent average, 1973-76) with increasing recourse to external borrowing,
accumulating a heavy load of short-term debt.
2.        Since the mid-1970s,  however,  external con-straint, to sustained
growth became increasingly severe.   They included a sharp rise in Turkey's
import prices (including oil), and a significant deterioration in its terms
of trade. High interest rates resulted in an increased external debt burden,
and recession in Western Europe led to reduced export prospects and
emigration and remittance possibilities.   Continued expansionary policies
delayed Turkey's adjustment to the changed international environment, so that
by 1977 the country was in a severe foreign exchange crisis. After 1977, the
Government made a series of efforts, exemplified in stabilization programs
worked out in close consultation with the IMF (1977, 1980, 1983, 1984), to
restore price stability, creditworthiness, and a sustainable balance in
domestic and external finances.
3.        Toward the end of che 1970s, the financial situation deteriorated
again, partly as a result of the 1979 increase in oil prices. In view of the
severity of the external financial squeeze, the Government accepted in
January 1980 the need for a temporary sacrifice of growth and of social
objectives in order to bring down inflation, improve the balance of payments,
and restore creditworthiness as quickly as possible.
4.        On development issues there was a change in sectoral concerns to
favor energy and agriculture, at the expense of manufacturing, especially as
far as allocation of public sector resources was concerned. There was a new
emphasis on the division of labor between the public and private sectors,
with the former expected to concentrate on the provision of infrastructure,
while the latter was to provide the main impetus to industrial growth and
exports.   In the external sector much greater weight was given to exports
relative to import substitution. Finally, and most significant, was a shift
toward reliance on market mechanisms as against centralized planning (PR, SAL
II, paras. 13-15).
5.        After  the  announcement  of  the  January  1980  program,  the  IMF
released the remaining tranches of the stand-by arrangement that had been



- 2 -
agreed in July 1979. Soon after, in March 1980, the first SAL (US$200 mil-
lion) was signed making quick disbursing funds available to Turkey in support
of the reforms already initiated.  The major objectives of the SAL program
were to reduce inflation, increase foreign exchange earnings, and improve
domestic resource mobilization in the public and private sectors. Priority
was given to export incentives and institutional arrangements in support of
exports; studying the protection and incentive system; improving external
debt management; eliminating the overall public deficit in 1980; reviewing
measures to encourage private savings and time deposits; harmonizing public
investment and adjusting its composition to the new priorities.l/
6.        In June 1980, a new three-year stand-by agreement was signed with
the Fund, involviag SDR 1.25 billion (about US$1.63 billion), with SDR 460
million in the first year, SDR 400 million in the second year, and SDR 390
million in the third year. The key conditions of the new stand-by were that
the exchange rate was to be kept flexible; the financial position of the
public sector was to be improved, mainly through restructuring the
operational policies of State Economic Enterprises (SEEs) (i.e., raising
prices); monetary conditions were to be stabilized by observing strict limits
on Central Bank lending; and interest rates were to be adjusted to reflect
market conditions.
7.        The conditions set by the Bank and IMF were mutually reinforcing,
with the Fund taking the lead on exchange rate and aggregate demand and
management issues while the Bank focussed on public investment and the
protective system. There was extensive exchange of information between the
Bank and IMF during the preparation of the SALs. Bank and IMF staff members
also participated in the missions of the other institution.
II. THE SAL PROGRAM: OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES
8.        The second and third Structural Adjustment Loans further supported
Turkey's January 1980 reform program, and measures initiated and implemented
since then.   The first SAL and its Supplement were made in response to
Turkey's immediate external and internal economic problems.  By the end of
1980, the effects of the stabilization and adjustment measures began to
appear, with exports growing and the rate of inflation falling.
A.   The Design of SAL II
9.        Turkey's second Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL II) was approved in
May 1981, and was designed to further address structural factors responsible
for the country's economic difficulties.  The proceeds of the loan (US$300
million) were to finance high priority imports in agriculture and industry,
1/   See Project Performance Audit Report No. 4015, June 30,  1982 (Sec.
M82-620).



which were necessary to produce goods for domestic consumption and exports.
For both sectors, the imports consisted of raw materials and intermediate
products.
10.       The action program agreed to under SAL II was viewed as the second
phase of a more comprehensive structural adjustment process, which was to be
followed by other SALs over a number of years. The program was more detailed
than its predecessor; in addition to new reforms it continued to address
policy reforms that did not reach full implementation under SAL I.   The
program emphasized: (a) domestic resource mobilization, to reduce external
borrowing for investments; (b) export promotion, to help earn foreign
exchange needed to finance Turkey's imports; (c) liberalization of the import
regime, to facilitate imports of raw materials and intermediate products,
necessary for production of export; (d) an improved public investment
program, to fully utilize existing productive capacity in areas which could
increase exports and create employment; (e) development of the country's
energy resources, to cut the energy import bill and to increase energy
production in the long run; (f) increased production of agricultural export
crops, and (g) reform of the SEEs in the areas of finance, management and
investments so they could contribute effectively to the overall growth of the
economy.2/
1'.       To achieve the objectives stated above, the following specific
policy actions were to be adopted by the Government of Turkey:
(a) Financial Policies. To mobilize domestic resources, a major fiscal
reform was planned. This would improve the system of taxation by
restructuring and revising existing taxes, introducing new taxes,
and significantly strengthening tax administration.   In addition,
savings were to be encouraged by increasing the real rate of
interest  to a positive level.   The capital market was  to be
developed via a new Capital Market Commission.
(b) Export Promotion. This was to take place through adjustment of the
exchange rate, incentives for exporters (mainly credit incentives),
and improving the administrative framework for exports.
(c)  Import  Liberalization.    Imports  were  to  be  liberalized  by
abolishing the quota list and moving many items to a system of
import  licensing  consisting  of  two  liberalized  lists,  for
noncompeting and competing commodities, which were allowed to be
imported.3/
2/   SEE's investments have exceeded 25 percent of total fixed investment
since the late 1970s.
3/   Specific details on the liberalized lists is given in the President's
Report on SAL II, paras. 57 and 64.



(d)  Investment.   Public and private investment was to be improved by
channeling resources to the most productive and profitable
projects.   Priority was to be given to projects which emphasized
exports rather than projects that helped substitute for imports.
(e) Energy. This sector was to be developed by channeling investments
into development of domestic energy resources, while adjusting
energy prices and strengthening public agencies in the sector.
(f) Agriculture. Production and export of agricultural products was to
be increased through export policies, financial incentives, and
institutional reforms.
(g)  SEE Reform.  To reform SEEs it was decided to restrict their access
to the Central Bank and the Treasury for concessionary funds and to
increase the interest rates charged to SEEs by the State
Development Bank (DYB).  This was to increasingly expose SEEs to
market forces and to make them more self-sufficient financially.
Measures were also to be taken to overcome problems of overstaffing
and to upgrade management.
B. The Design of SAL III
12.       Even before the completion of SAL II (November 1982) the third SAL
(US$304.5 million) was approved by the Board (May 1982). The action program
for SAL III constituted the third phase of the comprehensive structural
adjustment process that began in January of 1980. As with previous Turkish
SALs, the SAL III package embraced a number of decisions already taken, as
well as others which remained to be implemented in 1982 and early 1983. The
major policy objectives supported by SAL III were as follows:
(a) Macro-economic Policies. The program included further tax reforms
and capital market development for domestic resource mobilization,
exchange rate adjustment and measures for export promotion, and
further import liberalization.
(b)  Public Investment.   The rationalization of the public investment
program was to continue with a reduction in the number of programs
and reorientation toward infrastructure, supported by a strength-
ening of the project evaluation capacity.
(c) SEE Reform. A major reform package for State Economic Enterprises
(SEEs) was to be enacted, designed to improve their economic and
financial performance through increasing their autonomy and market
orientation; interim reforms designed to increase their efficiency
and reduce their drain on the budget were to continue.
(d)  Agriculture.   Public inve-tment was to be redirected toward the
agricultural sector, to promote growth including exports.



- 5 -
(e) Energy. The objective Was to reduce the growth of energy imports
(PR, SAL III, paras. 92-98).
13.       The design of SAL III supported the policies initiated in the
January 1980 reform program.  It promoted an outward-oriented development
strategy, by continuing to open external  trade.   Greater reliance was
anticipated on domestic resources in light of the anticipated decline of
concessional external borrowing and  the modest prospects  for obtaining
significant new commercial loans. These resources could only be tapped by
reforms in the financial sector, tax reform measures, appropriate incentives
for new investment, technological policy, continued restraint in private and
public consumption growth, and a more efficient functioning of the SEEs.
III. EVALUATION OF SAL DESIGN
14.       The reforms that were designed and implemented under SAL II and III
were appropriate for their goals. Efficient use of resources and improvement
in the external balance required adjustments in exchange rates, interest
rates, and quota, tariff and licensing arrangements, as well as demand
restraint. However, under SAL II the focus was still on short-run stabiliza-
tion problems which had been addressed under SAL I, and not enough attention
was given to reforms necessary for the medium-term development of Turkey.
15.       SAL III appropriately began to redirect attention to development
issues.   The principal thrust of the new policy was a shift toward open,
export-oriented growth. Turkey started on this new path with a large and
diversified industrial sector, which is the legacy of past SEE development.
This sector has been able to respond to the shift in incentives and to play a
leading role in the growth of exports. The development of the industrial
base and especially of technologically advanced sectors has long been a major
goal of Turkish economic policy.  Given the current industrial base, the
shift to an outward-looking development strategy is entirely consistent vith
this emphasis. The opening up of export markets and the liberalization of
imports provides opportunities fir transfers of new technologies that have
clearly benefitted other countries which have pursued this strategy.
16.       One weakness in SAL II and III, however, was the ab'ence of a
medium-term strategy document that systematically linked the short-run
stabilization program to a longer run development plan.  Such a strategy
document would have integrated the public investment program and the
structural reforms in at least an indicative framework showing a feasible
transition to sustainable growth.  The strategy document could then have
facilitated private sector investment planning, and mobilized aid for private
investment.
A.   Need for Program Aid
17.       Due to large external borrowings since the mid 1970's, Turkey faced
high debt service obligations in the carly 1980's. However, the debt burden



- 6 -
was thought to be manageable, provided the new policies were successfully
implemented and the export drive was sustained.   The projections in the
President's Report indicated that under such conditions the economy could
attain a growth rate of 5 percent by 1985, without unduly straining the
balance of payments or domestic financial stability.   The current account
deficit was projected to reach US$2 billion by the end of 1982, with exports
rising 25 percent to US$5.9 billion; imports by 12 percent to US$10 billion;
and an increase in workers' remittances projected to US$2.8 billion (PR, SAL
III,  paras.  102-105).   All of the above necessitated  further financial
support from private and official donors, much of it in the form of program
aid.   This support also provided an incentive for the commercial banks to
provide Turkey with medium-term credit to finance profitable projects.
18.       Under the SAL program, agriculture, industry and energy were to be
the key sectors for project lending.   In agriculture, projects emphasized
livestock, exports, and rural development; in industry (including DFCs), the
emphasis was on promotion of exports and employment, and strengthening the
SEEs.  Energy projects emphasized power generation based on domestic hydro
and lignite generation.   The priorities supported increases in production,
exports and employment, and SEE reform, all of which were important
objectives under the SAL program.
B. Realism of Conditionalities
19.       Some of  the policy reforms  planned  under  the SALs  posed few
administrative problems during implementation. These included adjustments of
exchange and interest rates, and tax and credit incentives for exports.
Other reforms required more sophisticated analysis and studies before they
could be implemented, such as planned liberalization of imports through
reducing the quota and tariff barriers designed to protect Turkey's
manufacturing from outside competition. Most of the sector reforms, however,
required substantial improvement of institutions before they could be
properly implemented:  this was especially true for agriculture and energy,
and for the SEEs.
20.       In the agriculture sector the main ,oal was to resume growth, which
required an increase in agricultural productivity. Production growth was to
come from more intensive use of cultivated area, expanded multiple cropping,
crop yield increases, and an increase in the productivity of livestock. The
Government was not organized  to intensify the use of  either  of  these
resources (land or animals). A reorganization, consolidation and regionali-
zation of crop and animal husbandry research was required as well as an
improved system to establish and monitor priorities for technology transfer
and generation. Increased emphasis on product quality and the needs of the
importing countries was also required.
21.       In the energy sector an important factor in the reduction of the
energy deficit was the ability of the institutions involved to implement the
domestic energy development program.   Some of the more important energy
institutions, however, were facing serious problems, including the Turkish



Electric Authority (TEK), the Turkish Coal Mining Authority (TKI) and DSI,
the central authority responsible for water supply, waste disposal and major
hydro power projects in Turkey. These institutions had management teams with
uncertain terms of office, little autonomy even in day-to-day decisions, and
no real accountability. They suffered shortages of experienced professional
staff, especially engineers in key operating and planning departments, and
were losing experienced staff at an increasing rate because their salaries
were low, typically in late 1981 about one-third of those in the private
sector. Only the Turkish Petroleum Company (TPAO) had been less affected by
these problems, and was able through salary adjustments to retain qualified
staff.
22.       The institutional constraints in the energy sector were symptomatic
for the SEEs in general, most of which experienced a high turnover of skilled
staff and unfilled positions due to comparatively low pay scales. There was
considerable day-to-day political interference and individual plant managers
hes'tated  to  assume  responsibility  for  long-term  improvements.    Highly
centralized internal organizations stymied managerial initiative and made
adjustments to changing circumstances difficult.
23.       The institutional and managerial rigidities in agriculture, energy,
the SEEs, and indeed the Government itself made reform in these sectors
itself a problem of structural adjustment that could be achieved only over a
period of several years.   So in several areas, SALs II and III could only
begin a process  that would take years  to complete.   Generally this was
recognized in the design of the conditionalities, but there were exceptions.
Introduction of a value-added tax, scheduled for May 1982 under SAL II, has
yet to be realized. Reform of the export subsidy regime has proceeded at a
slower pace than SAL III anticipated, as has capital market development.
C.   Monitorability of the Action Program
24.       For most reforms a clear timetable was set for implementation.  Out
of the approximately 26 specific actions agreed under the 1982 SAL III loan,
18 were scheduled for implementation in the same year, of which seven were
completed in 1982 and the rest showed some progress in 1982. Of the two that
were scheduled for 1982/1983, one was completed on time and the second one
showed some progress in 1982/83. For the remaining six actions no date was
specified, since they required either more than one year for completion or
they were dependent on outside consultants for completion.   This suggests
that the action program was monitorable for the most part, in terms of timing
for completion.
25.       In terms of delegation  of  responsibility,  however,  there were
weaknesses.   The President's Report on SAL III repeatedly notes that "the
Government  would undertake implementation of various  reforms.   In most
cases, however the specific Government agency responsible for reform
implementation was not identified.   High turnover of managers in SEEs and
various sectoral agencies was another factor that made monitoring of the
action program difficult.



- 8 -
26.       From 1979 to 1983 various World Bank missions visited Turkey for
technical support and economic aad sector work in the areas of industry,
energy, agriculture, public sector investment, and the financial sector. The
reports written and the data compiled by these missions pointed to the areas
that were weak and needed immediate attention.   Also, the recommendations
that were given provided a f,amework on which work on macroeconomic and sec-
toral reforms could be undertaken. Follow-up missions that visited Turkey to
monitor progress after each SAL and general sector missions pointed out areas
in which more decisive attention was required.   Overall, the quantity and
quality of the Bank's technical support and economic work was timely and
adequate, with some exceptions at the macroeconomic level, to be discussed in
Chapter V below.
D.   Complementarity with IMF Program
27.       The Bank's support of the structural adjustment process from the
beginning involved a close working relationship with the IMF (see paras. 5-7
above). The Bank was in agreement with the Fund's basic position that stabi-
lization of the economy was an essential prerequisi-e for a return to a sus-
tainable growth path. The Bank took the view that the period of austerity,
necessary to bring inflation under control, redress the public finances, and
improve the balance of payments was needed to lay the groundwork for a major
restructuring of the Turkish economy.   Thus, the Fund's attention to the
country's monetary and fiscal balance, the maintenance of external competi-
tiveness, and SEE's financial performance complemented the Bank's structural
adjustment efforts in the areas of SEE reform, import liberalization, export
promotion, and rationalization of public investment (PCR, SAL II & III,
para. 18).
IV. IMPLEMENTATION OF SAL PROGRAMS
28.       The Government of Turkey immediately expanded its efforts to imple-
ment the policies outlined in its Statement of Development Policy for the
1981 Structural Adjustment Program under SAL II. The SAL III program extend-
ed the effort begun in SAL II, and expanded it in agriculture and energy.
Most of the specific policy actions were implemented on time (see para. 41).
The effects of the policy actions did not appear as quickly as expected in
some cases, however. This was especially true in the cases of institutional
reforms.
29.       The sections on implementation that follow concentrate on:
(a) the exact nature of policy actions implemented,
(b) the timetable for implementation compared to the program,
(c) overall success or failure of the policies, and



(d) the extent to which unresolved issues were carried over to the
fourth Structural Adjustment Loan.
A.   Domestic Resource Mobilization
30.       The programs agreed under SAL II included policies (a) to reform
the tax system to increase revenue and to stimulate saving and investment,
and (b) to maintain positive real interest rates and begin development of a
capital market, in order to mobilize domestic saving. These program objec-
tives were continued in SAL III; structural reform of financial markets
became a major objective in SAL IV.
31.       Tax Reform.  During the period of SAL II the Government initiated a
major tax reform package. The financial transaction tax was reduced from 25
percent to 15 percent in 1981, and to 3 percent in 1983, with an exemption
for development banks and exporters.  The sales and production taxes were
rationalized with extended coverage, in preparation for the value-added tax
(VAT).  In 1982, under SAL III, the minimum tax bracket in the personal
income tax was reduced and the corporate profits tax rate was reduced from 50
to 40 percent.   Also in 1982, a Tax Court law was enacted to reduce tax
evasion.   The number of tax controllers was more than doubled, with an
increased budget for tax collection (PCR, para. 25).
32.       Other tax reforms were also to be implemented.  Indexing of various
tax brackets and penalties was to take place by December 1981, and the VAT
tax was to be introduced in 1982. Although the authorities started work on
these reforms, some have not yet been implemented.   The Bill for VAT was
referred to the consultative assembly by the National Security Council, but
after consultation with the World Bank it was agreed that implementation was
not feasible before 1983 (PCR, paras. 23-25). The VAT was only enacted on
January 1, 1985. In terms of indexing of various tax brackets the Government
was given authority to adjust tax rates by up to 100 percent to take account
of inflation, but actual indexation has not been achieved.
33.       In the short run, the tax measures have made a modest contribution
to an increase in revenue, which together with expenditure control, reduced
the budget deficit from 5.3 percent of GNP in 1980 to 2.1 percent in 1982.
The deficit, however, worsened to about 3.3 percent of GNP in 1983, as a
result of rapidly rising budget expenditures. Tax revenue has shown little
buoyance over the medium term: its share in GNP has remained more or less
constant during 1980-83.  Patient and determined efforts will be necessary
over the coming years to mobilize adequate financial resources to match the
expenditures envisaged in the fifth five-year plan (1984-89). The Borrower,
in his comments (see Attachment), has furnished revised data for tax revenue
and the fiscal deficit; they do not, however, change the substance of the
argument for a substantially improved fiscal effort.



- 10 -
Table 1: CONSOLIDATED CENTRAL GOVERNMENT BUDGET
(In billions of Turkish lira)
1980        1981         1982        1983
Revenues                           838        1,329       1,424        2,156
Direct taxes
Indirect taxes                   471          768         826        1,149
Nontax Revenue                   279          422         479          784
88         139          119         223
Expenditures
Transfers to SEEs              1,073        1,503       1,575        2,533
213         214          233         292
Budget Balance
-235        -174         -151        -377
Memoranda Items:
(in percent of GNP)
Revenues                            18.9         20.3        19.6         18.8
of which:
Tax Revenues                     (16.9)       (18.2)      (14.9)       (16.8)
Expenditures                        24.2         22.9        21.6         22.1
of which:
Transfers to SEEs                 (4.8)        (3.3)       (3.2)        (2.5)
Budget Balance                      -5.3         -2.7        -2.1         -3.3
34.       Reform of the Capital Market.  Under SAL II a Capital Market Bill
was enacted to develop and regulate the capital market.  The Bill had three
main aspects.   First, it established a legal framework for the issue and
trading of shares and bonds, by setting up a new high council on regulation
and  control  of  Capital Markets.    Second,  it  introduced  regulation  of
financial intermediaries dealing in stocks and bonds.   Third, it allowed
banks to establish a Stock Investment Fund for the purpose of operating a
stock  portfolio.    The  Bill was  to take  the essential  first  steps  in
developing the Capital Market through establishing an independent Capital
Market Board. One objective of the Bill was to increase the flow of private
savings by offering savers a wider portfolio choice, in a financial market
that was dominated by commercial banks and small savers.
35.       The Capital Market Law was enacted in July 1981 and the Capital
Market Board was set up on February 1, 1982.   After the law was enacted,
banks began to issue profit-sharing certificates permitting them to provide
additional financing.   The Board has published accounting standards and in
1982-83 it supervised 92 bond issues and 174 stock issues. The coverage of
the Board is still very small; of some 25,000 joint stock companies in
Turkey, only 564 are publicly held and 535 of these are in the purview of the



- 11 -
Capital Market Board.4/ So while the specific policy steps have been taken,
the organized capital market is still insignificant for financing private
investment (as of September 1984).
36.       Deregulation  of  Interest  Rates.    To  stimulate  savings  and
rationalize investment the Government continued its policy of maintaining
positive real interest rates on deposits and deregulation of interest rates
on loans. Deposit rates have been generally positive, in real terms, since
1981,  as  have  non-preferential  loan  rates.    Real  deposits  increased
significantly in 1981 and 1982 as savings appeared to flow into the banking
system.
37.       The Government also has raised the rates it pays on bill issues to
positive levels, competitive with bank deposits. Further structural reforms
of the financial markets and banking system have been undertaken under SAL
IV. The Government has generally followed through on agreed policy actions
in the financial and banking sector. There remain serious doubts about the
stability of the financial sector, questions about the reasons for the high
level of real interest rates, and concern about their effect on the solvency
of companies and the level of investment. These topics will be discussed in
Chapter V below.
B. Export Promotion
38.       The Government's program under SALs II and III emphasized export
promotion by (a) continued maintenance of a -realistic and flexible- exchange
rate, (b) improving financial incentives for exports, and (c) improving the
institutional and administrative framework for exports. The policy of daily
adjustment of the exchange rate against a currency basket, to keep it in line
with the inflation differential, had been adopted after the -maxl" devalua-
tiLon of January 1980.   This policy was continued, even accelerated.   The
result has been a fairly steady real depreciation of the lira in effective
terms, increasing the competitiveness of Turkish exports.
39.       Financial Incentives for Exports.   Financial incentives include
varying degrees of tax exemption-up to 100 percent for contractors- on
export earnings; credit subsidies for exporters; a direct subsidy in the form
of a percentage tax rebate on export earnings; and duty-free imports of
inputs entering into the production of exports.   The tax exemptions were
enacted in the tax reform package under SAL II.  They cover all industrial
exports and some agricultural exports.
40.       Credit subsidies include lower borrowing rates for exporters and
measures requiring commercial banks to maintain a minimum fraction of their
portfolio in export loans. The direct subsidy takes the form of a payment in
Turkish lira equal to a fraction of lira export earnings that varies across
4/   These data come from an interview with the Chairmaa of the Capital
Market Board.



- 12 -
commodities.  The level of the subsidy has been reduced over time, and stood
at about 16 percent on average in 1984.   The subsidy rate increases for
exporters earning over US$50 million in foreign exchange.   The subsidy is
generally described (by Turkey and by the World Bank) as a tax rebate, since
it is a substitute for the VAT rebate available to European exporters.   It
appears,   however, that the subsidy rate is not systematically related to
taxes paid by exporting firms. During SAL III, rebate of duties on imported
inputs into exports was introduced.
41.       The Government recognizes the need to phase out financial incen-
tives for exports, moving toward use of a realistic exchange rate as the
principal export incentive.   A study of the export  incentive  system is
mandated under SAL IV.  The surge of exports in early 1984 after the real
depreciation was resumed (following a pause in 1983) provides evidence for
the rapid response of exports to the real exchange rate.
42.       Institutional  and  Administrative  Framework.    There  was  to be
continued improvement in the institutional and administrative framework for
exports under SAL II-III including the establishment of a permanent Export
Credit Insurance Agency, and of free trade zones, through enactment of two
separate Bills.  Also, it was planned to revitalize the already established
export promotion center to make it effective and to encourage the
establishment of an export promotion organization by the private sector.
Following an internal Government study it was decided to set up a new
public/private export promotion center and in the meantime a small
privately-operated center was established. Two regional fruit and vegetable
marketing corporations were established under a Bank-assisted fruit and
vegetable project.
43.       There were areas in which progress was not as fast as desired.  The
Bill to establish a Free Trade Zone was enacted as law not in 1981, but later
in 1983.   The  Bill  to establish an Export  Cred4t  Insurance Agency was
deferred because of the high costs associated with such a scheme. A recomr-
mendation to introduce export credit insurance was made again in a Financial
Sector Report (1983), and the feasibility of the proposal was to be reviewed
in the study of export incentives proposed under SAL IV.
44.       The Government of Turkey has shown a firm commitment to export-
oriented growth. This commitment was renewed by the new administration that
took office in December 1983.  Export performance has been strong since the
SAL program began. Total exports in US dollars grew by an annual average of
16.9 percent from 1980 to 1983 and by 32 percent in the first half of 1984.
Growth in exports to the Middle East has been particularly rapid, but the
growth of other exports was a healthy 7.7 percent over the same period. In
1980 exports covered 37 percent of imports; by 1983 this figure was 62
percent.  The reorientation of industry toward exporting is clear; movement
toward reliance on the exchange rate instead of direct incentives should
leave the export sector strong and growing.



- 13 -
C.   Import Liberalization
45.       The Government had made clear in 1980 its intention to open the
Turkish economy to competition from abroad.   Its long-term policy was that
import restrictions would not be used to protect domestic producers.  The
main feature of the 1981 import regime under SAL I was the abolition of the
quota list. According to the SAL II Completion Report, all items on the
quota list were transferred to two import licensing liberalized lists.   Of
the 312 items previously on the quota list, 100 items were moved to the more
liberalized list I, which consisted of items which were noncompetitive with
domestic production.   The remaining 212 items, which accounted for most of
the imports (US dollar value) and mainly included machinery and capital
goods, were shifted to the intermediate category, liberalized list II (PR,
SAL II, paras. 59-60). Further shifts were made from list II to list I in
1982 and 1983, under SAL III (PCR, para. 35).
46.       The Government also made arrangements to undertake the agreed long
term study of Turkey's protection and incentive system. The World Bank was
to propose detailed organizational arrangements for this study and provide
financing for it (PR, SAL II, para. 10).   The study was scheduled  for
completion by end of 1982. Although it was undertaken and a paper entitled
Coefficients of Import Tariffs and Interpretation of Results was drafted,
the study was not completed until two years later in February 1984.  The
results of the study are to guide further tariff rationalization.
47.       The degree of quota elimination under SAL II-III is ambiguous and
requires clarification. As noted above, the SAL II PCR announced the elimin-
ation of quotas in 1981, with quota items shifted to the two liberalized
lists  (PCR,  para.  22).    However,  in early  1984,  the Government  also
eliminated (or greatly reduced) quotas, simultaneously imposing new tariffs.
Borrower representatives cited to the audit mission the removal of 75 percent
of existing quotas in January 1984. This is confirmed by an internal Bank
memorandum of February 8, 1984 which also refers to the removal of quotas on
a number of items in early 1984.  iNote:  perhaps the shift to a licensing
list in 1981 was interpreted as elimination of quotas in the earlier
reports .1
48.       The trend under SALs II-IlI was toward import liberalization, as
items were shifted from less liberal to more liberal lists.   Again, the
Government's general commitment to movement toward an open, trade-oriented
system was clear.  After the shifts in 1981, there was little movement on
import liberalization until early 1984, during the SAL IV period.    In
January, 1984 existing quotas were largely replaced by what seems to be an
escalated tariff system providing effective protection for manufacturing.  At
the same time the installation of a variable Housing Fund duty on imports
with domestic competition provided a flexible instrument that is used in
general to keep Turkish lira prices of competitive imports above those of
home production. Thus the degree of actual import liberalization is not yet
clear. This topic is taken up in Chapter V.



- 14 -
D.   Rationalization of Public Investment
49.       Under the SAL program, the Government was to rationalize its public
investment program. The level of investment was to be brought in line with
available resources. Resources were to be concentrated on a smaller number
of major projects with reasonably early completion dates. Priorities among
projects were to be allocated as follows: First, among sectors priority was
to be given to agricultural projects in view of the export potential of the
sector; to energy projects, so as to remove bottlenecks; and to communica-
tions and transportation projects, to facilitate industrial and agricultural
production.   Second, priority was to be given to export-oriented projects,
particularly those in agriculture. Third, within the sectoral priorities,
projects were to be grouped as follows:
(a)  high priority project, which could be completed within 24 months,
where there was substantial sunk capital, and where high cash flows
were expected;
(b) profitable projects, the additional requirements of which exceeded
the resources available to the public sector;
Cc) reserve projects of uncertain merits were to be subject to further
study or to be eliminated from the program.
50.       Under SAL II, public investment resources were to be concentrated
on the high priority projects.   The Government was  to have  profitable
projects implemented through equity participation of the private sector.
This objective faded into the background in 1982-83; it reappeared with force
in the 1984 program.  Under SAL III the high priority goal was defined as
direction of 85 percent of public investment funds into about 100 defined
high priority projects.
51.       The Government was expected to discuss the report of the World
Bank's public investment review mission, around May 1981, and take account of
the views expressed in the preparation of the 1982 public investment program
(PR, SAL II, paras. 65-69). This was done in September/November 1981 due to
delays on the part of the World Bank. There was some progress in rationali-
zation in the 1982 public investment program. Within the key sectors, there
was a redirection toward communication, energy, and agriculture.   On the
project level, due to the large size of the program, with slightly over 8,000
ongoing projects V it was obvious that a significant reduction in the number
of projects, to shorten completion time, could only be attained over a number
of years.
52.       Redirection of the public investment program toward infrastructure,
and restraint of its overall growth, were continued in SAL III. In fact in
5/   For a listing of projects in progress, see Annex II of President's
Report on SAL II.



- 15 -
1983 the growth of public investment of 1.9 percent fell far short of the
programmed 4.8 percent.  Emphasis in SAL III was also placed on the use of
economic criteria for selection of public investments and training of project
analysts. The EDI course in 1983 in Ankara was only a modest success, how-
ever.   It did not attract relevant personnel from decision-making minist-
ries.
53.       The thrust of the Bank and the Government program to restrain the
aggregate growth of public investment and redirect its composition toward
social infrastructure made sense, and the Government has made good progress
on this front.   However, the shift from simple rule of thumb restraint and
reallocation to economic selection of projects has been slow in coming.  It
was planned in SAL IV, but is still at best incomplete.  The topic will be
discussed in more depth in Chapter V.
E.   Energy Sector Policy
54.       In the SAL II program, and its continuation in SAL III, energy was
the sector of first priority for both public investment and policy formula-
tion. To assist in the elaboration of an overall view of energy issues, the
Government and the World Bank agreed to make a sector-wide study.   Major
changes in the areas of energy pricing, conservation, organization of the
sector, and encouragement of exploration were to be part of the Government's
energy policy in SAL II.
55.       Energy Pricing.  The Government was to follow the policy of pricing
energy resources at levels which broadly reflected the cost of these
resources in international terms.  While there wer3 some exceptions to this
rule, this meant that several adjustments had to be made to domestic energy
prices to keep up with both domestic inflation and world price changes.  To
rationalize energy prices the Government made frequent adjustment of energy
prices in 1981 and 1982, bringing prices in line with international prices.
Major adjustments of other products were also undertaken, i.e., coal prices
were increased in March 1982 by an average of 20 percent, and prices of
lignite and power were also increased.
56.       Conservation Measures.  A draft law was to be prepared, which would
create a new unit within the Ministry of Energy and National Resources - the
Energy Survey Administration - under which all energy conservation activi-
ties, energy audits, enforcement, etc., was to be centralized. There was no
date specified for the enactment of the law, and by the end of the SAL III
period the draft law was still under consideration (PR, SAL III, para. 96).
It was, however, passed during SAL IV, in 1983.
57.       Organizational  Changes.    The  intensification  of  energy  policy
called for the need to strengthen certain public agencies in the energy
sector. The following organizational changes were to take place.
(a) A proposal was being developed to reorganize the management struc-
ture of Turkish Petroleum Corporation (TPAO) into five operating



- 16 -
agencies for exploration and exploitation, for refining, for pipe-
lines, for marketing and distribution, and petrochemicals, each
with its own budget. This was to improve the overall TPAO opera-
tions and to ensure that emergency budgetary demands in one area of
operation did not interfere with the ongoing work in other areas.
There was no date specified for the reorganization, but it was
implemented as part of a SEE reform decree in 1983. This reorgani-
zation was reversed in 1984.
(b) A draft bill was to be prepared to provide for redefinition of
Turkish Coal Enterprises (TKI) responsibilities. TKI was to pro-
vide lignite to users with close proximity to its large mines, and
fuel for industrial users and power generation. Private firms were
to assume the task of mining and supplying other uses. This dives-
titure was to reduce the need for subsidiaries to TKI, and to
narrow its management responsibilities to the main area of its
operations mentioned above. No data was specified for preparation
of the law. However, the law was prepared in the SAL II period,
following the development of private mining of lignite and redefi-
nition of TKI's responsibilities (PCR, para. 27).
(c) A draft bill was to be enacted for takeover of Turkish Electricity
Authority's (TEK) municipal distribution of power by autonomous
companies. The law was enacted in the SAL II period (PCR, para.
27).
58.       Oil Exploration.  Several decrees were issued during 1980 to encou-
rage private Turkish and foreign companies to engage in exploration activi-
ties. The decrees contained statements of operating procedures and certain
guarantees, including a guarantee of 35 percent of oil production as company
equity free to be exported.  In response to this, eight foreign companies
visited Turkey in 1980 and discussed exploration possibilities and clarified
certain issues relating to taxation. Later in 1981 and 1982 sixteen licenses
were issued to private companies for exploration of oil, and consultants were
hired to advise and promote foreign investments.
F.   Agricultural Sector Policy
59.       Support of agricultural sector policies was introduced in SAL II
and refined under SAL III.   The objective was productivity growth through
efficiency improvements and shifting the crop mix toward areas of Turkey's
comparative advantage. SALs II and III concentrated on efficiency improve-
ments that can be grouped under three headings:   institutional reform,
rationalization of support prices, and rationalization and gradual elimina-
tion of input subsidies. In addition, export incentives were to be provided,
mainly by investments to remove transport bottlenecks. The share of agricul-
ture in the public investment budget was targeted at 11 percent in SAL IV.
This share turned out to be 9.8 percent in 1982 and 11.5 percent in 1983.



- 17 -
60.       Institutional Reform.  The Government realized that the effective-
ness of public programs in agriculture could be increased through the reor-
ganization of responsibilities within the sector and particularly within the
Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. The objective of the planned reorgani-
zation was to streamline and improve the delivery of agricultural extension
and related support services to agricultural producers.  No date was speci-
fied for such a reorganization, but the undertaking was envisaged as a long
term process. During the period of SALs II and III substantial progress was
reported. Government approved and carried out internal reorganization of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry.  Substantial progress was achieved in
both provincial and central reorganization and new provincial directors were
appointed in most of the provinces. Reorganization of the Agricultural Bank
to allow more credit to reach small and medium-sized farmers, and generally
to increase the efficiency of the agricultural credit system, was begun dur-
ing SAL III. Reform of the agricultural credit system was a continuing pro-
blem at the end of SAL III, but was not addressed in SAL IV.
61.       Support Prices.  Estimates of the input and product price relation-
ships were made for 1980-81 and were to provide the basis for annual changes
in support prices, in order to provide incentives for increased production,
and to maintain or improve the competitive position in export markets.   A
coordinated price analysis was carried out to determine price levels for
wheat, sugar beet and oilseeds, which comprised the most important items for
export and for import substitution.   The number of support commodities was
reduced from 25 to 16, and the real value of budgetary and financial costs of
support prices was reduced.
62.       Input Subsidies.  It was the intention of the Government in 1981 to
eliminate all fertilizer subsidies within five years. The five-year plan was
to give farmers time to adjust to higher prices for fertilizers and the five
percent sales tax on their marketed production.  The Government was also to
encourage increased fertilizer production from existing domestic capacity and
to reduce the import requirement for finished fertilizer. Fertilizer prices
have been raised, and the subsidy on the retail price reduced.  This remained
an issue for SALs IV and V, with the five-year phase-out period.
63.       During SALs II and III, important steps were taken toward eventual
reform of the agricultural sector.  But these were only the initial steps,
and some mandated actions, such as improvement in statistics on land use and
production (SAL III) are clearly very long run projects, not completed in SAL
III nor carried over to SAL IV.
G.   Reform of the State Economic Enterprises
64.       The State Economic Enterprises (SEEs) have been important economic
institutions in Turkey since the 1920s. They were a major instrument in the
import substitution industrialization that developed the manufacturing sector
that indeed was able to shift toward exporting in the 1980s.   In 1980,
however,  it was generally agreed that the SEEs were too inefficient.   In
addition to production of the usual services and infrastructure provided by



- 18 -
the public sector, about 40 percent of manufacturing output was provided by
SEES.   Their aggregate losses in the late 1970s were 4 percent of GNP.
Financing these losses was a major source of the budget deficit. Therefore
the Government and the World Bank agreed from the beginning of SAL I that the
size of the SEE sector should be reduced, SEE efficiency should be improved,
and SEE activity should be redirected coward provision of the usual public
goods.    The  SEEs were  to be  reoriented  toward economic and  financial
objectives.
65.       In 1980 the SEEs were largely cut off from direct financing by the
Central Bank, and their access to the budget was limited. They were freed to
raise prices and did so, in some cases by 200 percent.  This reduced their
aggregated gross loss from 3.3 percent of GNP in 1979 to 0.1 percent in 1980,
and also reduced their Lontribution to the budget deficit.
66.       The SEE reform program under SALs II-III was aimed at exposing them
to more rigorous external economic conditions and at generating internal
reforms. The restricted, if not altogether eliminated, access to the public
budget and freedom to price to "market conditions continued (although prices
were again suppressed in 1983 prior to the election). The redirection of the
public investment program toward infrastructure greatly slowed the growth of
manufacturing SEEs.  A series of internal refora actions were prc-posed to
freeze hiring, increase management efficiency and productivity, and eliminate
credit subsidies. Some of these measures were implemented during the period
of SALs II-III. The major reform decree was delayed until May 1983, however,
and the internal reforms other than the personnel reduction were not evident
in July 1984.  The SEE reform until then was mainly redirection of public
investment, cutting access to public funds, and pricing to market
conditions. The following paragraphs review the specific actions taken under
the SAL II-III program.
67.       Improved Investments.  The quality of the SEE's investment program
was considerably improved through the increased rationalization of the public
investment program.   After years of grouth, the size of the program as a
percent of GNP was reduced, projects were dropped or reevaluated, self-
financing increased, and ftnds were directed away from manufacturing towards
infrastructure.   The program was reviewed by the World Bank, and to help
SEE's prepare future projects, US$10 million equivalent was allocated to hire
consultants.
68.       Reduced Access to Concessionary Funds.  Measures were taken to in-
crease the cost and reduce the availability of soft funds, to which SEEs had
enjoyed easy access in the past. The 1981 program decree for SEE cut off all
SEE from their previous direct access to the Central Bank, except for two
export-oriented agricultural purchasing SEEs; the interest rate they paid was
raised in July 1980. Other SEEs were to seek short-term financing from com-
mercial banks on the same terms as private firms, which substantially
increased their cost of capital.   Foreign exchange loans contracted by the
Government were to be made available to operational SEEs through the State
Investment Bank (DYB).   DYB increased its interest rate from 14 to 21.5



- 19 -
percent in 1980 and began to charge market rates in 1981. To permit SEEs to
borrow commercially on an increasing scale in the future, the Government
studied ways to strengthen their capital structure.
69.       Financial Structure of SEEs.   The overall financial structure of
the SEEs may not have improved.   This structure is summarized in Table 1,
which shows the sources of funds for total SEE "financing requirement" plus
net tax payments.   Borrowing from the Central Bank was reduced to zero by
1983. But budget transfers were up to 37 percent of the total requirements,
and short-term borrowing plus net arrears were up to 30 percent in 1983.
This could indicate an overall weakening of SEE financial structure under
SALs II-III.
Table 2: FINANCING OF SEEs
1980       1981        1982       1983
Financing requirement plus net
tax payments (Billion TL)                474         621        625       794
(percent)                    100        100        100        100
Distribution across sources
(percent)                  100         100        100        100
Budgetary transfers                          32         38         33         32
Borrowing from Central Bank                  11          5          5          0
State Investment Bank                         3          3          9          4
Foreign Borrowing                            14         20         17         17
Transfers from Price
Stabilization Fund                          6         12         12         12
Short-term Borrowing plus
Net Arrears                               34          22         24         39
Source: Turkey DIS, Table 4.4.
70.       Management and Staffing.   To improve management quality, it was
decided to offer multi-year contracts to SEE managers, and to increase their
salaries to more acceptable levels.   The law enabling multi-year contracts
for senior SEE managers was passed in November 1981 and modest salary
increases resulted in February 1982 (PR, SAL III, Annex VI, p. 4).   The
Government also took steps to reduce overstaffing, within the constraint that
personnel cannot be laid off.  The 1981 program decree froze employment in
the SEEs at the level of November 30, 1980.   New hiring could be done for
replacement only; it was limited to replacement up to 50 percent of the
normal complement at the plant level, and to be done from within as far as
possible.   The program was successful in reducing employment levels well
below program ceilings.



- 20 -
H.   Summary on Program Implementation
71.       From the start of SAL I the Government of Turkey was firmly com-
mitted to the structural adjustment program. The Statements of Development
Policy for SALs II and III outlined a number of policy reforms that had to be
implemented to bring about stability and growth to the economy.   Overall,
substantial progress was made in implementation of the structural adjustment
program during SALs II and III. The major achievements in SAL IT were in the
areas of tax reform, interest rate policy and trade reforms.   Most tax
reforms were implemented as planned; the ones that were delayed were not
feasible within the time envisaged.  The interest rate deregulation raised
interest rates to positive, if excessively high levels. Policies to promote
exports led to substantial improvements in export performance as reflected in
the rise in the volume of total exports. Import liberalization measures were
satisfactory and consistent with Government's intention of liberalization on
a step-by-step basis. Implementation of investment reform was satisfactory,
but more time was needed to rationalize the investment program due to the
large number of ongoing projects.  Implementation within the sectors, how-
ever, required more time, and the program was stretched into SALs IV-V. In
the energy sector timely progress was made on adjustment of prices, but
institutional reforms turned out to be more time-consuming.
72.       There was some impact on institution building during the period of
SAL III, but more technical support was needed from the World Bank to over-
come prevailing problems.   Although the Bank provided nseful advice for
improving institutional capability, the technical support was not sufficient
to cause a major change.  SALs by their nature (providing quick access to
foreign exchange for investment, production and employment), are not designed
to cause major institutional changes in a relatively short time.
73.       The policy reforms carried out under SALs II and III, the financial
support those loans provided for the balance of payments, and the support
from the IMF stand-by undoubtedly contributed to the improved short-term per-
formance of the Turkish economy in 1981-83. After declining for two years,
industrial output grew at an average annual rate of 5.9 percent. Growth in
industrial exports had already begun at rates of 6.1 percent in 1978 and 26.4
percent in  1979.   In  1980 industrial exports were approximately US$1
billion. Under the SAL program, by 1983 they had more than tripled to US$3.7
billion. The underlying rate of inflation was reduced from about 70 percent
to under 30 percent.
74.       There were remaining problems, of course.  The financial structare
of SEEs remains weak. Private investment is very low, possibly implying a
supply-side constraint when expansion begins.   Real interest rates are
high, contributing to the slow pace of investment and potential financial
instability. It is not clear how the transition to a longer-term growth path
will be achieved.   This suggests the need for a medium-term framework for
policy for this transition, a framework which still did not exist at the end
of SAL III, but may be implicit in the 1985-89 plan that was published in
mid-1984, at the end of SAL IV.



- 21 -
I.   IMF Operations
75.       Turkey purchased the full amount (SDR 1.25 billion) available under
the three-year stand-by agreement signed in June 1980 (see para. 6), with the
last of twelve purchases taking place on May 2, 1983. The agreed performance
criteria were all deemed to have been met at a review conducted in May, 1983
76.       Following completion of the three-year agreement, a new one-year
stand-by in an amount of SDR 225 million was approved in June 1983. Upon
election of a new Government in December, 1983, Turkey requested cancellation
of the existing stand-by and its replacement with a new one-year arrangement
in an amount equivalent to SDR 225 million. This proposal was approved in
early April 1984 by the Fund's Executive Board and immediately went into
effect. Conditions of the new stand-by were broadly similar to the previous
ones.
V. MAJOR ISSUES
77.       The general thrust of the process of structural adjustment in
Turkey since 1981 has been to open the economy to foreign competition in
order to promote manufacturing exports, and to shrink the SEE sector and
increase its efficiency. These objectives were supported from the beginning
of SAL I.   Gradually, sector reforms in energy and agriculture, and in
finance were added to the process.  The general direction of the structural
adjustment program is commendable, and deserving of SAL support.  However,
there are some specific issues that call for further evaluation. These are
raised in this Chapter of the audit report.
78.       The Governmpnt of Turkey, with the support of the IMF and the World
Bank, has initiated reform in a wide range of sectors, using a wide variety
of policy instruments.   This has been done very rapidly, in a process that
gained momentum in 1981, flagged somewhat in 1983, but returned in full force
in 1984. Perhaps it is inevitable that in a period of such rapid change in
policy, unanticipated problems arise. These can be in areas of policy action
based on hasty or insufficient analysis, unanticipated conflicts or inconsis-
tencies between seemingly separate policies, or problems in moving from
policy decision to implementation.
79.       An example of an unanticipated result may be that the combination
of a policy of real depreciation to improve export competitiveness plus the
policy of virtually freeing the foreign exchange market requires real
interest rates in Turkey to exceed those abroad by the expected rate of real
depreciation. This problem will be discussed in some detail below; here it
is only mentioned as an example of policies having unexpected results that
could have been anticipated by more thorough analysis.  We now review the
issues, beginning with aspects of SEE reform.



- 22 -
A.   Reform and Pricing Policy of the SEEs
80.       An important aspect of the structural adjustment program since SAL
I has been reform of the State Economic Enterprises (SEEs).  In addition to
producing the usual range of public services, the SEEs produce approximately
40 percent of manufacturing output in Turkey, plus a significant fraction of
agricultural output such as milk, sugar, and tea. Much of the SEE output is
intermediate goods: for example iron and steel, cement, paper, fertilizer.
The SEEs are generally considered to be inefficient, with lower productivity
than the private sector, and with bureaucratic management not oriented toward
risk, innovation, and profit.   In 1979, the year before SAL I, SEE sales
revenue was 19.5 percent of GNP, and the SEEs' 'oisses were three-quarters of
the public sector borrowing requirement of 8.6 percent of GNP.   The SEE
system needed reform.
81.       The main thrust of the SEE reform program to date has been to place
the SEEs in a more competitive environment, to free them to raise prices to
adjust to market conditions, and to reduce drastically their access to public
funds. The SEEs' access to financing through the Central Government budget
has been substantially reduced, as has been their access to investment
financing by  the Central Bank.   The public investment budget has been
reduced, and redirected from the manufacturing SEEs to infrastructure.  In
1981-82 there was some discussion of privatization of manufacturing SEEs.
This diminished in 1983, but has reappeared as policy in 1984, with the
establishment of a privatization wing in the office of the Prime Minister.
The SEEs are now free to set their own prices, within fairly loose supervi-
sion by the office of the Deputy Undersecretary of Treasury and Foreign Trade
for SEEs.
82.       This reform package has improved the SEEs' profit position, and
reduced somewhat their drain on the budget.  In 1980, when SEE prices were
first raised substantially, their sales revenue increased by 167 percent,
with sales rising from 19.5 to 25.8 of GNP. This ratio was up to 30 percent
in 1982 and 1983. In 1982 the SEEs still accounted for three-quarters of the
public sector borrowing requirement, but the latter was down to 5.8 percent
of GNP from a peak of 10.1 percent in 1980. The reform package described in
the previous paragraph will shrink the manufacturing SEE sector by attrition,
and produce an economic Darwinist result. The survivors will be those which
can raise their prices enough to become profitable, and invest by normal
financing procedures.
83.       However, little was done to improve the management structure and
internal efficiency of the SEEs during the SAL II-III period. Budget trans-
fers were limited and a hiring freeze has been imposed. But internal reform
just began with the reform decree of May 1983, and that reform was stalled by
the election politics of 1983.   In March 1984, the Bank made a technical
assistance loan of US$7.6 million to support a serious beginning of internal
reform in the SEEs.   The previous  program promoted efficiency at best
indirectly by squeezing the SEEs, perhaps now direct action on management
techniques and production and marketing efficiency will be possible.



- 23 -
84.       The SEE pricing policy supported by SALs II and III has several
potentially troublesome aspects.  Since 1980, the SEEs have been encouraged
to be profit-oriented; SAL IV put in a minimum profit target of 0.6 percent
of GNP. In their pursuit of profits, the SEEs are free to raise their prices
subject to clearance from the relevant ministry and the Deputy Undersecretary
for Treasury and Foreign Trade for SEEs. As noted above, by raising prices,
especially in early 1980, the SEEs in aggregate increased sales revenue from
19.5 percent of GNP in 1979 to 30.4 percent in 1982.   The 167 percent
increase in SEE revenue in 1980 most likely understates their average price
increase, since non-agricultural output fell by about 2 percent that year.
The fact that revenues have increased substantially when prices were increas-
ed means that the demand curves facing the SEEs are relatively inelastic.
This, in turn, is the traditional indicator of market power. Given the pres-
sure on the SEE management to produce profits, and the absence of systematic
regulation based on cost or rate of return, it seems likely that many of the
SEEs are monopoly pricing, above competitive levels.
85.       The administration of the SEEs and the import regime by the rele-
vant Deputy Undersecretary for Treasury and Foreign Trade is consistent with
a monopoly pricing hypothesis. Even after the liberalization of the import
regime in January 1984, some 300 items, which are 20 percent of import value,
remain under license.  These are mainly items that compete with domesti-
cally-produced manufactures, or inputs to manufacturing, all SEE products.
The license scheme is generally applied to keep the import price slightly
above the price of the domestic product.  Thus import competition does not
seem to police SEE pricing. In fact, the opposite might be a more accurate
description of the system.
86.       On first impression, the frequent changes in flexible duties might
appear to be confusing or disruptive to the SEEs or to private industry. For
example, the import duty on paper was raised in January, April, and May 1984,
and a Housing Fund duty was imposed in April. In July 1984 plans were being
made co reduce the tariff. However, even though this behavior might seem to
increase uncertainty, it seems that domestic producers understand the policy
of generally keeping the import price a bit above the domestic price. This
view was confirmed by discussion with private sector business people and SEE
managers. They seem to be aware that, within limits that are not well defin-
ed, they can raise prices under an umbrella of protection.
87.       If SEEs are pricing above marginal costs and earning monopoly pro-
fits, this has implications for private sector manufacturing companies. Much
of SEE output is input to the private sector.  To the extent that the SEEs
earn monopoly profits, these may come at the expense of profits in the pri-
vate sector using SEE output as input. This could contribute to the profit
squeeze and potential financial instability discussed in paragraphs 95 to 102
below.
88.       A combination of severa] factors leads to consideration of the
hypothesis that at least some of the SEEs are monopoly pricing.   These
factors, to summarize, are relative freedom in price setting, pressure to be



- 24 -
profitable, and implicit protection from the import regime.  Each of these
factors does indeed seem to exist.  Monopoly pricing remains a hypothesis,
however.   One would have to perform an industrial organization study of
costs, profits, and market structure in each case to determine the existence
and extent of monopoly pricing.  However, perhaps policy thinking on SEEs,
especially those producing public services, should move toward suitable regu-
lation schemes and away from simple profit criteria.
B.   Public Investment Reform
89.       Under the structural adjustment program public sector investment
was to be reduced and redirected toward provision of infrastructure. It was
also to be concentrated on completion of major projects. In broad terms this
program has been carried out.   The public investment program has been
redirected; in the new five-year plan for 1984-89 there are no new public
investment projects in manufacturing. The completion rate has also greatly
improved. Thus the stated SAL objectives are being met in this area.
90.       The rationale for determining the desired level of public invest-
ment has been unclear in the structural adjustment program. This was not a
serious problem early in the program, where the obvious direction for policy
was to reduce public investment in manufacturing and to redirect it towards
projects that had high returns and could be completed reasonably quickly.
But by 1984 the program may have reached a level and composition that require
a clear view of the desired level.
91.       One view of the effects of public investment that pervades the
World Bank documents is that it -crowds out- private investment.  The most
recent manifestation of this view is in the SAL V President's Report: -This
led to the evolution of a public investment program whose size encroached on
private savings..." (para. 42).  It is generally true that in a well-func-
tioning ecoaomy at full employment with approximately fixed private saving,
financing the government deficit competes with private investment.   But
Turkey has not been such an economy for quite some time. The data for public
and private investment are shown in Table 2. There is no correlation among
the contemporaneous data. If the private investment changes are lagged one
year on the assumption that the crowding out takes time, there is a slight
positive correlation, possibly indicating -crowding in.'
Table 3: PERCENT CHANGES IN REAL FIXED INVESTMENT
FROM PREVIOUS YEAR
1978       1979       1980        1981       1982        1983
Public            -13.7        4.6       -3.7         9.4        2.2         1.8
Private           - 6.1      -11.6      -17.3        -8.7        5.5         4.8



- 25 -
92.       There are three reasons why puhblic investment might induce, or
.crowd in" private investment. First, by expanding demand it might improve
profit prospects.   Second, if it increases income it will raise saving.
Third, public investment in infrastrcture may raise the marginal productivity
of private investment.   So the "crowding out" argument cannot serve as a
general argument for reducing public investment.
93.       This point is important for the assessment of the 1983 results.
Public investment in 1983 was programmed to increase 4.8 percent, but the
actual increase was only 1.7 percent, as shown in the table above. Private
investment was programmed for a 7.0 percent increase; actual was 4.8 per-
cent. The combined shortfall in investment contributed to the slowdown in
growth of real GNP. If the programmed 4.8 percent increase was based on an
economic rationale, the shortfall is undesirable.   If policy is simply to
reduce public investment as far as political pressure will permit, the short-
fall is a good thing. In the absence of a clear rationale for the choice of
the programed level, it is hard to choose between these two views.
94.       The public investment program has been successful at the macro
level in reducing the size of the program and redirecting it from manufactur-
ing toward infrastructure. However, the program still needs to be reviewed
and evaluated at the micro level using the usual public finance criteria.
Eventually, the program should be formulated and published on a multi-year
basis with geographical and sector disaggregation.   Then the program would
also be useful for planning by private sector investors.
C.  Financial Market Instability
95.       Real interest rates have been extremely high in Turkey throughout
the course of the programs of stabilization and structural adjustment since
1980. While there was some slippage in 1983, on average demand management
has also been quite austere. The combination of restrained domestic demand
and high real interest rates can make it difficult for firms oriented toward
the domestic market to service their debt to the banking system.   Turkish
bankruptcy lav makes recovery of assets from a bankrupt firm a long and
difficult process. In addition, there is no serious system of bank auditing
in Turkey. These circumstances provide a strong incentive for banks to carry
bad loans by capitalizing the interest payments as new loans. There are no
data that can confirm directly how serious this problem has been, or still
is.  In the absence of a serious system of auditing, data on non-performing
loans, even though they show increases over the period, remain unreliable.
96.       If non-performing loans were a widespread problem, capitalization
would result in bank credit growing at approximately the rate of interest.
At the same time, the banks would write up deposit values by the interest
rate, so deposits would also grow at approximately the rate of interest. If
the real interest rate were positive and high, this would imply growth in
real deposits at the real rate of interest without any flow of new savi-3
into deposits.  This could be misinterpreted as a positive response of the
demand for real balances to a stabilization program in a situation in which



- 26 -
the financial system is expanding partially on a base of bad debt, with some
business firms decapitalizing and making transfers to depositors.
97.       Data on money and credit growth and interest rates are snm-arized
in Table 4.  For 1983, money growth was around 40 percent in nominal terms,
while domestic credit to the private sector grew by 44 percent. The latest
available data show slightly higher money growth in 1984, and slightly lower
credit growth.   Panel B of the table shows nominal interest rates.   Time
deposit rates were 40 percent on January 1, 1983, down from 50 percent in
1982.   The time deposit rate was reduced to 35 percent in June 1983 and
raised again to 37 percent on January 1, 1984.   Lending rates at the
beginning of 1983 were unchanged from 1982; they were reduced a bit in mid
1983 and then raised again on January 1, 1984.
Table 4: MONEY AND CREDIT GROWTH AND INTEREST RATES
A. Growth rates (percent per year)
1983/82   March '84/March '83
Reserve money                 38.3             42.8
Ml                          41.4
K2                          37.7             45.2
Domestic credit to
private sector              44.4             41.0
B. Interest rates (percent per year)
Jan. 1983      June 1983       Jan. 1984
Commercial banks
Time deposits (6-12 months)         40              35              37
Short-term loans
General                             36              32              50
Export                              31.5            25-30           35
Long-term general loans               41              34              52
98.       The overall patterns of growth rates of money and credit and of
interest rates are consistent with the hypothesis that a significant fraction
of loans of the Turkish banking system are non-performing. The result could
be instability in the financial system.   If a combination of firms and,
implicitly, banks were bankrupt de facto, a small shock could trigger a wave
of  impending  bankruptcies  in  the  banking  system.    This  would  require
intervention by the Treasury or Central Bank to provide liquidity to stop the



- 27 -
process at the beginning. This may have happened in the Kastelli crisis of
1982 and the bank consolidation in 1983. These occasional financial crises
could be symptoms of an underlying instability in the financial system caused
by the combination of slack demand and high real interest rates, rather than
isolated cases of bad financial management.
99.       Companies and banks attached to the major industrial groups in
Turkey can avoid this problem for some time by financing obtained from the
outward-oriented members of the group. Growing export revenues flow to the
group's bank, providing liquidity to support the firms oriented toward the
home market. There is evidence that the major groups with successful export
business have been absorbing failing domestic firms. However, the potential
instability in the financial sector could remain until a combination of
stronger demand and lower real interest rates permits the average firm to
service its debt.
100.      A  separate  source of instability  in financial markets is the
combination of the policy of positive real interest rates with the use of
recent observations on inflation as estimates of expected inflation. Neither
World Bank documents nor the Government or Central Bank in Turkey have
provided a clear explanation of how -inflationary expectations- are measured
[see the President's Report on SAL V, paragraph 75, for example].  Discussion
by the audit mission with staff in the Central Bank and in the office of the
Undersecretary for Treasury and Foreign Trade indicated that recent actual
inflation was taken as an indicator of expected inflation.
101.      Inflation in Turkey has been highly variable.  Table 4 shows the
quarterly variation in annual inflation rates in the historical data.   In
four quarters, from 1980.3 to 1981.3, the CPI inflation rate fell from 101
percent to 29 percent. In 1983.2 the CPI inflation rate was 30 percent; by
1984.2 it was near 50 percent. With a highly variable inflation rate in the
range of 25 to 100 percent for the past six years, the expected inflation
rate is not likely to vary as much as the actual. This is because market
participants will have observed that in the past, unusually high rates and
unusually low rates have indeed been temporary. Thus when the inflation rate
suddenly jumps, as ia spring of 1984, the expected rate will not increase as
much. This is reinforced by the knowledge that SEE price changes have made
major contemporary contributions to inflation in periods when it suddenly
increased, as is argued in Section V, G below.
102.      If expected inflation does not vary as much as actual inflation,
but policy moves nominal interest rates to match fluctuations in actual
inflation, then the policy causes variation in real rates. This variation is
approximately equal to the difference between actual and expected inflation.
Since the sudden movements in actual inflation are not generally anticipated,
the induced variation in real interest rates cannot be anticipated by
financial market participants.   Thus the policy can cause unanticipated
capital losses as actual inflation and real rates rise, and unanticipated
gains as actual inflation falls.   In periods of rising inflation, these
losses can add to the pressure on financial markets and the banking system
described earlier.



- 28 -
Table 5: INFLATION RAIES, 1978-83
(Percentage Increase Each Quarter Over
The Same Quarter of Year Earlier)
Inflation rate (Ankara)
Qluarter            CPI             WPI
1978.1             39.6            43.1
2             52.1            50.0
3             64.9            56.9
4             54.7            49.7
1979.1             58.9            50.2
2             59.5            61.7
3             60.9            66.6
4             67.2            76.8
1980.1            99.1            118.8
2            117.4           118.71
3            100.7           101.51
4             91.5            98.6
1981.1             56.4            55.4
2             28.5            34.0
3             29.2            37.2
4             27.7            27.5
1982.1             26.2            26.1
2             30.2            30.0
3             28.3            24.7
4             28.6            22.4
1983.1             30.7            24.8
2             29.8            25.8
D.  Interest Rates and the Exchange Rate
103.      One explanation for the high levels of real interest rates in
Turkey in 1984 is that they are tied to world real interest rates through the
foreign excbange market. This is a connection that seems not to have been
taken into account in the January 1984 liberalization of the foreign exchange
regime.  These actions are described in the President's Report on SAL V,
para. 68, pp. 28-29. Coumercial banks are now free to hold foreign exchange;
citizens with passports can purchase foreign exchange from comercial banks;
exporters can etain 20 percent of their foreign exchange earnings; export-
oriented groups can borrow in foreign exchange; foreign exchange can be
traded freely amongst legal holders. These reforms mean that a significant
fraction of market participants can choose, at the margin, whether to hold
short-term assets, such as deposits, in Turkish lira (TL) or in foreign
exchange.



- 29 -
104.      In this situation an arbitrage equilibrium develops, tying Turkish
nominal interest rates to external nominal rates. For deposit holders to be
indifferent between lira and foreign exchange deposits, the nominal rate on
TL deposits must exceed the external rate by the expected nominal rate of
depreciation of the TL plus TL risk premium. This is the nominal arbitrage
equilibrium.
105.      The commitment of the authorities to a flexible and realistic ex-
change rate to support the export drive converts this into a real arbitrage
equilibrium.   To improve competitiveness, a policy of real exchange rate
depreciation has been adopted. This is described in the President's Report
on SAL V, paragraph 39. From the beginning of the daily adjustment policy in
May 1981 to the end of 1983, the real effective depreciation of the TL
proceeded at an annual rate of approximately 10 percent.  In January 1984,
the introduction of an exchange rate band for commercial bank trading brought
a six percent nominal depreciation. The widespread expectation in Turkey is
that real depreciation will continue.
106.      Expected real depreciation implies  that the nominal  effective
depreciation will be faster than the expected inflation differential between
Turkey and its major trading partners and competitors. If nominal arbitrage
enforces the condition. that the nominal interest differential must at least
equal the expected nominal rate of depreciation plus the risk premium, the
additional condition that the nominal depreciation exceeds the inflation dif-
ferential means that the real interest rate in Turkey must exceed the exter-
nal real interest rate by the expected real depreciation plus the risk pre-
mium. 6/
6/   This can be made more precise in a simple mathematical formulation:
Let r, r* = home, foreign, nominal interest rates;
P, P*   home, foreign price levels;
E     - exchange rate, TL/FX;
D     - expected rate of real depreciation;
o     - TL risk premium;
- % rate of change.
Then we have
(1) r - r* + E + o.
(2) D = 2 - (P - P ). Exchange rate policy
This implies that
(2') E = D + p - p*
Put (2') into (1) to obtain
r - P - r* - P* + D + o
So the arbitrage condition (1) and the exchange rate policy (2) combine
to give (3) w*ich says the Turkish real interest rate must be the
external real r* - P* rate plus the expected rate of real depreciation D
plus the risk premium o.



- 30 -
107.      Since expectations of inflation and depreciation are involved in
all of these calculations, it is difficult to estimate empirically what this
implies for real interest rates in Turkey.  But a rough calculation can be
attempted.  The real short-term interest rate in the U.S. in mid-1984 was
estimated  by Blanchard  and Summers (1984) to be about 4 percent.7/   If
exchange rate behavior since May 1981 is taken as a guide for expected real
depreciation, 10 percent per year is indicated. This would be reinforced if
financial market participants expect the import liberalization measures of
early 1984 to require a further real depreciation to prevent an increase in
the current account deficit. A risk premium of perhaps 2 percent would then
mean that the real short-term rate in Turkey would have to be above 16
percent to hold deposits in Turkish lica. The monthly WPI inflation, for the
first eight months of 1984 is given in Table 5.  The inflation bulge in
April-June of 1984 is clearly associated with one-time increases in SEE
prices (mining, energy, and manufacturing) and a reversible increase in
agriculture.   Even the January increase contained  a 34.6 percent rise in
energy prices. So it can be argued that the high rates of April-June should
not have been expected to continue.8/ If this is the case, for illustration
we might use 35 percent as the expected short-term rate of inflation in mid
1984. This would then imply that nominal short-term rates would have to be
about 50 percent to hold deposits 50 percent in Turkish lira.  The actual
6-12 month deposit rate in July 1984 was 48 percent, fairly close to the
value calculated here.
Table 6:  INFLATION, JANUARY-MAY, 1984
(Percentage increase in WPI over
the previous month)
Jan.     Feb.      March      April     May      June      July     Aug.
3.9      3.4        3.3        8.3      6.9       4.7      -0 7     3.2
108.      The combination of liberalization of the foreign exchange regime
and a policy of expected real depreciation can require high real interest
rates to prevent capital outflow. If the gradual real depreci. .ion is needed
to stimulate exports, the same could ie achieved by an unanticipated jump in
real depreciation, combined with an announced policy of hol]4ing the real
effective rate constant. If this policy were credible, real interest rates
could then be reduced substantially without provoking an outflow of capital.
7/   0. J. Blanchard and L. H. Summers, Perspectives on High World Real
Interest Rates, Brookings Papers on Economic Activity, Vol. II, 1984,
pp. 273-325.
8/   The EMENA Region disagrees with this conclusion and suggests that the
resurgence of inflation cannot be easily ascribed to SEE price
bubbles.



- 31 -
More generally, if the exchange regime remains liberalized, the connection
between exchange rate policy and interest rates should be taken into account
in analyzing monetary policy.   This I4s an area where empirical analysis is
needed to test the hypothesis.
E. Medium-Term Strategy and Reviving Private Investment
109.      The audit report for SAL I noted the lack of a medium-term strategy
document that would link the short-term stabilization program to a long run
developmenE plan. Making this transition successfully should be a principal
objective of structural adjustment lending. SAL III correctly emphasized the
importance of developing a coherent view of the medium-term strategy, but due
to the postponement of the 1983-88 five-year planning no document was
forthcoming. In May, 1984, a medium-term strategy was formulated as part of
the 1985-89 five-year plan.
110.      The five-year plan projections  take as given the path of real
exports as the basic constraint.  Export volume and dollar revenue are both
projected to rise by 22.2 percent in 1984, implying no average change in
dollar export prices.9/ Subsequently, during the plan period, export volume
is projected to increase at an average annual rate of 10.1 percent and dollar
earnings at an average annual rate of 14.6 percent.10i  In both cases the
growth rate is projected to rise over time.   These export projections seem
realistic in the absence of another major recession in the OECD area.   One
can also argue that political stability in the Middle East would improve
Turkey's export potential, especially construction inputs and services.
ill.      The major potential problem with the medium-term strategy and the
projections in the five-year plan may be private investment and a capital
constraint. Private sector fixed investmeat is projected in the plan to grow
at annual rates that increase from 8.2 percent in 1985 to 12.7 percent in
1989, with a compound annual average of 10.3 percent over the plan period.
These are much higher growth rates than in any year since 1978; the peak
during this period was 5.4 percent in 1982.  However, these rates of growth
may be attainable.   From  1979 to 1983 capital goods imports  grew at a
compound annual rate of 11.8 percent.l1/   To attain this growth in private
fixed investments, real interest rates will have to fall substantially and
9/   See the five-year plan, Table 12 for volumes and Table 14 for doilar
values.
10/  To avoid confusion, note that the corresponding figures in Tables 12 and
14 in the plan are 10.63 and 15.67 percent.  These are the averages of
the annual growth rates, not compounded.  Compounding lowers the growth
rates and makes them look even more moderate.
1l/  Here capital goods are defined as -metal products and machinery- plus
Electrical appliances."  Data are from Table 3.4 of the Turkey Data
Information System.



- 32 -
profit prospects improve.   Much of the growth will probably also require
capital goods imports.   The import content of private investment projects
should be studied carefully.
112.      More serious for the transition to export-oriented growth may be a
potential capacity constraint. The combination of domestic .emand restraint
and high real interest rates has severely reduced private invesament at the
same time that public sector investment has been squeezed. The growth rates
of private sector fixed investment in real terms since 1978 are given in
Table 7. Private fixed investment fell from 1977 to 1981 by 37 percent. The
result is that the level of real private investment in 1983 was less than 70
percen_.. of the 1977 level.   The growth rate of private investment in the
1985-89 plan assumptions of 10.1 percent a year would barely bring 1988 real
investment  up  to  the  1977  level.    Aside  from  the  problem of  reviving
investment demand, these numbers suggest that growth may face a capital
constraint on Lhe supply side due to the low level of private investment
since 1977.
Table 7:  GROITH OF PRIVATE FIXED INVESTMENT, 1978-84
Year          1978     1979      1980     1981      1982      1983
Growth rate       -6.0    -11.7    -17.2      -8.8       5.4       4.8
113.      Economists at the State Planning Organization (SPO) suggest that
the problem is not serious for the supply-side because of the low level of
capacity utilization in 1984. It is not at all clear, however, how much of
this capacity is economic' with the decline in investment from 1978 through
1981, and slow growth in the years or SALs II and III (1981-83); much of
existing capacity having been built before 1979-80. The oil price increase,
real devaluations, and increases of prices of inputs produced by SEEs, all
since 1979, make some capacity installed before 1980 not economic. It is not
clear that running old capacities now would cover variable cost.  This is a
point that should be studied in more depth.  A key to the level of demand
that can be supported by the existing capital stock is the proportion that is
economic now.
114.      The high level of private investment in the plan, combined with the
possibility that a significant fraction of the existing capital stock may be
obsolete, emphasize two points for the medium-term strategy.  The first is
the need for realistic policies to stimulate private investment. The second
is the need to maintain a liberal policy on capital goods imports.
F.   Trade Policy
115.      Liberalization of the import regime, and rationalization of the
system of export incentives with the aim of eventually replacing it with a
devalued real exchange rate have been policy objectives of the Government of



- 33 -
Turkey since 1980.   Impressive progress has been made in shifting from a
quota system to tariffs on the import side.  In addition the import regime
has been shifted from an implicitly restricted system with lists of permitted
goods to an implicitly free system with lists of restricted goods. Less pro-
gress has been made on the export side, with subsidized credit and an expli-
cit subsidy still remaining.
116.      Import Liberalization.  The process of import liberalization since
1980 is well-described in paragraphs 56-64 of the President's Report on SAL
V.  Two aspects of the existing regime should be noted here, however.   The
first is the apparent escalation of the tariff structure to provide effective
protection for manufacturing; the second is the use of the variable levies
for the same purpose.  The interaction of the policy with SEE pricing was
discussed earlier. As the SAL V President's Report notes, while more nominal
tariffs were reduced than increased in the major shift in the import regime
in January 1984, it appears that the escalation of the effective tariff
structure has increased.  Tariffs have been reduced on basic materials and
capital goods, but less on semi-finished goods. Tariffs on finished products
may have increased, on average. This would be consistent with the Govern-
ment's objective of a tariff structure ranging from 0-15 percent on basic
materials to 30-40 percent on finished products.
117.      The new import regime includes a 'Housing Fund' list of goods
against which a variable import levy can be applied. The revenues from this
levy go to a new housing fund. Combined with the levy list existing since
1982, this extends the variable levies to a broad range of imports, including
most of those which compete with domestic output.   These levies are not
included in the nominal tariff schedule.   The Deputy Undersecretary of
Treasury and Foreign Trade for Imports is authorized to determine the level
of the variable levy, item by item. The principles by which his decisions
are made are unclear, however. Examples can be given of levies being reduced
to allow import competition to discipline the pricing behavior of domestic
producers.   The borrower, for example, states that as a general policy,
import liberalization is the dominant criterion in establishing the protec-
tion framework. Domestic industries which are unable to compete in interna-
tional markets on the basis of price or quality are protected on a very
limited scale (see Attachment). On the other hand, the dominant impression
obtained by the audit mission was that the levies are used to keep prices of
competing imports slightly above those of domestic producers, as part of a
system of "flexible" use of import levies.
118.      Export Subsidies.  Exports in Turkey are subsidized in at least
three ways:  (a) imported inputs into exports are admitted duty-free, (b)
export credit is subsidized, and (c) exports receive a direct subsidy called
an export tax rebate.  The interest rate on export credits has been increased
substantially since 1980, but it appears that the increase has come only as
part of the overall policy of increasing interest rates.   At the end of
December, 1980, the general scheduled short-term lending rate was 31 percent,
and the special export rate was 22 percent, a spread of 9 percentage points.
According to the Central Bank staff, in July 1984 the range of general rates



- 34 -
was up to 55-62 percent, while the range for exports was 42-52 percent. The
spread narrowed to about 5 points in 1982-83, widened to 15 points in January
1984 when general interest rates were increased, and then narrowed again to
about 10 points in May 1984.  Thus while the export credit rate has indeed
been increased, the subsidy component seems to have fluctuated around 10
percentage points since 1980, rather than being reduced.
119.      The explicit export subsidy is defined as an export tax rebate to
maintain competitiveness with other members of the European Community, who
rebate their value-added tax.  It can be argued that since Turkey has other
taxes, the equivalent to the EC value-added tax should be rebated through an
export subsidy. The existing subsidies range from 5 percent to 20 percent of
the TL value of exports.lf/   The case for calling it a tax rebate is
weakened by the fact that its level is not systematically related to tax
payments by exporters.
120.      The Government intends to reduce both the tax rebate subsidy and
the credit subsidy over time.  This will strengthen the expectation of real
depreciation, exacerbating the interest rate problem discussed in Section V,
D above.  It might be preferable to eliminate the export subsidies, reduce
proportionately import duties, and have a jump depreciation of the TL in the
same proportion to avoid the side effect on interest rates.
G.   SEE Prices, Inflation, and Interest Rates
121.      A central feature of the structural adjustment program supported by
SALs II and III has been the freeing of SEEs to set their own prices as a
general guide to policy.  As the inflation gained mom?ntum in the late 1970s,
SEE prices were somewhat suppressed in order to hold down the open infla-
tion. The degree to which they were suppressed remains unclear, however. In
1978 and 1979 the wholesale price index rose by 52.6 percent and 63.9
percent, respectively. SEE sales revenue rose 64.3 percent and 67.8 percent
in these same years. In 1978 real GDP increased by Z.8 percent, and in 1979
it fell by 0.9 percent.  So presumably nearly all the SEE revenue increases
came from raising prices even in 1978 and 1979.
122.      In any event, in early 1980, as a part of the new stabilization and
structural adjustment programs, the SEE prices were largely freed from
controls.   Real GDP fell by 1.1 percent in 1980, so SEE sales volumes were
most likely falling.   But their total sales revenue rose by 167 percent,
providing a minimum estimate of their aggregate price increase. The overall
WPI increased by 107 percent in 1980. If the SEEs were assigned a weight of
0.4 in the WPI, this would imply an increase in 1980 in non-SEE prices of 68
percent, as compared with 64 percent in 1979.  This suggests that most, if
not all, of the increase in inflation to over 100 percent was due to the SEE
price increases. A clear analysis of the consequences of this burst of SEE
12/ The borrower indicates that subsequent reductions in the rebate have
resulted in an upper limit of only 11 percent. (See Attachment)



- 35 -
price increases is essential as it strongly influenced the perceived macro-
economic environment that conditioned the stabilization program supported by
SALs II-III.
123.      The SEE price increases appeared first in February 1980.   The
monthly WPI and CPI inflation data from October 1979 to the end of 1980 are
shown in Table 8. The WPI inflation rate had a higher peak at a monthly rate
of 29.3 percent in February 1980 than the CPI peak, but the WPI inflation
came down more quickly.   The SEE price increases spread into the CPI over
three months.   The quarterly data are shown in Table 9.  The WPI inflation
peaked at 118.8 in the first quarter; the CPI peaked at 117.4 in the second
quarter of 1980.   To a large extent, this was a one-time inflation bubble
intended by the policy to raise SEE relative prices after a period of
suppression in the 1970s.   The policy succeeded;  SEE prices relative to
non-SEE prices increased by 250 percent, and SEE gross profits rose from -3.3
percent of GNP in 1979 to -0.1 percent in 1980.
Table 8: MONTHLY WPI AND CPI INFLATION, 1979-80
(percent increase over previous month)
Year/Month              WPI /a               CPI /b
1979.10               5.1                   6.8
11              7.9                    1.6
12               4.2                   5.0
1980.1                9.2                  10.0
2               29.3                  21.5
3                4.4                   8.4
4                3.5                   5.7
5                2.9                  12.5
6                2.8                  -1.6
7                1.8                   1.8
8                1.5                   0.7
9                3.4                   3.4
10                7.1                   3.6
11                3.8                   1.7
12                3.1                   0.1
/a   WPI data are the IFS A series.
7T;  CPI data are the IFS A series.



- 36 -
Table 9: CHANGES IN PRICES AND REAL BALANCES, 1979-81
(percentage increases over same quarter,
previous year)
Year/Quarter      CPI                    WPI       MU/CPI       M2/CPI
lS79.3          60.9                  66.6        -6.3         -3.9
.4          67.2                  76.8       -6.3          -5.8
1989.1          99.1                 118.8       -27.0        -24.2
.2         117.4                 118.7      -34.3         -35.3
.3         100.7                 101.5      -19.7         -18.9
.4          91.5                  98.6      -17.2         -12.7
1981.1          56.3                  55.4       -10.1          5.9
.2          28.5                  34.0        12.3         39.6
.3          28.2                  37.2         1.0         34.1
.4          27.7                  27.5         8.2         45.4
124.      The jump in tbo price level however, reduced real money balances
substantially. The third column of Table 8 shows the real MI fell sharply in
1980, by 34 percent in the second quarter. Real M2 followed a similar path
in 1980. This sudden shrinkage in the real money stock in the first half of
the year created a substantial excess demand for money. Interest rates were
still controlled, however; they began to be freed only in July 1980. We can
calculate the implied increase in a market-clearinj rate using a demand-
for-money equation estimated by Khan and Knight.1'/   This says that the
market-clearing short-term rate should increase in percentage points by about
80 percent of the percentage decrease of the real money stock. This implies
an increase in the equilibrium short-term rate of about 27 percentage points
for a given rate of inflation; this is the equilibrium jump in the real
rate.
125.      As deposit rates were gradually liberalized from 1980 to 1982, the
real rate on six-month deposits rose to around 25 percent, less than the
Khan-Knight  coefficients  would  predict. /    So  the  shrinkage  of  real
balances in 1980 can approximately explain the rise in interest rates as
financial markets were liberalized in 1980-81.
13/ Mohsin S. Khan and Malcolm D. Knight, Stabilization Programs in
Developing Countries; a Formal Framework, IMF Staff Papers, Vol. 28,
March 1981, pp. 1-53.
14/ See Turkey: Special Economic Report, Policies for the Financial Sector,
Report No. 4459-TU, September 21, 19F3, para. 1.8.



- 37 -
126.      The excess demand for money was probably increased by the stabili-
zation program of 1980, and the change in political regime in September of
that year.   A successful stabilization program should reduce the expected
rate of inflation.   In Turkey, it did, so that expectation would have been
fulfilled. This in turn, should increase the demand for money. So the very
success of the stabilization program was increasing the demand for real
balances even as the corrective SEE inflation was cutting the supply.   A
policy package to prevent the run-up in real interest rates would have
included a one-time increase in MI to reduce the shrinkage in real balances
at the same time as the future growth rate was credibly announced to be
reduced.
127.      To summarize, the SEE price increases in 1980 generated a one-time
inflation bubble.   This reduced the real money supply and raised market-
clearing  real  interest  rates  substantially.    The  effect  may  have  been
exacerbated by the announcement of a credible stabilization program.
VI. SUSTAINABILITY OF REFORMS
128.      The  principal  objective  of  the  structural  adjustment  program
supported by the SALs has been to put the economy of Turkey back on an
export-led sustainable growth path.   The stabilization programs since 1980
have been regarded by the Bank as necessary to restore the initial conditions
for growth.   The approach has been to open the economy to international
competition, to increase efficiency in financial markets, to shrink and
restructure the SEEs and the public investment program, and g;-erally to move
toward more market-oriented growth.
129.      The process of structural adjustment,  in many aspects has only
begun.   In Chapter IV on implementation it was noted that many of  the
fundamental reforms require institutional changes that can be implemented
only over the long run. In Chapter V it was pointed out that some aspects of
the stabilization program leading to financial market instability and a low
level of private investment could constrain longer-term growth. This Chapter
draws together the relevant points to ascertain the likelihood that the
structural adjustment process is sustainable.
130.      The question of sustainability can be approached by discussing the
degree to which genuine institutional change has been achieved, and by
discussing whether the economic policies have created conditions conducive to
growth.   Under the first heading questions arise about SEE reform, import
liberalization, planning capacity, and staffing.   Under the second heading
the main questions revolve around monetary policy and pcivate investment and
structural problems in financial markets.



- 38 -
A.   Institutional Reforms
131.      The first major question regards reform of SEE management.   The
entire program of SEE shrinkage and reform is based on the view that the SEEs
were inefficient in the late 1970s, compared both to the private sector then
and to their potential in a competitive environment. During SALs II and III,
and even later during SAL V, the SEEs were encouraged to become more
profitable. But they could do this by raising prices behind an import regime
that they still perceive as protective. Thus to some extent they are able to
avoid exposure to competition, which would be the external stimulus to
efficiency.   At the same time, there has been little evident progress on
internal reform.
132.      The SEE management has been characterized as "bureaucratic" rather
then  managerial".  The distinction is that managers in the private sector
accept risk in order to earn return, while managers in the government sector
are more prone to avoid risk altogether.   Internal reform of the SEEs may
have to attack this problem of managerial attitude by actually exposing the
SEEs to competition and by rewarding success.
133.      Inefficient SEEs making profits may be a greater obstacle to growth
than inefficient SEEs making losses.   In addition,  the lack of internal
reform to improve efficiency makes it extremely difficult to expose the SEEs
to a competitive environment. They produce nearly half of industrial output,
and a significant fraction of exports.   Early exposure to competition could
lead to bankruptcy problems with broad consequences. So more rapid progress
on internal reform of the SEEs may be necessary for sustainability.
134.      A closely related problem area is liberalization of the import
regime.  Very substantial progress has been mdde since 1980 in shifting from
a system of quantitative restrictions to tariffs, and in shifting from a
system with lists of permitted goods with all else implicitly banned to a
system with a limited list of banned goods and everything else explicitly
free.
135.      A remaining major problem is the possibility that the  flexible
Housing Fund levy is used to maintain protection for domestic producers,
including the SEEs, at unduly high levels.   As SEEs raise their prices in
response to the profit-oriented policy of the new government, they may be
protected by increases in the flexible levy.   This could lead to pricing
above marginal cost in the SEEs. The policy of freeing SEE prices should be
accompanied  by more  free  competition  from abroad,  not  less.    Thus  the
flexible administration of the Housing Fund levies may work against SEE
reform and bhift the brunt of the demand squeeze even more toward the private
sector.   This, in turn, could -exacerbate the problems with investment and
financial  markets  described  below.    Protection  for  the  SEEs  should  be
systematically and predictably reduced as part of the SEE reform program.
The EMENA Region points out that import liberalization has been most
significant in "intermediate goods," where SEEs are predominant.   However,
the existence of the Housing Levy" represents a potent instrument for



- 39 -
ensuring that the prices of competing imports would be raised to levels that
are not unduly competitive with SEE prices.
136.      The delay in defining an effective medium-term strategy and the
reliance on macro targets and ceilings co cut back public investment both
indicate a lack of capacity for planning and evaluation.    The  present
medium-term strategy seems to be mainly publication of optimistic projections
for private investment in the five-year plan for 1985-89.   The 10 percent
average annual growth rate is well above any year's growth since 1976. The
supply of capital goods could be provided through imports.  But the demand
for investment would have to be stimulated through improved profit prospects
and lower real interest rates. It is not clear that the plan (to date avail-
able only in Turkish) contains a consistent medijin-term strategy to make the
transition from the 1984 conditions of high real interest rates and demand
stringency to the desired growth path.   The Bank has since 1981, had a
continuous dialogue with the Government on the medium-term strategy, to
underpin the short-term stabilization program, but it has essentially been ad
hoc.
137.      In SA..s  II-III  the  public  investment  program was  reduced  by
focusing on completable projects.   During the period it was obvious which
projects should be eliminated; they were unmistakably below the margin. But
by 1984, public investment had been under four years of pressure of this
kind. If the program had been successful, by 1984 it should have reduced and
refocused public investment to the point where project choice should be made
on the basis of objective criteria. It is not clear that this is being done,
or could be, given the personnel situation in Turkey.  One priority is to
develop project evaluation capability in the investment banks and the State
Planning Organization.   This process has been started by EDI in its joint
course with the State Investment Bank (DYB) in September-October, 1983.
138.      A related problem is the lack of motivation among Turkish govern-
ment personnel.   This stems from frequent changes in personnel for reasons
that are perceived to be arbitrary, low pay relative to the private sector,
long hours, and a feeling that the system will not be responsive to reform.
In terms of institutional reform, attention should go towards improving and
to some extent depoliticizing the government service system.
B.   Economic Policy
139.      Sustainability of the reform program is sensitive to two areas of
economic policy. The first is monetary policy, construed to include interest
rate and exchange rate policy.   The second is the structure of financial
markets, including potential banking system instability.   In both of these
areas forces are at work that depress private investment. A major objective
of the reform program is to increase the share of private investment in total
investment.    Thus  the factors  leading to a depressed level of private
investment could raise doubts concerning the sustainability of the program.
140.      The difficulties with monetary policy in Turkey were discussed in
Chapter V above.   The combination of a perceived policy of gradual real
depreciat_f3n combined with a liberalized foreign exchange market require



- 40 -
Turkey to hold real interest rates above the 'world- market real rate, which
is already at an historically high level, by at least the sum of the expected
rate of real depreciation and the TL risk premium.  A lower real interest
rate would lead to capital outflows through the foreign exchange market.
141.      This mechanism is reinforced by use of recent actual inflation
rates as a measure of the expected rate. In 1984, as in 1980, there was an
unexpected surge in inflation as SEE prices were raised.  In 1984 this came
mainly in the second quarter, with a jump in monthly inflation rates shown in
the first column of Table 10. For comparison with more familiar annual data,
the second column shows the annualized equivalent of the monthly rate.
Monthly inflation peaked in June 1984, and then fell to an apparent core
annual rate of around 30 percent.    This is an improvement over the 1983
performance.   But the point here is that with SEE prices jumping in the
second quarter, the rate of inflation would have been expected to increase
temporarily, as in 1980. But with the degree of wage restraint that exists
in Turkey, the inflation rate should also have been expected to fall back to
the apparent core rate by the end of 1984. Thus if we take 30 percent as a
rough estimate of this core rate, lending interest rates in mid-1984 of 50
percent represented true real rates around 20 percent. Thus using the actual
inflation rate as representing the expected rate can lead to excessively high
real interest rates when the inflation rate surges temporarily.
Table 10: MONTHLY CPI INFLATION, 1983-84
(percent increase over the previous month)/a
Year/Month             Monthly Rate                Annual Rate
1983.1                  4.2                        65.5
2                  2.5                       35.0
3                  2.0                       27.1
4                  0.9                       11.4
5                  0.7                        8.8
6                  1.3                       16.9
7                  1.0                       12.7
8                  2.3                       31.8
9                  3.2                       46.8
10                  5.3                       88.9
11                  3.7                       55.9
12                  4.2                       65.5
1984.1                   3.4                      50.4
2                  1.5                       19.7
3                  3.0                       43.3
4                  5.2                       86.6
5                  4.1                       63.4
6                  6.5                      118.1
7                  0.9                       11.4
8                  2.5                       35.0
9                  2.1                       28.7
/a   Turkey General Cost-of-Living Index, new SIS series.    The
borrower has partially updated this series (see Attachment).



- 41 -
142.      Real interest rates could be lowered in Turkey by the following
policy steps at the macro level.   If the authorities perceive that a real
devaluation is ne-ded, this could be done in one step, a "maxi" devaluation.
Over time, the stated objective of the 'flexible and realistic' exchange rate
policy could be to keep the real effective exchange rate roughly constant.
This would take the expected depreciation premium out of the real interest
rate, and permit the authorities to lower real interest rates.  Structural
reforms in the banking system, to be discussed below, would permit lending
rates to come down more than deposit rates.  In implementing the policy of
positive real interest rates, the authorities might consider adopting a
smoothing model to estimate the expected inflation rate.  This should make
explicit allowance for specific events such as movement in SEE prices or
*maxi" devaluations.
143.      The inefficiency and fragility of the financial structure 4Q Turkey
also threatens the sustainability of the reform program.   The potential
instability of the system was discussed in Chapter V.  Somewhat more rapid
demand expansion and lower real interest rates would alleviate that situation
by improving profits and debt service capacity in the industrial sector.
144.      The  other  major  problem  with  the  existing  system  is  the
inefficiency of the banking system.   The banks are the main intermediaries
providing investment finance in Turkey. Their inefficiency causes a spread
of lending over borrowing rates that is very large by international
standards. This has been noted in several previous World Bank reports. With
limited administrative and financial resources in Turkey, it may be more
productive to concentrate on improving the banking system instead of trying
to develop more sophisticated capital markets. These stock and bond markets
play a marginal role in financing investment in Turkey; diverting scarce
resources into their development at this time may not be efficient.
145.      Three major policy actions could be recommended for the Turkish
banking system.  First, steps could be taken to consolidate branches, which
contribute to very high overheads.   Second, an effective external auditing
system should be developed.   This would require training of bank auditors.
Third, steps could be taken to improve competition in the banking sector.
The Government has moved on this front, for example by opening the system to
foreign banks.   But more could be done, especially to weaken the links
between captive banks and industrial groups.   A more efficient and stable
banking sector could provide the finance that is necessary for efficient
growth in private investment.
C.   Conclusions on Sustainability
146.      The structural adjustment program in Turkey has at its core four
elements:   liberalization of the trade regime, liberalization of financial
markets, shrinkage and reform of the SEEs, and growth of private investment.
Substantial progress has been made in the first three areas, but not in the
fourth.   To improve the probability that the economy will move toward a
sustainable and more efficient growth path, steps can be taken in each area.



- 42 -
The operation of the present import regime may be delaying SEE reform. High
real interest rates and a weak financial structure may prevent the growth of
private  investment.   An efficient  public  investment program requires an
effective process for evaluating projects. But most important may be, moving
fairly quickly to a path of somewhat faster demand expansion with lower real
interest rates.
VII. IMPACT OF STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
147.      The structural adjustment program had three basic objectives:   {i)
promoting economic growth; (ii) strengthening the balance of payments; and
(iii)  promoting  financial  stability.        It  was  recognized  that  the
implementation of the reforms would involve some hardship and substantial
social costs during a transition period. The actual results during the first
four years of the program were on the whole satisfactory even though the high
expecrations projected at the outset were not fully realized.   There are,
however, indications that the task of sustaining the basic economic
objectives over the longer term is become increasingly difficult.
A.   Economic Growth
148.      The strategy for the promotion of growth essentially focussed on
the liberalization of foreign trade through incentives for exports and
reduced regimentation of imports in combination with price incentives for
production and trade.   These measures were supplemented by strict control
over monetary expansion and subsidies to uneconomic state enterprises
CSEEs).   The reforms had a major impact on the industrial sector and to a
lesser degree on agriculture.   The response of the industrial sector in
particular was almost immediate and in combination with smaller production
increases in other sectors, raised the growth rate sharply in 1981 and 1982,
followed by a slight decline in 1983, principally a result of a fall in
agricultural output.   The increased market incentives  spurred industrial
capacity utilization markedly from a low point of 51 percent reached in 1980
to 69 percent in 1983.   The aggregates, however, mask some of the costs
involved in the reform program. The higher cost of capital sharply curtailed
the expansion of new investment in the private manufacturing sector.   In
addition, a sharp increase in market interest rates and the scarcity of
credit exacerbated the financial difficulties of many small enterprises.
Larger businesses which have substantial access to family owned funds or are
tied up with banks have been able to cope with the credit stringency and
consolidated themselves. This leaves the question as to whether the reforms
have facilitated oligarchial market structures.



- 43 -
Table 11: NATIONAL ACCOUNTS, 1980-83
1983 Level         1980   1981   1982    1983
At Current       In      ----Actual--
Prices         Percent           Real Change From
(TL billions)   of GNP             Previous Year (Z)
Consumption                   9,585.3         83.5   -3.4    0.6    3.9       4.5
Public                      1,167.3         10.2    8.4    0.9    2.0       1.8
Private                     8,418.0         73.3   -4.9    0.6    4.2       4.9
Fixeu Capital Investment       2,180.8        19.0  -10.0    1.7    3.5       3.0
Public                      1,315.8         11.5   -3.7    9.4    2.2       1.8
Private                        865.0         7.5   17.3  -17.3   -8.7       4.8
Stockbuilding                    194.7         1.7   (3.8)  (0.8) (-1.0)   (0.3)
Total domestic demand       11,960.8       104.1    1.2    1.6    2.8       4.4
Foreign balance                  475.6         4.1   (0.2)  (2.5)  (1.7)  (-1.2)
GNP                         11,485.2       100.0   -1.1    4.1    4.6       3.2
Memorandum Items
Agriculture                  2,058.0        17.9    1.7    0.1    6.4    -0.3
Industry                    3,096.0        27.0  -5.9    7.6    4.6        7.6
Construction                   447.6         3.9    0.8    0.4    0.5       0.6
Services                    5,183.2        45.1   -0.3    5.4    3.6       4.4
GDP at Factor Cost            10,784.8       100.0   -1.0    4.7    4.3       3.8
Note:    Figures in parentheses are the contribution in percentage points to
the growth in GNP.
Source:  State Planning Orgnaization.
B.   Balance of Payments
149.      An  important  development  has  been  the  marked  improvement  in
Turkey's balance of payments deriving from a sustained growth in export
earnings and an improvement in the current account, as compared with the base
year (1980).  It has enabled a substantial build up of reserves in 1980-82,
moderated by a small loss in 1983. One of the marked features of the strong
export performance is the growth of industrial exports, whose share in the
total rose from 36 percent in 1980 to 60 percent in 1982 and further to 64
percent in 1983. This trend has been accompanied by a marked diversification
into newer markets. Thus besides the growth of exports to OECD markets from
$1.7 billion in 1980 to $2.8 billion in 1983, the increase in exports to



- 44 -
Middle East countries was even faster, rising from $495 million to $2.5
billion over the same period, increasing the latter's share from 17 percent
to 43 percent.
Table 12: BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, 1980-83
($ millions)
1980     1981     1982      1983
Exports of goods & NFS                        4,171    6,486    7,744    7,950
Imports of goods & NFS                       8,798    9,716    9,611   10,240
Workers' remittances                          2,071    2,490    2,187    1,554
Net transfers 
Current account balance                     -3,272   -1,982   -1,188   -2,122
Direct private investment                       128      113       90       143
Public M&LT capital (gross) /a                2,351    2,238    2,503    2,155
Amortization on M&LT debt /a                   -436     -560     -954   -1,513
Public M&LT capital (net) 7aT                 1,915    1,678    1,549       642
Other capital /b                              1,836      461      -31    1,389
Change in reserves (-   increase)             -607      -270     -482        52
Reserves as months of imports                     2        2         3        3
/a Includes private guaranteed and non-guaranteed debt.
7! Includes errors and omissions.
Source: Ministry of Finance and Central Bank.
150.      Despite the outstanding export performance since the commencement
of the structural adjustment program, a number of questions remain. While
the incentive created by a favorable real effective exchange rate has been a
major element in the export thrust, the export effort has also bad to be
buttressed by a plethora of subsidies, among which special access to credit
and favorable interest rates combined with -export tax rebates- are the most
important.    Questions  arise  about  the  ability  of  Turkey  to  continue
supplementary subsidies of this nature indefinitely, especially when the
costs and benefits are weighed.   Recent research purports to supports the
thesis that a close relationship exists between the package of subsidies and



- 45 -
the volume of exports, meaning that considerable resistance would be
encountered if they were to be dismanrled.15/
151.      The buoyancy in exports is also the result of the stringent demand
management policies that have been put in place since 1980 compounded by the
high real interest rates.   As the economy adjusts  to a higher level of
activity and the limits on credit expansion are relaxed it is likely that
suppressed consumer demand may restrict the volume of exportable commodities,
principally manufactures.16/ This underscores the point made earlier in the
report that attention needs to be paid to resuscitation of private investment
to overcome present limits of manufacturing capacity.
152.      The sustainability of the export promotion program implicit in the
structural adjustment reforms is also compromised to some degree by the
continued high level of protection afforded to a range of industries. Turkey
continues to protect a variety of industries that are exceptionally
susceptible to international competition.   As a result, it has been found,
that large segments of Turkish industry are still far from ready to face full
international competition.  There is a perception that having gone thus far
in its import liberalization program, Turkey would find it increasingly
difficult to address the hardcore of import protection. A failure to move
adequately on this front could retard the export oriented growth strategy and
the improvements in the balance of payments that have recently occurred.
C.   Financial Stabilization
153.      The promotion of financial stability has been a major goal of the
structural adjustment process.   The strict measures  to contain monetary
growth and aggregate demand quelled the high rate of inflation. Government
action concentrated on making the SEEs more cost efficient, and on reducing
the overall budget deficit. While rather successful during the early years
these measures have been less effective in the recent past.
15/  The yearly average subsidy in terms of export values is estimated to
range from 32-44 percent to exporters of capital goods, to a moderate
18-30 percent to exporters of intermediate goods, and to relatively low
16-18 percent to exporters of consumer goods.   Turkey:   Trade Policy
Issues in the Structural Adjustment Process, IBRD Report No. 5365-TU
August 1, 1984).
1E   The highest elasticity is observed in the case of consumer goods exports
where each percent of increase in real export exchange rate leads, on
the average, to 2.5 percent increase in the volume of exports. Hence,
direct export subsidies in consumer industries produce greater effects
on exports than the same relative increase in subsidies to intermediate
and capital goods. IBRD Report No. 5365-TU, op cit. p. 18.



- 46 -
Table 13:  INCREASE IN WHOLESALE PRICES, 1979-84
Year
1979               +  65%
1980               + 107%
1981               +  38%
1982               +  25%
1983               +  30X
1984               +  52%
Source: IMF, International Financial Statistics.
154.      While early results of operations of SEEs indicated an improvement
in their financial performance, especially during 1980-82, there was a marked
turn for the worse in 1983 when losses reached an all time high of 1L 160
billion; hence the financing requirement rose from 7.8 percent of GNP in 1982
to 9.4 percent in 1983. These developments serve to stress the fragility of
the reforms that have been mounted and the need to continue with the
longer-term task of sustaining fundamental structural reforms.
Table 14: SEE ACCOUNTS, 1980-83
(TL billions)
1980      1981      1982 /a      1983
Sales revenue                          1,146     1,767       2,650      3,596
Total expenditures                     1,184     1,800       2,640      3,756
Profit/loss                              -38       -33          10       -160
Total investment                         459       616         684        914
Fixed investment                       281       406         533        769
Change in stocks                       178       210         151        145
Financing
requirement /a                         497       649         674      1,074
Memorandum items                                  (In percent of GNP)
Profit/loss                          -0.9       -0.5         0.1       -1.4
Financing
requirement /a                     11.2        9.9        7.8         9.4
/a E..cludes depreciation.
Source: Treasury.



-  47  -
155.      The attainment of financial stability was also predicated on an
improvement in budgetary performance.  Early trends seemed to indicate that
this goal was within reach of the government; the budget deficit was sharply
reduced between 1980-82. However, there was a marked deterioration in 1983,
partly as a result of increased financing needs of SEEs. This increased the
public sector's borrowing requirements, which expressed as a percentage of
GNP rose fro,i 6.9 percent in 1982 to 8.7 percent in 1983 and may have been
even higher    1984.
Table 15:  PUBLIC SECTOR BORROWING REQUIREMENTS, 1980-84
(TL Billions)
Actual                        Estimate
1980      1981        1982           1983         1984
Budget Balance          -235.0    -174.0    -181.0 /b         -377.0      -645.0
SEE Financing /a        -474.0    -621.0       625.0         -919.0    -1,152.0
Budgetary Transfers      149.0      241.0      205.0           292.0        250.0
PSBR                    -560.0    -554.0    -602.0 /b    -1,004.0    -1,547.0
(In percent of GNP)
PSBR/GNP                 -12.6       -8.5      -6.9             -8.7        -8.8
/a Includes depreciation.
/b March-December data annualized.
Source:  Treasury and Bank Estimates.
156.      The budgetary impact of deteriorating SEE performance  has been
compounded by a failure of tax revenue to grow proportionately with income;
its share in GNP has consistently declined from about 20.3 percent in 1981 to
18. percent in 1983 and is projected to fall further in 1984 to about 16.6
percent. The low elasticity of tax revenue in the wake of a major tax reform
and in a period of steady economic growth must be a cause for concern and
suggests a need for careful examination of the tax administration process.
D.  Social Impact
157.      While the social benefits  of the adjustment process have been
unevenly distributed, the general picture is not as depressing as would
appear on first sight.  Recent studies of trends in real wages reveal that
they fell much more sharply in the period before the stabilization program
was initiated than during the adjustment when they in fact stabilized,



- 48 -
followed by a modest upturn.   This is corroborated by data on levels of
private consumption which show that a decline of 4.9 percent in 1980 was
followed by steady increases, rising by 0.6 percent in 1981, by 4.2 percent
in 1982, and further by 4.9 percent in 1983.
Table 16: TRENDS IN REAL WAGES, 1977-83
(1977-100)
1977              100.0
1978               87.6               -12.4
1979               76.0               -13.3
1980               56.7               -25.4
1981               52.5                -7.4
1982               50.4                -4.0
1983               53.2                +5.6
Source: Social Insurance Institute.
158.      It is quite clear that the major cause of the drop in real incomes
has been the high level of inflation and the continuing attempts to quell it
deserve the highest priority.  This would entail policies to accelerate the
level of private investment; further institutional and structural reforms in
SEEs to make them less dependent on price increases to avoid losses or make
profits; further improvements in budgetary management, primarily through an
improvement in the public sector's savings; and continuation of the process
of import liberalization under appropriate safeguards, to maintain the
competitiveness of domestic industry as well as to put production for the
home market on an equal footing with exports.
159.      The  unemployment  ratio  which  stood  at  13.6  percent  in  1979
continued to increase through the period of structural adjustment and is
estimated to have reached 16.5 percent in 1984.   The deceleration of the
inflationary spiral required a reduction in the growth of overall spending
and this adversely affected the market for labor, increasing the number of
unemployed rural and urban workers from approximately 1.8 million in 1980 to
about 2.3 million in 1984.
160.      Unemployment trends were aggravated to some extent by the sharp
decline in the outflow of migrant workers to the EEC, especially the Federal
Republic of  Germany.    Substantial  reductions  were also noticeable with
respect to Austria, Switzerland and Australia. These declines were, however,
overcompensated by an increase in the outflow of migrant workers to the
Middle East, especially to Saudi Arabia, Libya and Iraq.



- 49 -
Table 17: ANNUAL EMIGRATION AND WORKERS EMPLOYED ABROAD
1979      1980       1981      1982        1983
Annual Emigration       23,630    28,503    58,753    49,388       52,467
of which:
Federal Republic of
Germany                  933       764        274        75          43
Austria                     23       944        184        12           7
Switzerland                406       549        379       163         209
Australia                  407       409        321       125         178
Saudi Arabia             8,522     5,643    14,379    12,325       20,238
Libya                    9,825    15,090    30,667    26,686       23,292
Iraq                        -         -      10,467     8,906       7,367
Rest                     3,514     5,104      2,082     1,096       1,136
Total Workers
Employed Abroad        801,769   888,290   952,520   942,828  1,006,355
161.      Since Turkey's civilian labor force has expanded at an annual
average of 275,000 during 1980-84, annual migration by itself cannot
alleviate the problem of high levels of unemployment. It would necessitate a
revival of investment, appropriate restructuring of industry and industrial
policies as well as further efforts to sustain a high level of economic
activity and exports.
VIII. ROLE OF THE BANK
162.      The structural adjustment process that began in 1980 was supported
by the Bank in several ways. The resource transfer through SALs though small
by itself (corresponding to an average of 3 percent of annual merchandise
imports), was complemented by comprehensive economic and sector work combined
with technical assistance in key areas, and a focussed program of project
lending.
163.      Tranching.  SAL II was disbursed iu two tranches of $200 million
and $100 million, respectively, with the first tranche being made available
on the date of effectiveness (May 15, 1981). Discussions were held in Turkey
from November 8-20, 1981 on progress achieved in carrying out the economic
program assisted by the loan. (Loan Agreement, Schedule I, paragraph 2(b)).
The second tranche review reported that on balance, overall progress of the
structural adjustment program had been consistent with the objectives of
SAL II (See Annex 5). The specific areas monitored were: export promotion
policies; import liberalization measures; tax reform; state economic
enterprise reform; and energy pricing. The tranche review mission concurred



- 50 -
with the Government and the IMF that the implementation of a value-added tax
was not feasible within the life of SAL II as its implementation required
further study. SAL II was fully disbursed as of November 30, 1982.
164.      SAL III was also disbursed in two tranches, the first amounting to
$200 million and the second $104.5 million.   The first tranche was again
released at the date of effectiveness  (July 16, 1982).   As provided in
Section 3.05 of the Loan Agreement, conditions for the release of the second
tranche  were  received  several months  later.    The  review process  took
considerable time, i.e. from October 1982 to March 1983.   The discussions
focussed on the progress achieved in the areas of SEE reform; rationalization
of the public sectnr investment program; design of adequate procedures for
project evaluation; and import liberalization. The tranche review concluded
that good progress had been made on all fronts with the exception of an
undertaking to enact a State Economic Enterprise Reform decree which had been
scheduled for 1983. The Bank indicated to the Government that the passing of
the decree was an important first step in improving the management and
economic performance of the SEES over the longer-term.   The release of the
second tranche, was therefore held up until the passage of the decree in May,
1983. As of June 1983, the Joan was fully disbursed (PCR, para. 39).
165.      Disbursement and Procurement.   Disbursements on both loans pro-
ceeded  satisfact;rily.    Imports  under  SAL  II  were  restricted  to  two
categories:  (a)  inputs  for  the  agricultural  sector,  specifically  raw
materials and intermediate inputs for the production of fertilizer; and (b)
raw materials an.' industrial inputs. Petroleum and petroleum products were
excluded.  In the case of SAL III all imported goods, except those financed
by other sources and a specific list of excluded items (set out in Schedule 1
of the loan agreem:-nt) were eligible for Bank financing (PCR, para. 39).
166.      Imports were made directly by the users with imports costing $10
million or more processed through international competitive bidding, in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines for procurement.  All contracts of a
lesser value were awarded through normal trade channels on the basis of regu-
lar procurement procedures of public sector and private sector firms con-
cerned.   The procurement procedures of public sector firms had adequate
choice of international suppliers to ensure reasonable availability and
price (PCR, para. 41).
167.      Two further structural adjustment loans served to consolidate the
process cf economic re-orientation. SAL IV which amounted to $300.8 million
(Loan 2321) signed on June 27, 1983 was succeeded by SAL V for $376.0 million
(Loan 2441) signed on June 30, 1984. SAL IV focussed on the further ratio-
nalization of public investment within the context of annual development
plans; maintenance of the impetus of import liberalization; and further prog-
ress in improving incentives for private sector investment.   SAL V paid
greater attention to the preparation of a medium-term framework for develop-
ment; streamlining the restrictive system for imports; improving the system
of external debt reporting; implementation of financial sector reforms; and
finalization of an energy development plan. The completion of these actions



- 51 -
would establish the environment for subsequent sector adjustment loans the
first of which would be for the agricultural sector.
168.      Lending Program.   The structural adjustment program had as its
objectives the strengthening of Turkey's balance of payments and the creation
of a spectrum of economic incentives that would promote rapid growth of pro-
duction for home consumption and exports in a non-inflationary atmosphere.
To support the SAL effort, agriculture, industry, energy and transportation
have been singled out as the core sectors for Bank r-oject and sector
lending. In agriculture, the accents are on irrigation, credit, research and
extension services.   In industry (including DFCs) Bank supported projects
assist in the promotion of exports, employment, and increasing operational
efficiency.   Energy projects focus on power generation based on domestic
hydro and lignite resources, as well as enhanced oil recovery and oil and gas
exploration.   Lending for the transport sector is helping to develop the
infrastructure necessary to facilitate exports, and to improve the efficiency
of transport operations.  Despite much progress in recent years, the execu-
tion of Bank-financed projects in the public sector has been slow, due in
part to weak management, limited coordination amongst ministries, staffing
problems, and financial stringency. Further attention to these areas will be
necessary if the broad program for economic re-structuring and longer-term
growth is to be sustained.
169.      Economic and Sector Work.  With the onset of the first structural
adjustment loan in 1980 the Bank's program of economic and sector work on
Turkey was intensified, with a special focus on foreign trade, agriculture,
industry, energy,  public enterprises,  and the financial sector.   Special
studies in these areas were complemented in the context of the Bank's regular
economic reports.   They helped to elucidate the major issues and enabled a
discussion of policy options for adjusting the economy to a more rational
growth path.  During the life of the fourth and fifth structural adjustment
loans, added work on trade policy and the development of a medium-term
framework for the fifth five-year plan (1984-89) was completed.
170.      Economic and sector work on Turkey was reinforced by programs for
technical training.  After reorganization of the State Planning Organization
(SPO) in 1982, staff from the Bank's Economic Development Institute (EDI)
visited Turkey and held consultations with the SPO, the State Investment Bank
(DYB) and the Ministry of Finance on the subje!ct of providing training in
project preparation, evaluation and selection.   Staff from EDI and DYB have
jointly conducted a training course on power projects in January 1983 and
another on infrastructure projects in  September  1983.   Further  training
courses of this type are being planned for Government and SEE staff as well
as for instructors who could conduct training courses in the future. Regular
training courses now conducted by DYB are also to be strengthened.17/
17/ IBRD, Turkey: Trade Policy Issues in the Structural Adjustment Process,
Report No. 5365-TU, August 21, 1984.
IBRD, Turkey:   The Fifth Five-Year Plan in the Context of Structural
Adjustment: A Review, Report No. 5418-TU, February 27; 1985.



- 52 -
IX. PERFORMANCE OF THE BORROWER
171.      The Government evinced a strong commitment  to the  structural
adjustment program and fulfilled all the major loan covenants. In order to
achieve the goal of economic stabilization, strenuous efforts were made to
restrict excessive monetary expansion and to improve domestic resource mobi-
lization. It necessitated some curtailment of consumption and new investment
as well as a shift of resources from production for the home market to
exports. The strategy also demanded some painful adjustments, including the
tolerance of increased unemployment, the removal of subsidies and an increase
in the general level of prices. The Government was nevertheless consistent
in its application of corrective measures, which it subsequently pursued
through SALS IV and V. With the cessation of the structural adjustment loan
program the Government has continued to address structural problems in the
productive sectors within the context of sector loans.
172.      The Government experienced a number of difficulties in the imple-
mentation of the agreed action programs.   Technical problems surfaced, as
inevitable, in a strategy that required the introduction of new laws and new
instruments for solving deep-seated problems.   Thus, midway through the
implementation of SAL II it was found that more study needed to be given to
implementation problems associated with the export credit insurance law; the
free trade zone law; and the value-added tax.   The medium-term economic
framework was only completed in 1984. Many of the tax laws enacted during
the life of SALs II and III required intensive study and discussion because
of their ramifications.
173.      The structural adjustment program in Turkey benefited from the
strong support it received from successive administrations.  The change in
Government during 1983 led to a brief hiatus as lawmakers coped with the
increased volume of legislation. The State Enterprise Law of 1983 was one
such piece of legislation which was required to be passed at a time when
the Government was wrestling with constitutional changes as well as a major
financial crisis arising from the failure of a large financial brokering
house. This led to delay in the enactment of the State Enterprise Law and
the postponement of the release of the second tranche of SAL III by a few
months.
174.      Human resource constraints also impinged on the satisfactory imple-
mentation of the SAL II and III programs. The Government continued to lose a
number of high level personnel to the private sector and those remaining in
the administration continued to suffer from the harsh effects of the decline
in real incomes resulting from the high rate of inflation. Changes in the
administration and reshuffling of departments exacerbated the difficulty in
developing a consensus on the implementation of agreed reforms. Indeed, the
pervasive shortage of administrative and technical personnel at all levels
has been a major reason for the protraction in the finalization of the Five
Year Plan (1984-87), which sets the mediumr-term framework for structural



- 53 -
adjustment and the acceleration of economic growth. The limited administra-
tive and technical staff had also to cope with the large number of Bank mis-
sions to Turkey - about 100 per year - which imposed a severe burden on the
resources of the administration. The convergence of work for these missions
at a time when the administration was preoccupied with the design and imple-
mentation of programs for structural adjustment exacerbated its difficulties
and prolonged the delays.
X. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS
175.      The second and third Structural Adjustment Loans consolidated the
program of reforms initiated with the first SAL. While monetary and fiscal
stabilization was ensured by the continuation of Stand-by Agreements with the
IMF, the Bank's program focussed on: (i) improving the efficiency of the
public sector investment program, (ii) strengthening the balance of payments
through the promotion of exports, (iii) reforming the country's tax system
and financial marketd, (iv) raising levels of efficiency in State Economic
Enterprises, (v) creating an appropriate incentive framework for agriculture
and energy, and (vi) establishing a medium-term analytical framework which
identifies a feasible scenario for sustainable growth. The Government demon-
strated a strong commitment to the program and implemented the agreed
reforms. There was a delay in the implementation of the covenant requiring
the passing of legislation concerning the operations of State Economic
Enterprises. As a result, the second tranche of SAL III was held up for a
few months. In general, however, all commitments were punctually fulfilled.
A number of undertakings were found to be too complex to implement within
prescribed time schedules (e.g. the value added tax). These were postponed
to a future date, by mutual agreement.
176.      The  Bank  supported  the  structural  adjustment  program  through
complementary economic and sector work focussing on major areas of reform,
and following through with reviews of key policy instruments to achieve the
reform objectives as well as the Government's medium-term development plan.
The financial and policy support provided through the second and third SALs
was buttressed by two further SALs in 1983 and 1984. With the completion of
the SAL cycle the Bank entered into a dialogue with the Government to
strengthen the performance of the agriculture sector, through the provision
of a sector loan.   The Bank considers Turkey's objective of growth with
stability as an ongoing process and expects to be closely associated with the
country's development efforts through further sector and project lending.
177.      The impact of the reform program has been most visible in the area
of external trade. The volume and value of exports showed rapid growth and
markets were diversified.    The general  trend towards  liberalization of
imports improved capacity utilization in industry, especially export oriented
industry, and strenghtened the competitiveness of a broad range of domestic
enterprises.   The depreciating real effective exchange rate maintained the
competitveness of Turkey's exports and in combination with a plethora of



- 54 -
fiscal and credit subsidies, increased the attractiveness of exports to
domestic suppliers.   The commitment  to improved  fiscal  performance was
demonstrated by reforms in the tax administration while conservative monetary
policies enabled the Government to surmount sporadic disturbances in the
financial markets.
178.      There have, however, been a number of adverse side-effects which
continue  to be a cause for concern.    Despite  five years  of  sustained
structural adjustment, Turkey continues to suffer from high inflation and
unemployment, causing high social costs of the adjustment process. The con-
tinuation of the export drive remains in doubt as it has relied heavily on
continuing depreciation of the real exchange rate; the maintenance of a
superstructure of fiscal and credit subsidies; and the fortuitous growth in
middle-eastern markets. Export growth has also been a result of the curtail-
ment of domestic demand, deriving from very high interest rates and a decline
in real incomes.
179.      While state economic enterprises responded to the reform program by
improving profits or reducing losses, these were obtained primarily through
the short-term expedients of raising output prices very substantially as well
as by retrenchment of labor. Since state economic enterprises account for a
major share in total industrial output, the act of raising prices, especially
of intermediary inputs for industry, resulted in a general price increase for
manufactured products, fuelling inflation and reducing private investment and
employment.
180.      The program imposed substantial pressures on the implementation
capability of the legislature as well as the executive arms of government. A
number of laws had to be passed so that the covenants appended to the SALs
could be fulfilled, sometimes within the space of just one year. The prepa-
ration of these laws, the procedures connected with their passage through the
legislature, and their subsequent implementation, taxed the best efforts of
an overworked administration.   These difficulties were compounded by the
multitude of Bank missions-about  100 per year-which also demanded the
attention of government officials.18/
181.      Despite slower progress in some areas and minor failures in others,
the structurtal adjustment program under SAL II and III may be deemed to have
been a success in overall terms. In the absence of financial stabilization,
the balance of payments would have deteriorated to the point where Turkey's
long-term  creditworthiness  would  have  been  seriously  jeopardized.    The
program's incentive framework gave a new boost to exports and weaned away
Turkey's industrialists from an excessive preoccupation with domestic mar-
kets; it thereby opened up new vistas for a burgeoning managerial elite. For
18/  The EMENA Region feels that in the Turkey SAL program there was no undue
emphasis on the passage of laws as compared to other SAL countries and
also, given the size and diversity of the lending program, a large num-
ber of annual missions is inevitable, in the absence of a resident mis-
sion.



- 55 -
the first time in several decades, the country paused and directed a hard
look at its state economic enterprises which over the years had become shel-
ters for inefficiency and patronage.   The financial components of the SAL
programs addressed serious problems relating to poor banking practices and
inefficient intermediation of capital. Last but not least, the program dealt
with major structural issues in key economic sectors--agriculture, industry
and energy.  This effort will need to be continued with considerable vigor,
and further actions are required to consolidate the progress that has so far
been achieved.
182.      The experience so far with structural adjustment in Turkey recon-
firms some of the lessons that have emerged in earlier SAL audits:
(a) Strong Government commitment to to the program is essential for its
successful implementation.   Such commitment was present throughout
the whole Turkish program.
(b) Thorough analytical work is required to design a viable overall
strategy as well as specific action programs.   For the SALs in
Turkey the Bank provided extensive analytical support through
economic and sector work in the areas of public investment,
external and domestic finance, agriculture, industry and energy.
On the other hand, the absence of a medium-term strategy document
that systematically linked the short-run stabilization program with
a longer-run development plan acted as a constraint on the design
of appropriae corrective instruments.
(c) The design of specific action programs should reflect existing
institutional and administrative constraints of the Borrower.  By
and large this was the case in Turkey with the exception perhaps of
some sectoral program components (agriculture, energy).
(d) The timeliness of implementing agreed reforms depends crucially on
the Borrower's commitment to the program. In Turkey this condition
was fully met.   Where the program relied on legislative action,
however, the projected time-frame tended to be unrealistic and
unavoidable slippages occurred.



- 56 -                  AMM_ r
T. C.                Page 1 of 17
DEVLET BAKANLICI
BASBAKAN YARDIMCILICI
ANKARA
February 20, 1981
SAYI:
KONU:
Mr. Robert S. McNamara
President
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
Washington, D.C.
Dear. Mr. McNamara:
Second Structural Adjustment Loan
In January 1980, the Government of Turkey introduced a
far-reaching Stabilization Program which, alorg with the
exchange rate and interest rate liberalizatin measure of
June and July 1980, was supported by the SDR 1,250 million
three-year Standby Arrangement with the IMF, the $200 mil-
lion First Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL I) and its $75
million Supplement from the World Bank, and substantial
financial assistance from the OECD Countries (including a
major rescheduling of debt service obligations) and from
Saudi Arabia. The objectives, strategy and policies were
described in some detail in my letter to you of February 7,
1980, in connection with SAL I.
Following the September 12th operation, the new regime
has endorsed the January 1980 program, and has implemented
significant new policies. These include: a major fiscal re-
form, which seeks to completely overhaul the system of tax-
ation, and covers not only the restructuring and revision of
existing taxes, but the introduction of important new taxes,
and significant improvements in tax administration; a sub-
tantial liberalization of the import regime, abolishing
entirely the quota list, and expanding the scope of the
more liberalized list:  and additional incentives for the
growth of Turkey's exports. We have also been concerned that
pubfic expenditure should be channelled to the most produc-
tive sectors, and hence this year the existing portfolio of
public investment projects was revised according to strict
criteria. Efforts to improve the financial accountability of
SEEs have been continued through sharply restricting their ac-
cess to the Central Bank and the Treasury; their cadres and
hiring have been frozen and attrition will progressively re-



57 -                   ANEx r
Page 2 of 17
duce their overstaffing; a committee comprising of Ministers
responsible for these SEEs has been established to formulace
specific and far-reaching measures leading to more fundamental
reforms of the SEE sector, which address the problems of ef-
ficiency, overstaffing, and operational autonomy.
These new policy actions, and future policy directions,
have been discussed in detail with your staff, and are ela-
borated in the enclosed Statement of Development Policies.
Turkey is in good standing with the IMF, with which we
have a three-year Standby Arrangement extending to June 1983.
The Standby Arrangement supports the continuatirriof the econo-
mic reforms set forth in the Government's January 1980 stabili-
zation program. Under the arrangement, Turkey purchased the
equivalent of SDR 190 million in June 1980, SDR 70 million in
September 1980, and SDR 100 million in January 1981.
In support of the Government's policies which havebeen
implemented, and the program of policy actions outlined above
and in the Statement of Development Policies, we -would like
to request a Second Structural Adjustment Loan in the amount
of $300 million in Bank FY81.
Yours s'ierely,
t PieiOzst
D /utyPrime Minister



- 58 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 17
STiTEMENT OF DEVELOPMENT POLICIES
A. MACROECONOMIC POLICIES
1.       The Turkish economy over recent years has been characterized by
serious external and internal imbalances. Faced with these difficulties, the
Government introduced major stabilization measures in January 1980 which have
been followed up subsequently by further far-reaching policy initiatives.
These measures covered a wide spectrum but especially significant was the
adoption of a flexible exchange rate policy, policies geared to promoting
exports and liberalising imports, reform of the SEE sector, and policies
designed to mobilize savings through tax reform and interest rate policy. The
measures generally aimed at strengthing the external position, reducing the
rate of inflation, and creating the conditions conducive to achieving a
sustainable rate of growth.
2.       As regards the external position, the measures already taken have
yielded significant improvement, including a strong performance with respect
to workers' remittances in 1980 and a sharp upturn in exports towards the end
of the year.  Internally, there have also been some signs of improvement,
especially in regard to the rate of inflation, which decelerated markedly
during the course of the year.
3.       In order to consolidate these gains and further strengthen the
economy, we have recently adopted the following measures:
Balance of Payments Policies:
4.       Exchange Rate Policy:  To ensure that external competitiveness would
be maintained, we have maintained a policy of flexible excbange rate
management and intend to continue this policy.
Export Promotion Policies:
5.       We have made further improvement in the financial incentives and
administrative pIocedures for exporters which include:
-   export earnings can now be deducted to varying degrees from
taxable income, depending on export activity. All export
earnings from overseas contracting are now fully tax deductible.
-   commercial banks have been required to increase steadily the
share of their outstanding credit extended for industrial exports
to 10 percent by December 1980, and to 15 percent by end June
1981.  This is enforced bv the Central Bank through
administrative measures.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 17
-   increasing the proportion of pre-export credit which is made
available in one installment. This was made possible by an
expansion in the volume of export credits.
- continued improvement in the institutional and administrative
framework for exporters, including the initiation of an export
insurance system under the 1981 Export Regime, which will be
implemented by April 1981.
Import Liberalization:
6.       We have continued the reform of the import regime following the
measure taken last year allowing exporters to import needed inputs duty free
and without regard to the import regime. The main feature of the 1981 import
regime is the abolition of the quota list, with the items previously in this
category being shifted to one of the two liberalized lists. In general, raw
material and intermediate goods previously on the quota list have been shifted
to the most liberalized category (Liberalized List I), while machinery and
capital goods items have been shifted to the intermediate category
(Liberalized List II). In addition, another group of intermediate goods and
pharmaceuticals have been shifted from the intermediate to the most
liberalized list.
7.       We are also making arrangements to undertake the agreed long-term
study of Turkey's protection and incentive system. We have proposed detailed
organizational arrangements for this study and requested financing from the
Bank for it. We intend to complete the study by end 1982.
Workers' Remittances:
8.       We have introduced a new scheme to provide additional encouragement
to Turkish workers abroad to remit their savings to Turkey. This scheme
provides for deposits in Turkish banks in foreign exchange at competitive
yields, which, upon maturity, are either renewable or convertible into Turkish
Lira at the prevailing exchange rate.
Domestic Resource Mobilization Policies:
9.       Tax Reform:  We have undertaken a major reform of the system of
taxation, with the objectives of bringing about a more equitable distribution
of the tax burden, of generating additional net revenue, and of improving the
efficiency of tax administration. This complex series of measures has been
discussed witb your staff and major features of the reform are:
restructuring the personal income tax schedule to take account of
inflation;                                                      -



- 60 -                                   I
Page 5 of 17
-   introducing an advance payments system of taxing non-wage
earners, with the burden of proof concerning appropriate tax
assessment shifted to the tax payer;
-   introducing an agricultural sales tax;
-   substantially increasing the lump sum taxes paid by small
tradesmen and artisans;
increasing the rates on a vide range of other taxes;
providing the municipalities with a better revenue base; and
major improvements in tax administration ranging from
substantially higher tax penalties to increasing the overall
budget for tax aJministration.
10.      SEE Pricing and Finances:  We have continued and reaffirm our
commitment to the policy of maintaining pricing autonomy for the SEEs, with
the exception of a few basic goods. This policy has been reflected in a
series of price increases since SAL I Supplement.
I1.      Access to Central Bank Financing:  In a decree of November 29, 1980
we have restricted the direct access of SEEs to Central Bank financing to two
agricultural SEEs.
12.      Interest Rates:  We have made further significant progress witb our
recently introduced policy of deregulating interest rates. Interest rates in
general have been'raised, the latest change being on February 1, 1981 when
commercial banks raised rates on deposits, for example to 50 percent per annum
for one-year deposits, and to 42 percent on six-month deposits.
13.      Investment Incentives:  By a new law of December 24, 1980 and decree
of November 30, 1980 investment allowances for less developed regions and
export activities have been increased and now cover borrowed funds as well as
owner's equity.
FUPTHER STEPS TO FOSTER STRUCTURAL CHANGES:
14.      In addition, we intend to undertake the following measures:
Balance of Payments Measures:
15.      -   A draft law to establish an export credit insurance agency has
been nearly finalized and legislation is expected to be enacted
during the year.



-61 -
ANNME 7
Page 6 of 17
Legislation is expected to be enacted during 1981 to establish
free trade zones.
Revitalize lhracat Gelistirme Merkezi (IGEME) to make it an
effective export promotion center, and encourage the
establishment of export promotion organizations by the private
sector.
Further improve the import tariff structure.
Further institutional actions on export promotion (e.g. Export
Development Bank).
Domestic Resource Mobilization Measures:
16.      -   Enactment of the following tax measures is expected:
- Introduction of a value added tax by 1982;
- Reduction of the transaction tax by May 1981; and
- Rationalization of production and sales taxes by May 1981.
-   introduction of the principle of index-linking specific taxes,
income tax brackets and tax penalties by December 1981.
-   Continuation of improvements in tax administration.
17.      The overall objective of these tax measures is to improve the equity
of the tax system and to raise the tax/GDP ratio from 19 percent in 1980 to
weil over 22 percent by 1982.
18.      -   Enactment is expected by March 1981 of the capital market bill
already finalized by the Government to:
- Set up an independent commission with the authority to
supervise and control the capital market; and to
- Grant authority to commercial banks to undertake portfolio
management on bebalf of the public.
We also intend to:
-   Enact legislation to introduce a professional chartered
accountancy system; independent auditors with this qualification
would examine the financial viabiliry of firms wishing to issue
stocks or bonds.
-   Enact legislation allowing firms to revalue their assets, wit-h
the initial revaluation not subject to income taxation.



62.-                          ANNE r
Page 7 of 17
Encourage a wider private ownership of firms, as well as
:assisting the authorities in the efficient collection of taxes
through limiting the issuances of "bearer" shares to 50 percent
of a firm's total equity.
Raise the rate of interest on Government bonds to a more
competitive level.
After passage of the capital market bill, lift the ceilings on
private bond rates.
B. SUPPLY-SIDE POLICIES
Public Investment
19.      For its 1981 AnnUal Program, the Government has rationalized its
-public investment program. The level of investment has been brought into line
vith available resources. Those resources will be concentrated on a smaller
number of projects. We have carried out a comprehensive review of the
enormous portfolio of ongoing projects, and have allocated priorities among
them as follows: First, among sectors, priority bas been given to
agricultural projects, in view of the export potential of the sector; to
energy projects, so as to remove bottlenecks; and to communications projects,
particularly freight transportation, to facilitate industrial agricultural
production. Second, priority has been given to export-oriented projects,
particularly those in agriculture. Third, within the sectoral priorities,
projects bave been grouped as follows;
(a) bigh priority projects which (i) can be completed within 24
months, where there is substantial sunk capital and where a high
cash flow is expected, or (ii) can be brought quickly to a more
economic basis through rehabilitation and debottlenecking: these
have been given large allocations;
(b) profitable projects, the additional requirements of which exceed
the resources available to the public sector: The Goverdtnent
will attempt to have these implemented through the equity
participation of the private sector, either jointly with the
public sector or alone; and
(c) reserve projects of uncertain merits: these are subject to
further study, or have been eliminated from the program.
The Government looks forward to discussing the report of the Bank's public
investment6review mission around May 1981, and intrnds to take account of the
views expressed in the preparation of the 1982 pubtic investment program. --We
shall inform the Bank of the priorities for that program, especially of any
changes from those of this year.



- 63 -
ANNEX I
Page 8 of 17
Energ&2
20.      Since the first oil crisis of 1973/74 the Government has placed
consid3rable emphasis on the development of the country's domestic energy
resources and the World Bank itself has supported Peveral major projects to
this end. , This includes participation in major hydro and lignite based
thermal power generation (Karakaya and Elbistan A), it includes the enhanced
oil recovery program at Bati Raman and a petroleum exploration project and it
covers an engineering loan to support a lignite pollution eradication program
which would enhance the acceptability of this important local fuel as an
alternative to other energy sources. Following the further major escalation
of world oil prices in 1979 and the severe impact this has had on Turkey's
import bill, this empbasis on energy continued as an important feature of the
January 1980 package of economic measures, specifically in relation to price
adjustment made in most major energy sources. Finally, in the New Government
Program of September 1980, energy was placed-as the sector of first priority
with regard to both public investment and policy formulation. To assist in
the elaboration of a sector wide view of energy issues, the Government and the
Bank will make a joint review of the sector during 1981. Against this
background therefore, the following actions and/or intentions represent the
current phase of execution of the Government's general energy policy.
21.      Energy Pricing:  The Government continues to follow a policy of
pricing energy resources at levels which broadly reflect the cost of these
resources in international terms. While there -re some minor exceptions to
this rule, this has meant that, over the last  wv years, several adjustment
have had to be made to domestic energy prices :o keep pace with botb local
inflation and world price changes. These adjustments continue, and changes
will be made as the need arises.
22.      For petroleum products adjustments were made in December 1980 for the
full range of products.
23.      Organizational Changes:  The intensification of energy policy in
recent years has called for the need for a strengthening of certain public
agencies in the energy sector -to make them more effective agents of this
policy. Three such instances which are worthy of mention are-the following:
(a) TPAO: A proposal is being developed to reorganize the management
structure of TPAO into five operating companiec:
-   for exploration and exploitation;. for refining; for
pipelines; for marketing and distribution; and for
petrochemicals. TPAO will be a holding company. Each
operating company will have an independent budget.  Among
other things this is intended to improve the overall



ANNEX I
- 64 -                           Page 9 of 17
efficiency of TPAO operations and to insure that emergency
budgetary demands in one area of operation (e.g. the need to
finance crude oil import price increases) will not interfere
with the ongoing work in the other areas (e.g. exploration).
(b) TKI: A draft bill is under preparation to provide for a
redefinition of TKI responsibilities. Under the new bill TKI
will be responsible for running only the large lignite mines
supplying fuel tor industrial users and power generation. TKI
will supply domestic users with lignite only in cases where these
users are in close proximity to the large mines. All other
domestic users (and specifically those in remote areas) will
generally be supplied by private companies operating smaller
mines. Part of the objective here is to develop greater regional
balance in the production and consumption of lignite. The
divestiture of responsibility for supplying private users,
together with the divestiture of the smaller lignite operators
which - at controlled prices - were running at a loss, will
reduce the need for subsidies to TKI and narrow its management
responsibilities to the main area of its operations.
(c) TEK: A draft bill is nearly finalized which provides for a
transformation of the system of electricity distribution
throughout Turkey. Under the law several autonomous companies
vill be formed - to operate under TEK as a holding company - with
the responsibility for taking over from the municipalities the
local distribution of power. These companies will be run on a
profitable basis and the intention is that the resources
generated in this way will be used in maintaining and extending
the distribution system.
24.      Oil Exploration:  Several decrees were issued during 1980 designed to
encourage private - both Turkish and foreign - companies to engage in
exploration activities. These decrees contain statements of operating
procedures and certain guarantees to companies, an important one of which is
to guarantee 35 percent of oil production as company equity free to be
exported. After recent visits of eight foreign companies to discuss
exploration possibilities, certain issues - principally relating to taxation -
are currently being reviewed and clarified.
25.      Hard Coal Development:  In 1977 the Ministry of Energy and Natural
Resources (MENR), in conjunction with the Mineral Exploration Agency (NTA)
elaborated a long-term exploration and verification program for hard coal and
lignite. This program vas severely interrupted by the financial crisis since
that year. In 1980 the program was revised and has now been given priority in
the exploration budget over other mineral exploration. In the field of hard
coal - where a large number of drillings are needed to verify deposits in ihe



- 65 -
ANNEX r
Page 10 of 17
Zonguldak region - the issue is urgent since by about 1985 the demand for bard
coal will imply some S400 million in annual imports if domestic production is
not expanded. This program, however, cannot be fully implemented without
external assistance to procure new drilling equipment and spare parts.
26. *    Conservation:  In addition to setting prices at levels which will
tend to encourage cost effective use of energy resources, the Government also
acknowledges the need for a supplementary conservation program to minimize low
value uses of energy. A draft law has been prepared which will create a new
unit within the MENR - the Energy Survey Administration - under which all
energy conservation activities, energy audits, enforcement, etc., will be
centralized.
Agriculture
27.      Agriculture continues to be our largest single source of commodity
exports. Even under the adverse economic conditions of recent years, with
asortages of inputs and credit, curtailment of farmer support services and
generally unfavorable domestic terms of trade, agricultural exports reached
record levels. Nevertheless, we recognize that our agricultural performance
can be substantially improved because of considerable unused potential in both
production and exports, both in the near and in the long-term. Through our
Economic Stabilization Program of January 1980 and subsequent measures we have
given greater emphasis to the agricultural sector. Our recently approved
Investment Budget for 1981 reflects this and shows a marked reversal of the
previously sharp decline in agriculture's share of total public investments.
The New Government Program of September 1980 reiterates the importance of the
sector and outlines significant policy and organization initiatives. Against
this background, we wisb to highlight the following actions taken to increase
production and exports and note our intentions in regard to future policy
measures.
28.      Institutional Reform:  The Government recognizes the need for
increasing the effectiveness of public programs in agriculture through a
reorganization and consolidation of responsibilities in the sector and
particularly within the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. A Committee
working within tbe Ministry has completed a study of alternative forms of
organization and the various agencies which intervene in or provide services
to the agricultural sector. The fundamental objective of the planned
reorganization is to streamline and improve delivery of agricultural extension
and related support services to agricultural producers. Decisions on the
Committee's recommendations, which are likely to entail Cabinet action and
possibly even legislative changes, will be made- in the following months,
though implementation of the decisions may be spread over a longer period.



-66 -                       ANNEX I
Page 11 of 17
29.      Export Policies:  In recent months we have taken major new steps to
encourage the export of agricultural produce, improve its quality and further
diversify the commodity composition of our agricultural exports. These
initiatives include new financial incentives for exporters as vell as direct
actions on the production side.
(a) Financial Incentives: Agricultural exporters are expected to
comprise the largest group of beneficiaries under the export tax
credit and revised pre-financing schemes noted in the section on
macroeconomic policies above. Our export credit facility has
been revised so that both producers and traders can now benefit
from it. Finally, to capitalize on our comparative advantage in
off-season fruit and vegetables exports we have taken measure to
break major bottlene;ks in this area. Substantial interest rate
reductions have been decreed on loans to qualified investors in
cold stores and containerized cold fleets, both for their
investment credit needs and for their working capital
requirements.
(b) Production; To improve the quality of our tobacco production and
hence its competitive position in export markets, the Monopolies
Administration has instituted area allotments and delivery
ceilings for tobacco growers and discontinued the provision of
advance payments for procurement that previously resulted in
cultivation of higher yields to the detriment of quality. We
have also introduced a fallow supression program, principally in
wheat-growing areas, through the introduction of lentils and
other leguminous crops in rotation witb wheat. There is a
special project which will prevent the early slaughtering of
lambs in order to enhance meat production.
30.      Import Substitution:  We are importing soybeans to produce feed
concentrates and to encourage their production in lieu of sunflower which
competes with wheat for the same land resources; in this way we hope to
gradually phase out imports of vegetable oils and feed concentrates while
improving our fattening ratios.
31.      Price Policies:  Continuing our policy of relying on price signals to
regulate decisions in the agricultural sector, we have made Lstimates of the
input and product price relationships for 1980-81 crops and will institute
annual changes in support prices so as to maintain incentives for inc.ceased
production taking into account also the need to maintain our competitive -
position in export markets. The mechanism for determining support prices for
1980-81 has been improved in that a coordinated price analysis was carried our
to determiIine the support price levels for wheat, sugarbeet and oilseeds, which
compete for the same productive resources and are important items in our--



- 67 -
ANNEX I
Page 12 of 17
export and import substitution strategies. The administration of support
prices has also been made more responsive to special conditions as was shown
in the case of sugarbeet and wheat.
32.      Input Subsidies:  On the side of input prices, the very large
increases in fertilizer prices made in January 1980 were supplemented by an
additidnal increase of 25 percent, on average, in September 1980.  These
actions have eliminated much of the previous high degree of subsidy, cutting
down the wasteful use of fertilizer. It is the intention of the Government to
remove all fertilizer subsidies within five years. However, further
reductions of input subsidies are not foreseen for tle moment, in order to
give farmers time to adjust to the imposition of the 5 percent sales tax on
marketed production, and to encourage increased fercilizer production from
existing domestic capacity-which will reduce the import requirement for
finished fertilizers.
33.      Irrigation Charges:  For 1981 we have decided to levy the full cost
of operating and maintaining DSI irrigation schemes. We will also make a
special effort to increase the rate of timely collection of these cbarges.
34.      On-farm Irrigation Works:  To accelerate development of on-farm
irrigation and drainage works which now have accumulated Co a backlog of more
than 500,000 hectares in DSI schemes, we intend, as a matter of principle, to
introduce investment cost recovery charges for works carried out by TOPRAKSU
to encourage the use of private contractors thereby relieving the pressure on
TOPRAKSU, wbich now undertakes all of these works on force account and free of
charge with insufficient resources.
C. STATE ECONOMIC ENTE3PRISES
35.      Government policy since January 1980 has attached particular emphasis
to the reform of State Economic Enterprises (SEEs). After the important
changes in economic philosophy and the initial measures in January 1980, an
overall framework for the reform was decided in December 1980 and further
important actions taken. The report of an official committee chaired by the
Ministry of Industry was submitted in December to the Council of Ministers,
which after an initial review has appointed a sub-commi:tee of Ministers to
prepare final recommendations to the Government on the organization of the
sector. The Council of Ministers decided in February 1981 to implement in
parallel a series of reforms of the objectives, management and other aspects
of SEE performance. There is a sense of urgency about SEE reforms at all
levels of the Government.



-68-                          ANNEX I
Page 13 of 17
Objectives
36.      The Government has committed itself to reform the SEEs with a view to
acbieving several important objectives and according to a number of generally
agreed principles as follows:
(a) SEE objectives should be mainly financial and economic, including
in particular specific efforts to increase productivity at the
plant level;
(b) Depoliticization of Government-SEE relations, management
selection and behavior;
(c) Sector organization changes, if required for greater efficiency;
(d) Reduction or elimination of the drain on public funds;
(e) Increasing subjection to market forces;
(f) Improvement of management:
- selection on merit,
- continuity in office subject only to satisfactory performance,
- pay which is competitive and performance-related;
(g) Reduction of overstaffing;
(b) Delegation of authority from Ministers and Boards to managers and
operating units;
(i) Improvement of the quality of investments; and
(j) Labor force:
- sufficiently competitive pay for technical staff,
- elimination of negative inter-union competition.
Actions Taken
37.      The Government has shown the seriousness of its commitment to reform
both by the action taken in January 1980 and by the important new actions
taken within a very short time of its overall reform decision last December.
38.      We took the first major step in January 1980, when the SEEs were
freed to set their own prices according to market conditions, with the
financial objective of covering their operating costs. This policy has
achieved ! considerable measure of success in limiting the drain of SEEs on
public funds.  We have reaffirmed this pricing policy for 1981, with the
refinement that we now urge SEEs to make individually smaller and more timely
price adjustments than in 1980.



- 69 -
ANNEX I
Page 14 of 17
39.      The SEEs have been subjected increasingly to market forces since
January 1980. Their position has been brought much closer to that of private
sector firms. Pricing freedom has brought them face-to-face with the
possibility of limited consumer demand, and in some cases competition from the
domestic private sector, at the prices they wish to charge. The progressive
reform of the protection system is exposing- them to increasing competition
from abroad. The realistic exchange rate has made them aware of the real cost
of importing.
40.      We have also  acreased the cost and reduced the availability of the
soft funds to which SEEs enjoyed easy access in the past. The 198. Program
decree for SEEs already issued cuts off all SEEs from their previous direct
access to the Central Bank, except for two export-oriented agricultural
purchasing ones; the interest rate the latter pays was raised somewhat in July
1980.  Other SEEs must seek sbort-term funding from commercial banks on the
same terms as private firms, which has substantially increased their cost of
capital. Foreign exchange loans contracted by the Government will be made
available to operational SEEs only through the State Investment Bank (DYB).
This fiscal year, loans for investment will be made to SEEs from the budget
only through DYB, if the SEE is profitable; DYB increased its interest rate
from 14 percent to 21.5 percent in 1980, and in 1981 is expected to adopt
market-related interest rates already done by private commercial and
development banks. Loss-making SEEs will continue to receive loans directly-
from the budget, which will avoid compromising DYB's financial standing, but
from 1981 this will occur only after DYB scrutiny of the project, and under
DYB supervision during implementation.
41.      The problem of overstaffing in the SEEs is at the root of many other
problems. It can only be solved over several years, through attrition and
through the creation of new productive job opportunities in the economy. We
have taken the strongest steps possible within this constraint to deal with
the problem in 1981. By decree we have frozen the number and structure of
positions for existing operations in each SEE at their level as of
November 30, 1980. New factories opened by a SEE must first draw on existing
staff of that SEE, and in any case new hiring may not exceed 50 percent of the
normal complement for the plant. SEEs may not apply to the Ministry of
Finance for new positions as in previous years. Vacant posts-can only be
filled with the permission of the Ministry of Finance. Indeed, in 10 SEEs
accounting for 44 percent of total SEE employment in 1980, 50 percent of the
positions becoming vacant through resignations, retirements or deaths are
automatically being cancelled. Finally, early retirement has been facilitated
by a decree settip, rates of severance pay. Some 40 percent of the present
labor force of SEEs is eligible for retirement id the next five years.
42.      *lany of the problems of individual SEEs can only be solved tbrough
investment.  The quality of the SEEs' investment programs has been
considerably improved through the increased rationalization of the public
investment program in 1981; many uneconomic or low-priority investment



-70-                            ANNEX 1
Page 15 of 17
projects have been dropped. Rehabilitation projects are being emphasized in a
number of industries. The program is currently under review by the Bank as
already noted. To help SEEs prepare future projects, we have allocated $10
million equivalent in the 1981 budget for them to hire consultants.
Studies Underway
43.      The State Personnel Department is currently studying all aspects of
the uncompetitive compensation of SEE managers. The tax reform package has
somewhat alleviated the situation, since it provides a larger percentage
increase in net-of-tax pay for the public sector than for the private sector,
which enjoys untaxed fringe benefits. Nevertheless, we envisage initially a
substantial increase in salary supplements for a limited number of key
management posts, mostly in SEEs.
44.      To permit SEEs to borrow commercially on an increasing scale in
future, we are studying how to strengthen their capital structure through a
progressive infusion of equity.
Decisions Taken in February 1981
45.      The Council of Ministers has recently decided in principle to
implement a further series of important reforms quickly and without waiting
for final recommendations on the reorganization of the SEE sector.
46.      The Government will draw up a list of simple, realistic and
monitorable objectives for SEEs and instruct the SEEs to work towards them.
The High Control Board will be instructed to institute an interim system of
monitoring of the economic, financial and efficiency pzrformance of all SEEs
starting in 1981. This will be based initially on unit costs and capacity
utilization and later will include additional criteria decided by the
Government in light of the High Control Board's recommendations.
47.      The Government will enhance the autonomy of SEEs as much as possible,
without changing existing laws now, by explicitly transferring authority to
them. The Boards of SEEs will be instructed to focus on policy-making% and to
delegate authority and responsibility for day-to-day running of the SEEs to
their managers and operating units to the extent permitted by existing law;
proposals will be approved for legal changes as required to fully achieve this
objective. Managers will be informed in writing that they, not the
Government, are responsible for the SEEs.
48.      SEE managers' pay will no longer be subject to the provisions of the
State Personnel Law; instead they will be offered contracts, initially for one
year given' present legal limitations, but with informal assurances of renewal
given satisfactory performance; proposals will be approved for legal cbanges



- 71-
ANNEX I
Page 16 of 17
to permit multi-year contracts.  The change to contraccual status will lead to
a large increase in managers' net-of-tax pay which, taken together with the
impact of the tax reforms, will bring it to significantly more competitive
levels. SEEs are being requested to inform the Government of their needs for
additional contractual personnel.
49.      SEEs will be instructed to review their financial position and other
resources and inform the Government how many investment projects they can
implement properly at the same time. If their current program exceeds this
number, the State Planning Organization and the Government will decide in
light of the SEE's recommendation which ones are to proceed.
Actions to be Taken
50.      The Government's future reform work vill thus move on two parallel
tracks;
(a) Reforms of individual aspects of the SEE system that are both
urgent and achievable (without prejudicing reform of the
structure), which have been decided by the Council of Ministers
in February 1981 as discussed above. It is intended that these
should be implemented by the end of September 1981;
(b) Reform of the whole structure of the SEE system, which will be
complicated and will take some time. This involves the
reorganization of the SEE sector; the relations of the SEEs with
the Government as a whole, the Ministers administratively
responsible, the State Planning Organization and DYB; their
ultimate degree of autonomy especially with respect to
investment, credit wages and employment policies; and permanent
new systems of audit and inspection to ensure their
accountability to the nation. Since the vital problem of the
selection/dismissal process for SEE managers is intimately bound
up with these general questions of SEE arrangements, it will only
be settled in the same timeframe. The Government intends to
implement significant reforms in this whole area by the end of
1981. The Government also intends to continue to encourage SEEs
to introduce more and better cost accounting and other modern
management information and control systems to permit better
management of their operations.
51.      The Government intends to encourage manufacturing SEEs to adopt
pricing formulae which more closely reflect unit costs with efficient
operation at higher levels of capacity utilization, and which also take
account o& both the domestic market situation and the need to increase
international competitiveness. However, these considerations will have to be
matched witb the need to preserve their niew capital structure as it is



-72 -                               ANNEX r
Page 17 of 17
strengthened, service increased borrowing on market terms, avoid arrears, and
contribute towards the financing of their own investrents, all of which
suggest the need to go beyond covering operating cos:s to achieve a
progressively ircreasing rate of return on assets.
52.      In addition, the SEEs have been encouraged to propose solutions to
their individual problems which can be arrived at within the existing systelv
and organization. These will include specific suggestions for talancing and
modernization investments at the plant level, and recourse to technical
advisory services as necessary, with a view to achieving both the general
objectives referred to in paragraph 46 above and specified financial and
productivity targets for individual units.
53.      The Government expects most of the new system to be in place by the
end of 1981, but it is aware that the full benefits of such fundamental
reforms in terms of increased SEE efficiency will onlv be reaped progressively
over several years.



- 73 -                  ANNEX 2
Pa ge I ot 10
April 24, 1982
Mr. A. W. Clausen
President
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
Washington, D. C.
Dear Mr. Clausen:
Further to my letter of February 20, 1981, I am writing to request a
Third Structural Adjustment Loan in the amount of $300 million in the Bank's
fiscal year 1982 in support of the Government's ongoing strictural adjustment
program, which is being continued and vigorously advanced. The Statement of
Development Policies attached to the letter of February 7, 1980 and further
elaborated in the Statement of Development Policies attached to the letter of
February 2Q, 1981, set out the main features of the Government1a policy
directions and actions for structural adjustment, and will continue to fuide
our actions in future.
A number of significant developments have taken place since February
1981, whicb we would like to highlight for your attention. These include a
major improvement in tax revenues as a result of the tax reforms, introduced
last year, wbich are expected to reduce the budget deficit in 1981 and 1982
below I percent of CDP; a continuint liberalization of the import regime
designed to support export efforts, which together with the maintenance of a
flexible exchange rate and other incentive pclicies have resulted in export
growth of more than 60 percent in 1981; a drop in the current account deficit
fr-m t3.1 billion in 1980 to about $2.0 billion in 1981; a continuation of
the stabilization policies wbich have reduced inflation to below 35 percent in
1981; the development of a major package of reform measures for the State
Economic Eaterprises and interim improvements to their performance; and the
restoration of GDP growth to about 4.2 percent.
These policies and the additional measures which we intend to take over.
the next several montbs have been described in detail to your staff. The key
features are summarized in the attached Statment of Development Policies
1982; they supplement those provided in 198'. Turkey is in good standing
with the IMF, with which we have a three-year Standby Apreement extending to
June 1983. Turkey bas purchased the e-uivalent of SDR 100 million in November
1981 and again in March 1982.
Sincerely,
/s/Turgut Ozal
Deputy Prime Minister
Attachment



_ 74 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 10
STATEMENT OF DEVELOPMENT POLICIES - 1982
Introduction
1.     Faced with serious external and internal imbalances, the Government of
Turkey formulated in January 1980, a major medium-term program of Structural
Adjustments and took the first policy measures to begin its implementation.
The main features of both the program and the initial measures were described
in detail in the two povernment publications attached to our letter of
February 7, 1980 and further elaborated in our Statement of Development
Policies attached to our letter of February 20, 1981. Several additional
measures to implement this medium-term program have since been taken. The
structural adjustment program, which is an evolutionary process, is based on
the major principles of making our economy outward-looking and responsive to
market forces. The policy actions tbrougb whicb this process bas been
vigorouttly advanced and will be continued, include the adoption of a flexible
exchan#e rate policy, those geared to proooting exports, liberalizing imports,
reforming the SEE sector, mobilizing savings through tax reforms and
liberalizing interest rates, rationalizing public investments, reducing the
rate of inflation, and generally creating new conditions conducive to
strengthening our external position and achieving a sustainable rate of growth.
2.     The purpose of this Statement is to artis_Iate specific measures in the
macroeconomic areas, balance of payments, domestic resource mobilization.
public investments, energy, agriculture and SEEs that we are implementing in
the coming year within the framework of our medium-term restructuring program,
which we believe should be supported by the ;:hird Structural Adjustment Loan.
Macroeconomic Developments and 1982 Policies
3.     The major macroeconomic accomplishments resulting from our program and
actions taken so far include: a major improvement in tax revenues as a result
of the tax reforms, introduced last year, wbich are expected to reduce the
budget deficit in 1981 to around I percent of GDP; a continuing liberalization
of the import regime, designed in part to support export efforts, which
together with the maintenance of a flexible exchange rate and other incentive
policies have resulted in export growth of more than 60 percent in 1981; a
drop in the current account deficit from $3.1 billion in 1980 to about $1.8
billion in 1981; a reduction of inflation to belov 40 percent in 1981; and GDP
growth )f about 4.2 percent.
4.     In 1982, we expect the continuation of the positive developments
recorded in 1981. An increase of 4.4 percent in the national income has been
set as a target for 1982. Following the downward trend in recent years in the
rate of increase of the national income, which fell behind the rate of



- 75 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 10
population increase, and the stagnation in the economy, the realization of
this rate of growth is important; from the point of view of decreasing
unemployment, pulling the economy out of stagnation, and raising the level of
welfare. We are aiming at a further slowing down of the increase in prices
and bringing inflation down to 25 percent in 1982. Money-credit policies will
be diligently implemented during 1982;  savings will be protected against
inflation and encouraged.
5.     The Consolidated Budget for 1982, an estimated TL 1,815 billion, has
been prepared with the aim of meeting these inflation and income targets. As
a result of increases in tax revenues, we expect the deficit to be maintained
around I percent of GDP. The most important characteristic of the budget, in
view of investments, is to pursue policies which emphasize the traditional
functions of the State. Thus, we attach great importance to allieviate the
requirements of infrastructure, the lack of which was hurting the economy.
Moreover, the rationalization of the investment program in line with basic
economic policies and aims constituted one of the most important problems.
Therefore, during 1981 and 1982, the increase of efficiency in che public
invesement program was taken as the main objective, and for this reason all
projects have been reviewed.  In addition, regarding the SEEs, our fundamental
goal is to reform them while enhancing their financial and economic
effectiveness, and keeping costs at a minimum.
6.     We are considering the reduction and abolition of the out-dated
protectionist measures which have been implemented for years, and which not
only created undeserved earnings, but also inefficiencies. We consider
competition created by a correct imports policy, as a vital element to
increase dynamism and productivity in our economy. Consequently and to
prevent any arbitrary administrative distribution of our scarce foreign
exchange reserves, we aim at a gradual liberalization of our imports policy
over the next few years. A first step was already taken in 1981 to abolish
the "quota system"; a more liberal import policy will be implemented in 1982,
and any necessary protection will be granted through foreign exchange and
customs policies.
7.     We feel it is very important to pursue policies to increase our foreign
exchange earnings. Our target for exports in 1982, which is conservative, is
$5.R5 billion and we could surpass this limit if we are not hindered in
foreign markets and if we can pursue our present policies more carefully. We
also expect workers' remittances will pass 02.8 billion. With imports
projected at lO billion, we expect the current account deficit to be further
reduced to well below tI.8 billion.
Details of lQ92 Policy Actions
R.     Trade Policies:  Actions to further stimulate exports and liberalize
imports include:
-    Since May 19R1, exchange rates have been adjusted daily against
the major trading partner currencies, based on a mix which
realistically reflects our trade patterns;  these adjustments will
continue in 1982;
-    Trading companies are becoming important for industrial export
promotion; tax rebates encouraging their industrial activities are
being simplified, and the coverage extended to fresh fruits and
vegetables;



- 76 -
MN EX 2
Page  4  of Io
-    Exporters vill continue to be allowed unrestricted duty free
import of needed inputs and this benefit has been extended to
equipment and investment goods for export production or foreign
currency earning activities;
-    Tas rebates for exports, will be based on net foreign exchange
earnings from exports rather than full export value and export
credit incentives will take value-added into account; to ensure a
smoother flov of export production credits, the rate of subsidy
has been reduced, commercial banks encouraged to provide a greater
proportion of 'own funds' and the system of credits as well as tax
rebates streamlined and simplified;
-    According to the 1982 export regime, exporters will no longer be
required to obtain a licence permitting them to export;
-    The study on ways to establish a more effective export promotion
centre, with public and private participation, vill be completed
in 1982;
-    To ens, - a smoother availability of foreign exchange to exporters
without administrative restrictions, exporting companies are now
entitled to hold foreigm exchange at the Central Bank to
facilitate small payments and business travel;
-    The 1982 import regime c3ntains a number of features designed to
further liberalize imports, including simplified licensing
procedures, shifting of some items to the more liberalized list.
Furthermore, the more liberalized list nov includes items free of
tariff, but subject to a flexible levy. This list would be
expanded in future years. Selective imports of basic producta is
thus being permitted to exert competitive pressure on compinies to
produce on a cost-efficient basis;
-    An amendment to the customs laws to permit bonded warehousing has
been submitted for enactment;
Drawing upon the results of the protection study now underway, we
intend to: (a) rationalize the existing tariff system; and (b)
gradUally shift from a licensing system of import control to one
relying on tariffs. It should be recognized that the levying of
duties on items previously restricted or being moved from the
licensed list to the more liberalized list, may initially result
in tariff measures on tbase items. However, to the extent the
international trade environment permits, the main trend over the
next five years will be co continue to reduce tariffs to lower
levels.
9.     Tax System.  To improve its equity and efficiency, ye have introduced
further adjustments since January 1932, including the gradual reduction of the
minimum tax bracket from 40 percent to 39 percent in 1982 and thereafter to 25
percent by 1985, and the immediate reduction of the corporate tax rate from 50
percent to 40 percent. The law allcving revaluation of assets to take account
of inflation is expected to be passed by mid-1982. Measures are also being
taken to generate additional revenue from the 1981 tax reforms, through a
major effort to strengthen tax admiaistration along the following lines;



- 77 -                 ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 10
-    The budget allocation for tax administration in 1982, has
increased in real terus over the 1981 level; couputerization of
tax returns is progressing and vill substantially improve
collection efficiency;
-    Additional tax offices are being created in key tax tenerating
areas, and the number of district tax controllers vill be
progressively increased over the next 12 months from the present
level of 350 to about 700;
-    Following the enactment of the law establishing the chartered
accountancy system, currently before the Consultative Assembly,
chartered accountants will be authorized to notarize and autborize
tax declarations.
10.    Domestic Resource Mobilization.  We intend to encourage the process
initiated by the liberalization of interest rates in 1980. In July 1981 the
ceilings on private bond rates were removed. We intend to continue using
Government bonds as an instrument to regularize interest rates in the market,
taking account of the rate of inflation. Given the current hiph positive
interest costs on non-preferencial credit, we are taking steps to encourage
the reduction of intermediation costs by the banks. The interest equalization
tax has been reduced from 15 percent to 10 percent. To further reduce the
cost of working capital for industry, it is being rebated. The definition of
time deposits-has been expanded to deposits exceeding one month. The
financial transaction tax was reduced from 25 percent to 15 percent in 1981
and eliminated for development banks and exporters. The same laV allows
further reduction by decree.  Increased equity requirements for commercial
b-anks and for new branches have been introduced and are expected to improve
the liquidity of the banking system, further reduce intermediation costs and
increase efficiency. Companies are now allowed to issue "profit-sharing
certificates" (non-voting stock) as a means of providing an additional source
of financing for those companies which have exhausted their bond issue
capacities. A major capital market law was enacted and the repulatory
authority brought into operation in February 1982. We intend to continue
vigorously encouraging the development of the capital market.
11.    Debt Management.  In order to improve our debt management, we plan to
strengthen the program for computerizing debt data by the provision of
additional full-time staff and by hiring specialized consultants in the
Ministry of Finance by mid-1982. Because of the importance of accurate debt
data in managing our external situation, we intend to prepare debt
information, including short-term debt, in an agreed simplified format every
six months beginning with December 1981.
12.    Foreign Investments.  We will continue our efforts to promote such
investments, and the Central Bank has hired consultants to promote them in
petroleum, tourism, mining and agroindustries, as well as review the relevant
laws and regulations in 1982. A revision of the mining, tourism and petroleum
laws in 1982 to facilitate foreign investment, is also under consideration.
13.    Medium-term Framework.  The preparation of the next five-year plan will
begin shortly. For this purpose, a medium-term economic framework vill be
developed by early 1983, which will enable us to systematically evaluate the
internally consistent policies needed to achieve the intended structural
reorientation of the economy. We are also preparing: (a) a Transport Master



_ 78 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 10
Plan for completion by April 1982; (b) an Iron and Steel Master Plan for
completion by January 1983; and (c) a crop pattern survey to provide more
reliable data. To enable a more timely adjustment of policies, the
statistical basis for policy decisions will be improved, including measures to
improve price indices.
Other Major Areas of Structural Adjustment
14.    Public Investment.  Major efforts have been made during the last two
years to brint the level of public investment in line with available resources
and to focus them on a more limited number of projects. This included
detailed discussions in September 1981 with the Bank's Public Investment
Review mission and a further intensive screening of the list of ongoing
projects. A major step in the rationalization and focussing of the investment
program has been made for 1982. The Government has reduced the list from
8,000 to 7,400, of wbich over 40 percent are expected to be completed in
1982. Full rationalization of such a massive program can only be an
evolutionary process that should take another two years to complete, given
various practical constraints including contractual coumitments and the
advanced stage of many of the larger lover priority projects. It is our
intention to continue our efforts to constrain the program to levels justified
by available and anticipated future resources.
15.    As a result of these efforts, we believe that the 1982 program can be
financed without adding any inflationary pressures, and without pre-empting
resources from private sector investment, whicb we remain co nitted to
fostering. The program is further justified by the need to complete
infrastructure investjaents in the shortest time to support the development of
the private sector. In line with our policy orientation towards stimulating
private investment, we expect the restoration of economic Eztivity and the
recovery of private investment will lead to a decline in the share of public
investment in total investment over the 1982-85 period. Priority in the 1982
program continues to be given to the agricultural, energy, and infrastructure
projects in support of the policy that manufacturing should be increasingly
left to the private sector.
16.    In selecting projects for future programs, we will continue to:
(i)     Ensure that new projects meet economic criteria.
(ii)    Allocate available funds as a first priority to ongoing
projects which can be completed within 24 months, or which can
be brought quickly to an economic basis through rehabilitation
or rationalization.
(iii)   Give special weight to the foreign exchange impact and
employment implications.
17.    To improve our project selection and evaluation capacity for the
ongoing and future investment programs, it is our intention to restore our
evaluation capability primarily in the State Planning Office, supplemented Dy
that in key agencies and DYE. To achieve this, the Director for the unit in
SPO has just been appointed and a training program will be prepared in the
course of 1982 for the intended staff and agencies. These efforts will be
complemented by requiring SEEs to use qualified consultants to prepare,



- 79 -
ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 10
or review, all new SEE projects. We intend to provide support for the
development of the local consulting expertise for this purpose. We would
appreciate Bank Group assistance in building up our evaluation capacity.
IR.    SEE Reform.  The Government is taking steps to reform the SEE system,
with the overall objective of having a viable SEE sector responsive to market
forces. We recognize that a basic change in the SEE system will require not
only time and significant legal reforms, but also consistent efforts to bring
about a fundamental change in attitude. Interim steps have been taken to
achieve improvements in performwnce. while carefully developing, and then
implementing, the fundamental reforms in the SEE system.  Overall SEE losses
have been drastically reduced in 1981, and it is expected that SEEs would show
an overall profit in 1982 of about TL 47 billion. Such interim measures
include:
-   A radically new SEE financing and investment program for 1982,
under which programmed investment figures will constitute nominal
targets or ceilings.  It is the responsibility of SEE managers to
realiz- investments to the extent that available resources permit.
Investment expenditures will not be accepted as an excuse for not
meeting operating expenses and debt payments.
-   SEE managers are primarily responsible for utilizing the present
capacity of their organizations in the most effective and efficient
manner.  To achieve this, management has been given complete
authority to take steps to raise productivity and has been
instructed especially to adopt a financial and economic perspective
to complement their technical expertise.
-   The SEEs continue to be free to determine their own prices.  Prices
should reflect immediately, and exactly, increases in the cost of
petroleum and other major imports, and increases should be made
without delay, step by step, and in small amounts when necessary.
Decreases will also be expected to meet market conditions.
Recognizing some SEEs are monopolies or near monopolies, their
prices should take into account international prices.
-   Direct and indirect (through DYB) budgetary transfers to the SEEs
in 19R2 will be limited to TL 243 billion, a significant reduction
in real terms from 19RI. Of this, only TL 50 billion will go
directly to manufacturing SEEs. All SEEs are to pay their taxes
and debts in due tine; otherwise these budgetary transfers will be
withheld.
-   A ministerial committee is now carryiny out quarteray reviews of
performance of SEEs focussing on productivity and profitability.
-   Restrictions on new hirings and reduction in the number of
authorized positions by 35,000 in 1981 and further reductions in
19R2 by allowing filling of only 50 percent of posts becoming
vacant in eight major SEEs.
19.    A ministerial committee under the Prime Minister has developed a
comprehensive package for fundamentally reforming the SEE system. Based on
its work, the Government expects to submit draft legislation to the
Consultative Assembly by May 1982. Implementation would begin immediately
after approval. The main features of the proposed reform package include:



- 80 -
ANNEX 2
Page 8 of 10
- All energy and manufacturing SEEs will be re-established as
companies under the comercial code, and be freed from the
restrictions of the SEE Law (Law 440) and the State Personnel Law
(Law 657). Profitability vill be their pri-zry objective.
- To ensure broad consistency between SEEs, an enlarged High Planning
Council of the Government will provide general guidelines for
operations, investment and personnel policies of SEEm and direct
a     control by the ministers over individual SEEs will be eliminated.
All major decisions relating to individual SEEs will instead be
taken at annual general shareholders meetings.
- Boards will be appointed at such meetings and the general managers
by the Boards; both for fixed terms of at least 3 to 5 years.
Performance incentive systems vill be encouraged.
- Responsibility for investment decisions will also be delegated to
manufacturing SEEs, and will not be imposed by Government. These
SEEs vill have to find their own financing for those investments
they wish to pursue, as any private sector company would.
Covernment financing would be limited to equity participation.
- Selling of SEE shares to the public will be encouraged through
improved financial performance, revaluation of assets and the
publication of financial statements audited annually by independent
auditors.
Major Sectors
20.    The major actions in progress, or anticipated, in the key sectors are
set cout below.
In Energy. Recognizing the enormity of the task of increasing domestic
production of energy by several times by 1990 in order to contain imports at a
manageable level, the Government continues to give che development of this
sector the highest priority. Our policy is to increase domestic
investment/production througb a focussed investment program, which balances
new investments.with better use of existing facilities, and through efforts to
strengthen the major public institutions and encourage private investment.
Specific steps are being taken in the Elbistan Project to speed up execution.
The major elements of sector policies are:
-   The share of energy investment (including petroleum) in the 1982
investment program has been increased from about 32 percent to
about 34 percent and the funds focussed on a more limited number of
projects.
-   Greater priority has been given in allocating investment resourcs
to transmission and urban distribution systems through Illerbank to
minimize losses, and to the provision of spare parts to maintain
existing plants in service.
-   Er7enditures are being increased for reforestation to support
fuelvood production.



- B1 -
ANNEX 2
Page 9 of 10
- Energy prices have been frequently adjusted upward in 1981, faster
than inflation and are now in line with international prices. We
intend to continue our policy of increasing domestic prices of
energy to keep pace with increases in the international prices,
while encouraging conservation, and stimulating the use of domestic
fuels. Our policy in coal/lignite prices is to cover production
costs under reasonable levels of operating efficiency.
- A major Bank review of the sector was carried out in September
1981. We look forward to reviewing and discussing the report and
its recommendations in early 1982. We then intend to develop an
energy sector Master Plan for the new five-year plan.
-   A law consolidating the municipal distribution of electricity under
TEK has recently been passed, while the draft mining law p2rwitting
the private production of lignite is awaiting passage.
- A conservation law has been presented to the Consultative Assembly
for passage in 1982.
In Agriculture, our objective is to promote rapid export growth, while
ensuring domestic food supplies. To achieve a greater impact ve are devoting
increased attention to integrating our activities in irrigtion, credit and
extension. The major elements of the sector policies are:
-   Agriculture's share of investment has been kept high, as in last
year, and the resources focussed on projects in an advanced stage
of development. For 1982, some projects have been redesigned to
speed up completion and there is greater emphasis on the completion
of on-farm irrigation works and small irrigation schemes in rainfed
areas where potential productivity is high. The program also
provides for increased farmer support services.
-   TCZB's lending program gives increased emphasis to agriculture,
which will receive 80 percent of all new loan approvals in 1982.
To facilitate achieving this goal, TCZB's paid-in capital has been
increased and its authorized capital more than tripled. Proposals
for internal reorganization of TCZB to improve the efficiency and
resource mobilization, are at an advanced stage of preparation and
reorganization is expected to start by end 1982.
-   The reorganization of the Ministry of Agriculture, to improve the
delivery of services to producers, will continue to be put in place
in the course of 1982. Provincial directors of agriculture have
been appointed for 60 of the 67 provinces and are being given
authority to coordinate, program and budget for all agricultural
services in the provinces; this will be extended to all provinces
by the end of 1982.
-   A number of export incentives have been extended to agriculture and
measures taken to provide support for export production. To
encourage exports for the livestock subsector, we are taking steps
to improve the supply of feed including allowing imports.
developing the local feed industry, and liberalizing export



- 82 -
ANNEX 2
Page 10 of 10
procedures.  A study of the best means of improving seed production
will be completed in 1982 and imports of seeds are being
permitted; new credit facilities will be made available in 1982 to
stimulate the supply of high quality seeds by State Farms, as vell
as by private producers. Further, ye intend to improve
agrIcuLtural land use and production statistics in 1982.
THO's role in the wheat markets has been modified and empbasis bas
been given to its price stabilization functions.  The agricultural
price support system has been further rationalized to reduce
financial outlays while continuing to stabilize the farm gate
prices of major crops.
All subsidies on pesticides, herbicides, and other plant protection
chemicals have been phased out and the subsidy element in retail
fertilizer prices reduced in September 1981 to about 40 percent.
To reduce the financial requirement in 1982, resulting from a build
up of fertilizer stocks in 1981, we have arranged to rationalize
fertilizer imports, exports and consumption.



- 83 -
ANNEX 3
SCHO 4 
Review with respect to
Schedule 1, paragraph 2 (b)
The Borrower and the Bank ahall review:
1.  The adequacy of policies and legislatlve and aduinistrative
measures for export promotion, import liberalization and domestic
resource mobilization, in particular with respect to tax reforms:
(a) progress in enacting a law providing for a value added
tax to be Introduced during the Borrover's fiscal year 1982;
and (b) progress In establishing adequate procedures for tax
collection, especially with respect to personal and corporate
Income and agricultural sales cax.
2.  The adequacy of progress La reorm d of State Econosle Enter-
rise. I  particular (a) by September 30, 1981, (i) carryeng out
the riforms declded in prLnciple by the Council of Mnlasters
In February 1981, and (i1) dersion of the Cou_csl of Ministers
of legal changes permittlng greater delegation of authority
withLa SEIs and multi-year contracts for their sanage:e; and
(b) carryiag out the decree No. 8f2022, dated November 29,
1980, with respect to the number of authorized posltions and
new hiring. Progress will be revioewd inter alit by esxainng
the isplesentation In selected StEs of the measures referred
to under (a) (S) and (b) bereof.
3.  The adequacy of energy policies, In particular prItIng of
petroleum products at levels comparable to International market
prices.



- 84                                ANNEX 4
Review with Respect to Schedule 1, Pargraph 2
The Borrover and the Bank shall review:
1. The adeqtscy of progress in reforms of SEEs, in particular:
(a) progress on SEE legal reforms; and (b) progress in
maintaining the level of budget trausfers to  :nufacturing SEEs
below that budgeted for 1982.
2. The adequacy of progress towards reaching the Borrower's
objectives of: (a) rationalizing its public investment prograw;
and (b) constraining the level of public Investment to conform
with available resources and *timulate the growth of private
investment.
3.  Mhe adequacy of developing the Borrover's procedures and
capabilities  for  prepation,  evaluation  and  selectiea  of
investment projects.
_. The adequacy of progress ou Import liberalization.



International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
FOR OFFICIAL L SE ONIA0
-85 -                      ANNEX5
Page 1 of 5
SecM81-1033
FROM:  The Deputy Secretary                            December 30, 1981
TURKEY: Review of the Second Structural Adjustment Loan
Attached for information is a note entitled "Turkey: Review of the
Second Structural Adjustment Loan".
Questions on this document may be referred to Mr. Gregory (X76394).
Distribution:
Executive Directors and Alternates
President
Senior Vice Presidents
President's Council
Vice Presidents, IFC
Directors and Department Heads, Bank and IFC
Thi-i docsunient hats  restricted ditrihutionand rn.q. he u%ed bt recipi.nt. tinlk In the perform.ance 
.i their officidi duties Its c:onent mit not othemi-it he da.>:kosed %ithout WoIrld Bink MtuhorLZUation. 



ANNEX 5
- 86 -                     Page 2 of 5
December 29, 1981
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
TURKEY: Review of the Second Structural Adjustment Loan
,.       As provided in Section 3.04 of the Loan Agreement for the Second
Struct::ral Adjustment Loan to Turkey (Loan 1987-TU), discussions were held
in Turkey from November 8 - 20, 1981 on progress achieved in carrying out
the ec.mnomic program assisted by the loan.
2.       On balance, the overall progress of the structural adjustment
program in Turkey, monitored on a complementary basis by the IMF and the
Bank, has been encouraging. Most strikingly, the year-on-year rate of
inflation has declined from over 100 percent in the first half of 1980 to
under 40 percent in the ten months of 1981. Exports have responded
dramatically to the Government's policy initiatives, totalling $3.5 billion
in the first ten months of 1981, or 64 percent higher than the same period
in the previous year.  On the basis of this performance, the Government's
target of $4.5 billion for 1981 appears attainable. These developments not
only reflected a major expansion of industrial exports to 48 percent of the
total as against 36 percent the previous year, but a significant
penetration of new markets in the Middle East. WIorkers' remittances also
picked up sharply in the second half uf 1980 and remained strong in 1981.
Imports increased by about 14 percent in the first ten months of 1981, so
that the trade deficit was held at $3.7 billion, below the level for the
comparable period in 1980 ($4.1 billion). In addition, there has been a
sharp increase in private savings in the form of bank deposits in response
to higher interest rates.
3.       In the implementation of the program, however, certain problems
have emerged. Although production has begun to recover selectively,
capacity utilization in 1981, although higher than in 1980, still remains
low and private investment continues to be sluggish. Despite the
improvements in foreign exchange earnings, external imbalances persist and
expensive debt service needs reflecting the higher LIBOR rates may impede a
faster recovery. The adjustment measures have also entailed considerable
transitional costs, primarily in terms of depressed economic growth,
increased unemployment, and increased inequality in income distribution,
which the Government is now beginning to address.
4.       Progress against the specific monitorable criteria for tranche
release is described below.



ANNEX 5
- 87 -                       Page 3 of 5
Export Promotion Policies
5.       The Government has continued to maintain a policy favoring
exports, which together with depressed domestic demand, have accounted for
the favorable export performance cited above. The main instruments have
been a flexible exchange rate, a system of preferential credits ar
subsidized rates (the effective cost was recently raised from 17 percent to
22 percent, but demand for these credits remain high)i export tax rebates,
improved access to foreign exchange, and duty-free importation of goods
into export production. Exporters, on receipt of a certificate from the
Department of Export Promotion and Investment Encouragement, are allowed to
import goods for exports irrespective of the import regime. Since May
1981, the Turkish lira has been adjusted daily against a basket of
currencies of its major trading partners, and by September 1981, the index
of the real effective rate had been brought back to approximately the
position achieved immediately following the substantial January 1980
depreciation. The encouragement of trading companies, partly through
additional tax rebates, has already yielded favorable results: there are
now 12 dynamic trading companies exporting in excess of g15 million each,
compared-with only four-such companies six months earlier.;
Import Liberalization Measures
6.       The Government has continued the process of import liberalization
begun with the abolition of the quota list in the 1981 Import Regime and
the transfer of certain items from the more restrictive list to the less
restrictive one, and the import of inputs for exports irrespective of the
import regime. In addition, the monopoly of certain state enterprises
(e.g. PETKIM) has been abolished, and imports are being allowed so as to
force such enterprises to charge prices comparable to world market prices.
Also the import of goods which contribute to export production directly
such as animal feed, or indirectly such as transport vehicles are being
liberalized.
Tax Reform
7.       The overall impact of the tax reform package, introduced in early
1981, appears to have met or exceeded targets. The most recent official
estimate of revenue generated by the tax measures is of the order of TL 400
billion. The Government estimates that the budget deficit can be redu-ed
to around 1 percent of GNP this year, compared to around 4 percent in
1980. As of end September 1981, budget revenues amounted to TL 761 billiln
compared to TL 427 billion over the same months in 1980, an increase of 7b
percent.  Given the marked seasoral increase in tax revenues at the end of
the fiscal year (February 28, 1982), the Government's estimate of total
revenues for fiscal year 1981 of about TL 1.5 trillion seems attainable.
8.       The legislation of the Value-Added Tax, prepared with German
technical assistance, has been discussed extensively in the Budget
Commission of the National Security Council. A Cabinet draft has now been
presented to the Consultative Assembly. Because of the administrative
complexity of introducing such a tax, and the danger of disrupting current



ANNEX 5
-88 -                         Page 4 of ,
revenues from production and sales taxes, the Government is prudently
planning to implement this tax deliberately, beginning at the earliest, in
1983. The Bank, and we understand the IMF, concur with this arproach.
9.       The Government has taken a number of measures to improve tax
administration, and expects to generate as much additional tax revenue in
FY82 from better tax administration as from the tax reform measures in
FY81. These steps include an increase in the budget allocation for tax
administration from TL 6.47 billion in 1981 to TL 12.41 billion in 1982,
the creation of additional tax offices in key tax generating areas, and an
increase in the number of district tax controllers from 400 to the
authorized level of 1,100 in 1982, with further substantial increases
planned for subsequent years. In addition, the computerization of tax
returns is making progress. The draft law establishing two-tier tax courts
is on the agenda of the National Security Council and is expected to be
enacted by the end of the year. The number of taxpayers subject to the
advance payments tax is only slightly below target; 1.032 million
taxpayers in FY81 compared to a target of 1.15 million. The assessed
revenue from this tax of TL 76 billion over FY81 seems attainable in view
of the TL 46 billion already collected from two of the three installments.
Available information shows that sales of agricultural produce to
government purchasing agencies are being taxed at the required rate of 5
percent.
State Economic Enterprise Reform
10.      The Governmuent is currently well advanced on a major reform law to
effectively address SEE problems. In the meantime, a number of interim
measures have been taken along the lines decided in principle by the
Government in February 1981. About 36,000 vacant positions in SEEs have
been cancelled and new employment kept well within this lower level.
Indeed, in the 17 major SEEs, actual permanent employment has declined by
17,000 through attrition since November 1980, despite necessary increases
in the energy SEEs, and total employment in these 17 SEEs is currently
474,000, about 55,000 below the target set last March. An enabling law
permitting multi-year contracts for SEE managers has been passed: a decree
putting part of the law into force will increase the salaries of SEE
general managers, assistant general managers, and plant managers by up to
three times the former levels. In guidelines issued to the SEEs by the
Prime Minister, they are enjoined to meet agreed operating and investment
performance targets, and to maintain profitable operations. However,
significant improvement in performance will take time given the limited
control over costs, entrenched practices and contractual obligations.
While the more elaborate monitoring of SEE performance by the High Control
Board has been deterred by legal obstacles and inadequate accounting data,
the Government has introduced a semi-annual review of SEE financial and
investment performance (formerly held once a year), and their cash needs
are monitored monthly against an agreed financial plan. The profitability
of industrial SEEs continues to be offset by losses in a few transport and
agriculture support SEEs, despite increases in transport tariffs and
agriculture input prices. The Ministry of Industry has also been
monitoring performance indicators on a quarterly basis in its industrial
SEEs.



ANNEX 5
- 89 -                       Page 5 of 5
Energy Prices
11.      The Government has continued to implement a policy of frequent
energy price adjustments designed to maintain price levels which reflect
the cost of energy to the economy and to set relative prices to stimulate
the use of domestic hard fuels over imported petroleum products. In
particular, petroleum prices have been increased in real terms to keep pace
with international price rises and price increases have been higher than
domestic inflation. Price levels ($2.45/gal. for gasoline and $1.53/gal.
for diesel fuel in August 1981), while not as high as some European
countries are still well above international market prices. Imports of
petroleum products in the first nine months of 1981 declined 30 percent
below the level for the same period in 1980 while crude oil imports
remained at about the same level. Significant adjustments, amounting to
substantial real price increases, have also been made in other energy
prices, notably hard coal, lignite, and power.
Conclusion
12.      The progress to date is consistent with the obligations of the
Second Structural Adjustment Loan. Consequently, the Government of Turkey
has been advised of the availability of the second tranche of $100 million.
Ernest Stern
Senior Vice President
Operations



Intemationl Bank for Reconstruction and Development
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
90-                           pae 1 of 4
FROM: Senior Vice President. Operations                            !ay 18. 1983
TIURMY: Review of the Third Structural Adjustment Loan
1.       As provided in Section 3.05 of the Loan Agreement fcr the Third
Structural Adjustment Loan to Turkey (LoaQ 2158-TU), discussions wer* held in
Turkey during October 18-27, 1982, January 27-29, 1983, and February 28 -
March 1;, 1983 on the progress achieved in carrying out the econcmic program
assisted by the loan.
2.       The main conclusion from these discussions is that the structural
adjustment program in Turkey is progressing well. The year-on-year rate of
inflation as measured by the wholesale price index has declined further, from
around 37 percent in 1981 to 25 percent in 1982. The upsurge in exports has
continued in 1982, helped by the maintenance of a realistic exchange rate and
a comprehensive package of incentives. Exports in 1982 reached $5.75 billion,
close to the Government's program target for the vear. The continued
excellent performance of exports, especially industrial exports. lends
credence to the view that the dramatic iacrease in 1981 was not a short-term
phenomenon. With imports at S8.7 billion for the year as compared to the
earlier forecast of S10 billion, the current account deficit in 1982 narrowed
to around S1.0 billion or about 1.7 percent of CNP, a substantial improvement
over the previous year's deficit of *2.1 billion or 3.6 percent of C1P.
Overall, CUP registered a real growth of about 4.4 percent in 1982, comparable
to the growth rate of 4.2 percent achieved in 1981.
3.       While these developments are encouraging. there are areas of
concern. Capacity utilization in industry remains generally low and private
investment demand continues to be depressed. In the fiscal area, the 1982
budget deficit of 1.2 percent of GNP was somewhat worse than expected as a
result of a shortfall in tax revenues, although the public sector borrowing
requirement at 5.5 percent of GNP was an improvement over the previous year s
level. Moreover, there was substantial excess liquidity generated in the
system during 1982, primarily as a result of the strong export performance,
the need to finance the record harvest and the decision to provide special
assistance to the banking system in the vake of the collapse of the countrv's
Largest private brokerage house. Uhile an immediate banking crisis was
averted, the Government is considering additional actions to reform and
*Questions on this document may be
referred to Mr. Chaffey (X32848)
Distribution:
Executive Directors and Alternates
President
Senior Vice Presidents
Senior Management Council
Vice Presidents, ItC
Directors and Department Eeads, Bank and IFC
This document has a rcsmncted disuibution and may be used by recipicnzs only in the p:crornance |
of thcir official duticm. Its contents may not otheisise bc disclosed 1Lithout Weld Bank author,zation.



-91-                                AINEX 6
-                               Page 2 of 4
strengthen the financial sector.  It also seems fairly clear that
stabilization policies vill have to bt pursued through the 1983-84 period.
.inally, as the Government prepares its strategy for growth over the =ediu'
teri, it Must devote increasing attention to social objectives put aside in
the early stabilization phase.
4.       Progress against the specific criteria for tranche release is
discussed in the succeeding paragraphs.
Reform of State Economic Enterprises
5.       A general enabling law was enacted in June 1982 permitting the
Government to undertake the SEE reform process through the issue of decrees.
After a detailed examination of various proposals made in this regard, the
Government has just approved a comprehensive SEE reform decree.
Simultaneously, the Government is continuing its effort to improve SEE
management, emphasizing profitability and productivity as the primary
responsibilities of SEE managers. Profits of SEEs rose to about TI46 billion
in 1982 compared to 1L8 billion in 1981. Budget transfers to SEEs in 1982
vere held to agreed levels; in particular, transfers to manufacturing SEEs in
1982 did not exceed the progra med level of TL47 billion.
Public Sector Investment
6.       Major efforts have been made during the past year to continue to
constrain the level of public investment in line with available resources, to
limit the number of projects. and to ensure that priority projects receive
larger allocations in order to speed up their completion. The level of public
fixed investment programed for 1983 is 711,258.8 billion at 1983 prices.
This represents almost no change in real terms compared to the programed
level for 1982 and only a 5 percent increase over the 1982 realized level.
The growth in public investment expenditures in 1982 (0.8 percent real
increase over 1981) vas, for the first time in Turkish history, belov the
prograred growth. This was achieved through strict control over public
investment expenditures and, unlike in previous years, no additional
allocations were made during the course of the year. The latest review also
r-firms that more than 80 percent of the allocation for major prqjects in
1982 went to the 87 projects identified as of high priority. In the 1983
Program this ratio is expected to reach 85 percent. Moreover, only 5 percent
of the funds earmarked for major projects in 1982 were allocated to the 30
projects whose priority is yet to be confirmed.
7.       Ihe sectoral composition of public investment in 1983 displays
further progress towards the intersectoral balance recommended in the Bank's
Public Investment Review Report 1/ and endorsed by the Government. This calls
for reducing the share of the public sector :n manufac-uring and conce: :rating
investment in energy, infrastructure and agr: -ulture.  !  the 1983 Investment
Program, allocations for energy, transportatic.-i and agriculture have been
maintained at about 34 percent, 19 percent and 1 percent rerpectively, while
the share for manufacturing has been reduced to 16 percent as igainst about
20 percent realized in 1982 and about 25 percent - alized in 151. This
reflects the Government's efforts to reduce the ro-  of manufacturing SEEs to
promote private manufacturing investment in line vith the new development
strategy. Finally, the 1983 Investment Program has reduced the number of
ongoing projects to about 6,600 as against 7,400 projects in the 1982
11 3472-IU dated December 7, 1981.



-92-                         ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 4
Program. While no new projects have been included, a large number of major
projects of unproven economic merit included in the 1981 program have been
dropped, deferred for restudy or substantially reduced in scope. The
Government expects to rationalize the project list further over the next
several years. Its policy remains one of retaining within the public
investment program only projects which meet satisfactory economic criteria.
Project Evaluation
8.       The head of a reorganized project evaluation department in the State
Planning Organization was appointed in early 1982 and the department is now in
operation. Staff from the Bank's Economic Development Institute (EDI) have
visited Turkey and held consultations with the SPO, the State Investment
Bank (DYB) and the Ministry of Finance on the subject of :raining in project
preparation, evaluation and selection. As a result, proposals are under
consideration for organizing regular training courses in Turkey for Government
and SEE staff as well as for instructors who could conduct training courses in
the future. The first joint EDI/DYB course is to be held in Ankara later this
year. Meanwhile, the courses in project evaluation conducted by the DYB are
being strengthened.
Import Liberalization
9.       Significant progress in further liberalization of imports was
recorded earlier this year, when the 1982 Import Regime shifted another
35 items from the Liberalized List II to the more Liberalized List I and, in
addition, introduced a new "levy list" of about 25 items-a quasi
List I-which could be imported freely subject only to a flexible levy, to be
adjusted from time to time. A few additional items were transferred from
List II to List I during the course of the year, and some simplification was
introduced in the liceasing and administrative procedures for imports.
10.      The Government has since completed a further review of the
liberalization program and announced its 1983 Import Regime. The new Regime
provides for the shift of an additional 26 items from List II to the more
liberalized lists (List I and the "levy list") and for the inclusion of 22 new
items in List II. In addition, reductions have been made in the rates of
import guarantee deposits, as well as in the customs duties applicable to
several items included in the "levy list". Procedures have also been
simplified for extension of the validity of import permission certificates and
for the import of inputs needed for exports. In its 1982 Statement of
Development Policies, the Government had expressed its intention of
rationalizing the existing tariff system, gradually shifting from a licensing
system of import control to one relying on tariffs, and reducing these tariffs
over the next five years. Follow-up action in this area is expected to be
taken in the light of the findings of the protection study started under
SAL I, which is scheduled for completion in September 1983.
IMF Standby Arrangement
11.      The Government has purchased the full amount of the three-year
stand-by arrangement for SDR 1,250 million approved by the Fund in June 1980.
The latest purchase under the standby was authorized by the Fund in Hay 1983.



_ 93 _                        AN?EX 6
Page 4 of 4
A request from the Governmeat for 8 new one-year stand-by arrangement in an
amount equivalent to SDZ 225 million hms been received by the Hanaging
Director of the Fund and vill be considered by the Executive Board on
June 22, 1983.
Conclusion
12.      Progress on the overall program of structural adjustment jas been
satisfactory. Consequently, the Government of Turkey has been advised of the
availability of the second tranche of $104.5 million.
Ernest Stern



ATTACHMENT
PAge I f 2
COMMENTS FROM THE BORROWER
ZCZC D31T6907 RCAI513
EF : TCP JC
OGBOD
RCAYS13
248423 VORLD3ANK
42689 ANK TR
MR. YUKINORI WATANABE
DIRECTOR
OPERATIONS EVALUATION DEPARTMENT
INT3AFRAD.
WASHINSTONDC.
REF. YOUR LETTER DATED APRIL 3.1985. CONVERNING PROGRAM
PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT- TURKEY SECOND AND THIRD STRUCTURAL
ADJUSTMENT LOANS C LOANS.1987. TU AND 2159. TU)
.I WOULD LIKE TO THANK YHOU FOR ASKING OUR VIESS AND COMMENTS
ON THE SECOiD AND THE THRID SAL EXPREENCES.
HAVING EXAMINED THE FIRST DRAFT OF THE PROGRAM PERFORMAN E
AUDIT REPORT iN THE SECOND AND THE THIRD JAL8 OF TURKEY WE HAVE
ONERALLYY AOREED WITH IT BUT BELOW MENTIO D CERTIAN POINTS
AND FIRURES NEED TOmE CLARIFIED AND CORRECTD.
1- IN CONNECTION WITH PARAGRAP 33. OF THE AUDIT REPORT OUR
FIGURES RELATED TO BUDGET REVENUES HAVE BEEN SHOWN AS FOLLOWS:
BUDGET DEFICIT TO 1.3 PERCENT OF GNP IN 1982C TEN MONTH
FIRUGRE) TO 3.4 PERCENT IN 1980. TAX REVENUES GREW BY 58.7
PERCENT IN 1981. AND 9.7 PERCENTrN 1982. ( TENHONTHFIGURE) BUDGET RE
REVEUNUE AS A SHARE OF GNP ROSE FROM 21.6 PERCENT TO 22.4 PERCENT
FROM 1980 T01981. AND THE FELL BACK TO 17.8 PERCENTIN 1982
C 10 MONTH FIGURE) BUDGET REVENUE HAD INCREASED BY 65.8 PEVtCENT
NM 1ZB3.
2. SEE'S ABFGREGATED GROSS LOSS REDUCEDS FROM 3.2. PERCENT OF
GNP IN 1979. TO 0.1 PERCENT IN 1980. WHEN WE CONVERT IT IN TO
nET  FIGURES IT REDUCED FROM 3.1. PERCENT OF GNP IN 1979. Tno.5
3- ONPAGE 32. THE TABLE REGARDING FINANCING BY SEE'S IN 198'
BUDGETARY TRANFERS WERE 32. PERCENT OF THE TOTAL GEUIREMENTS
SHORT  TERME BORROWING IS 39. PERCENT OF TOTAL REGUIREMENTS.
4- PERCXENT CHANGES INREAL FrXED INVESTMENT FROM PREVIOUS -YEAR
IHICH WAS TAKEN PLACE IN TABLE 2 OF AUDIT REPORT SHOULD BE SHOWN
AS TOLLOWS:-
1978         1979           1980        1981.       1982
PUBLIC   -       -----                                           98-
-  13.7         4.6     -3.7            9.4      2.2.       .8
PRIVATE -6.1.      -11.6       -17.3         -8.7       5.5     4.8
5- IN CONNECTION WITH PARAGRAP 110. OF AUDIT REPORT ORWOTH
OF PRIVATE FIXED INVESTMENT SHOULD READ AS FOLLOWS-
YEAR.         1978         1979     1980      1981    1982    '983
GROWTH RATE  -6.0       -11.7      -17.2    -8.8        5.4     4.B



95 -                 ATTLACHMENT
Pape 2 of 2
6- PARAGRAP 117. SUBSEGUENT DEUCTION OF TAX RABATE RATE THE
UPPER LIMIT FOR TAX REBATE RATE REACHED-ONCLY 11. PERCXENT
IN CONNECTlONWITH PARAGkAP 139. Ol AUDIT REPORT MONTLY CPr
SHOULD READ AS FOLLOW.
YEAR/ MONTH                            MONTHLY RATE-A
1983-
1-1                                                4 .:'
-2                                                 2.5
-3                                                 2.0
-4                                                  1.5
-5                                                  0.7
-6                                                  1.3
-7                                                  1.1
-8                                                  2.3
-9                                                  3.2
-10                                                 5.3
-11                                                 3.7
-12                                                  4.2
1984
-1                                                  3.5
-2                                                  1.5
-3                                                 3.1
-4                                                  6.?
--,.9                 4.9
-6                                                   6.5
-7                                                     0.9
-8                                                 2.5
-9          -                                           2.1
-A. ( PERCENT INCRAEASE OVER THE PREVIONS MONTH)
8- IMNPORT LIBERALIZATIONTHE UNDERSECRETARY OF TERASURY AND
FORIGN TRADE IS AUT HORIZED TO DETERMINE THE LEZVEL OF VARIBALE
LEVY ITEM BY ITEM( PRAGRAF. 115)
OUR  GENERALPOLICTY OF IMNPORT LIBERALIAZATIONIS THE DOMINANT
CRIETERIA IN ES TABLISHING THE PROTECTION FRAMEWORK OF DEMESTIC INDU
TUR ON THE BASIS OF DOMECTIC INHUSTIES WHICH ARE UBALE TOCOMP*UTE
IN INTRNATIONAL MARKETS INPRICE AND QUALITY WISE ARE PROTECTED ON V
VERY LIMITIED SECALE FROM TO TIME TOTIME IMPORT OF VARIOUS GOODSS
AQRE LIBNERALIZED BY USING FUND SYSTEM.
IWOULD APPRECIATE YOU COULD CONSIDER THE ABOVE- MENTIONED POINTS
AND FIGURS IN THE FINAL REPORT.-
. BEST REGARDS
YALCIN BURCAK
ACTING DIRECTOR GENERALOF THE EXTERNAL ECONOMIC RFELATIONS.
24.5.1985. 57719
248423 WORLDBANK
42689 ANK TR
248423 WORLDBANK



V)I
I



- 97 -
TURKEY - Structural Adjustment Loans TI and ITr
(Loan Fos. 1987-TU and 2158-TU)
CO1PLETION REPORT
I. Introduction
1.       On May 15, 1981, the Bank signed a $300 million Second Structural
Adjustment Loan (SAL II) with the Republic of Turkey, the second of such
loans. This vas followed by a Third Structural Adjustment Loan in the amount
of $304.5 million which was signed on May 28, 1982. These loans were extended
in support of the Government 's continuous efforts to restructure the Turkish
economy.
II. The Structural Adjustment Program
2.       The Government's program of January 1980 for restructuring the
Turkish economy was a major departure from the policies pursued over the
previous two decades. The principal goals of the new program were to shift
fro an inward-looking to an outward-oriented strategy, and to place greater
reliance on the interplay of market forces. The early stages of the program
focused on stabilizing a crisis situation through a series of measures
designed to correct serious external and domestic imbalances. With the easing
of the immediate crisis, the Government was able to develop a more
comprehensive set of adjustmnt policies.
3.       The structural adjustment program seeks to make the transition from
an industrialization strategy based on import substitution to one with a;n
outward orientation, through measures designed to stabilize the economy while
laying the foundation for sustainable growth over the medium-term. The
program includes the following main features:
(i)   a realistic and flexible exchange rate;
(ii)   incentives to encourage producers to export;
(iii) tight monetary conditions to restrain domestic demand and
control inflation;
(iv)   improved external debt management;
(v)   deregulation of interest rates to encourage private savings;
(vi)   steps to improve institutional efficiency in key sectors;
(vii)   rationalization of the public investment program;
(viii)   initiation of SEE reforms to reduce the burden on public
finances and improve their efficiency; and
(ix)   progressive liberalization of imports including the
elimination of quantitative restrictions and the
rationalization of the tariff structure.



- 98 -
4.       From the outset it was clear that the structural adjustment process
would be a medium-term effort, as it represented a fundamental change in
attitudes, institutions, and policies. The Government's approach has been to
proceed on a year-by-year basis, setting targets in the annual programs that
are formulated in line with the overall objectives. The structural adjustment
process has been supported since its inception in 1980 by a series of SALs, of
which SAL II and III were an integral part. The adjustment process is
currently continuing and is being supported by a SAL IV loan approved by the
Board in June 1983.
5.       SAL II was disbursed in two tranches, one for $200 million and one
for $100 million following a satisfactory tranche review. SAL II was fully
disbursed as of November 30, 1982. SAL III was also disbursed in two
tranches, the first amounting to $200 million and the second to
$104.5 million. The second tranche of SAL III was held up for some months
following the tranche review mission and was made conditional upon the passage
of the SEE reform decree. On May 17, 1983 the Minister of Finance informed
the Bank by telex of the finalization of the SEE decree and the Bank in turn
informed the Turkish Government of the release of the second tranche on the
following day. As of June 30, 1983 SAL III was for all practical purposes
fully disbursed.
III. Monitoring the SAL Process
6.       Rather than truncate the continuous macroeconomic adjustment of the
SAL process into two annual components corresponding to the SAL II and SAL III
periods, it has been considered preferable to monitor progress at this overall
level by looking at the performance of selected aggregate indicators during
the whole period 1980-82. On the other hand, progress under each SAL at the
more detailed and sectorel levels is evaluated by reviewing performance in
relation to the specific tranche release conditions in each SAL under
consideration. In this way it is possible to get a global view of the
achievements of the structural adjustment process as a whole, while at the
same time focus on the particular measures and policy conditions which
underpinned this process in each of the years covering SAL II and SAL III.
This approach has been followed because of the difficulty of measuring the
impact of a specific policy change on the structural adjustment process as a
whole in a relatively short period of one year. In addition, it is
theoretically indefensible to argue that a particular policy change has a
causal and quantifiable effect in one economic area independently from the
other policy changes included in the package (and indeed independently from
exogenous factors that are not affected by economic policy changes).
Conceptually, therefore, (and abstracting from exogenous factors) a causal
relationship can be more realistically established between the overall policy
adjustment package and the overall performance of the macroeconomic
variables. On the other hand we can monitor the actions taken to satisfy
tranche conditions and are thus able in several (but not all) cases to
attribute to an action a specific result in the structural adjustment process.
A. Monitoring at the Macro-level
Thus after three years of the structural adjustment process, it is
possible to take a broad look at the achievements of the 1980-82 period, which
suggest striking success in some areas, less so in others, and some unresolved



_99 -
problems. Throughout the period, the reform program was strictly adhered to
and most fiscal and monetary targets in the Government's stabilization program
(supported by the SALs and the IMF standby) were met, although there were some
slippages. Major structural reforms in the tax system, the import and export
regimes, the SEE pricing mechanism, public investment, the liberalization of
interest rates, and the adoption of a daily fluctuating exchange rate, all
contributed to substantial short-term progress with favorable longer-term
implications. After two consecutive years of decline, real GNP grew in 1981
and 1982 by 4.2 percent and 4.6 percent respectively (Table 1). This was due
primarily to significant improvements in the foreign balance since the
stabilization program allowed for only slight increases in domestic demand.
8.       Growth in 1981 and 1982 was not even across sectors.  1981 saw a low
rate of growth of agriculture compensated by a relatively high growth rate in
the industrial sector. By contrast, in 1982 the agriculture sector, due to
favorable rainfall conditions, witnessed a bumper crop leading to a
6.5 percent growth rate in value-added, which was offset by a lower than
expected 4.5 percent growth rate in industry. While the overall performance
of the economy during the last two years has been satisfactory, the growth
rate of private manufacturing continues to be hindered perhaps by a perception
that a revival of domestic demand will be slow. Private investment recovered
modestly in 1982.
9.       On the inflation front, the Government was able to restrain the
growth of incomes and domestic demand to acceptable levels while redressing
public finances and the SEE accounts. As a result the inflation rate, as
measured by the wholesale price index, dropped from an annual increase of
107.2 percent in 1980 to 36.8 percent in 1981 and further to 25.2 percent in
1982.



- 100 -
Table 1: Turkey - National Accounts, 1980-42
1980 Level         1980     1981       1982
At Current      In
Prices      Percent     Real Change from
(TL billions)  of GNP      Previous Year (%)
Consumption                   3538.0         79.8   -3.4      3.0        4.2
Public                       544.1         12.3     8.8     0.8        3.2
Private                     2993.9         67.5    -5.2     3.4        4.4
Fixed Capital Investment       861.5         19.4   -10.0     1.7        2.6
Public                       482.4         10.9    -3.7     9.4        0.8
Private                      379.1          8.5   -17.2    -8.8        5.4
Stockbuilding                  279.8          6.3    (3.6)  (-1.3)     (-1.3)
Total domestic demand       4679.3        105.5    -1.3     1.6        2.6
Foreign balance               -244.1         -5.5    (0.2)   (2.6)       (1.9)
03P                         4435.2        100.0    -1.1     4.2        4.6
Memorandum Items
Agriculture                  925.0         22.7     1.6     0.3        6.5
Industry                    1026.7         25.2   -5.9      7.2        4.5
Services                    2128.8         52.1   -0.2      4.8        4.6
GDP at Factor Cost            4080.5        100.0   -1.0      4.2        4.6
Note:    Figures in parentheses are the contribution in percentage points to
the growth in G&P.
Source; State Planning Organization.



- 101 -
10.      Balance of Payments. Developments on the external account have been
particularly impressive over the last three years. The current account
deficit, which stood at 13.2 billion (5.6 percent of GNP) in 1980, fell to
about $1.0 billion (1.7 percent of GNP) in 1982 (Table 2). Of particular
importance vas the impressive growth of merchandise exports, which rose from
$2.9 billion in 1980 to $4.7 billion in 1981. This 62 percent growth vas
followed in 1982 by a further increase of 22 percent to $5.75 billion.
Merchandise exports in 1982 were close to the Government's target of
$5.8 billion despite a decline in the export prices of agricultural products.
Table 2: Turkey - Balance of Payments, 1980-82
(C millions)
1980         1981         1982
Exports of goods & NFS                       4102          6416         7620
Imports of goods & NFS                       8760          9892         9641
Workers' Renittances                         2071          2490         2187
Net Transfers                                 -             -             -
Current Account Balance                     -3207         -2089        -1035
Direct Private Investment                      148          129          125
Public MKLT Capital (gross) a/               2354          2188         2076
Amortization on MILT Debt a/                 -434          -545        -1230
Public M&LT Capital (net) I                  1920          1643          846
Other Capic:al b/                            1642           983          264
Change ih Reserves (- - increase)            -503          -667         -200
Reserves as months of imports                   2             2            2
a/   Includes private guaranteed and non-guaranteed debt.
b/   Includes errors and omissions.
Source: Ministry of Finance and Central Bank.
11.      Throughout the period export growth has been led by the manufacturing
sector, and has involved a distinct shift in destination from the EEC
countries to the Middle East (Table 3). Industrial exports registered a
growth of 119 percent in 1981, followed by a further 50 percent rise in 1982.
The flexible exchange rate policy of the Government was the single most
important factor contributing to this performance. The weakness in the
domestic market was also a factor as it forced private entrepreneurs to turn
to external markets for survival. Export growth was helped by a comprehensive
set of export incentives, which served to offset the bias in the protection
system towards domestic production, by the measures taken by the Government to
improve administrative arrangements affecting exports, and by the expansion of
Middle East markets in this period.



Table 3: Turkey - Merchandise Exports, 1980-82
(t millions)
1980             1981              1982
Value  x Share   Value  Z Share   Value  Z Share
Exports by Sector
I.  Agricultural Products    1672       57      2219      47      2141      37
A. Crops                  1541              1934              1727
B. Livestock and
Sea Products           131              285               414
II.  Mining                     191        7      194       4       175       3
III.  Industrial Products       1047       36     2290      49      3430      60
A.  Processed Food         190               412               568
B.  Textiles               440               803              1056
C.  Other Manufacturing   417               1075              1806
TOTAL             2910      100     4703      100     5746      100
Exports by Destination
OECD Countries                  1680       58     2264      48      2556      44
EEC Countries                 1242      43      1503      32      1755      30
Germany                      604               643               707
Other                        638               860              1048
Other OECD Countries           438       15      761      16       801      14
Middle East                      495       17     1893      40      2540      44
Iran                           135               559               610
Iran                            85               234               791
Libya                           60               442               235
Saudi Arabia                    44               187               358
Egypt                           20                72               145
Others a/                      151               400               401
Other Countries                  735       25      546      12       650      12
TOTAL                      2910     100      4703     100      5746     100
a/  Include Sudan, Syria, Jordan, Lebanon, Abu Dhabi, Bahrain, Qatar, Oman,
Dubai and Kuwait.
Source: State Planning Organization.



- 103 -
12.      By contrast, the lower than anticipated growth in merchandise imports
was mostly due to factors exogenous to Turkey. The drop in merchandise
imports in dollar terms by about 2.3 percent in 1982 reflects unexpected price
movements in oil and raw material imports, a stronger US dollar, reductions in
stocks, and the elimination of a risk premium previously paid by Turkish
importers. On the other hand, the recession in the Western economies
contributed to lower than anticipated receipts of workers' remittances. The
positive results in the trade balance during the period under consideration,
and especially in 1982, more than compensated for the negative developments in
the services accounts.
13.      Public Finances.  In the fiscal area progress has been in the right
direction. The most notable feature is a marked retrenchment of the public
sector. Government Consolidated Budget expenditures, which stood at
24.0 percent of GNP in 1980, fell to 21.5 percent in 1982 (Table 4). The
budget deficit to GNP ratio, which stood at 4.6 percent in 1980, decreased to
1.4 percent in 1981, and further to 1.2 percent in 1982, while SEE transfers
as a percentage of GNP showed a steady decline from 4.8 percent in 1980 to
2.8 percent in 1982. Despite these successes, the improvement in the budget
balance was somewhat uneven during the period, due principally to shortfalls
in tax revenues. The tax collection problem has been a source of continuing
concern, and there have been systematic shortfalls in forecast revenues.
Although program figures have generally been more optimistic than
realizations, the Government has reacted by aligning its expenditures with its
resources, thereby continuing the trend towards an eventual positive budget
balance.
Table 4: Turkey - Consolidated Budget Summary, 1980-82
(n billions)
1980                1981                 1982 a/
Program   Actual    Program   Actual    Program   Actual
Revenues              720.0      8i7.3   1,478.7   1,388.8   1,665.0   1,465.4
Expenditures          735.1    1,062.6   1,495.9   1,482.1   1,715.0   1,551.8
Budget Balance       -15.1      -205.4      -17.2     -93.3     -50.1      -86.4
Memorandum Items                           (In percent of GNP)
Expenditures         16.6       24.0       22.6      22.6       23.8      21.5
SEE transfers         2.4        4.8        3.4       3.3        2.9       2.8
Budget Balance      -0.3        -4.6      -0.3       -1.4      -0.6       -1.2
a/ Based on a ten-month period (March-December). For comparative purposer,
the ten-month data have been multiplied by 1.2 in order to put them on a
12-month basis, but with SEE transfers estimated separately.
Source: Ministry of Finance.



- 104 -
14.      SEE Accounts.  The financial performance of SEEs has registered
substantial improvement over the last three years (Table 5). A situation of
chronic deficits has changed into one showing growing profits in 1981 and
1982. This turnaround reflects the Government's efforts in the short term to
improve the financial situation of the SEEs through price adjustments and, in
the longer term, to address the critical issues of increased efficiency and
reform of the SEEs. The measures taken during 1980-82 had a significant
impact on SEE accounts. Basic structural reforms, with the overall objective
of having a viable SEE sector more responsive to market forces, were expected
to be introduced in 1982 through a comprehensive SEE reform decree. The
passage of the legislation took longer than anticipated, probably because of
the far-reaching nature of the changes sought. But the reform decree was
approved in May 1983.
Table 5: Turkey - SEE Accounts, 1980-82
(TL billions)
1980              1981                1982
Program  Actual   Program  Actual   Program  Actual
Sales Revenue                 1,223   1,146      1,981   1,767      2,601   2,667
Total Expenditures            1,197   1,169      2,135   1,759      2,554   2,589
Profit/Loss Before Taxes         26     -23       -154        8        47      78
Total Investment                205     459        433     616        540     679
Fixed Investment              168     281        316     406        472     526
Change in Stocks               37      178       117     210         68     153
Financing Requirement a/        179     482        687     608        493     601
Memorandum Items                                (In percent of GNP)
Profit/Loss                  0.5    -0.5       -2.3     0.1        0.5     0.8
Financing Requirement a/    4.0    10.9        10.5     9.3        5.6     6.9
a/ Excludes depreciation.
Source: Ministry of Finance.



- 105 -
15.      Public Investment.  Restraining the high rate of growth in public
sector investment was a major objective of the structural adjustment process.
Efforts were made to constrain the level of public investment in line with
available resources, to limit the number of projects to a manageable level,
and to ensure that priority projects received larger allocations in order to
speed up their completion. As a result, public sector investment in real
terms declined by 3.7 percent in 1980, rose by 9.4 percent in 1981, and
increased by only 0.8 percent in 1982. Private real investment, by contrast,
declined by 17.2 percent in 1980, declined again by 8.8 percent in 1981, and
rose by 5.4 percent in 1982. The aggregate figures show that the Government
has been able to continue to rationalize its investment program and to lower
the public sector's dependence on external resources (Table 6).
Table 6: Turkey - Savings and Investment, 1980-82
(Percent of GNP at current prices)
1980                 1981                1982
Program   Actual    Program   Actual    Program   Actual
Public Sector
Investment            10.19     15.49      13.48     14.63     12.18      12.60
Savings                6.21      5.17      10.21      8.50       9.10      8.32
Cap                  -3.98    -10.32      -3.27      -6.13     -3.08      -4.28
Private Sector
Investment            9.57      10.24      8.58       9.75      9.72       8.94
Savings              10.31      15.06      6.67      12.37     10.86      11.88
Gap                   0.74       4.82     -1.91       2.62       1.14      2.94
External Resources       3.24      5.50       5.18      3.51       1.94      1.34
Source:  State Planning Organization.
16.      Reschedulin s.  At the end of 1978, the country faced an overwhelming
debt burden of $7.5 billion in short-term debt and $6.8 billion in medium- and
long-term debt. It was faced with service payment obligations (mostly on
short-term debt) of $5.1 billion (including arrears), or nearly three times
the value of merchandise exports in 1977. Following the resolution of the
1978 debt crisis, Turkey pursued a very conservative policy of external
borrowing which was restricted almost entirely to long-term borrowing. Much
of this was arranged through the OECD Consortium for Turkey and was extended
on concessional terms. Also, between 1978-1980 Turkey rescheduled some
$9.2 billion of outstanding obligations through a series of rescheduling
arrangements concluded with official and commercial creditors. These
reschedulings in fact contributed significantly to the structural adjustment
process by allowing Turkey the breathing space with which to pursue its
reforms. Approximately $6.0 billion of short-term debt, including
$2.6 billion in convertible Turkish lira deposits and bankers credits and



- 106 -
$1.2 billion of non-guaranteed suppliers credits, were consolidated into
medium-term loans or partially converted into Turkish lira obligations. As a
result of these policies short-term debt as a percentage of total debt
outstanding fell from 51 percent in 1978 to 12.5 percent in 1981. Inflows
were mostly from official sources: major creditors being the OECD countries,
the World Bank, and the IMF. Of the total debt outstanding at end-1981,
87 percent constituted medium- and long-term debt.
17.      Bank/IMF Cooperation.  The Bank's support to the structural
adjustment program in Turkey has from its inception involved a close working
relationship with the IMF. In June 1980, the IMF entered into a three-year
Standby Arrangement with the Government of Turkey for a total of
SDR1,250 million (about $1.6 billion). The principal conditions of the
Standby are the maintenance of external competitiveness through a flexible
exchange rate policy, ceilings on Central Bank credit to control aggregate
demand, and limitations on budget transfers to SEEs. Other conditions relate
to timely fulfillment of reserve requirement obligations of banks, limits on
the contracting of new non-concessional public or publicly guaranteed external
debt, and a performance criterion on trade and payment restrictions. The
present Standby Arrangement expired on June 17, 1983, and the Turkish
authorities have entered into a new one-year arrangement.
18.      The Bank has been in agreement with the Fund's basic position that
stabilization of the economy is an essential prerequisite for a return to a
sustainable growth path. The Bank takes the view that the period of austerity
necessary to bring inflation under control, redress the public finances, and
improve the balance of payments should be used to lay the groundwork for a
major restructuring of the Turkish economy. Thus, the Fund's attention to the
country's monetary and fiscal balance, the maintenance of external
competitiveness, and SEE financial performance has complemented the Bank's
structural adjustment efforts in the areas of SEE reform, import
liberalization, export promotion, rationalization of public investment, and
the development of a medium-term framework.
19.      In simmary, the 1980-82 period has witnessed impressive progress in
the structural adjustment process. The stabilization program is proceeding
satisfactorily, export growth has been sustained and a substantial measure of
monetary and fiscal discipline has been introduced in the management of the
economy. Yet the structural adjustment process, and its achievements, must be
viewed as part of a medium-term effort. Much remains to be done. Many of the
actions so far taken must now be extended and broadened so as to ensure that
the structural changes firmly take root. Thus the recently designed SAL IV
program, conceived as another step forward in the medium-term plan of
structural adjustment, seeks to consolidate and strengthen many of the policy
reforms in SALs II and III. What seems clear, and what the data presented in
Tables 1 through 6 confirm, is that the program supported by SAL II and
SAL III contributed significantly, to the structural adjustment process, while
the loans themselves helped maintain a higher level of imports and growth
during the painful adjustment period.



- 107 -
B. Monitoring the Conditionalities -- SAL II
20.      The Second Structural Adjustment Loan specified that the disbursement
of a second tranche would follow a review indicating satisfactory progress in
selected macroeconomic areas including the adequacy of policies and
legislative and administrative measures for export promotion; in import
liberalization and domestic resource mobilization; in following adequate
energy policies, in particular, the pricing of petroleum products at levels
comparable to international market prices; in SEE reforms. This last
included: (a) implementation by September 30, 1983 of the reforms decided in
principle in February 1981 by the Council of Ministers, and approval by the
Council of Ministers of proposals for legal changes permitting greater
delegation of authority within SEEs and multi-year contracts for their
managers; and (b) by adhering to the 1981 program decree for the SEEs as
regards numbers of authorized positions that need hiring. For SAL II,
progress in the above areas was reviewed in November 1981 and was deemed
satisfactory as noted in the December 30, 1981 memorandum to the Executive
Directors on the tranche release.
21.      Export Promotion Policies.  At the time of the November 1981 review,
the mission noted satisfactory progress in the area of export promotion
policies. It was not possible, however, to evaluate the relative importance
of each policy measure undertaken to stimulate export growth, or of these as
compared with exogenous factors. Yet the evidence on export growth as
compared to the previous year when many of the export incentive measures were
either non-existent or in their infancy, was extremely favorable. In fact,
total merchandise exports in 1981 rose 61.6 percent reflecting increased
exports in all markets. Of particular importance was the 282 percent increase
in exports to the middle-east. The main instruments behind this export
upsurge were:
i)      a favorable exchange rate;
(ii)     a system of preferential credits at subsidized rates;
(iii)     export tax rebates;
(iv)     improved access to foreign exchange; and
(v)     duty free importation of imports to export oriented production.
These instruments were applied consistently during the SAL II loan period and
from May of 1981 the Government began to adjust the TL against a basket of
currencies from Turkey's major trading partners. Moreover, private trading
companies were encouraged through tax rebate schemes such that by the end of
1981 there were 12 dynamic companies operating at $15 million per year as
opposed to only four six months earlier.
22.      Import Liberalization Measures. The SAL II review found the progress
in the continuation of the import liberalization process satisfactory. As
noted in the loan documents, the Government had intended to liberalize imports
on a step by step basis. Thus the 1981 import regime took the major step of



- 108 -
abolishing the quota list and the Government has continued to build around
this basic measure. In addition to the continual transfer of items from the
more restrictive to the less restrictive list, the Government abolished the
monopoly of certain state enterprises, such as PETKIM, so as to force these
firms to become competitive in the international market. The review mission
also noted the Government's commitment to speeding up administrative approval
processes for importing items under List II (the more restrictive list).
23.      Tax Reforms. A major area of concern to the structural adjustment
process has been the elimination of budgetary deficits. Therefore, a major
tranche release condition was progress in Government mobilization of public
resources in order to meet its commitments. The review mission noted
satisfactory progress in the area of tax reform with particular emphasis on
the very positive impact of the tax reform package. Fiscal year 1981 tax
revenues were anticipated to reach about TL1,500 billion by the review
mission, and even though the actual figure was closer to TL1,400 billion, that
is a 7 percent overestimation, the rates of budget deficit to GNP declined
substantially from 4.6 percent in 1980 to 1.4 percent in 1981.
24.      While the SAL II tranche condition specifically mentioned progress in
enacting a law providing for a value added tax to be introduced during FY82,
the review mission noted the progress in drafting the law but accepted the
Government's cautious approach in introducing the new tax in order to avoid
the danger of disrupting current revenues from production and sales taxes.
Thus the mission endorsed a delay in the VAT introduction to 1983 at the
earliest on administrative grounds.
25.      With respect to progress in establishing procedures for adequate tax
collection, the review mission noted a number of measures taken by the
Government to improve tax administration including:
EiJ    an inacrease in the budget allocation for tax administration
from TL6.47 billion in 1981 to TL12.41 billion 1982;
(ii)     the creation of additional tax offices in key tax generating
areas;
(iii)     an increase in the number of district tax controllers from 400
to the authorized level of 1100 in 1982; and
(iv)     some progress in the computerization of tax returns.
Moreover, the number of taxpayers subject to the advanced payments tax was
only slightly below target. As planned the sales of agricultural produce to
Government purchasing agencies was being taxed at the required rate of 5
percent.
26.      Energz Pricing. Given that Turkey's heavy dependence on imported
energy, primarily petroleum, is one of the main contributing factors to the
structural imbalance in the external accounts, it has been one of the
cornerstones of Turkey's structural adjustment strategy to lessen this
dependence. The Government's areas of intervention for the express purpose of
achieving the objectives of its energy policy were and still are:



- 109 -
(i)     improving the efficiency of key institutions;
(ii)     improving energy planning and inter-agency coordination;
(iii)     carrying out a review of the major projects in the energy
sector to determine their feasibility and priority;
(iv)     stepping up efforts at energy conservation; and
(v)     taking steps to increase the participation of the private
sector, both domestic and foreign, in the development of energy
resources.
27.      A SAL II tranche release condition required adequate energy policies
with particular emphasis on pricing of petroleum products at levels comparable
to international market prices. The review mission concluded that there was
satisfactory progress in the implementation of energy policies; that energy
price adjustments were implemented regularly for petroleum products, hard
coal, lignite and power; and that price increases for petroleum have more than
kept pace with international price rises and domestic inflation. The domestic
price of gasoline at $2.45/Gal after tax, while not as high as that in some
European countries, was substantially higher than international market
prices. Noreover, the reorganization of TPAO 11 was studied pending the
general SEE reform law (not enacted during SAL II), the TRI 2/ related draft
law allowing private mining had been finalized and was before the National
Security Council; the law specifying the takeover of municipal electricity
distribution had been enacted; and lastly, 16 licenses had been issued for
foreign exploration of petroleum as of March 1982.
'8.      The State Economic Enterprise Reform. At the heart of the structural
adjustment process lies the problem of the profitability and the efficiency of
the SEEs. The Government's commitmet to their reform was evident in the 1980
reform program and in the series of measures taken since then. Pending a wide
ranging reorganization of the SEE sector under a reforr decree that was being
proposed, the Turkish Government passed interim measures on November 27, 1981
reflecting the decisions taken in principle in February 1981. The main
features were:
1/ Turkish Petroleum Company which is responsible for exploration and
production.
2/ Turkish Coal Mining Authority which is responsible for lignite
production and distribution.



- 110 -
(i)     directing the SEEs to give priority to operational results and
improvements in productivity, with investment targets being
given a secondary role;
(ii)     a review of performance, stressing productivity and
profitability, was to be made each quarter by a body at the
Prime Ministerial level; performance was to be considered the
primary responsibility of SEE managers ;
(iii)     continuation of the policy restricting the replacement of
employees in 8 key SEEs to 50 percent of the positions becoming
vacant through attrition;
(iv)     limiting of budgetary transfers to the SEEs in 1982 to TL243
billion, with the proportion going to manufacturing SEEs
reduced in both real and nominal terms; and
(v)     frequent adjustment of prices to reflect market conditions;
monopoly and semi-monopoly firms, were directed to take
explicit account of international price levels.
29.      In the light of these policy commitments and measures the review
mission found adequate progress and it noted in particular that:
Ci)     the reforms decided in principal by the Council of Ministers in
February 1981 had been generally implemented in the prescribed
period;
(ii)     the law enabling multi-year contracts for managers (including a
greater delegation of authority) had been passed in November
1981, that is with an acceptable delay;
(iii)     employment levels were well below ceilings;
(iv)     the SEE decree envisaged went far beyond steps initially
contemplated.
Moreover, the review mission noted that 36,000 vacant positions in the SEEs
have been cancelled, in the 17 major SEEs actual em loyment had declined by
17,000 since November 1980 and in a decree issued to the SEEs by the Prime
Minister, the managers were enjoined to meet agreed operating and investment
performance targets, as well as to maintain profitable operations.
C. Monitoring the Conditionalities -- SAL III
30.      The Third Structural Adjustment Loan specified that tranche release
would follow satisfactory progress in the following areas:
(i)    SEE Reform - Satisfactory progress in SEE reform would include
progress on SEE legal reforms and progress in maintaining the
level of budget transfers to manufacturing SEEs below the
budgeted level of TL47 billion for 1982;



- 111 -
(ii)     Public Investment -rSatisfactory progress would cover:  further
rationalization of the public investment program; and
constraining the level of public investment to conform to
available resources; and stimulating the growth of private
investment, in accordance with the Government's objectives;
(iii)     Project Evaluation - Satisfactory progress would include:
developing the Government's procedures and capabilities for
preparation, evaluation and selection of investment projects;
and
(iv)     Import Liberalization - Satisfactory progress in import
liberalization.
For SAL III progress in the above areas, including the overall performance of
the economy, was reviewed during several missions to Turkey -
October 18-27, 1982, January 27-29, 1983 and February 28-March 11, 1983. The
main conclusion from these reviews and discussions was that the structural
adjustment program in Turkey was progressing well, as noted in the May 18,
'983 Memorandum to the Executive Directors on the tranche release.
31.      Reform of State Economic Enterprises.  The review missions concluded
t-hat there was satisfactory progress on this issue even though there were some
delays. A general enabling law had been enacted in June 1982 permitting the
Government to implement the SEE reform process through decrees. After a
detailed examination of various proposals made in this regard, the Government
approved in May 1983 a comprehensive SEE reform decree. Simultaneously it was
considered that the Government was continuing its effort to improve SEE
management, emphasizing profitability and productivity as the primary
responsibilities of SEE managers. Profits of SEEs rose to about TL46 billion
in 1982 compared to TL8 billion in 1981. Budget transfers to SEEs in 1982
were held to agreed levels; in particular, transfers to manufacturing SEEs in
1982 did not exceed the programmed level of TL47 billion. The second tranche
of *104.5 million, which had been expected to be released at the end of 1982
was, however, held up until May of 1983 pending the passage of the SEE reform
decree.
32.      Public Investment.  The various missions concluded that there was
satisfactory progress in the rationalization of the public investment
program. Major efforts were made during the past year to continue to
constrain the level of public investment in line with avai'lable resources, to
limit the number of projects, and to ensure that priority projects receive
larger allocations in order to speed up their completion. The level of public
fixed investment programmed for 1983 is TL1258.8 billion at 1983 prices. This
represents almost no change in real terms compared to the programmed level for
1982 and only a 5 percent increase over the 1982 realized level. The growth
in public investment expenditures in 1982 (0.8 percent real increase over
1981) was, for the first time in Turkish history, below the programmed
growth. This was achieved through strict control over public investment
expenditures and, unlike in previous years, no additional allocations were
made during the course of the year. The reviews also confirmed that more than
80 percent of the allocation for major projects in 1982 went to the 87
projects identified as high priority.



- 112 -
33.      The sectoral composition of public inwestment for 1983 displayed
further progress towards the intersectoral balance recommended in the Bank's
Public Investment Review Report 1/ and endorsed by the Government. This calls
for reducing the share of the public sector in manufacturing and concentrating
investment in energy, infrastructure and agriculture. In the 1983 Investment
Program, allocations for energy, transportation and agriculture were
maintained at about 34 percent, 19 percent and 11 percent respectively, while
the share for manufacturing had been reduced to 16 percent as against about
20 percent realized in 1982 and about 25 percent realized in 1981. This
reflected the Government's efforts to reduce the role of manufacturing SEEs
and to promote private manufacturing investment in line with the new
development strategy. Finally, the 1983 Investment Program reduced the number
of ongoing projects to about 6600 as against 7400 projects in the 1982
Program. While no new projects were included, a large number of major
projects of unproven economic merit included in the 1981 program were dropped,
deferred for restudy or substantially reduced in scope. The review mission
noted that the Government was expected to rationalize the project list further
over the next several years. Its policy remains one of retaining within the
public investment program only projects which meet satisfactory economic
criteria.
34.      Project Evaluation.  The review mission concluded that efforts in
improving project evaluation methods as well as the institutional arrangements
were satisfactory. The head of a reorganized project evaluation department in
the State Planning Organization was appointed in early 1982 and the department
was operational as of May 1983. Staff from the Bank's Economic Development
Institute (EDI) have visited Turkey and held consultations with the SP0, the
State Investment Bank (DYB) and the Ministry of Finance on the subject of
training in project preparation, evaluation and selection. As a result,
proposals were under consideration for organizing regular training courses in
Turkey for Government and SEE staff as well as for instructors who could
conduct training courses in the future. The first joint EDI/DYB course is to
be held in Ankara late in 1983. Meanwhile, the courses in project evaluation
conducted by the DYE were and are being strengthened.
35.      Import Liberalization.  The review mission noted that some progress
in the further liberalization of imports was made in the 1982 Import Regime
which shifted another 35 items from the Liberalized List II to the more
Liberalized List I and, in addition, introduced a new "levy list" of about 25
items - a quasi List I -- which could be imported freely subject only to a
flexible levy, to be adjusted from time to time. A few additional items were
transferred from List II to List I during the course of the year, and some
simplification was introduced in the licensing and administrative procedures
for imports.
I/ 3472-TU dated December 7, 1982



- 113 -
36.      The Government completed a further review of the liberalization
program and announced its 1983 Import Regime in late November 1982. The new
Regime provided for the shift of an additional 26 items from List II to the
more liberalized lists (List I and the "levy list") and for the inclusion of
22 new items in List II. In addition, reductions were made in the rates of
import guarantee deposits, as well as in the customs duties applicable to
several items included in the "levy list". Procedures were also simplified
for extension of the validity of import permission certificates and for the
import of inputs needed for exports. In its 1982 Statement of Development
Policies, the Government had expressed its intention of rationalizing L!e
existing tariff system, gradually shifting from a licensing system of impo-t
control to one relying on tariffs, and reducing these tariffs over the next
five years. Follow-up action in this area is expected to be taken in the
light of the findings of the protection study started under SAL I, which is
scheduled for completion late in 1983. As a result of the above, the review
missions agreed that progress in this area was acceptable although it felt
that a more systematic approach would be preferable.
IV. Loan Impact and Implementation
37.      The SAL II total loan amount was $300 million which in turn comprised
3.4 percent of imports of goods during the disbursement period; the SAL III
total was $304.5 million which was about ,.2 perc-nt of imports of goods for
the comparative disbursement period. White the axounts seem small in
comparison to total import requirements th, respective loan amounts financed
essential imports in both cases. For SAL II the proceeds of the loan were
broken down into a two-thirds/one-third allocation for agricultural and
industrial essential imports. In the case of SAL III any commodity could be
imported regardless of its type so long as the commodity in question was not
part of the agreed forbidden list (e.g. alcoholic beverage, tobacco, pearls,
uranium depleted in U234, nuclear reactors, jewelry, etc.)
38.      Administratively, loan implementation in both SAL II and SAL III were
satisfactory. Because of the experience gained by the Ministry of Finance and
the Central Bank in administering SAL I and the SAL Supplement, the
administration of these loans went smoothly. The Ministry of Finance and the
Central Bank bore the main responsibility for administering the loans, and
applications for import licenses received substantive approval from the
appropriate executive agency.
39.      Eligible Commodities and Allocations.  SAL II was fully disbursed as
of November 30, 1982 and SAL III by June 30, 1983. The original and final
allocations for SAL II were as follows:
SAL II Disbursements t
Category                Original           Final
1.       Agriculture             200,000,000.00           187,071,305.95
2.       Industry                100,000,000.00           112,928,694.05
Total                   300,000,000.00           300,000,000.00



- 114 -
Eligible commodities were spelled out in Schedule 1 of the loan agreement.
They reflected the Government's proposal that the loan proceeds be allocated
to the two main categories supported by the previous SAL: (a) inputs for the
agricultural sector specifically raw materials and intermediate inputs for the
production of fertilizer; and (b) new materials and intermediate inputs for
industry. Petroleum and petroleum products were not eligible. In the case of
SAL III eligibility was not so restrictive and no allocations were made for a
particular sector. Thus all imports of goods were permitted other than those
set out in Schedule 1 of the loan agreement.
40.      Counterpart Funds.  As in previous SALs, counterpart funds equivalent
to the loan amounts were deposited in a special account with the Central Bank
and used by the Government to help finance expenditures associated with its
development program. Although the Bank had not sought to influence the
Government in its allocation of funds, the Government did channel funds to the
high priority energy projects including the Bank financed Elbistan and
Karakaya Projects.
41.      Procurement.  Imports were made directly by the users with iports
costing $10 million or more processed through international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for procurement. All
contracts of a lesser value were awarded through normal trade channels on the
basis of normal procurement procedures of public sector and private sector
firms concerned. The procurement procedures of public sector firms had
adequate choice of international supplies to ensure reasonable availability
and price. Interesting enough there were no ICB's in either SAL II or
SAL III.
42.      Disbursements.  Disbursements for both SAL's were smooth.  The
minimum amounts of invoices of $5,000 and withdrawal applications of $25,000
were used in accordance with the relevant articles in Schedule 1 of the loan
agreements. The loans were only disbursed against foreign expenditures with
retroactive financing of up to *30 million in SAL II (for expenditures made
after April 1, 1981) and of up to *40 million in SAL III (for expenditures
made after March 1, 1982). The loans were fully disbursed as of the dates
noted earlier.
V. Summary and Conclusions
43.      The major objectives of the SAL program can be summarized as follows:
(i)     at the macroeconomic level, the program intends to support the
necessary structural adjustment measures to be undertaken by
the Government as it strives to alter its development strategy;
the SAL loans are meant to provide quick disbursing balance of
payments support to offset part of the external financial
burden created by the implementation of the adjustment program;



- 11S -
(ii)       at the more disaggregated level the program seeks to place
specific emphasis on priority actions which will lead to
specific results in the structural adjustment process.
Given that the structural adjustment process is a medium-term effort, it
should be clear that the Bank's SAL II and SAL III loans contributed
significantly to a maintenance of the reform momentum. This was achieved
through the preparation of an annual "Statement of Development Policies"
signed by the Government setting down the various measures the Government
intends to take over the period under review and the progress it intends to
achieve in restructuring the Turkish economy. The combination of clearly
enunciated policies and frequent reviews of specific actions ensured the
results which were spelled out quantitatively in section III.
44.      The direct foreign exchange contribution of the loans was modest; it
was in the neighborhood of 3.5 percent of merchandise imports. Yet the
indirect effects were probably as important, in that the SAL loans
contributed, in conjunction with the IMF Standby, to a progressive restoration
of Turkey's international creditworthiness.
45.      While the SALs successfully supported the structural adjustment
process to date, this is not to say that the process is by any means
complete. On the contrary much remains to be done and the current SAL
(SAL IV) should be looked upon as another incremental set of conditionalities
towards achieving the goals of the medium-term reform program. In fact
particular effort will need to be placed, in a continuous fashion, in the
areas of SEE reform, import liberalization, reform of the financial sector and
rationalization of the public investment program.






