Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13893- KG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
APRIL 14, 1995
Agriculture, Industry and Finance Division
Country Department III
Europe and Central Asia Region



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Kyrgyz Som (KGS)
EXCHANGE RATE:
KGS PER US$
Average              End Period
September - December    1993 =           7.80                   8.00
January - March          1994 =         11.10                  11.70
March - June             1994 =         12.47                  11.30
June - September         1994 =         10.80                  10.50
September - December    1994 =          10.35                  10.65
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                -       Asian Development Bank
CAAEF              -       Central Asian-American Enterprise Fund
CIS                -       Commonwealth of Independent States
EBRD               -       European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ERRA               -       Enterprise Reform and Resolution Agency
FM                 -       Enterprise Fund Manager
FERD               -       Fund for Enterprise Restructuring and Development
FSU                -       Former Soviet Union
GDP                -       Gross Domestic Product
GOSKOMINVEST  -            State Commission on Foreign Investment
IDA                -       International Development Association
ICB                -       International Competitive Bidding
KRG                -       Kyrgyz Republic Government
NBK                -       National Bank of Kyrgyzstan
KfW                -       Kreditanstalt Fur Weiderefbrau
KGS                -       Kyrgyz Som (local currency)
PESAC              -       Privatization and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit
PAU                -       Project Administration Unit
SOE                -       State-owned Enterprise
USAID              -       US Agency for International Development



Table of Contents'
CREDIT  AND   PROJECT  SUMMARY    ................................
1. INTRODUCTION    ...........................................  1
11. THE INDUSTRIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR .... ..............                                                     2
A.  Background  ..........................................  2
B.  Progress in Privatization and Enterprise Reform   ...................  2
C.  Structure and Performance  .................................  3
D.  Recent Sectoral Developments   ..............................  5
E.  Enterprise Level Issues  ...................................  6
111.  THE KYRGYZ  FINANCIAL  SECTOR   ............................  7
A.  Introduction  ..........................................  7
B.  Institutional Structure  ....................................  8
C.  Performance of Commercial Banks  ..........................   10
D.  Financing Enterprises ...................................   11
E. Market Structure  ......................................   13
F.  Monetary and Credit Policies  ..............................   14
G. Banking Supervision and Controls  ...........................   15
IV.  BANK  GROUP ASSISTANCE  STRATEGY  ..........                                ..         .............   16
A.  Lessons of Experience   ..................................   16
B. Bank Group's Past Lending and Strategy  .......................   17
V. THE PROJECT                        ...........................................    18
A.  Project Objectives and Justification   ..........................   18
B.  Detailed Project Description  ...............................   18
C.  Project Cost and Financing   ...............................   23
VI.  PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  ARRANGEMENTS  ......                                   ..        ...........  24
A.  Project Administration Unit ...............................  24
B.  Implementation of Lending and Technical Assistance to Enterprises  ...                      ...  25
C.  Amount and Allocation of IDA  Credit  ........................  27
D.  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements   ...................  31
E.  Accounts and Auditing   ..................................   35
F.  Project Implementation and  Supervision Plans  ...................  35
G.  Environmental Aspects  ..................................   37
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited the Kyrgyz Republic in July 1994,
and comprising Messrs./Mme. Mohamadou Diop (task manager), Shyamadas Banerji, Pr. PSD Specialist
(industrial and enterprise sector), Kalyan Banerji, Sr. Banking Sector Specialist (commercial banks), Amanda
S. Carlier, YPP (financial sector and institutions, MOP), Stanley Dunin, business management consultant
(business and investment plans, technical assistance), Esen Ulgernek, consultant (banking sector); the report
was drafted with contributions from Mr. S. Banerji (Chapter H), Ms. Amanda Carlier (Chapter 11). Peter
Glenshaw Sr. Industrial Economist, and Alinagi Alikhani, Industrial Consultant also contributed in project
preparation. Franco Batzella, Zafar S. Khan and Yves Duvivier were the peer reviewers. Michael Gould
and Yukon Huang are the managing Division Chief and Department Director, respectively, for the operation.



VII. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS  ............................. 38
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....                .......... 39
List of Annexes and Tables
Annex 1 ..                        .     .     German-Kyrgyz Industrial Orient Bank
Annex 2 .. . .   Enterprise Fund Management-Terms of Reference
Annex 3 .. . .    Project Administration Unit-Terms of Reference
Annex 4 .. . .   Pipeline of Investment Projects
Annex 5 .. . .     Implementation and Performance Indicators
Annex 6 ....  IDA Supervision Plan
Annex 7 ....   Procurement Implementation Plan
Annex 8 ....   Estimated IDA Disbursement Schedule
Annex 9 ....   List of Documents in Project File
Table 2.1 .. . .     Number & Book Value State Enterprises
Table 2.2 .. . .   Structure of State Enterprises
Table 3.1 ....    Structure of Banking System
Table 3.2 .. . .                         Comparative Performance of Selected Banks
Table 3.3 ....   Bank Branch Network
Table 3.4 ....   Interest Rates on Loans
Table 3.5 .. . .   Interest Rates on Deposits
Table 5.1 ....   Estimated Project Cost
Table  5.2    ........................................... Financing   Plan
Map No. IBRD 26723



FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
Credit and Proiect Summarv
Borrower:           Kyrgyz Republic
Beneficiaries:      Private enterprises, selected State-owned enterprises, State Commission on
Foreign Investments (GOSKOMINVEST), National Bank of Kyrgyz Republic
(NBK) and Ministry of Finance
Poverty:            Not Applicable
Amount:             SDR 10.1 million
Terms:              Standard IDA terms, with 35 years maturity.
Commitment Fee:    0.50 percent on undisbursed Credit balances, beginning 60 days after signing,
less any waiver.
On-lendinf Terms:   The IDA Credit will be made to the Kyrgyz Republic Government (KRG), which
will on-lend the proceeds through a Fund for Enterprise Restructuring and
Development (FERD) to finance a credit component of US$14.2 million, and d
technical assistance component of US$800,000 (including contingencies). KRG
will charge the FERD a variable interest rate equal to the rate of 10-year
(hereinafter long term) US Treasury Bonds. The FERD will provide subloans
denominated in US dollars, to eligible private enterprises at the prevailing market
rate charged by local commercial banks for their loans in US dollars. Borrowing
enterprises will assume the foreign exchange risk between the US dollar and the
Kyrgyz Som (KGS). The re-lending terms and conditions will be reviewed
periodically to ensure that they continue to reflect market rates, and cover the
cost and risk of the FERD. Subloans will have maturities not exceeding eight
years, including up to one year's grace. The loan to the FERD will be for 15
years, including a grace period of five years. During IDA's ten-year grace
period, reflows from subloan repayments will be retained, and relent on the same
terms and conditions by the FERD. The foreign exchange risk between the SDR
and the US dollar will be borne by KRG.
The technical assistance component is co-financed in parallel by a proposed
US$2.5 million grant of the Japanese Government. Proceeds of the Credit and
grants will be made available by KRG to enterprise beneficiaries as partially
reimbursable advances to cover technical assistance; to the Ministry of Finance
for financial sector studies; and to GOSKOMINVEST to hire a FERD manager,



- ii -
establish and operate a Project Administration Unit responsible for project
coordination and for auditing of project accounts.
FINANCING PLAN
($1,000)                                      l
Sources of Funds                    Local       Foreign       Total
IDA                                             15,000       15,000          74
Orient Bank                         780            -           780          3.9
Other Local Banks                  1,000                      1,000         4.9
Sub-borrowers                      1,000           -          1,000         4.9
Government of Japan                              2,500        2,500        12.3
Total                              2,780         17,500      20,280         100
Net Present Value                Not Applicable
Map                              IBRD 26723



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1         The Kyrgyz Republic (KR), with an estimated per capita income of
US$830 in 1993, is among the smallest and poorest of the former Soviet Republics with
modest natural resources but a literate population of 4.4 million.  The present
government, headed by President Askar Akaev who led the pro-reform and pro-
democracy movement, is committed to macroeconomic stabilization and the establishment
of a market economy. To achieve these goals, the Kyrgyz Republic Government (KRG)
looks primarily to the international finance institutions for advice and financial support.
Kyrgyzstan was one of the four Former Soviet Union (FSU) recipients of World Bank
assistance under the 1992 Technical Co-operation Program (TCP). Despite a large terms
of trade deterioration and declining output, the KRG has pressed on with reforms,
abandoned the rouble zone and introduced the Kyrgyz Som (KGS), the new currency.
Its privatization program has made substantial progress.
1.2         The private enterprise sector is growing rapidly as a result of the
privatization program and new entry spurred by other complementary on-going economic
and institutional reforms. The Kyrgyz Republic Government and the emerging private
sector need support to ensure success of the reform program. This is particularly
important since the Kyrgyz Republic is at the forefront of the Commonwealth of
Independent States (CIS) in reforming its economy. Policy support for this program of
reforms is being provided by the Bank Group under the recently approved Privatization
and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit (PESAC), which focuses particularly on the
acceleration of the privatization program and creating a better policy environment for
private sector development. The proposed project has been designed in this context to
support an integrated program of financial and technical assistance to enterprises to build
up their competitiveness in a market economy. The Credit proceeds would be channelled
through a Fund for Enterprise Restructuring and Development (FERD) to be managed
by a private Enterprise Fund Manager (FM) being recruited internationally. The FM will
work with a counterpart Kyrgyz commercial bank, satisfactory to the Bank, and will also
manage the technical assistance support to enterprises. These institutional arrangements
have been devised to implement the project on a timely and urgent basis, and thus
provide needed resources to private enterprises.  These arrangements are required
because local banks do not have either the operational capacity or the requisite capital
base to support a lending program of the magnitude currently needed to support the
investment needs of private sector enterprises. Local banks will be encouraged to assist
in co-financing individual projects through provision of working capital or medium term
loans in local currency, and may be offered the opportunity to purchase FERD loans if
they develop sufficient capacity in the future to administer the loan portfolio.



- 2 -
II. THE INDUSTRIAL AND ENTERPRISE SECTOR
A. Background
2.1          Although one of the least industrialized republics of the FSU, the Kyrgyz
Republic's industrial sector accounts for a relatively high 30 percent of GDP and 20
percent of employment whereas agriculture accounts for 40 percent of GDP and 40
percent of employment. Most medium and large Kyrgyz enterprises were established as
elements of a much larger production system. They are thus either producers of
intermediate parts or products for other plants in the FSU or assembled final products
from components or inputs procured from other republics. This strategy attached a high
value to economies of scale exemplified by very large plant sizes and a high degree of
specialization. Installed plant capacities were geared to serve the national or regional
markets and rarely reflected local supply or demand considerations. Typical examples
of these are the million unit truck radiator plants, the vending machine plant for the
entire FSU, kitchen equipment plant for naval vessels and the float glass plant established
to supply all of central Asia.
B. Progress in Privatization and Enterprise Reform
2.2          The Kyrgyz Republic Government (KRG) began economic reform,
stabilization and structural adjustment in 1991, much ahead of other countries of the
Former Soviet Union (FSU). The privatization program in particular, which forms an
important part of these reforms was accelerated during 1993. By June 1994,
approximately 4,800 enterprises, or roughly 40 percent of the State's assets had been
privatized. This performance is largely consistent with the initial targets set in the
privatization program. It is expected that an additional 35 percent of state assets would
be privatized by end 1996. The pace of privatization has been rapid in manufacturing
where some 221 enterprises, representing 39 percent of total State enterprise in the
medium-large category assets, had been privatized by October, 1993. Some 2,550 small-
scale enterprises (SSEs with less than 200 employees) in retail trade and services have
been privatized to date, out of an estimated total of 4,300 expected to be privatized.
While the program was speedily implemented, it suffered from some major drawbacks.
Competitive forms of transfer were dropped after some initial attempts. Shares were
transferred in large blocks to employees collectively, rather than individually, in the case
of industrial enterprises. Moreover, the privatized enterprises were set up as closed
companies which prevented any form of sale of shares to outsiders. Managers had
privileged access to large blocks of shares (as high as 25 percent) giving rise to
widespread perceptions of unfairness among the populace. Finally, the State Property
Fund (SPF, the privatization agency) restricted the activity profile of the privatized
enterprises merely precluding flexibility in restructuring.
2.3          These privatization and other related economic policy reform issues, which
shed doubt on privatized enterprises behavior, and capacity to move into the market



economy, are being addressed by the Government in its new Program for 1994-1995,
approved by Parliament in December 1993, and agreed with IDA under the Privatization
and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit (PESAC). The new Program establishes
competitive sales methods such as auctions and bidding against cash and vouchers for
small-scale enterprises and competitive cash bidding by individuals and groups for up to
70 percent of equity, combined with sale of 25 percent of equity through voucher
auctions, for medium and larger enterprises.
2.4         Implementation of the revised privatization program under PESAC is
progressing well. As of end October 1994, 90 joint-stock companies were auctioned
through 10 sets of cash auctions while 12 new investment funds are actively involved in
the mass privatization program. An additional 343 joint-stock companies are expected
to be auctioned off by June 1995. Sectoral and macro-economic policy issues impeding
the efficient functioning of private enterprises are also being successfully addressed under
PESAC including the lifting of controls over prices and profit margins, elimination of
compulsory State orders and supply contracts, elimination of export licensing and phased
elimination of export taxes, limiting the number and types of enterprises to be considered
monopolies and strengthening of the legal and regulatory framework to facilitate and
clarify commercial transactions. In particular, a new company law and insolvency law
and new regulations on leases and registration of land titles, securities and companies are
being drafted. The above measures are progressively creating an appropriate enabling
environment to foster private sector activity. Through the PESAC operation, IDA will
continue to monitor the effectiveness of the measures and assist the Government with
other actions deemed necessary.
C. Structure and Performance
2.5             As the key characteristic of the industrial structure was its vertical
integration and heavy dependence on trade with other CIS enterprises, the breakdown in
inter-republican trade and payments arrangements has hit the industrial sector especially
hard. Industrial output was stagnant during the early 1990's. In 1992, real output was
estimated to have declined by 23 percent and to have fallen further by around 30 percent
in 1993. In 1991, inter republican imports and exports represented 45 and 35 percent
of GDP. Foreign trade dependence of the industrial sector was even higher, estimated
at over 75 percent of material inputs and outputs.
2.6             Accurate data on the distribution of firms by sub-sector or size is
unavailable. However, based on data compiled by the State Property Fund (SPF) in
1991, at the start of the privatization program, the distribution of enterprises by broad
activity categories and size is indicated in Tables 2.1 and 2.2. Out of a total of 5,270



state enterprises' employing 925,000 workers and managers, 4,300 (81.6 percent) were
small units (employing less than 200 workers) with about 24 percent of total
employment. Twenty very large enterprises (employing more than 5,000 workers)
accounted for 16 percent of employment and the remaining 950 were medium and large
enterprises with 60 percent of employment. The industrial sector including agro-industry
and construction comprised some 700 medium and large firms. Although the number of
industrial enterprise is quite large, there are a number of industries where a single or
small number of firms dominate the market (e.g. sugar, glass, sparkling wine etc.).
Moreover, enterprises in certain industries continue to be organized under holding
companies or Concerns. The most important Concerns cover construction (Kurulush);
food and beverage processing (Tamak'ash); gold, coal and other mining (Altyn and
Kumtor); pharmaceutical (Farmindustria); and forest industries (Lesprom). Although
the functions of Concerns have changed in the past few years, their presence and
activities in procurement and marketing could inhibit competition in these industrial
branches.
2.7              Accurate data on the breakdown of sectoral value added is also
unavailable, but some rough numbers presented below provide a qualitative picture of the
industrial sector (see project file for details). The food processing and beverage
industry has some 100 significant enterprises covering meat packing and dairy operations,
tobacco, oils and fats, sugar, candy, alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages and food
canning. Most agricultural raw materials are of local origin but packaging materials are
imported.  However, the sugar industry comprises four large refineries that were
designed to process 500,000 tons of raw Cuban sugar for sale throughout Central Asia.
The textiles sector comprises 13 multi-plant enterprises processing cotton (28,000
tons/yr.), wool (11,000 tons/yr.) and silk (600 tons/yr.). About 45 percent of production
is exported. Most textile plants are not integrated and specialize in individual products.
As a result of the Kyrgyz Republic's large sheep and cattle population, the leather and
fur garments industry is well developed with 10 leather tanning and footwear making
factories and 25 fur garment making plants. The wood and chemicals sub-sector is
fairly small and produces household chemicals, paints etc. for local consumption based
on imported inputs.
2.8              The two largest industrial sub-sectors are building materials and
engineering industries. The building materials industries comprise some 30 enterprises
employing over 10,000 workers under the Building Mate,ials Concern. Products include
float glass, sawn marble, bricks and cement.  Plants are large capital intensive
investments supplying products to a wide region. The engineering industries include
about 100 medium to large size plants, many producing defense related items and mostly
located in the Bishkek region. Products include defense equipment, fabricated metal
These figures refer to units with separate accounts. If broken down further by plants or establishments,
the number would exceed 11,000 units. However, small enterprises are mostly in the retail, catering,
and service activities and their number probably exceeds 9,500.



products, auto and truck components, machine tools and some electrical components.
In addition, there are a large number of mining and metal processing industries of a
highly specialized nature including gold (2 tons/yr.), Uranium U308 (100 tons/yr.),
antimony (400 tons/yr.), mercury (2,100 tons/yr.) molybdenum (500 tons/yr.) and
various rare earths.
D. Recent Sectoral Developments
2.9             The breakdown in the trade and payments system as a result of the
disintegration of the FSU has had a severe negative impact on Kyrgyz industry, affecting
in particular, those which traded a substantial part of their output or input with other
republics. Industrial capacity utilization as of the end of 1993 ranged from 20 to 50
percent (based on one shift operations) with consumer goods industries serving local
markets operating at the higher limits. Enterprise managers face a complex set of
problems in keeping their businesses going. The most serious is the liquidity crisis
because of the ubiquitous lack of cash, particularly for financing transactions outside the
Republic. Complex barter arrangements involving several parties are undertaken to
obtain raw materials and proceeds of sales. Reduced number of days of operation,
involuntary salary cuts and redundancies (up to 30 percent in some enterprises) have been
implemented by enterprise management to cut costs and conserve scarce cash. Bank
credit is extremely scarce and relatively expensive (published interest rates do not reflect
loan costs because of large up-front commissions and compensating balances as high as
50 percent of the loan amount). The inability of commercial banks to provide export
credit and marketing advice is an additional problem inhibiting export activities of
enterprises.  Finally, the non-transparent tax system continues to bedevil enterprise
management. A serious problem faced by workers is the progressive loss of social and
infrastructural services (medical, heating, education) provided by large enterprises.
2.10            The prospects for revival of demand for Kyrgyz products in the CIS
is uncertain at best as GDP continues to fall steeply in most of the (FSU) republics. Also
the opening up of markets in the CIS has sharply changed market characteristics and
introduced competition from non CIS sources for the first time. Even if the trade and
payment system is strengthened, Kyrgyz enterprises will need to compete with other
suppliers in exporting to CIS markets in the same manner that they will need to do in
selling to hard currency markets. To successfully make this transition, enterprises will
need to dramatically upgrade product quality to international specifications, reduce
operating costs and meet strict delivery schedules. They will also need to build up
export marketing capability to support their sales drive in these markets.
2.11            Enterprises can make this transition efficiently if they are operating in
an environment which is not hobbled by market failures and policy distortions.
Enterprise reform and restructuring is needed not only to respond to relative price
adjustments, but also to correct the distortions of the old system whose priorities were
established to suit the needs of the FSU. The Kyrgyz Government has taken substantial



- 6 -
steps in the past three years to lay the foundations of a free market economy. The
passage of a new constitution guaranteeing private property rights and the aggressive
implementation of a wide spread privatization program, even if faulted on certain aspects,
are notable achievements. A number of legal and regulatory measures have been enacted
to establish the basis for private commercial activity. At the same time, major economic
reforms have been implemented in the areas of monetary, fiscal and exchange rate
policies and the creation of new institutions. Sectoral issues are addressed under PESAC
(para. 2.4). There are a number of enterprise-level issues which need to be resolved
quickly if the enterprise sector is to adjust to the new economic realities of the market
place.
E. Enterprise Level Issues
2.12            Industrial enterprises face a wide variety of difficult problems although
the complexity varies by industrial branch. The consumer goods industries selling in the
domestic market have relatively fewer problems compared to the capital goods and
building materials industries that were designed to export a major part of their output to
the other republics. Most enterprises lack access to raw materials, consumable and
spares and thus cannot operate production lines efficiently at the present time. However,
even domestically oriented Kyrgyz enterprises will face strong competition from imports
as external trade is liberalized. Bringing about substantial improvements in productivity
at the enterprise level will require a change in management and worker mentality, the
incentive system for workers and managers, new investment to modernize obsolete plants
and substantial technical assistance to introduce modem management systems and
procedures, marketing techniques and distribution networks. Very few enterprises can
resolve these problems on their own and will need external assistance to address these
problems in a systematic manner. The major issues that need to be tackled for every
enterprise are as follows:
(a)   Training of management in modern managerial practices, particularly
in marketing and financial management;
(b)   Introduction of standardized cost accounting, production planning,
inventory control and other management information systems to reduce
operational costs and improve efficiency;
(c)   Improvements in maintenance management to minimize production
downtime and improve plant performance;
(d)   Introduction of performance linked wage and salary systems to
improve worker productivity and management performance;
(e)   Investment in the elimination of bottlenecks and replacement of critical
equipment and spares,



- 7 -
(f)   Implementation of technical redesign and value engineering programs
to enhance product quality and meet international standards, e.g. ISO
9000; and
(g)   Assistance in the preparation of restructuring plans and export
marketing plans to enable enterprises diversify exports to hard
currency markets.
2.13            The most cost-effective and low-risk strategy for tackling these
problems would be to find foreign firms willing to enter into joint-venture agreements.
The prospective international bank to be recruited to manage the Bank financial lending
operations, will endeavor to attract joint venture partners from market economies to assist
enterprises in their modernization and restructuring efforts. However, as the supply of
potential partners is limited, Bank aims to support interested enterprises with technical
assistance from qualified international firms. Interventions to assist enterprises are
needed as there are serious gaps in the supply of market information and management
expertise. Until such time as private firms can find their own solutions, it is essential
to arrange for foreign consultants to fill these gaps. The financial situation of most
Kyrgyz enterprises would preclude them from hiring qualified consultants - thus the
proposed project supports the use of technical assistance needed by these enterprises at
least at the initial stages in addressing these problems (para. 5.8) In view of the urgency
to address these problems during project preparation, advanced funding from a Japanese
Government grant has been provided for diagnostic and pre-feasibility studies of about
30 enterprises, and for establishment of regional information centers.
2.14            A major impediment to the entry of entrepreneurs in new activities is
the lack of information on products, markets, and finance. The present situation is
characterized by an ad-hoc approach to investment decision-making often leading to
adverse results. In particular, small and medium scale entrepreneurs have virtually no
access to information about market economies in order to prepare business plans for
starting new economic activities. Under advanced funding from the Japanese grant,
$250,000 has been allocated to establish regional information centers in the Kyrgyz
Republic's seven oblasts to provide local business enterprises with access to information
on products, markets and other required data.
III. THE KYRGYZ FINANCIAL SECTOR
A. Introduction
3.1          The Kyrgyz economy has hitherto been characterized by a dearth of
market-based financial institutions, instruments, commercial practices, markets and a
regulatory environment that are features of the financial system in a market economy.
The com mercial banks lack the infrastructure, skills and institutional capabilities required
for efficient financial intermediation and enterprise restructuring.  Moreover, the



commnercial banks continue to face an enterprise sector that continues to experience
difficulties. Non-performing loans, averaging 30 to 60 percent of total portfolio in
several commercial banks, are increasing as enterprise reform and restructuring progress,
hard budget constraints are imposed, and a rising number of enterprises fail to service
loans. Management, particularly in the large banks, remains poor, and credit skills are
lacking in most banks--thus there is a risk of continued poor lending. Considerable
institutional building and possibly restructuring and downsizing of existing commercial
banks are required before the banking sector can act as an efficient vehicle to channel
resources to private enterprises. Most importantly, financial sector reforms and reforms
of enterprises need to be integrated into a coherent strategy. The following is a summary
of the structure and performance of the financial system, and a review of the latest sector
policy developments and issues. More details on the characteristics and prospects of
Kyrgyz banks are provided in the project files and attached tables.
B. Institutional Structure
3.2          The Kyrgyz financial sector consists of the Central Bank (NBK), 19
commercial banks (including the former State Savings Bank), an insurance sector and the
State pension fund. The commercial banking system dominates the financial system as
a source of credit. In February 1992, the State Bank (GOSBANK) was replaced by the
NBK, when a two-tier banking system was established with the passage of the Law on
Banks and Banking Activities and the Law on the National Bank. The structure and
lending operations of the banking system are detailed in Table 3.1.
3.3          Fonner State Banks.   Three large former State banks, namely
Agroprombank, Kyrgyzstan Bank and Promstroy Bank, which have been corporatized,
dominate the commercial banking sector. Promstroy and Agroprom banks are virtually
bankrupt since July 1993, while AKB Kyrgyzstan has lately turned into a large loss-
maker, and faces difficult times ahead. Until recently the AKB Kyrgyzstan Bank
appeared to be the most promising and potentially viable of the above three, and is
among the three participating banks selected by EBRD to receive technical assistance
under its line of credit. It is estimated that these three banks account for over 80 percent
of the commercial loans outstanding and as such are major determinants of the solvency
of the banking system. The former State-owned savings bank, the Sberbank, which
previously enjoyed a monopoly on the collection of household deposits, has diversified
its activities to those of a full commercial bank. The Sberbank continues to be treated,
however, as a special case, exempt, for example, from the 20 percent reserve
requirement of other commercial banks. The privatization of forner State banks remains
questionable as their ownership is still dominated by State owned enterprises as detailed
in Table 3.1 and summarized below:
Agroprombank finances State agricultural production and food processing
enterprises, and consumer cooperatives engaged in food distribution. The bank
was converted to a joint stock enterprise in December 1991. Majority ownership



belongs to agro-processing related State enterprises and consumer cooperatives.
The bank has 51 branches and over 1,100 employees. It is the largest bank, in
terms of loans, and branch networks;
Kvrgvzstan Bank (AKB) finances primarily the agro-business and textiles sectors.
It was incorporated as a joint-stock bank in December 1991. Ownership is divided
between 45 percent private and 55 percent State commercial and manufacturing
enterprises. The bank has 25 branches and over 800 employees. It is the second
largest bank, in terms of loans;
Promstroy Bank specializes in the energy, mining and construction sectors.
Converted to a joint-stock enterprise in December 1991, it has 27 branches and
over 750 employees. More than 70 percent of the ownership belongs to State-
owned enterprises. In terms of loans portfolio, it is the third largest bank.
3.4         New Private Banks. In addition to the AKB Kyrgyzstan, EBRD has pre-
selected two banks among the most promising of the new breed of small and medium size
private banks, namely the Kurulush Bank and the Kyrgyz Vneshcom Banks. These
smaller banks are under the control of privatized, former SOE borrowing clients. Lately
the Kyrgyz Vneshcom bank has run into serious problem loans, stopped lending and
is now under special surveillance from NBK's supervision department which has
excluded it from all NBK windows, including the credit auction. NBK has directed that
Vneshcom (as well as the AKB Kyrgyzstan) be recapitalized by their private
shareholders, and put three other small private banks under the same surveillance regime.
Among the 10 small and medium banks still operating normally, only Kurulush, Henfen,
Orient, and Kramds banks (Table 3.2) offer a relatively comprehensive range of banking
services and have paid-up capital in excess of the new minimum establishment level for
local banks (KGS5 million-US$500,000 equivalent).2 Only 6 of these smaller banks have
one or more branches (Table 3.3). This group of smaller commercial banks, with a
stable financial base, enjoy progressive management and show some potential of
developing into relatively efficient financial intermediaries, provided, however, that they
receive adequate institutional building support, and improve the quality of their portfolio
and lending management. In agreement with the IDA, NBK has selected the German-
Kyrgyz Industrial Bank Orient (Orient Bank) which will be associated with the
international bank being recruited to manage a proposed Fund for Enterprise
Restructuring and Development (FERD) slated to intermediate IDA funds (paras. 6.4-
6.9). Details on the Orient Bank's ownership and structure are presented in Annex 1.
3.5         The Insurance Sector. The insurance service market in the Kyrgyz
Republic has witnessed significant growth, with more than 50 insurance companies being
established since 1991. The State Insurance Company continues to dominate the sector,
2 For joint venture and foreign banks the minimum capital is US$1.0 million.



- 10 -
but is earmarked for privatization and is being broken up into smaller companies. The
other insurance companies are mainly small joint-stock companies with  mixed
ownership. Many of the new companies are on the verge of bankruptcy, largely as a
result of providing insurance coverage on bank loans. (Payments during 1993 on claims
under "credit" insurance were 136 percent of the premiums received.) Six of the
commercial banks and some State enterprises (such as the railways) established insurance
companies dedicated to their specific insurance requirements. In the area of "credit"
insurance, there appears to be some confusion between the notion of a guarantee and the
notion of insurance.
3.6         Pension Fund.  The Pension Fund is only marginally viable, with
payments often subject to delays as a result, for example, of individual enterprises
delay/inability to meet their required contribution to the scheme. In the short term,
issues relating to the Pension Fund are being addressed under the IDA Social Safety Net
Credit (Cr. 2643-KG) approved in June 1994. A package of reforms to the existing
pension scheme are envisaged in order to maintain its short-term viability and allow staff
of the Pension Fund to be re-deployed to administer the social assistance scheme. The
medium to long term issues will be addressed under an European Union project, which
will concentrate on policy, legislation, revenue collection and institutional strengthening.
3.7         Capital Markets. Technical assistance to develop capital markets is being
provided by USAID consultants. A legal and regulatory framework is already in place,
although it needs to be fine-tuned and strengthened. The USAID technical assistance
program includes four elements: (i) strengthening the State Agency on Securities and
improving the Securities Law; (ii) setting up a stock exchange and a voucher exchange
and elaborating the rules thereof; (iii) developing the associated institutions such as the
clearing system, and training brokers/dealers; and (iv) examining the question of
investment funds-the legal framework, operation, and training thereof. No other donor
involvement appears warranted at this stage for additional assistance for capital market
development.
C. Performance of Commercial Banks
3.8          Loan Portfolio. In general, the performance of the financial institutions
reflects the difficulties being experienced by the enterprise sector. These difficulties have
been compounded by the lending practices of some commercial banks, such as
preferential lending to shareholders/owners, which has led to poor allocation of credit,
and a subsequent increase in problem loans and narrower intermediation spreads. Their
sector-specific loan portfolio, with exposure to State enterprises, accumulation of arrears
between enterprises, loss of markets, and decreased sales revenues of borrowers, appear
to be the main causes of loan non-performance. The non-performing loans of these
banks are expected to be downsized to some extent under the PESAC Credit, by the
Enterprise Reform and Resolution Agency (ERRA). The outstanding debts of up to 29
large loss-making SOEs would be selectively repurchased through NBK, possibly at a



- 11 -
discounted price by ERRA with PESAC counterpart funds. This "transfer" of part of the
debt of the larger banks, will not in itself be sufficient to assure a viable banking sector.3
3.9           The situation of the four aforementioned medium size banks (para. 3.4 and
Table 3.2) is far better than larger banks, even though 25 percent of their loan portfolio
is, on average, affected by non-performing loans. On average, their total free capital4
covers 31 percent of their loans outstanding, and amounted to KGs 22.9 million (US$2.3
million) at end 1994. The Orient bank, with KGs 11.2 million (US$1.1 million) in
capital, accounts for half of this capitalization, but the other banks are also planning to
increase their capital base significantly. Their deposit mobilization remains their weak
point however, with a total market share of 8 percent, accounted for mainly by Kurulush
and Kramds.
3.10           Financial Results and Position. The pre-1992 FSU accounting system
used by Kyrgyz banks does not follow generally acceptable international accounting
principles. Consequently the results and financial positions presented by commercial
banks are not reliable. Although banks portfolio are for the most part non performing,
they still declare profits and even distribute dividends. Preliminary reviews indicate,
however, that the majority of commercial banks are substantially undercapitalized, due
to erosion of their equity base from past high inflation, under provisionning of non-
performing loans, and high taxation of banks (e.g., 45 percent profit tax, compared to
35 percent for enterprises, non-deductibility of risk provisions, etc.). Significant bank
restructuring/downsizing may be necessary. Diagnostic studies of these banks would be
a first step in evaluating restructuring options, as only a diagnostic accounting and audit
of the three banks can establish clear evidence on the extent of liquidity problems facing
the major banks. This issue is being addressed by IDA under the Rehabilitation Credit
(Cr.2491-KG), by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD)
under its line of credit and by a planned technical assistance from Asian Development
Bank (ADB).
D. Financing Enterprises
3.11          Access to working capital and investment finance for enterprises has
become difficult as State funding, which was the main source of funds, is unavailable in
any significant amount, owing to fiscal and new hard budget constraints imposed under
the PESAC and IMF programs. Banks have hitherto been largely dependent for their
3   If ERRA purchases the NBK-financed loans at less than 100 percentage of their value, banks would have to
provision or write off the remaining balance of loans outstanding. Depending on the discount offered based
on existing loan-loss provisions, for some banks, this operation could effectively wipe out their equity base
owing to insufficient loan-loss-reserves.
4   Free capital as defined under NBK regulations includes reserves and excludes loan-loss provisions.



- 12 -
domestic resources on the NBKs whose refinance has also been curtailed accordingly
under new restrictive monetary and credit policies (para. 3.18). Table 3.3 presents the
results of credit auctions in 1994. It is estimated that total incremental lending by the
banking system amounted only to KGS 250 million (US$25 million) during 1994, mostly
by Agroprom, and a handful of small banks active in the credit auction market.
Although it is not possible to quantify, the informal market is probably by far the most
important source of credit for the private enterprise sector.
3.12         In 1995, a number of donor sponsored lines of long-term credit for private
enterprises are expected to come into effect in the Kyrgyz Republic, significantly
expanding the volume of credit available at present. Relevant donor programs include:
(a) a line of credit from Kreditanstalt Fur Weiderethrauf (KfW), amounting to DM10
million ($6 million) for agricultural and textile machinery and equipment, and DM5
million ($3 million) for micro enterprise development; (b) an ECU10 million ($11
million) line of credit for private small and medium enterprises (SMEs) from EBRD; (c)
$46 million available from the Central Asian-American Enterprise Fund (CAAEF) for
loan and equity financing, and technical assistance to private and SOEs in Central Asia.
When it becomes operational some time during 1995, USAID's CAAEF would make
available US$46 million to promote private sector development through loans, grants,
equity investments, feasibility studies, training, insurance and guarantees in the Central
Asian Republics of the former Soviet Union with priority given to Kazakhstan and the
Kyrgyz Republic. No details are yet available on CAAEF's operating procedures and
country allocation policies, but preliminary indications are that it would target high risk
investments in privatized enterprises as a financier of last resort. Details of relevant
donor projects are available in the Project File.
3.13         Demand for trade financing also exceeds supply.  Short-term  foreign
exchange credit necessary to finance imports is either unavailable from the formal
market, or available only intermittently, through foreign exchange auctions, conducted
by the NBK, with banks participating. Much of this foreign exchange is used in imports
of consumer goods. Supply of trade finance by banks is marginal, and when available,
costly (up to 50 percent for 3 months). Businesses rely on self-financing, advances
granted by some CIS exporters, to finance imported inputs, mostly in the form of barter
trade transactions, and costly underground sources of finance. Commercial banks lack
international banking experience, and cannot reliably utilize the requisite financial
instruments (e.g., bills of exchange, LCs,) and legal means for collateralization of
tradable goods and commercial contracts. Banks' main concerns reside in their inability
to control transportation of pledged goods to safe bonded warehouses, and the high cost
of pledge registration with the Arbitration Court which currently stands at least at 10
percent of the claim face value. Considerable institution building is required in the areas
of documentary credit, foreign exchange, international payments, and export processing
Close to 70 percent of loans outstanding from banks, as at October 1. 1993, were funded through resources
borrowed from the NBK through periodic credit auctions beginning in February 1993.



- 13 -
techniques. Some banks, like AKB Kyrgyzstan, have taken steps in reorganizing their
trade finance groups with assistance from foreign commercial banks. Other banks, such
as Agroprombank whose customers account for a large percentage of national exports,6
could advantageously use technical assistance in organizing for trade finance business.
IDA has addressed this weakness under the Rehabilitation Credit (Cr. 2491-KG), and
financed a comprehensive training program in foreign exchange and documentary credit
operations for 70 staff members of the commercial banks. Additional training is being
organized.
E. Market Structure
3.14         Interest Rates. A structure of liberalized interest rates has now developed
as rates charged by banks for loans and deposit are no longer regulated (Tables 3.4 and
3.5). The various financing windows available to banks from NBK allow them to select
market-driven reference rates from the Treasury bills auctions, Lombard facility, credit
and foreign exchange auctions. However, the volumes of transactions in these NBK
windows remain limited so far and do not yield reliable and lasting reference rates for
banks. Lending rates on 3-month KGS loans varied from 60 to 180 percent (indexed to
the auction rate) among better performing banks while US dollar loans carried 20 to 40
percent interest for short-term import finance. As the inflation rate, which on an
annualized basis reached as high as 1,000 percent in 1992 and 1993, has substantially
slowed down to about 1 percent per month in December 1994, interest rates have become
highly positive in real terms. Banks are keenly aware of the unsustainability of such
rates which are expected to continue declining in the coming months. Interest to be
charged on EBRD financed investment loans in foreign exchange will be freely set by
participating banks. Along with rates to be charged under the USAID Central Asia
Fund, interest rates on term loans for investment are expected to decline progressively,
and fall to levels averaging 15 to 18 percent a year, with borrowers assuming the foreign
exchange risk.
3.15         Competitiveness. The competitiveness of banks is undermined, to some
extent, by their ownership patterns and the residue of the command economy.
Competitiveness would be improved by reducing the ownership links between banks and
enterprises. NBK envisages to use selectively its arsenal of prudential regulations,
including minimum capital requirements and limits on insolvent lending to address this
issue. NBK would be aided in this regard by measures being implemented under PESAC
(para. 3.8). As many banks do not meet the new minimum capital requirement, and are
unlikely to be able to mobilize the necessary capital funds from insolvent clients, they
would be either encouraged to merge to satisfy NBK regulations, or be liquidated.
Initiatives in this regard will be balanced against minimizing barriers to entry. The fact
that more than 15 new commercial banks have been established within the last few years
6  Agroprombank estimates that their customers account for up to 60% of national exports.



- 14 -
indicates that there have been no significant barriers to entry. Indeed, the existence of
19 commercial banks in a country of 4.4 million people tends to suggest that the Kyrgyz
Republic may be overbanked. For this reason the NBK intends to put priority on
encouraging mergers and consolidations among the smaller banks.
3.16        Resource Mobilization. Deposit mobilization by banks has been at a low
level due to a variety of reasons, including a low level of public confidence in holding
savings with the banks. Bank deposits as a percentage of GDP is estimated to have fallen
from 2.5 percent in January 1993, to less than 1 percent in October 1993. This low level
of public confidence in banks is traceable to concerns about the security of funds with
banks and access to deposited funds. Banking practices (as distinct from restrictions)
render access to funds in deposit accounts difficult. Such an environment dissuades the
public from placing their liquid funds with banks. Moreover, until recently interest rates
on deposits carried no incentives inasmuch as they were well below inflation rates. It
is only in recent times that interest rates on deposits have increased, ranging from 80
percent for short-term, to 140 percent for one-year deposit in KGS. Deposits in hard
currency yield 20 to 40 percent. Some banks are advertising for deposits. In an effort
to encourage savings mobilization the Government intends to introduce a Deposit
Insurance Scheme in 1995. NBK credit auction is available only against 50 percent T-
bill collateral, thus making the latter's rates closely linked to auction rates and further
limiting access to NBK resources. For term lending, banks will largely depend on
external resources.
3.17        Payments and Clearance. The slow and ineffective system of payments
and clearance exacerbates the liquidity problems of banks and enterprises. In May 1993,
the NBK introduced a new scheme of payments to reduce the settlement cycle. Under
a previous scheme, receiving banks had no incentive to promptly credit the account of
a payee as interest-free funds resulted from delayed credits to customer accounts. The
new scheme casts a responsibility to expedite credits to customer accounts on the banks,
without any reliance on the NBK. The payment arrangements have been decentralized
with banks, with the NBK settling net positions of banks through settlement accounts
based on the reports submitted by head offices of banks. The payment cycle can be
shortened into same date settlement through automation of payments. The NBK intends
to redesign the structure of the national payment systems as an extension of the new
scheme of payments and establish a clearing house. The long-term fundamental reform
of the payments system is being handled by Japanese Assistance, with the EBRD looking
at the short-term computerization of the existing payments system.
F. Monetary and Credit Policies
3.18        Foreign Exchange Regime. The monetary reforms leading to the creation
of the Kyrgyz Som (KGs) are a success. The KGS is fully convertible for both current
and capital transactions, and remains strong vis-a-vis neighboring currencies. It has



- 15 -
appreciated by 20 percent in nominal terms vis-a-vis the US dollar between May and
September 1994, thus contributing to lowering the rate of price increases.
3.19         NBK determines the credit policy and influences liquidity in the banking
system through a variety of indirect instruments, including credit and foreign exchange
auctions, the Lombard facility, Treasury bill (T-bill) auctions and reserve requirements.
Increasing coordination is envisaged between credit auctions, bill auctions, and foreign
exchange auctions in order to maintain an appropriate level of liquidity in the banking
system. Substantial progress has been achieved by the National Bank, with the assistance
of the IMF, to adopt and implement market based monetary and credit policies.
G. Banking Supervision and Controls
3.20         Under IMF guidance NBK was reorganized in September, 1993, and a full
fledged Banking Supervision Department, responsible for developing related prudential
regulations and policies, established. Considerable progress has been made in designing
prudential standards in the area of capital adequacy, liquidity ratios, risk-concentration,
assets classification.  New regulations have been introduced.  The staff has been
increased and several staff members have been trained overseas. Improvements in
licensing procedures, prudential standards, off-site inspection are under way. NBK relies
on five prudential regulatory instruments including, maximum single exposure limits,
applicable to individual, or group borrowers or shareholders, and minimum shareholders
funds as a percentage of total assets. However, some of these ratios have been variedly
applied for Agroprombank, AKB Kyrgyzstan, and Promstroy Bank.
3.21         An expatriate advisor funded by the U.S. Agency for International
Development (USAID) has been in place to develop on-site examination and training
programs since early 1994. Work relating to design of new reporting norms has been
completed, coinciding with the introduction of revised prudential standards.  The
usefulness of the reporting forms will largely be determined by the consistency in
accounting systems adopted by banks and the NBK. At present, the accounts of banks
are not comparable. There is absence of an international basis of financial accounting
standards and practices. This issue of accounting infrastructure is being addressed by
Bank of France assistance to NBK. For commercial banks, EBRD, Asian Development
Bank (ADB), and IDA are reviewing the issue, and will propose an assistance program
after the ongoing studies.
3.22         The prudential regulatory framework and its effective enforcement are of
key importance as financial liberalization progresses. Such arrangements provide some
safeguards against the risks associated with freedom  in lending.  NBK is making
significant progress, and has closed three banks and put six others under close
surveillance, thus excluding these from its various windows, and asserting its
determination to rein in poorly performing banks. The framework will need to be
complemented by internal controls in the banks, external audits following international



- 16 -
and auditing standards and improvements in the Banking Law. A small and shallow
financial sector, as evidenced by Table 3.1, now exists. It is necessary to strengthen the
store of value function of money by appropriate policies. The NBK has established,
with speed, the rudiments of a framework for bank supervision, credit management. Its
key role in reducing risks in the financial sector will depend upon how quickly and
effectively several issues facing the financial sector are addressed in the context of a
coherent strategy for its development. Under a proposed Financial Sector Adjustment
Credit (FY96) IDA will be assisting the Government define and implement such a
strategy.
IV. BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A. Lessons of Experience
4.1          Experience shows that disbursement of financial intermediary lending
operations can be hampered by unstable macroeconomic environments, and the absence
of market determined, positive interest rate structures. Political pressure and interference
in the decision-making process, which contributes to volume lending by inexperienced
and financially unsound financial intermediaries, have also contributed to non
performance of Bank Group funded loans. These factors which are present in the Kyrgyz
Republic, have been taken into account in project institutional arrangements. Firstly,
substantial progress is being registered so far on the macroeconomic front with the
emerging of free positive real interest rates, and a stable, fully convertible local
currency. Secondly, the investment demand has been carefully assessed, and a detailed
pipeline of projects developed in close collaboration with enterprises (see Annex 4 for
details), and the lending component conservatively estimated at $12 million against an
estimated demand of $34 million. Thirdly, project preparation has focused on providing
early assistance to enterprises to prepare their business and investment plans. Finally the
institutional arrangements for implementation do not rely directly on the weak, banking
system, and minimize political interference by contracting with a qualified private
international banking institution, to be selected, to efficiently manage the lending and
technical assistance support. The selected institutions will train and incorporate at least
three professionals from the local counterpart bank in the implementing structures and
ensure a high degree of ownership and sustainability. Other donors and Bank are
actively providing technical assistance to strengthen banks to bring forth market
determined intermediation activities, and to reform the legal and regulatory framework
as well as governance of enterprises and banks, respectively.  Consequently, only
limited, complementary institutional assistance to the banks may be required under the
project to supplement other donors. Progress in these areas, and the effectiveness of
project institutional arrangements would be assessed during a proposed Mid-term review
of project implementation, and corrective action taken.



- 17 -
B. Bank Group's Past Lending and Strategy
4.2          The Bank Group strategy is to assist the KRG improve and implement its
policy reform and privatization program. In support of the reform program, a Kyrgyz
Rehabilitation Credit (Cr.2491-KG) was approved in FY93 to provide funds (a) to
finance critical imports and to help stabilize the economy; and (b) to assist in launching
the structural reform program with particular emphasis on privatization and financial
sector reforms (e.g., audit of banks and staff training). The policy-based PESAC
approved in FY94, is assisting the KRG to deepen the economic reform process, impose
hard budget constraints on the 29 largest loss-making State owned enterprises which
would be transferred to a resolution agency and their bank debts restructured (para. 3.9).
Under PESAC the quality and implementation of on-going privatization and private sector
development programs, are being actively improved and the price structure and control
systems are being dismantled (para. 2.4). The Social Safety Net (SSN) Credit approved
in FY95 is also designed to provide protection to the needy population and workers to
be laid off under the economic reform program and enterprise restructuring process. A
detailed review of the characteristics and issues posed by the social assets of SOEs is
underway under the Social Safety Net project. The SSN component for Divestiture of
Social Assets is expected to be implemented in two selected oblasts where large scale
SOEs are burdened with such assets. IFC is actively involved in the development of the
mining sector. IFC's Foreign Investment Advisory Services have reviewed the KRG's
investment promotion policies, with particular reference to the foreign investment and
private enterprise laws, and will follow up with additional policy advice.
4.3          The proposed Private Enterprise Support Project (PESP) would provide
financial and technical assistance to individual private enterprises to enable them to
implement business and investment plans and adjust their operations to the new economic
conditions. Technical assistance would also be provided to viable SOEs in advanced
stages of privatization, to complement the measures being supported under PESAC.
Technical assistance from foreign consultants with a wide range of specialized skills
would be made available to a large number of Kyrgyz enterprises to enable them to
restructure their operations and thus improve their competitiveness and viability.
Technical assistance would also aim to fill a serious information gap in the marketing and
technical areas and thus enable enterprise managers prepare realistic restructuring and
business plans (para. 5.9).
4.4      In the financial sector, in addition to strengthening the capacity of the
commercial banks to mobilize and efficiently allocate resources, new non-bank-financial
intermediaries will be required, such as insurance, leasing, factoring, venture capital
companies and the development of a capital market to support enterprise reforms. Most
of the assistance needs for developing these new institutions and their regulatory
framework, are either being provided or planned by USAID, EBRD, KfW, and ADB.
Under IDA's Rehabilitation Credit (No. 2491-KG) a detailed diagnostic study and audit
of Agroprom bank is underway. Against the backdrop of present institutional limitations,



- 18 -
the requirements of private enterprises are immediate and cannot afford to wait until the
financial intermediation capabilities are available. Accordingly, an alternative
intermediation scheme has been devised in the proposed project for channeling resources
to the private sector for the short to medium term, until the financial institutions can
directly assume this role. Additional assistance to the financial sector will be provided
by IDA under the proposed FY96 Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (para. 3.22).
V. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Justification
5.1         The key objective of the proposed project is to provide an integrated
program of technical assistance and loans for working capital and investment for private
enterprises to promote their successful adaptation to a market based system. The
proposed project is designed to foster the development of the private sector economy
through: (i) the development of an effective system of providing technical assistance to
enterprises and credit to private enterprises; and (ii) strengthening of key project and
other selected financial institutions. With respect to the first, a specially created FERD
will provide a program of technical assistance and loans to finance investment and
incremental working capital in accordance with agreed business and restructuring plans.
Exceptionally, viable State owned enterprises in advanced stages of privatization, would
be eligible for technical assistance (para. 6.16). Under the second objective of the
project, funds would be allocated from the IDA Credit to contribute towards building a
reliable financial intermediation capacity in the country. A first step in strengthening the
financial capacity would be to develop restructuring and eventual privatization and
recapitalization plans for target financial institutions. The project will accordingly provide
technical assistance support to the National Bank and the Ministry of Finance to
undertake (a) diagnostic studies and in-depth auditing of the former State Savings bank;
and (b) a review of the regulatory environment, financial situation and prospects of the
insurance sector. A third objective is to assist the KRG in project implementation and
coordination through provision of consultant services and training of local Kyrgyz staff
in a proposed Project Administration Unit (PAU).
B. Detailed Project Description
5.2          The project would be supported by a proposed IDA Credit of SDR10.1
million (US$15 million equivalent) and a Japanese Government grant of US$2.5 million
to finance a package of technical and financial assistance to private enterprises and SOE's
slated for privatization. It comprises the following two components:
(a)   an investment lending component estimated at US$16.2 million. IDA
financing amounts to US$14.2 million, to be channelled through a Fund
for Enterprise Restructuring and Development (FERD) established by



- 19 -
KRG to provide medium term foreign exchange loans to export oriented
and selected import-substituting projects of private enterprises; and
(b)   a technical assistance component estimated at US$3.9 million. IDA will
co-finance US$0.6 million and the Japan Grant US$2.5 million. The
technical assistance component includes (a) US$2,420,000 for management
of the FERD; (b) US$630,000 for private enterprise support; (c)
US$350,000 for financial sector studies; (d) US$350,000 for project co-
ordination, including consultant services and equipment of the PAU; and
(e) US$150,000 for audit of project accounts. An amount of US$200,000
from the IDA Credit is allocated for contingencies.
Lending Component
5.3          This component of $14.2 million will be on-lent by the FERD which
would be managed by a private Fund Manager (FM) associated with a local counterpart
bank (para. 6.5). The FERD would re-lend the proceeds of the IDA Credit and make
medium tern subloans to private enterprises for investment finance and incremental
working capital.
5.4          Participation of Local banks. At present local banks do not have access
to medium/long term resources and are thus unable to extend term finance. They also
do not have project appraisal skills. Local banks also do not currently meet IDA's
accreditation criteria, and consequently cannot participate as intermediaries in the
proposed project. The FERD will intermediate IDA funds and, in lieu of local banks,
lend directly to enterprises in order to immediately respond to the private sector's urgent
demand for financial resources. Such an approach will not, however, displace local bank
lending for investment, nor will it diminish their role under the project for the following
reasons. Firstly, a local bank will be closely associated in the management of the FERD,
subproject appraisal and screening activities by contributing staff, logistical support, and
possibly co-financing, and act as the counterpart to the FM. Secondly, EBRD and other
donors, such as KfW and the US AID CAAEF, will channel short and medium term
resources including equity and loan guarantees (from CAAEF) to the private sector
through local banks acting primarily as agents but also as risk-takers in a few cases.
(Local banks will be allowed to act as risk takers, only after the relevant donor has
provided extensive TA in the areas of credit appraisal, liquidity management, etc., to
strengthen the respective banks capacity). Thirdly, under the proposed project, local
banks will not only act as correspondent banks for the FM (e.g., opening letters of
credit), but are also expected to either provide local currency financing, or to restructure
the debts of certain enterprises financed by the FERD and other lenders. Fourthly, local
banks will be expected in the future to either purchase the loan portfolio of the FERD
or borrow from it for on-lending to their customers as, and when, they are in a position
to do so financially, and in agreement with the borrowing enterprises. In anticipation of
local banks becoming eligible as intermnediaries, the FERD will be structured as an Apex



- 20 -
wholesale fund to provide refinancing resources to participating banks. Consequently,
there is hardly any risk that commercial bank lending would be displaced by the proposed
project's institutional arrangements, either now or in the future
5.5           Investment Demand. Most enterprises are operating at low capacity
utilization levels (average of 30%) because of the sharp drop in demand in the republics
of the FSU. This has led to severe financial distress in many firms who have little
inclination to invest in the present circumstances. However, a sizeable number of firms,
visited by IDA missions, have started to export to hard currency markets or are planning
to expand sales to neighboring Central Asian countries. These firms are planning
investments in machinery to improve products quality and cost competitiveness and need
medium term loans. Textiles, processed food, leather products, and a variety of
engineering goods including electronic items appear to have good sales prospects and can
be competitively manufactured. In addition, some medium to large projects in gold
mining and rare earths hold good potential for investment by foreign firms (Annex 5).
5.6           During project preparation close to 50 enterprises were visited and their
technical and financial assistance requirements reviewed in detail with their managers.
On this basis a pipeline consisting of 27 eligible projects, with a total estimated
investment amount of US$49 million, and total requested loan amount of US$34 million,
was developed. Included in the loan amount are working capital loan requests of US$5
million (detailed in Annex 4). The pipeline does not cover import-substituting industries'
which form the bulk of Kyrgyz manufacturing enterprises, and whose substantial demand
for investment and incremental working capital finance cannot be met by the banking
system. As interest rates have become positive in real terms, and the foreign exchange
regime fully liberalized, viable import-substituting enterprises will have access to foreign
exchange to service IDA financed subloans, and therefore, will be eligible for IDA
financing under the project. The subproject pipeline does not overlap with projects
identified so far by EBRD and KfW since they target different sizes of firms, and sectors
in the case of KfW. For example, EBRD does not exclude SOEs, while KfW is
targeting loans for replacement of agro-industrial machinery and spare-parts of German
built enterprises, and rural micro-enterprises. KfW has reviewed 181 loan applications
with a total project cost of US$92.3 million and loan requests of $68.4 million, as of end
July 1994, and expects to finance 4 to 5 projects a year. EBRD has identified 17
projects requiring US$20.4 million in financing. Additional investment projects are also
expected to be presented by privatized enterprises for IDA financing following diagnostic
and restructuring studies which will be initiated in March 1995, with advanced funding
from a Japanese Government grant.
7   At the time of appraisal in June 1994, import-substituting industries were not considered eligible for
financing due to prevailing high real negative interest rates and the unstable foreign exchange regime
stemming from high inflation rates in particular. The macro-economic situation has substantially
improved since then.



- 21 -
5.7          Sources of Investment Finance. Demand for hard currency funding by
Kyrgyz enterprises for investment projects and working capital is unlikely to be met in
the short or medium term by commercial banks due to their acute liquidity problems.
The banks' lack of adequate capital, and of project appraisal capacity constitute another
impediment to making term loans. While the introduction of foreign exchange auctions
represents an important step in creating a transparent mechanism for making foreign
exchange available on the basis of competitive bids, transaction volumes remain limited
in this market, due to NBK restrictions and insufficient resources in the market. This
in turn has led to high interest rates ranging from 20 percent to 40 percent for bank
short-term loans in foreign exchange. Informal foreign exchange markets provide
additional resources at very high cost to meet enterprise demand, and are likely to
continue until additional resources at reasonable prices are available. Demand for hard
currency is likely to be met mostly by donor lines of credit (paras. 3.12 and 3.16).
Technical Assistance Component
5.8          Technical Assistance for Enterprise Support. The nature of technical
assistance to be provided to private enterprises would include diagnostic studies of
individual firms, preparation of business and investment plans, and the provision of
technical, managerial, financial and other specialized consulting services to implement
individual business and investment plans. Preliminary screening of close to 50
beneficiary enterprises for the technical assistance support component was undertaken
during project appraisal. The technical assistance requirements of these 50 enterprises is
compiled and detailed in the Project File. The proposed approach to enterprise
restructuring and support was developed in close cooperation with local entrepreneurs,
and draft terms of reference and estimated costs are provided in Annex 2. Enterprises
will be assisted in three phases. Firstly under the Japanese Government grant, diagnostic
studies and investment pre-feasibility studies will be undertaken on a pre-selected sample
of 30 enterprises (mainly derived from the aforementioned pipelines) starting around May
1, 1995, and ending early July 1995. These diagnostics will provide the Fund Manager
with early input on the technical appraisals of subprojects. Secondly, upon selection of
the FERD manager its expatriate advisors will provide procurement assistance, and
undertake diagnostic studies with the assistance, when needed, of short term consultants
(para. 6.6). The estimated cost of short-term enterprise support amounts to $640,000
including US$100,000 for training and study tours of staff and management. Advanced
funding for preparation of the technical assistance component has been provided by (i)
a US$950,000 advance from the Project Preparation Facility (PPF), and (ii) a
US$854,000 grant from the Rapid Response Technical Assistance Fund of the Japanese
Government, of which US$604,000 for enterprise diagnostic studies, and US$250,000
for establishment of regional information centers (para. 2.14).
5.9          Technical Assistance Cost Recovery. In order to ensure  beneficiary
enterprises' commitment to the technical assistance support, while taking into account
their financial constraints, cost recovery would be required but limited to a matching



- 22 -
grant basis. Technical assistance provided under the Japan grant will not be subject to
cost recovery by way of IDA financed subloans. Beneficiary enterprises will have the
option of including the reimbursable portion of the cost of TA as pre-operating expenses
to be refinanced under IDA financed subloans. Other enterprises not benefitting from
such subloans, would reimburse their share on the basis of a five-year, US$ denominated
advance from the FERD. The interest charge on such advances will be indexed to the
rate of 5-year (hereinafter medium term) US-Treasury Bonds plus a 2 percent margin
levied by the FERD. Free standing technical assistance subloans will be limited to a
maximum US$75,000 per enterprise, and their approval subject to IDA non-objection.
In order to ensure transparency and equity in determining a reasonable amount of cost
recovery, the FM's technical assistance team will make preliminary assessment of the
firms' ability to pay for the required proportion of the estimated TA cost, prior to
undertaking any technical assistance. The FM will determine the amount of reimbursable
cost, and enter into a grant agreement with beneficiary enterprises, as a condition of
technical assistance support. The FM will apply the following guidelines agreed during
negotiations (para. 8.1).
(i) -beneficiary enterprises will be expected to, at least, cover the local cost of
the intervening foreign consultants as estimated by the consulting firm;
(ii) -the grant will cover only the foreign exchange cost of the technical assistance
provided; and
(iii) -including the above local cost, beneficiary enterprises will reimburse the
following cumulative proportions of cost of consultant services, training and
study tours:
Up to $30,000-           30 percent
from $30,000 to $50,000   40 percent of amounts over $30,000
from $50,000 to $80,000   50 percent of amounts over $50,000
Over $80,000             100 percent
5.10        Technical Assistance for the Financial Sector. The financial sector
technical assistance program has been designed in close coordination with other donor
agencies providing technical assistance to the Kyrgyz Republic. In order to avoid
duplication and ensure a cost effective approach, IDA will complement other donor
assistance and on-going assistance under the Rehabilitation Credit (Cr. 2491-KG), (audit
of Agroprom Bank and training of bank staff). As agreed during negotiations, Japanese
grant funds are allocated to undertake (i) diagnostic audit of the Savings Bank
(US$200,000); (ii) a review of the legal and regulatory framework of insurance
institutions (US$100,000); and (iii) a trade finance study ($50,000). Additional studies
required during project implementation, would be financed under unallocated IDA funds
of US$200,000. Detailed terms of reference are available in Project Files. Detailed
costs of the technical assistance and other components are provided in Table 5.1.



- 23 -
C. Project Cost and Financing
5.11        The total estimated project cost of US$20.3 million equivalent is detailed
in Table 5.1 and summarized below:
ESTIMATED PROJECT COST
($1,000)
Components         Local    %    Foreign   %   Total
Investment Projects      2,000   12.4  14,180   87.6  16,180   79.8
Technical Assistance *
of which:          825    21.3   3,075   78.7  3,900   20.2
Management FERD          (780)         (1,640)        (2,420)
Enterprise Support         -            (630)           (630)
Financial Sector Studies   -            (350)           (350)
Project Unit              (45)          (305)           (350)
Audit Project Accounts     -            (150)           (150)
Contingency            _                 200             200
Total                   2,825   13.9  17,455   86.1  20,280   100
* Advanced PPF Funding
5.12        Financing Plan. The IDA Credit of $15 million will be made to the
Kyrgyz Government which will on-lend US$14,180,000 to the FERD for re-lending for
subproject investment, and use $620,000 to co-finance the technical assistance
component. The $2.5 million Japanese grant will be used by GOSKOMINVEST to
partially cover the costs of FERD management, the Project Administration Unit, studies,
and training for a total of US$2.4 million; and as matching grant amounting to
US$600,000 for technical assistance to enterprises. Enterprises and local banks are
expected to co-finance investment subprojects and, due to limited resources contribute
about $1.0 million, each respectively, in local currency co-financing. The cost of the
FERD management to be supported by the Kyrgyz Orient Bank is estimated at $780,000



- 24 -
over four years. The detailed financing plan of the project is provided in Table 5.2, and
summarized below:
FINANCING PLAN
($1,000)
Sources of Funds           Local       Foreign      Total         %
IDA                          -         15,000      15,000         74
Orient Bank                 780           -          780          3.9
Other Local Banks          1,000                    1,000         4.9
Sub-borrowers              1,000          -         1,000         4.9
Government of Japan                     2,500       2,500        12.3
Total                     2,780        17,500      20,280         100
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
A. Project Administration Unit
6.1         A Project Administration Unit (PAU), consisting of two local professional
consultants, and a short term expatriate adviser, has been established in the State
Commission on Foreign Investment and Economic Assistance, GOSKOMINVEST, to
monitor execution of the management contract of the FERD, including strict adherence
to its operating procedures, and other agreed undertakings with IDA.  Other
GOSKOMINVEST responsibilities, to be undertaken through the PAU, also include
maintaining relationships and coordination between the World Bank Group and
Government on all administratively related project preparation and implementation
matters, and negotiating, on behalf of Government, all agreements. The PAU as the
representative of GOSKOMINVEST will contract with the FM for the execution of the
credit and enterprise technical assistance components of the proposed project. The PAU
will also have responsibility for ex-post reviews of sub-loans approved, and the right to
propose termination of the FM contract to Government and IDA, if it is not satisfied with
performance. The PAU will also liaise with IDA regarding implementation of the
technical assistance under the Japanese grant. Finally the PAU will also be responsible
for hiring and supervising consultants to be recruited to implement financial sector audits
and studies, in cooperation with Ministry of Finance and NBK. Terms of reference,
staffing, and budget of the PAU are detailed in Annex 3.
6.2         In order to ensure that the right caliber of staff is recruited for the PAU,
the PAU will recruit, and remunerate long term local consultants on the basis of World
Bank consultant selection procedures. The PAU operating and equipment budget is



- 25 -
estimated at an amount of $350,000 detailed in Annex 3. The Japanese grant will co-
finance training under the PAU, and IDA other consultant services and office equipment
and vehicles. The audit of project accounts by internationally reputable firms is likely
to be costly and require significant foreign exchange funds. Consequently $150,000 is
allocated under the Credit to finance such audits to be undertaken by internationally
reputable independent auditing firms.
B. Implementation of Lending and Technical Assistance to Enterprises
6.3         IDA and the Kyrgyz Government have agreed to (i) create a Fund for
Enterprise Restructuring and Development (FERD) through which IDA funds will be
channelled, and (ii) to use the services of a private Fund Manager (FM) to manage the
FERD's lending investment operations, and provision of technical assistance support to
enterprises in an integrated structure.
6.4         Fund for Enterprise Restructuring and Development. The Government
has established a Fund for Enterprise Restructuring and Development (FERD) to channel
IDA funds. The FERD is a Government owned financial intermediary vehicle supervised
by a Board of Directors composed of the Chairman of NBK, the Minister of Finance,
and the Vice-Chairman and Director General of GOSKOMINVEST. The Board is
presided by the NBK Chairman. The FERD will provide term loans and matching grants
in foreign exchange for technical assistance to private enterprises. The FERD will have
a maximum life of ten years, or less if local banks can take over its functions before
then. FERD lending will be either direct and on a risk-taking basis, or indirect through
accredited participating banks assuming the commercial risk on enterprises. The FERD
will have no staff, minimum capital, physical assets or structure of its own. It is
materialized by its statutes, operating procedures and a simple bank account at the
National Bank. FERD operating procedures have been agreed during negotiations and
reflected in the Development Credit Agreement (more details on these procedures are in
the project files).
Enterprise Fund Management Arrangements
6.5         Definition of Management Assignment. The details of the management
assignment are provided in the draft Terms of Reference and attachments in Annex 2.
The expatriate team to be provided by the prospective international bank will include one
commercial banker with substantial experience in term financing of industrial projects,
as team leader, and two to three other professionals to manage the FERD and provide
technical and financial assistance to enterprises. The international bank will have full
responsibility, through its expatriate staff, for organizing an integrated structure
composed of a banking division and a technical division staffed by expatriates and local
staff from the counterpart bank. The technical division will operate as the technical
appraisal and supervision unit in charge of technical support to enterprises and
borrowers. The expatriate team leader will be the executive in charge of the whole



- 26 -
project. Furthermore, the expatriate staff will be twinned with counterpart professional
bankers to be assigned by the local counterpart bank. Training and integration of the
Kyrgyz Orient Bank, counterpart staff in project management activities will be the
responsibility of the international bank. Over time this local staff is expected to
progressively take over management responsibilities of the FERD, as and when agreed
by IDA and KRG. The international bank will also provide cost effective correspondent
banking services required for smooth project implementation (e.g., management of
Special Accounts, provision of documentary credit services and confirmation).
6.6          The core technical division team of the FM  will include a business
management specialist, and an engineering procurement advisor. They will be
supplemented as needed, by short-term consultants with specialized knowledge of specific
industries (e.g., textiles, plastics, etc.) to undertake diagnostic cum restructuring studies
of selected enterprises in that particular industrial branch, as well as assist enterprises in
preparing investment projects. Such consultants will be engaged for either a single
enterprise or a group of enterprises in the same industrial sector. Study tours and
training in critical areas such as export marketing, may also be financed.
6.7          Contract Form and Duration. The FERD management contract, will be
financed for an initial two years under the Japanese grant, and will contain clauses for
its renewal for another two years, if IDA and Government agree. If IDA determines that
a local bank satisfies the accreditation criteria, such a local bank might become the
FERD manager after the management agreement with the foreign bank expires. During
negotiations, agreement was reached to ensure that (i) the arrangements for managing the
FERD will continue to be satisfactory to IDA; and (ii) in case the initial FERD
management agreement expires without renewal, no local bank satisfies the accreditation
criteria, and no new agreed FERD manager is contracted, IDA will have the right to
suspend the Credit (para. 8.1). In order to make an early determination with regard to
these issues, agreement was reached during negotiations on a detailed performance
evaluation of the project implementation arrangements.  Such evaluation will be
undertaken during a Mid-Term Review scheduled in March 1997, i.e., eighteen months
after effectiveness, and corrective action will be agreed and implemented at that time
(paras. 6.31 and 8.2 (iii)).
6.8          Remuneration. The consultant will be paid only fees to cover the costs
of assigning staff locally to manage the FERD's loan portfolio, and implementing the
technical assistance support to enterprises. Most of the local costs of the assignment will
be normally borne by the Government and the Kyrgyz Orient Bank which will provide
office logistics, equipment, counterpart professional and support staff, at an estimated
cost of US$780,000 over a four-year period (Table 5.1).  Signing of a FERD
management contract satisfactory to the Government and IDA, is a condition of
effectiveness of the Credit (para. 8.2 (i)).



- 27 -
6.9         Counterpart Bank. The Kyrgyz Orient Bank will enter into a cooperative
agreement with the Government by which the terms and conditions of its association with
the international bank will be determined, and incorporated in the FERD management
contract to be signed by the international bank. During negotiations the Government
submitted information on the financial situation and performance, and quality and
adequacy of the staffing and managerial capacity of the Orient Bank; as well as draft
cooperative proposals to be finalized in a manner satisfactory to IDA.
6.10        Approval of IDA sub-loans. A Loan Committee made up of the expatriate
managers of the FM, and including professional staff of the local counterpart bank, and
of the National Bank of the Kyrgyz Republic (NBK) as non-voting members, will be
appointed to review and approve FERD sub-loans and technical assistance grants to
enterprises financed under the IDA Credit. Loan Committee procedures will be based
on agreed FERD procedures and reflected in the FM management contract to be signed
with KRG. As NBK is the designated apex institution for the EBRD line of credit, its
participation will also help to coordinate co-financing of subprojects by EBRD and local
banks. Final review and approval by IDA of all sub-loans screened by the FM Loan
Committee will increase the probability that economically and financially viable
enterprises will be granted funding under IDA Credit. These understandings were
confirmed during negotiations (para. 8.1).
C. Amount and Allocation of IDA Credit
Terms and Conditions
6.11        The Government will enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the
FERD, represented by its Board, by which KRG will pass on to FERD US$14.2 million
under the credit component, and an initial US$40,000 for co-financing of the technical
assistance to enterprises. The subsidiary loan will be in US dollars, and interest charged
to the FERD will be equal to, and vary with the rate of 10-year (hereinafter long term)
US Treasury Bonds. Initially, FERD will lend directly to beneficiary enterprises, in US
dollars, and assume the commercial and financial risks until local banks are accredited
for refinancing of subloans to their private borrowers. IDA funds under the lending
component, will be available to FERD for commitment until June 30, 1999 (attachment
2 of Annex 2). The US$40,000 technical assistance funds (to be supplemental later on)
will be made available to selected private enterprises on a matching grant basis (para.
5.9). The balance of IDA funds will be used by KRG for other technical assistance
components.
6.12        Terms of sub-loans. KRG will assume the cross currency risks between
US dollar, and SDRs. Beneficiary sub-borrowers will assume (i) the foreign exchange
risk between the US dollar and the Kyrgyz Som, and (ii) pay market-determined interest
rates corresponding to rates for US dollar loans prevailing in the Kyrgyz banking sector
(para. 8.1). It is expected that such rates will be equivalent to, and competitive with,



- 28 -
rates and conditions to be charged by EBRD's and the US-CAAEF's participating banks.
Such rates are expected to be below current high rates charged by local banks on foreign
exchange loans, and to average between 15 to 18 percent, with borrowers assuming the
foreign exchange risk between KGS and US dollars. While still high by international
standards, such rates do reflect local market conditions, including the perceived high
financial risks inherent in lending to enterprises in transition economies. The Government
will receive a variable interest corresponding to the rate of 10-year (hereinafter long
term) US Treasury Bonds. The FERD on-lending rates will be reviewed periodically and
modified by agreement between IDA and the Government, as necessary, to ensure that
they continue to reflect market rates for foreign exchange resources for borrowers (and
financial intermediaries).
6.13         The FERD will receive the IDA funds for a period of 15 years, including
five years of grace starting after the date of Credit effectiveness. The bulk of the
sub-loans are likely to have a life between 1 to 8 years, i.e., with sub-loan repayment
schedules generally shorter than the underlying repayments due from FERD to KRG.
Consequently, during IDA's ten-year grace periods, foreign exchange fund reflows to
FERD from sub-loan repayments, and technical assistance cost recoveries, will be
recycled, and relent under the same terms and conditions for the same purposes as the
original sub-loans. Maturities of sub-loans to final beneficiaries will be limited to a
maximum of eight years, including grace periods of six months to one year. Before the
end of this period the FERD is expected to have sold its portfolio to local banks and to
be phased out after reimbursing the Government. Signature of a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between the FERD and Government, reflecting these terms and
conditions, is a condition of effectiveness of the Credit (para. 8.2 (ii)).
6.14         Sub-loan Size. Sub-loans granted under the line of credit will normally
finance up to 80 percent of the total investment cost, including incremental working
capital, for expansion and modernization projects, and up to 70 percent for investment
in new enterprises. Sub-borrowers are expected to contribute in equity financing from
20 to 30 percent of project cost. Unless Bank otherwise agrees, the maximum size of
any sub-loan will be limited to US$1.0 million for all sub-projects to ensure a greater
number of credit beneficiaries. During negotiations the Government submitted to IDA,
draft models of a subloan contract, and of a technical assistance grant contract, to be
signed between the FM and its borrowers, reflecting the above terms and conditions.
Eligible Beneficiaries and Sub-projects
6.15         Only private enterprises involved in productive and extractive activities,
transport, trade and services which contribute to the economic development of Kyrgyz
Republic will be eligible for IDA financing. A private enterprise means an enterprise
whose capital is effectively controlled at least 51 percent by private investors, and its by-
laws and management structure consistent with private enterprise governance principles.
The FM shall satisfy itself, that the boards and management of beneficiary enterprises,



- 29 -
operate the enterprise in accordance with private sector enterprise governance principles.
Land acquisition, real estate development and housing and office space construction, will
not be eligible for IDA financing. However, construction, and rehabilitation of industrial
and commercial buildings and sheds, related to an eligible investment project, will be
eligible for subloans, if they fit into the business plan. Incremental or permanent
working requirements will be eligible for term financing as part of a project investment
program, or on a free-standing basis. Unless the Bank and KRG otherwise agree, lending
for free-standing working capital requirements will be medium term, and limited to
US$200,000 per enterprise, and in aggregate to a total of US$4 million, i.e., 25 percent
of the Credit amount. As determined by diagnostic studies only viable private enterprises
suffering from (i) an imbalance in their financial structure; and (ii) under utilization of
their production capacities, will be eligible for financing of free-standing working capital
requests (para. 6.17 (e)). The above criteria were agreed during negotiations (para.
8.1).
6.16         State owned enterprises in advanced stages of privatization will be eligible
for technical support provided they agree to: (i) undergo a diagnostic study of their
management organization and operations; and (ii) implement a business, investment and
privatization plans, satisfactory to the FM. Once, privatized, such SOEs would become
eligible for subloans based on agreed business and investment plans (para. 8.1).
Sub-loan Review and Administration
6.17         The FM will undertake the review and approval of sub-loan requests in
accordance with FERD  Operating Procedures satisfactory to IDA.  Draft FERD
procedures are available in project files. These procedures have been agreed during
negotiations and reflected in the Credit Agreement between KRG and IDA, and the future
management contract to be signed between FM and KRG (para 8.1). These procedures
also reflect Bank Group procurement, disbursement and environmental protection
guidelines and procedures. The enterprise business and investment plan will constitute
the basic reference document for sub-loan reviews. For each eligible enterprise, unless
IDA and Government otherwise agree,
(a)   the business plan will be reviewed in detail and must be satisfactory;
(b)   the projected debt servicing capacity in foreign exchange (defined as the
ratio of cash-flow generated from operations to interest and principal
annual payments), will be no less than 1.2 over the life of the sub-project
and the debt to equity ratio be no more than 1.5:1.0, with the ratios
calculated on the basis of the enterprise's total debts, inclusive of those to
be incurred under the sub-project; and
(c)   satisfactory  environmental impact reviews will be undertaken  in
accordance with Kyrgyz Republic environmental guidelines and



- 30 -
regulations, and as deemed necessary by the FM, and in some cases IDA.
Environmental guidelines under the project will be further developed in
coordination with the on-going Bank Group assistance to the Kyrgyz
Government to develop a National Environmental Action Plan, including
revision of environmental protection regulation and institutional capacity
for enforcement. (paras. 6.32 and 6.33);
(d)   a financial rate of return and an economic rate of return of at least 15
percent each will be required, as shall be determined and calculated by
FM on the basis of guidelines satisfactory to IDA; the economic return
calculation will be a simplified version based on a shadow pricing of key
tradable elements of the production cost (e.g., energy costs) and selling
prices, and will apply in particular to import-substituting enterprises; and
(e)   in addition to criteria (a) to (c), a restructured balance sheet depicting
improvedfinancial structure indicators (e.g., debt/equity, liquidity ratio,
etc.), and operating and financial performance indicators (e.g, stock and
assets turnover, profitability, cash-flow, etc.,), will be the primary criteria
applicable to assessment and justification for lending for free-standing
working capital. Viability of the enterprise will need to be established
unequivocally, in accordance with agreed FERD guidelines and
procedures.
6.18         Sub-loan processing under the project will be coordinated and centralized
by the FM, which will serve as the principal link between IDA, and the beneficiaries for
the project's lending and technical assistance components. Sub-projects will be prepared
by the beneficiaries with, if needed, assistance from the FM. The latter will review the
sub-projects in accordance with the agreed project appraisal and lending procedures
reflected in the FERD Operating Procedures.
6.19         The FM will review the business plan and appraisal reports to verify that
all eligibility and financing criteria and conditions are met. This appraisal review would
be carried out in the form of a simplified business plan for projects with an estimated
investment cost of US$200,000 or less (within 15 working days) and through a more
in-depth review for projects with a higher investment cost (within 30 working days).
These reviews will also focus on ensuring that sub-borrowers have undertaken
procurement consistent with agreed Bank Group guidelines (para. 6.20).  If the
sub-project is eligible for refinancing and satisfies the required technical, and financial
screening criteria, the FM will send the request to IDA for final approval. Upon
notification of such IDA approval, the FERD would authorize the borrower to present
the relevant disbursement documents for reimbursement of eligible expenditures or
opening of letters of credits for foreign suppliers.



- 31 -
D. Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
6.20        Procurement will be undertaken in accordance with World Bank
procedures by borrowing enterprises with assistance from the engineering and
procurement advisor, during preparation of their investment plans as detailed in Annex
2. IDA has extended technical assistance to the Kyrgyz Republic Government to develop
and introduce the legal and institutional framework to manage public procurement, which
is expected to be completed before the end of FY96. This assistance program will help
to establish official procurement guidelines and procedures for public contracting. The
Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) has not been prepared, but IDA plans
to initiate before the end of FY95, the preparation of a Country procurement strategy
paper (CPSP), in lieu of CPAR.
6.21        Procurement procedures under the project will be consistent with Bank's
Procurement Guidelines applicable to financial intermediary lending operations as
described below.
(i)   For equipment and materials to be procured for sub-projects financed by
IDA international shopping (IS) procedures will be required for individual
contracts of US$2,000,000 or below for each beneficiary, on the basis of at least
three quotations from qualified suppliers in at least two eligible countries, and for
an aggregate amount of US$12,000,000. For individual contracts, equipment,
materials, and works above US$2,000,000, international competitive bidding
(ICB) procedures, in accordance with Bank's Procurement Guidelines, will be
applicable, except for goods available from a limited number of qualified
suppliers, for which limited international bidding procedures (LIB) would be
used.
(ii)   Procurement of office  equipment, and vehicles under the technical
assistance component, valued at US$50,000 or more, will be made through
international shopping (IS) procedures in accordance with Bank's Procurement
Guidelines, on the basis of comparison of at least three quotations from qualified
suppliers in at least two eligible countries. Individual items valued less than
US$50,000, will be procured through national shopping (NS) procedures, on the
basis of comparison of at least three price quotations from three qualified
suppliers.
(iii)  Works contracts for sub-projects would consist almost exclusively of
building renovations and repairs. Such works contracts are unlikely to interest
foreign contractors. Consequently works contracts valued below US$300,000 per
contract, will be awarded on the basis of national competitive bidding (NCB)
procedures for an aggregate amount of US$3 million; and works contracts
estimated to cost US$300,000 or more per contract may be procured under
limited international bidding (LIB) procedures. Small value works contracts



- 32 -
estimated at US$100,000 or less per contract, and not to exceed US$3,000,000
in the aggregate, will be procured through national shopping (NS) procedures,
under lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of bids obtained from
three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic
specifications, the required  completion date, a basic form  of agreement
acceptable to IDA, and, where applicable, relevant drawings. The award shall
be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required
work, and who has the experience and resources to successfully complete the
contract.
6.22        The Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for Goods will be used for all
ICB procurement, and consultant contract forms for consulting assignments. Prior IDA
review is anticipated for the first two contracts for goods, the contracts for works through
LIB, financed by the FERD, and for all ICB procurements.
6.23        Technical Assistance Components. Selection of consultants financed by
IDA and the Japanese Government PHRD grant for US$520,000, and of US$2.5 million,
respectively, will be made in accordance with Bank's Guidelines on the Use of
Consultants. There are two contracts with firms, to be procured on the basis of short
lists, including the diagnostic audit of the Savings Bank for an estimated amount of
US$200,000, and the management contract for the FERD, estimated to cost
US$1,500,000. Contracts for consultant services valued at, or greater than US$100,000
for firms, US$50,000 and above for individuals, US$50,000 and above for training, and
single-source contracts will be subject to IDA's prior review and approval. All terms
of reference will also be subject to prior review by IDA. Other consulting contracts will
be subject to the IDA's ex-post review.
6.24        A general procurement notice will be issued after negotiations. Reporting
on procurement under the credit and enterprise support components shall be undertaken
by the FM, and under other components by the PAU which will also coordinate all such
reporting. A summary of procurement methods is given below (Table 6.1), and Anne-x
7 details procurement implementation activities.



- 33 -
Table 6.1: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Thousands)
Procurement Method
Proiect Element
ICB                Other                N/A                Total
A. Credit Component                                  a/               14,180                                14,180
(subprojects)                                                    (14,180)                              (14,180)
B. Technical Assistance
Component
1.  Consultant                                                   1,895b/                                 1,895
Services*                                                    (1,895)
2.  Training &                                                     175_/                                   175
Seminars*                                                      (175)
3.  Audit Project                                                                                          150
Accts.                                                          150
(150)
150
C.. Vehicles & Office                                                  150_c                                  (150)
Equipment*                                                          (150)                  -
D. PPF Refinancing                                                                          950                950
(950)             (950)
TOTAL                                                                 16,550                950             17,500
IDA                                               -              (14,050)              (950)           (15,000)
Japan                                                             (2,500)                               (2.500)
Advanced PPF Funding
NOTES
Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the IDA Credit and Japanese PHRD grnt. Cost figures shown
above are rounded and include contingencies, excluding duties and taxes.
a/ For contracts of goods of US$2 million or below per contract, international shopping procedures - sub-borrowers will be required
to submit to FM at least three quotations from suppliers in two countries of goods to be procured; contracts and works in excess
of US$2 million per contract, will be procured through ICB or LCB in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines for Procurement
(January 1995). For work contracts valued US$100,000 or less percontract, national shopping (NS)procedures, foranaUregate
amount not to exceed USS3 million, on the basis of bids from three qualified domestic contractors. Works contracts valued at
$300,000 or more will be subject to limited international bidding (LIB), and below $300,000 to national competitive bidding
(NCB) for an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000.
bl  In accordance with Bank Group's Guidelines on Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the Bank as Executing
Agency (August 1981). Co-financing from Japanese PHRD to be procured in accordance with Bank Guidelines.
c/ For items valued US$50,000 or more, international shopping procedures on the basis of at least three quotations from two eligible
countries; for items valued less than US$50,000, national shopping procedures on the basis of at least three price quotations.



- 34 -
6.25        Disbursements. The proceeds of the proposed Credit will be disbursed as
follows:
(a)    Credit Component. Under the investment component (i) 100 percent of
expenditures for up to 70 per-cent of total sub-project cost including
working capital for new operations; (ii) 100 percent of expenditures for
up to 80 percent of total cost of sub-projects including incremental
working capital for modernization and rehabilitation;
(b)    Technical assistance component (exclusive of tax) 100 percent of the cost
of consultants, 100 percent of foreign expenditures for goods directly
imported; 100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory) and 90 percent
of expenditures for locally procured goods and supplies.
6.26        The project disbursement schedule is based on assumptions in Attachment
2 of Annex 2, and the relevant disbursement profile for financial intermediary lending
projects in the ECA region, taking into account the particularly difficult project
implementation environment of a land locked country like Kyrgyz Republic in transition
to a market economy. It is expected that the investment component would be disbursed
in five years and the technical assistance component over four years, taking into account
expected improvement in capacities for project appraisal, financing approval, and
subproject implementation. Funds under the credit component would be available for
commitment until June 30, 1999. Disbursements would be completed by June 30, 2000,
the proposed closing date.
6.27        Special Accounts. To expedite disbursement of funds, two Special
Accounts A and B for the PAU and FM, respectively will be set up in a financial
institution acceptable to IDA. The authorized amounts of Special Accounts A and B are
US$200,000 and US$1 million, respectively. IDA will make initial estimated deposits
in Special Accounts A and B amounting to US$100,000, and US$500,000, respectively,
from the proposed Credit, immediately after effectiveness. These amounts reflect the
estimated requirements for consultant services for the PAU, and enterprise support
services, and for initial sub-project disbursements by the FM for a four-month period.
Applications for replenishment of the special accounts will be submitted on a monthly
basis. The minimum amounts for application of disbursement will be US$50,000 under
the TA components, and US$100,000 under the credit component. Under the technical
assistance component, disbursements for expenditures for all contracts for goods and
services or individual items under US$50,000, will be made on the basis of statements
of expenditures; and under the credit component disbursements for expenditures for all
contracts or individual items under US$200,000, will be made on the basis of statements
of expenditures. This threshold under the credit component corresponds to limits set for
working capital finance (para. 6.15) and simplified appraisal procedures (para. 6.19),
and is intended to simplify procedures for, and further accelerate, disbursement of the
Credit. The documentation for justification of withdrawals made under statements of



- 35 -
expenditures will be retained by GOSKOMINVEST for ten years and will be reviewed
by IDA supervision missions and audited annually. All other disbursements will be made
on the basis of fully documented applications.
E. Accounts and Auditing
6.28        The GOSKOMINVEST, through the PAU will have responsibility for
ensuring that the PAU and FM maintain appropriate accounts, and that those accounts,
including the Special Accounts A and B, and statements of expenditures, are audited
annually by independent and qualified auditors acceptable to IDA.  The FM  is
responsible for maintaining proper accounts for itself and the FERD, and for ensuring
that such accounts, including the Special Account B and statements of expenditures, are
properly audited annually by independent, internationally qualified auditors acceptable
to IDA. The PAU and FM will furnish to IDA certified copies of the aforementioned
audited accounts, together with the corresponding management letters, within six months
of the end of the fiscal year. The PAU, and FM, will submit to IDA quarterly, and
annual, progress reports (including financial and budgetary accounts) on the technical
assistance and investment components, respectively. An amount of $150,000 has been
allocated under the Credit to finance the foreign exchange cost of the audit of project
accounts.
F. Project Implementation and Supervision Plans
IDA Supervision and Monitoring
6.29        Monitorable Targets. IDA's monitoring of project performance will be
based both on quantitative and qualitative criteria to measure progress in project
implementation, and achievement of development objectives, with particular reference
to the institutional arrangements under the lending component, and impact on enterprises
under the technical assistance component. Performance indicators applicable to normal
financial intermediary lending will not be used since no participation of banks is
envisaged. Quantitative criteria will include the following key indicators: (i) the number
of private and public enterprises undergoing diagnostic studies, and the number of
business and investment plans prepared and implemented; (ii) the nunber of enterprises
requesting funding from the FERD, (iii) the amounts of sub-loans committed and
disbursed by the FERD ; (iv) amounts of export generated by subprojects; and (v) degree
of local participation in project implementation, etc. The project implementation plan
and other quantitative and qualitative performance criteria such as compliance with
agreed covenants, are summarized in Annex 6.
6.30        IDA Supervision. Progress reports on the execution of the various
sub-components will be prepared and submitted quarterly to IDA and the PAU by the
FM (i.e., summary of activities, use of project funds, and progress of diagnostic studies
and restructuring of enterprises and banks, etc.). The PAU will submit quarterly and



- 36 -
annual progress reports to IDA summarizing issues and progress in implementation.
Project supervision activities will focus first on the executing agencies (FM, and PAU),
and secondly on the financial performance of subprojects financed. IDA's supervision
plan is detailed in Annex 6.
6.31        Project Completion Report. A Project Completion Report (PCR), the
content and format of which to be agreed upon with IDA, will be submitted to IDA
within six months after the project closing date of June 30, 2,000. The PAU will
prepare this PCR.
6.32        GOSKOMINVEST has gained some experience and familiarity with IDA's
disbursement and procurement procedures as a result of assistance provided by the
project implementation unit of the IDA financed Rehabilitation Credit (Cr. 2491-KG),
and by the Crown Agents procurement consultants working in that unit. Nevertheless
Kyrgyz entrepreneurs and the FM managing team are not familiar with such IDA
procedures.   The engineering procurement advisor recruited under the FERD
management contract will assist sub-borrowers. Additional support from supervision
missions, and resident mission staff will also be provided. Particular emphasis will be
put on further and timely, training in procurement and disbursement, as well as
environmental safeguard procedures. In view of the lack of experience in investment
project financing, and the need to assist local banks to process disbursement
documentation, initial intensive supervision (14 staff weeks annually) will be required for
the lending component in the first year and a half after effectiveness. Subsequently the
FM should develop harmonious working relationships with local banks and function with
relative autonomy and less supervision.
Mid-Term Review of Implementation
6.33        A Mid-term  review of project progress and implementation will be
undertaken in order to test the effectiveness of project management, institutional
arrangements and implementation procedures and for a preliminary assessment of the
impact of many of the policy and institutional reform measures. This review will also
focus on impediments to the efficient operations of private enterprises so that the
technical assistance component may be revised if needed. Particular emphasis will be
put on reviewing progress in developing efficient financial intermediation activities and
accrediting local banks for refinancing activities under the investment component.
Performance under the FM management contract and progress in implementation of the
enterprise support component will also need to be assessed, and corrective measures
taken as required. The PAU will be responsible for the coordination of the Mid-Tern
Review, as well as of policy discussions and follow-up with other ministries and NBK.
The basic reference documents of such a review mission will be the FM management
contract, policy matrices under the PESAC operation, other agreed Credit and project
documents and audit reports of local banks. Following the Review, an agreed action
program would be defined, if necessary, for revision of project implementing



- 37 -
arrangements, and enactment of additional institutional reform and strengthening
measures.  During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government to
undertake the joint IDA/KRG Mid-Term Review in March 1997. Recommended actions
agreed during the Review will be implemented in consultation with IDA (para. 8.2 (iii)).
G. Environmental Aspects
6.34        No major environmental issues are foreseen as most Kyrgyz manufacturing
and processing industries, with the exception of the mining sector, are generally
environmentally benign. The most serious light industry polluters are leather tanning,
meat processing and the dyeing operations of textile mills. But they, as all Kyrgyz
industries are subject to environmental regulations which are not always adequate or
effectively enforced. The Bank Group is providing assistance to revise and improve such
regulations. On the basis of the current sample of preselected privatized enterprises, no
environmental liabilities have been identified, firstly because of the relatively benign
nature of the enterprises involved, and secondly, because only a limited number of
outside investors are likely to be involved in this first operation. Nevertheless, particular
safeguards will be implemented as explained below.
6.35        The Bank Group is providing assistance to the KRG to develop a National
Environmental Action Plan (NEAP), including revision of environmental regulations and
development of the required institutional capacity for implementation of such regulations.
In accordance with IDA guidelines on financial intermediary loans and enterprise
restructuring projects, the proposed project would have a B environmental rating
applicable, whenever deemed necessary by the FM, to individual enterprises and projects
selected for IDA financing. Consequently project appraisal, procurement and supervision
procedures to be implemented by the FM under the lending component, will include
assessment of environmental risks and requirements for safeguards. A simplified manual
on Environmental Protection Procedures, will be used by the technical assistance support
firm and the FM in their diagnostic reviews and appraisal procedures based on the
following principles:
(a) Sub-Project Screening Categories. The three categories are defined below and
reflect increasing levels of potential impact (I =lowest, III =highest) on the
environment:
(i)    Category I. These are sub-projects whose environmental impact is
expected to be negligible and which require no environmental analysis.
The sub-projects may however require the incorporation of environmental
improvements in the project design through modification based on
recommendations proposed by relevant authorities.
(ii)   Categorv II. These are sub-projects which may include some of the
environmentally sensitive attributes referred to under Category III below



- 38 -
but on a much smaller scale with a localized area of impact. These
projects will require an environmental analysis specifying how the project
will meet national standards, and within these standards minimize any
negative environmental impact. These would also include projects in
which an analysis could identify significant positive environmental
improvements which could be achieved through small, inexpensive design
modifications.
(iii)   Category III. These are sub-projects which have one or more of the
following attributes; (i) impact on pollution discharges likely to cause air,
water, and/or soil degradation of sufficient magnitude to pose threats to
human health, national ecosystems or economic activities; (ii) extraction,
consumption, conversion/diversion or disturbance of substantial amounts
of a natural resources, e.g. forest, river, wet land, groundwater; (iii)
large-scale physical disturbance of site and/or surroundings; (iv) activities
located in or near sensitive or valuable ecosystems; and (v) hazardous
materials in more than incidental quantities, and hazardous working
conditions. A full environmental impact analysis would be required for
these projects.
(b)       Sub-Project Environmental Review - The technical assistance firm for
enterprise support will be responsible for environmental classification of
sub-projects, and ensuring that each sub-loan proposal includes an
evaluation of its environmental impact, if necessary, and clearance
documentation as required from the authorities. Initial environmental
assessments for sub-project applications would be an integral part of the
diagnostic studies of all enterprises (see terms of reference in attachment
3 to Annex 2). It would be the responsibility of the sub-borrower to
obtain clearance for a proposed sub-project from the national authority as,
and if, required by the Law. The FM will be responsible for monitoring
and ensuring that environmental remedies agreed under a sub-loan are
indeed carried out. In order to meet the guidelines requirements and to
handle the environmental aspects of loan portfolio development and review
the FM will need to have adequate expertise at their disposition. Bank
would undertake prior review of environmental aspects of selected
subprojects. Other subprojects would be reviewed on an ex-post basis as
part of project supervision.
VII. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
7.1         Benefits. The proposed project would support the Government's economic
reform and privatization programs, through efforts to help ensure the successful post-
privatization performance of former SOEs. Improvements in management efficiency,
productivity, marketing and profitability of privatized enterprises would also yield



- 39 -
tangible economic benefits for investors, workers, and the country as a whole. The
project would develop the institutional foundation for providing financing to projects with
high financial and economic returns and technical assistance to enterprises in developing
well formulated business plans. It would also contribute towards institutional reform and
capacity building in the financial sector, which will be supported further by a subsequent
financial sector loan.
7.2          Risks. There are three main risks associated with this project: (i) slow
implementation of new economic policy and legal and regulatory reforms for private
enterprise development; (ii) slow project implementation and Credit disbursement; and
(iii) political pressure, and opposition to required enterprise downsizing, product
diversification and quality enhancement. The first risk is expected to be mitigated under
the IDA Privatization and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit (PESAC), approved in
June 1994, the three-year Policy Framework Paper (PFP) and the first year IMF
Extended Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) approved in July 1994. The second and
third risks would be mitigated by management of the FERD by a reputable private
financial institution. Furthermore, only privatized enterprises with satisfactory corporate
governance structures and submitting sound business plans would be eligible for FERD
finance. The lending component has been conservatively sized at $14.2 million, and the
enterprise support component designed to accelerate project implementation by
enterprises. Progress towards this and other project objectives will be reviewed during
the proposed Mid-Term Review of project implementation and corrective actions agreed
and taken as needed.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.1          During negotiations understandings and agreements were reached, inter
alia, on the following: (i) modalities for cost recovery of technical assistance to
enterprises (para. 5.9); (ii) assurances that management arrangements for the FERD
would continue to be satisfactory to IDA (para. 6.7); (iii) market-determined FERD
interest rates (para. 6.12); (iv) satisfactory operating and lending procedures of the
FERD, (paras. 6.10 and 6.17); (v) eligibility criteria (para. 6.15 and 6.16); (vi)
procurement arrangements (paras. 6.20-24); (vii) disbursement procedures (para. 6.25);
and (viii) special accounts (para. 6.27).
8.2          Other agreements and conditions agreed are as follows:
(a)    Conditions of Effectiveness
(i)    Recruitment of FERD  managing bank and signature of a
Management Contract between the Enterprise Fund Manager and
Government, on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (para.
6.8);



- 40 -
(ii)   Signature of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between KRG and
Fund for Enterprise Restructuring and Development (para. 6.13);
(b)   Dated Covenant
(iii)  By March 31, 1997, implementation of the Mid-Term Review of
project execution (para. 6.33).
8.3        The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA Credit in the
amount of SDR 10.1 million (US$15 million equivalent) at standard terms for 35 years,
including a 10-year grace period, to the Kyrgyz Republic for a Private Enterprise Support
Project.



- 41 -                                  Annex 1
Page 1 of 1
PRIVATE EZ1fT ISR SUPFORT PSOJFCT
Gma-KUfz nuDSTIrAL mAmK OmUaw
OXCAITZATlONAL SnUCTU  I
(As of Nlrch 17. 1995)
| OBARD OF DIR1ORS
|   7"SIDI1/  CO 
Vice-President                                                    Loan Comitte |
Departwant of             International          Book-raeping         computer               Cashiers   a9)         incial      |
Operations and            Department              Department    (9)   Deparctmnt   (3)                            Anlyis             Department (2)
Financial Markets (l0)                                                                                            Drtnt (2)
Division of
Trade Operations (3)
Division of Non-
Trade Operation. (6)
I/ Future branches of the Orient Bank
5a"D
Osh                                        Jwl 1995
Djalal-Abhd                l'mu  1995
lasykul                                    June 1995
Di.hkek                                    July 199S
Figures in parantheoe- are profeuional staff.



- 42 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 14
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
MANAGEMENT OF A FUND FOR ENTERPRISE
RESTRUCTURING AND DEVELOPMENT
Draft Terms of Reference
A. Background
1.          The Kyrgyz Republic Government (KRG) intends, with the assistance of the
World Bank Group, to provide technical and financial assistance to private enterprises and viable
State owned enterprises (SOEs) in advanced stages of privatization. The objectives of the
Private Enterprise Support Project (PESP) are to assist such enterprises in making their post-
privatization transition to a market economy and to contribute to the country's economic growth
through job creation and through increased exports to non-FSU markets.
2.          Private enterprises participating in the project will be eligible to participate in
technical, managerial and financial diagnoses to be provided under the enterprise support
component of the project. The recommendations resulting from these diagnoses are to be
implemented by the enterprise management as a condition of eligibility for Bank financed
subloans from a proposed Fund for Enterprise Restructuring and Development (FERD) to be
established by KRG.
3.          In the current dearth of eligible and creditworthy financial intermediaries to
channel IDA funds, the Kyrgyz Republic Government (KRG) and IDA have agreed to create a
Fund for Enterprise Restructuring and Development (FERD) through which proceeds from an
IDA Credit will be channelled to finance private investment projects and technical assistance to
enterprises. The proposed FERD will be operated on the basis of a management contract to be
entered into between KRG and an international bank hereinafter referred to as the Fund Manager
(FM). The selected Fund Manager will manage a technical assistance program and operate the
FERD in accordance with standard banking practices, and with IDA procedures and guidelines
under financial intermediary lending and technical assistance operations. The FM  will be
structured and staffed by the international bank to be selected under these terms of reference.
4.          The International Finance Corporation (IFC) of the World Bank Group is
reviewing the feasibility of a Kyrgyz a venture capital fund in association with private investing
partners. Such a venture fund, when structured and operational, is expected to invest in, and
co-finance investment projects with the proposed, IDA financed Fund for Enterprise
Restructuring and Development. The FERD and venture capital fund would, in such an event,



- 43 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 14
enter into cooperative financing arrangements and the procedures followed pursuant to these
terms of reference revised accordingly.
B. Objectives of the Assignments
5.           The proposed contract aims, inter alia, at the following objectives:
(i)    Provide technical assistance support to privatized enterprises for preparing
business plans and investment proposals to enable them to restructure their
operations, and successfully make the transition to the market economy;
(ii)   Provide viable loan and help mobilize equity resources for Kyrgyz private
enterprises during their post-privatization transition, and reorientation of
their activities, to market economies;
(iii)   Consistent with sound banking practices, follow a rigorous and transparent
process of selecting, appraising, approving, at a high quality level for
Bank financing, investment projects submitted by private entrepreneurs
and investors in the Kyrgyz Republic, based on acceptable business and
investment plans; disburse and supervise the loan portfolio in accordance
with prudential guidelines, maintain portfolio in sound condition and adopt
appropriate methods to deal with problem loans;
(iv)   Help attract local and foreign private lenders and investors in Kyrgyz
industrial projects and enterprises, by ensuring independent and
accountable decision-making for lending; the FM is thus expected to
actively promote local and foreign investments in the Kyrgyz Republic;
(v)   Develop an operations manual for the FERD, train on the job and impart
investment appraisal and banking techniques and skills to locally selected
qualified Kyrgyz staff, and contribute in establishing a self-sustaining
institutional capacity for technical assistance and investment; and
(iv)   Phase out progressively the lending and investment operations of the
FERD by sale of its loan portfolio to local commercial banks and financial
institutions.
C. Description of Assignments
Functions of Banking Division
6.           The Contractor will undertake the appraisal and preliminary approval of sub-loan
requests in accordance with FERD Operating Procedures, a preliminary draft of which will be



- 44 -
Annex 2
Page 3 of 14
provided separately. These procedures will be confirmed during negotiations of the IDA Credit
and reflected in the Credit Agreement between IDA and the KRG, and in the management
contract to be signed between FM and KRG, pursuant to these terms of reference. These
procedures will also reflect Bank Group procurement, disbursement and environmental
guidelines, and procedures. The appraisal procedures applicable to IDA financed subloans will
be simplified to the extent feasible in order to minimize the cost of project appraisal and loan
administration, and accelerate disbursement. The enterprise business plan and investment
feasibility studies would constitute the basic reference documents for sub-loan appraisals.
7.           The screening and processing of subloans under the project will be coordinated
and centralized by the FM, which will serve as the principal link between IDA and the
beneficiaries for the project's lending component. Sub-projects would be prepared by the
beneficiaries with, if needed, assistance from the Technical Assistance division (para. 9). The
FM would review the business plan and feasibility reports to verify that all eligibility and
financing criteria and conditions are met. This review would be consistent with World Bank
project appraisal procedures applicable to financial intermediary lending operations, and carried
out in the form  of a simplified business plan.  These appraisals will also ensure that
sub-borrowers have undertaken procurement arrangements consistent with agreed World Bank
Group guidelines. If the sub-project is eligible for financing and satisfies the required technical,
and financial screening criteria, the FM will either authorize the borrower to present the relevant
disbursement documents for reimbursement of eligible expenditures, or opening of letters of
credits for foreign suppliers.
8.           The FM shall establish an internal Loan Committee to review subprojects to be
sent for final approval to Bank. The Loan Committee shall be comprised of the chief executive
officer of the FM, and a representative from the National Bank of the Kyrgyz Republic (NBK)
who would also participate in meetings of the FM loan committee as a non-voting member.
Functions of Technical Assistance Division
9.           The major activities to be performed by the Technical Assistance Division (TAD)
inter alia, would include:
a.    Training of local staff in various aspects of management and technical
consultancy for enterprises;
b.    Undertaking quick scan diagnostic studies of private enterprises to assess
their technical assistance needs and arranging follow-up consulting support
by short-term consultants;
c.    Supervising the work of short-term consultants and ensuring work meets
agreed performance standards;



- 45 -
Annex 2
Page 4 of 14
d.    Organizing training programs including study tours, and a series of local
seminars for enterprise management in critical areas such as export
marketing, international sourcing and procurement, financial management,
cost accounting,  managing in a barter environment, and inventory
management (such seminars to be conducted in Russian, with materials,
examples, and illustrations appropriate to the Kyrgyz business
enviromnent);
e.    Providing advisory services to enterprises on business plan preparation and
to address urgent problems in financial, production, procurement and
marketing areas;
f.    Assisting in the preparation of feasibility  studies/appraisal reports of
investment projects of viable private enterprises considered for financing
by the Fund for Enterprise Restructuring and Development (FERD);
g.    Assisting in monitoring the implementation of investment projects,
including procurement of goods and services of projects financed by the
FERD;
h.    Setting up computerized  accounting, management information  and
reporting systems; in particular, setting up jointly with the Banking
Division a computerized project appraisal system to facilitate the decision
making on all financing requests;
i.    Reporting  periodically  to IDA  and KRG  on technical assistance
operations;
j.    Drafting of an operations manual providing for procedures to be used in
screening of requests for technical assistance, including provision of
reimbursable grants and cost recovery and/or financing and evaluation of
enterprises; and
k.    Developing a list of prospective technical, marketing, and investment
foreign partners for industries active in the KR, or liaising with an
organization that has developed, and maintaining such a list.
10.          The core technical assistance team of the FM would be supplemented by short-
term consultants with specialized knowledge of specific industries (e.g., textiles, plastics, etc.)
who would undertake diagnostic cum restructuring studies of selected enterprises in that
particular industrial branch. The result of this consulting effort should be a detailed investment
proposal for the enterprise studied in conformance with the financing requirements for FERD
loans. Generic terms of reference for consultants to undertake such diagnostic cum restructuring



- 46 -
Annex 2
Page 5 of 14
studies are provided in Attachment 3. All enterprises are likely to need additional technical
assistance in implementing their business plans and introducing improvements in management
systems and procedures. Enterprises which are receiving financial assistance from the FERD
are expected to finance the costs of this technical assistance as part of their project costs.
However, some follow-up technical assistance, particularly training in critical areas such as
export marketing, may be financed by the TAD. Such consultants will be engaged for either
a single enterprise or a group of enterprises in the same industrial sector.
D. Implementation of the Assigmnents
11.         Fund for Enterprise Restructuring and Development. IDA Credit will be made
to the Government which will legally establish a Fund for Enterprise Restructuring and
Development (FERD) to channel the lending and technical assistance components of the PESP
project. The FERD will have no staff, capital or physical assets or structure of its own. It
would open, and be operated through a simple bank account either at the National Bank of the
Kyrgyz Republic (NBK) or any other financial institution acceptable to KRG and Bank.
Management of the FERD's day-to-day operations, including supervision of projects financed
and "lnder construction, and of its portfolio of loans, would be contracted out to the Fund
Manager. The FERD would lend directly, and assume the commercial lending risks. The FERD
portfolio of loans would be progressively sold and transferred to local banks and financial
institutions.
12.               Government Contribution. The Government counterpart agency for the
project is the State Committee on Foreign Investments and Economic Assistance
(GOSKOMINVEST) which will negotiate and sign, on behalf of the Government, the
management contract between the FERD and the consultant. Goskominvest will also negotiate
with the consultant the provision of logistical and other support, through the German-Kyrgyz
Industrial Bank Orient, a counterpart local commercial bank selected by the Government to
provide logistical support to the managing international bank, including local professional and
support staff, office space and equipment. Liaison with GOSKOMINVEST will be through a
Project Administration Unit (PAU)
E. Output and Remuneration
13.         The proposed IDA Credit of $15 million will be allocated to finance FERD
subloans. It is expected that FERD subloans would be committed and disbursed over a five-year
period after Credit effectiveness as shown in the projections in Attachment 2. The FM will
prepare quarterly and annual reports on the FERD lending and technical assistance activities as
detailed in the Operating Procedures and the Credit Agreement between IDA and the KRG. An
audit report on the FERD operations and financial results, will also be undertaken by
independent qualified auditors acceptable to IDA, and the KRG which will finance such audits.



- 47 -
Annex 2
Page 6 of 14
14.         The consultant will be paid an agreed fee to cover the costs of assigning expatriate
staff to manage the FERD's loan portfolio, and implement the technical assistance support to
enterprises. A preliminary, indicative performance evaluation system, based on the quality of
the loan portfolio outstanding at the end of the second year after effectiveness of the management
contract has been developed as shown in Attachment 1. Such a performance evaluation will be
applicable only if the contract of the FM is renewed for an additional two years. Under this
system a bonus would be paid to the FM. This bonus will be in the form of a margin to be paid
out of interest income, and other commissions and fees on subloans, effectively collected by the
FM, on behalf of the FERD, subject to agreed lending targets detailed in Attachment 2 to the
terms of reference. The consultant would also be paid a commission on all successful sale and
transfer of FERD subloans to private banks and investors on the basis of practices prevalent in
capital and financial markets. More details on the indicative fee indexation procedure and
targets are provided in Attachment I to the Terms of Reference.
F. Qualifications of Bidders
15.         The contractor must be a qualified, investment development or commercial bank,
experienced in financial risk-taking and management, including the technical, financial and
economic appraisal of investment projects, the processing, approval, disbursement and
administration of a portfolio of loans and equity investments in developing countries and/or
transition economies. The contractor will provide the necessary international management team,
and hire the local Kyrgyz professional staff. Special consideration will be given to bidders who
will provide cost effective correspondent banking services and staff training facilities, necessary
for overall project implementation (.e.g., for management of special accounts in foreign
currencies, provision of documentary credit and letters of credit confirmation for importation
of IDA financed goods and services.



- 48 -
Annex 2
Page 7 of 14
MANAGEMENT OF AN ENTERPRISE SUPPORT FUND
Attachment 1:        Proposed Performance Evaluation System'
1.          Incentives need to be provided to the Fund managers so that the overall objectives
of the credit line are efficiently achieved and consistent with prudent banking practices. The
major objectives are: provision of financial support to viable projects based on careful appraisal
and in line with projected targets; timely recovery of funds due; and minimization of operating
costs. The following performance measures are proposed.
1) Collection ratio for interest due (%)
2) Collection ratio for principal due (%)
3) Actual level of operating cost to projected level (%)
2.          The procedure for using the performance measures initially calls for establishing
a range of values for each indicator for various levels of performance. Under a five point scale
established for measuring performance, each indicator value can be assigned a score on the
scale. A score is thus assigned to each indicator which is then consolidated to derive a single
numerical scope through weights assigned to each indicator to reflect their relative importance.
A detailed description of the performance evaluation system is provided below.
3.          For the indicators chosen, the following is an example of the evaluation system
using a five point scale, with a maximum score of 4 for excellent performance and zero for poor
performance.
Performance     Excellent   Good   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory    Poor   Weight
Indicator          (4)       (3)        (2)           (1)         (0)
Interest
Collection        98%       93%        90%           84%          80%      0.25
Principal
Collection        95%       92%        89%           86%          83%      0.50
Operating Cost
Performance       90%       95%        100%          105%        110%      0.25
Applicable only during Phase 2 of the assignment.



- 49 -                      Annex 2
Page 8 of 14
4.          Actual performance would be assigned a score from 4 to 0 based on the above
agreed scales of performance and consolidated to one numerical value. The incentive system
would be linked to the overall performance score. Thus, for excellent performance, a bonus of
4 weeks salary would be given to Managers which would be progressively reduced to zero for
poor performance. The actual indicator levels and weights would be negotiated with the
successful bidder during contract negotiation.
5.          The FERD is an interim channel of intermediation to be phased out as local banks
improve their processing capacity and credit worthiness. Consequently, the loan portfolio of the
FERD is to be sold to such banks, and eventually to any financial institution. The manager will
be paid a fee on each sale, to be determined.



- 50 -                    Annex 2
Page 9 of 14
MANAGEMENT OF A FUND FOR ENTERPRISE
RESTRUCTURING AND DEVELOPMENT
Attachment 2:   Estimated Subloan Commitments and Disbursements
Assumptions
1.          Under a Japanese grant, a consulting firm has already been commissioned to
undertake detailed diagnostic and pre-feasibility studies for close to 30 private enterprises. These
diagnostic studies are expected to start in April 1995 and be substantially completed by July 30,
1995. The prospective Fund Manager would consequently dispose of a sizeable number of pre-
appraised investment projects based on business and investment plans of diagnosed enterprises.
Based on such plans the FM should be able to accelerate their own, more detailed economic and
financial appraisal of investment proposals, including preparation of procurement and
disbursement arrangements for pre-identified, discrete pieces of production equipment working
capital stocks to be financed. Moreover, since import-substituting enterprises would also be
eligible for financing under the IDA Credit, the pipeline of projects originally identified to
include some US$ 34 million in prospective investments for export-oriented projects, will
substantially increase.
2.          Subloans to be financed under the credit component of US$12 million are assumed
to be approved, committed and disbursed as follows (US$1,000):
December 31              1995        1996         1997
Annual Approvals        3,000        4,000       5,000
Commitments: 40 percent of approvals are committed the first year, 40 percent the second year,
and 20 percent the third year as follows:
December 31              1995        1996        1997         1998        1999
1995 approvals:         1,200        1,200         600        -
1996 approvals:         -            1,600       1,600         800        -
1997 approvals:         -            -           2,000        2,000       1,000
Total Annual
Commitments              1,200       2,800       4,200        2,800       1,000



- 51 -                   Annex 2
Page 10 of 14
Disbursements: 50 percent of commitments are disbursed the first year, and 50 percent the
second as follows:
December 31             1995       199      1997      1998     1999       2000
1995 commitments:         600        600    -         -        -          -
1996 commitments:         -        1,400    1,400    -
1997 commitments:         -        -        2,100    2,100    -
1998 commitments:         -        -        -         1,400    1,400
1999 commitments:         -        -        -         -          500        500
Total Annual
Disbursements            600       2,000    3,500    3,500      1,900        500
Total Cumulative
Disbursements            600       2,600    6,100    9,600    11,500      12,000
Repayments: Assuming an average six-month grace period, and an average five-year repayment
schedule, principal repayments would be as follows for the first five years:
December 31             1996         1997        1998        1999         2000
1995 Disbursements:       120         120         120          120         120
1996 Disbursements:      200          400         400          400         400
1997 Disbursements:        -          350         700          700         700
1998 Disbursements:        -           -          350          700         700
1999 Disbursements:        -           -            -          190         380
2000 Disbursements:        -           -            -           -            50
Total Annual
Repayments 2/             320         870        1.570       2.110        2.350
Subloans Outstandine:    2,280       4,883       6,813       6,603        4,753
2/    Assuming no arrears of payments in principal and/or interest.



- 5 2 -                      Annex 2
Page 11 of 14
December 31                  1996          1997          1998           1999          2000
Average Subloans
Outstanding  3/              1,440         3,582         5,848          6,708         5,678
Interest
Collected (at 15%) 4/          216           538           877          1,006           852
Cumulative Interest
Collected                      216           754          1,631         2,637         3,494
3/     Average between amounts of subloans outstanding at the beginning and end of each year.
41     A 15 percent rate of interest is assumed.



- 53 -                    Annex 2
Page 12 of 14
MANAGEMENT OF A FUND FOR ENTERPRISE
RESTRUCTURING AND DEVELOPMENT
Attachment 3:     Short Term Enterprise Diagnostics and Support
Terms of Reference
Background
1.          The Kyrgyz Republic Government (KRG) intends, with the assistance of the
World Bank and other international financial institutions, to provide technical and financial
assistance to privatized enterprises and viable State owned enterprises to be privatized in the near
future. The objectives of this program are to assist enterprises in their transition to a market
economy and contribute to the country's economic growth through job creation and through
increased exports to non-FSU markets.
2.          Privatized enterprises participating in the program will undergo a prerequisite
quick scan exercise. The recommendations resulting from this exercise will be presented to the
management of the enterprise and a joint decision with the consulting team will be made of
subsequent actions. Enterprises agreeing to implement prescribed recommendations, may benefit
from additional financial assistance such as short term credits for working capital, pre-shipment
export financing activities, and medium/long term credits provided by the Fund for Enterprise
Restructuring and Development to be established by the International Development Association
(IDA).
3.          The quick scan of an enterprise would  determine whether more intensive
assistance to the enterprise is justified or not. This can be accomplished by the team in one or
two days. Where further assistance is not warranted, e.g., because the enterprise is not viable,
and should be liquidated, a brief report would be prepared. If the enterprise is deemed to merit
further assistance, the full range of comprehensive technical assistance detailed in the TORs
should be given. It is expected that about 80 enterprises would be covered by the quick scan,
and about thirty to forty enterprises provided the in-depth assistance.
Methodology of Enterprise Restructuring
4.          The enterprise restructuring work will be carried out in two phases. The first
phase will be a diagnostic study, analyzing the viability of the enterprise based on a review of
all aspects of the enterprise--economic, financial ,management, and technical. The consultant
will prepare a short report on the diagnostic work, present and review the findings with both
enterprise management. Only after agreement has been reached with enterprise management on
the key issues and approaches to resolve them, that the second phase of the study will be



_ 54 -                 Annex 2
Page 13 of 14
initiated. The diagnostic phase report should include recommendations on a set of urgent actions
that could be implemented by the enterprise management largely on their own: to improve
production levels, reduce costs, improve quality, increase sales and improve financial
management. In this context, the consultant should provide information to the management,
where ever feasible and appropriate, on ways to deal with urgent and critical problems affecting
enterprise performance.
5.          The diagnostic exercise will be expected to also evaluate the long term economic
and financial viability of the enterprise and advise whether further assistance for restructuring
is justified. The diagnosis will determine the enterprise's domestic and international
competitiveness through analysis of its production costs, product quality, management
capabilities and its sales and marketing strengths and organization with specific reference to
export activities. The diagnostic study and reports should be completed in one calendar week
for a typical enterprise. Typically one engineer and one business analyst would undertake the
diagnostic assessment.
6.          The second phase of the restructuring work involves preparation of a medium term
business plan as well as feasibility studies for proposed capital investments required to support
the business plan. The feasibility study should roughly demonstrate the financial and economic
merit of the proposed investment. This phase should be completed in one calendar week by a
two person team for a typical enterprise. The consulting input estimated for both phases is about
four person weeks; a small enterprise may require less, a complex one, somewhat more.
7.          The business plan should include a financial plan with 3 to 5 year projections of
key operational parameters as well as standard financial statements to demonstrate the viability
and sustainability of the plan. All assumptions should be clearly identified. The business plan
should bring out the key risks facing the enterprise in implementing the plan and the necessary
actions needed to reduce the risks. The business plan will be reviewed periodically with the
FERD and modified as needed in light of actual performance.
8.          In preparing the business plan, the consultant should examine improvements
needed in the organization and management structure, management systems, and procedures.
These could involve actions such as reorganization of the organization structure in the form of
profit centers, elimination of non-viable divisions, redesign of product mix and marketing
strategies, design and installation of management information systems in all functional areas,
design of management training programs, strengthening of logistics management, production
management and inventory control, and introduction of modem financial planning and control
practices. The consultant would be expected to exercise judgment in focusing on the important
issues and not necessarily cover all issues in depth. This task should include preparing a
timetable and rough cost estimate as well as the terms of reference for consultants to implement
the recommendations.



- 55 -                       Annex 2
Page 14 of 14
9.          The main thrust of the business plan will be to articulate a coherent strategy to
enable the enterprise to diversify its exports to market economies. The business plan should
include the following topics:
a.    Product-market strategy:  Product market strategy is the key element of the
business plan. The strategy should include the following elements: definition of
target markets and analysis of customers; projected market share; promotion and
advertising strategies; pricing policies; distribution and customer service and
needed product design changes. The consultant should provide comprehensive
data on target markets which would be the basis for the market strategy.
b.    Research and development and technology enhancement needs: The research and
development strategy should examine, in particular, what technological inputs are
needed by the company to upgrade product designs and quality or introduce new
products. Sources of technical assistance should be identified.
c.    Management training and human resource development: Management training and
other forms of training needs, e.g., export marketing should be identified.
Estimated costs of such training should be budgeted in the financial plans; and,
d.    Investment plan to complement the product-market strategy: The investment plan
should spell out the physical investments required to implement the business plan.
The feasibility of all investments should be demonstrated on the basis of sound
appraisal procedures and include a comprehensive analysis of the technical,
economic, market, and financial aspects of the project. Financial/simplified
economic rates of return should be calculated with sensitivity analysis of key
variables.
10.         The investment plan should be based, if appropriate on two scenarios: the first
would be a minimum investment strategy involving addition of spares and critical equipment
only. The second scenario may provide for additional investment to manufacture new products,
enlarge capacity or replace obsolete equipment. The consultant should, however, note that the
overall investment strategy in transitional economics should be to minimize physical investments
and defer them to a later period until the market signals are clearer and management of the
enterprise has had a chance to prove itself.
11.         The consultant will assist the enterprise, if needed in presenting the business plan
and investment plan to the Fund for Enterprise Restructuring and Development and clarifying
any issues raised.



- 56 -                                Annex 3
Page 1 of 4
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION UNIT (PAU)
DRAFT TERMS of REFERENCE AND BUDGET
Introduction
1.           Implementation of the proposed project will be administered and supervised by the Project
Administration Unit (PAU), reporting to GOSKOMINVEST, the Government counterpart agency. The
PAU's functions will be strictly administrative and unintrusive on the activities of the Enterprise Fund
Manager (FM). The PAU will serve as a coordinating body between these two implementing firms, the
World Bank, Kyrgyz Government and other donor agencies involved in the project. In close cooperation
with NBK and Ministry of Finance the PAU will also be responsible for implementation of the technical
assistance component for the financial sector.
General Functions of the PAU
2.           The PAU will be responsible for all matters dealing with the development and
administration of all project related Agreements, contracts, and protocols. The PAU will also be
responsible for ex-post monitoring of the ESF management contract, with particular reference to
compliance with subproject eligibility and financial approval criteria, including procurement and
environmental guidelines and criteria, and supporting World Bank/IDA supervision missions.
Procurement assistance will be provided through the technical assistance division of the Fund Managing
structure which will be responsible for the enterprise technical and managerial support component of the
project.
3.           Specifically, the PAU will:
*     Assist in the negotiation and preparation of all agreements, contracts, and protocols for
Government, beneficiary enterprises, and World Bank Group signatures;
*     administer all aforementioned legal documents - including monitoring of interest and
principal payments to the Enterprise Support Fund;
*     refer to World Bank, or follow up as needed, requests for technical assistance and
procurement requiring prior review, non-objection or approval by the World Bank;
*     monitor the consistency of sub-loans with procedures and criteria of the Fund for
Enterprise Restructuring and Development (FERD);



- 57 -                                   Annex 3
Page 2 of 4
*     follow up with the FM, compliance of sub-projects with environmental safeguard
guidelines and procedures in accordance with World Bank guidelines on environmental
protection;
*      in close collaboration with NBK and Ministry of Finance, prepare or review terms of
reference, consultant short lists, letter of invitation to bid, and selection of consultants
under the commercial bank and insurance institution component, and undertake
procurement of goods and services required under this component and for the PAU itself.
In the initial stages, procurement will be undertaken in cooperation with the Project
Implementation Unit of the IDA Rehabilitation Credit, and subsequently with the
Procurement Advisor to be recruited under the enterprise TA  component.  All
procurement will be undertaken in accordance with World Bank procurement guidelines.
(v)    reporting periodically to Government and World Bank Group on project activities and
progress, including annual audit reports on project accounts.
(vii)  preparation and co-ordination of the Mid-term Review of Project Implementation
(viii)  preparation of the Project Completion Report.
Accounting/Disbursement
4.            Based on data submitted by the FM, through periodic reporting, the PAU will be
responsible for the centralization, treatment, and reporting on project accounts, disbursement of funds
under the IDA Credit, the preparation of withdrawal applications under the bank and insurance
component, and the collection of documents. The PAU will provide periodic reporting on disbursement
performance of the project and will arrange for annual audits of all project accounts in co-operation with
the FM. The PAU shall in this regard, if needed, recruit an accounting firm to assist in setting up project
accounting, information, reporting and control systems. The PAU will also recruit internationally
qualified auditing firm, satisfactory to IDA, to undertake the audit of all project accounts based on terms
of reference agreed with IDA.
5.            Specifically, and with the assistance of an accounting consultant if necessary, the PAU
will undertake, inter alia, the following:
*      Establish Special Accounts to be provisioned from the Credit of the International
Development Association (IDA), in accordance with World Bank terms and conditions,
guidelines and procedures;
*      Set up project accounts, accounting system, documentation controls, and data bases
covering financial, technical and procurement information;



Annex 3
Page 3 of 4
*     Maintain data bases, implementing project accounts, disbursement, collection and internal
accounting system, records management system and a project management information
system (MIS);
*     Make disbursements and payments to suppliers/contractors under the financial and
insurance sector technical assistance component, and arrange for periodic replenishment
of Special Account(s) under its responsibility;
*     Arrange for audit of PAU and all project accounts by acceptable and independent,
internationally qualified audit firm, to be selected in agreement with World Bank ; and
*     Report, as required, on project disbursement and collection performance.
Staffing and Estimated Budget
6.           It is estimated that the PAU would require a director and one professional staff once fully
operational, assisted by a bilingual secretary and a messenger/driver. It is assumed that the two
professional staff would be hired as local consultants for a four year period at the following cost:
-director: @US$400/month over 48 months        $20,000
-professional staff: @$300/month over 48 months    $15,000
-secretary: @$100/month over 48 months         $4,800
-driver: @$50 a month over 48 months           $2,400
Total:                                         $42,200, rounded to $45,000
7.           The equipment needed would include three PCs @10,000 each, and a vehicle at $20,000,
for a total of US$50,000.



- 59 -                                 Annex 3
Page 4 of 4
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
PROJECT ADMINISTRATION UNIT
Estimated Operating Expense and Equipment Cost
1995        1996     1997         1998        TOTAL
Operating Expenses
Salaries of Kyrgyz staff           6,000      12,000       13,000   14,000       45,000
Consultant Services:
Project Advisers                 180,000 1/      0          0          0        180,000
Training of Kyrgyz staff          20,000      25,000      30.000        -75000
Subtotal Consultant:             200,000      25,000    300                     255.000
Office Equip/Vehicle              50,000          -         -           -        50,000
TOTAL COST                       256,000     37,000      43,000     14,000      350,000
1/ through June 1, 1995; PPF funded



- 60 -                             Amex
Page 1 of 9
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
INVESTMENT PIPELINE
1.          A private sector is slowly emerging in the Kyrgyz Republic. Its evolution
has been based on a combination of (i) the recent relaxation in Government regulations
over the activities of both public and private enterprises, (ii) the progress made in
privatization (by June, 1994, approximately 4,800 enterprises or roughly 40% of the
State's assets had been privatized) and (iii) an increase in entrepreneurial activities.
2.          Thus, even though the transformation from a centrally planned to a market
economy is proving difficult in the Kyrgyz Republic (as it is in all of the CIS countries)
and most enterprises in both the private and public sector are operating at low capacity
utilization levels, (on average 40%), there are certain enterprises which have taken a great
deal of initiative and are actually making the necessary adjustments to become
competitive. An issue critical to determining their ability to succeed in this transition,
however, will be their ability to access capital. And at present, virtually all Kyrgyz
enterprises are unable to satisfy their demand for either working capital or medium to
long term credit.
3.          A number of enterprises which had foreign markets before are working to
maximize sales to these markets by adding new or widening existing production lines or
improving their production quality. Other enterprises which had previously sold primarily
in the domestic market before, are exploring the possibility of exporting to new markets
with either new products or an improved version of an existing line. At other enterprises,
management is focused on meeting domestic demand - this is the case particularly in food
processing and cenain textile enterprises. In all cases, however, there is a demand for
hard currency and nearly every enterprise understands the benefits of establishing a means
to transform its production into hard currency.
4.          Nearly all of the firms visited had one or more investment projects. Many
of these, however, were poorly defined or unrealistic in terms of their market potential.
However, the projects containing sufficient information to permit a preliminary
assessment were reviewed and from this, a preliminary pipeline was developed.
5.          The pipeline consists of 27 eligible projects with a total estimated
investment amount of US$49 million and total requested loan amount of US$34 million
(see table on page 5). Included in the loan amount are working capital loan requests of
US$5 million. While virtually all Kyrgyz enterprises need working capital, the only
working capital projects added to the pipeline were for those companies which would be



- 61 -                               Annex 4
Page 2 of 9
able to generate hard currency earnings or have a very high assurance of selling their
product on the local market.
6.           Additional projects are expected to be added to this list as the privatization
process progresses and more viable projects are identified.
7.           Basic information gathered on each project is presented in the attached
table.
Enterprise:
Privatized name of the enterprise which has been transformed into a joint
stock company
Total Investment (including working capital):
Estimated value of the total project investment costs in millions of dollars
based on a combination of management's and the World Bank's assessment.
Loan Amount:
Estimated value of the credit required by the enterprise to implement the
project.
Period:
Projected period required for repayment of loan.
Brief Description:
Projects were classified into four basic categories, those proposing:
*     To Introduce New Production Line:  Including those projects
designed to generate a new product or replace an existing
production line with modern equipment.
*     To Improve Production Quality: Including projects which enhance
an existing product by (i) replacing part of the production line with
new equipment, (ii) adding one or more finishing steps. or (iii)
purchasing higher quality raw materials.
*     To Widen Product Line: Including projects proposing to generate
a broader product line by adding some production steps or



- 62 -                              Annex 4
Page 3 of 9
expanding the functions of an existing production step.
Working Capital Investment:  Including projects designed to
facilitate an increase in production of existing lines through the
acquisition of spare parts or raw materials.
Purpose of Loan:
Describes the specific nature of the investment for example, the type of
equipment required for the project.
Market for New Product:
Most of the projects were not supported by market studies as the
engineering/production emphasis of the industrial sector remains very strong. At each
company, the management was asked to identify the market for the project and to provide
very rough estimates of product destination, quantities, and prices. These replies were
simplified into:
Local: representing the Kyrgyz Republic
CIS: representing the former Soviet Union, (which for these companies
means principally Siberia, Kazakstan, and Uzbekistan), and,
Hard currency (HC): representing markets paying in hard currency
including China.
It should be noted that for the enterprises visited, all trade into the CIS is
either by barter or denominated in hard currency.
Project Risk:
Assessment of project risk is based on:
(i)   perception of management competence;
(ii)  the state of the physical facility and existing production;
(iii)  estimated competitiveness of the proposed product in the
proposed or projected market; and,
(iv)   appropriateness of the technology to be utilized.



- 63 -                               Annex 4
Page 4 of 9
Many other factors such as the financial position, access to raw materials,
transportability of the finished product to the destination market were only superficially
considered and will need to be analyzed more thoroughly by the consultants to be
engaged under the technical assistance component of the World Bank project.
Ownership:
Only projects with 51 percent or more private ownership are considered
in this pipeline. As the privatization program progresses, therefore, additional projects
will be added.
Pvt:  Indicates private or non-state ownership of shares;
SPF: Indicates state ownership through the State Property Fund (the
Government's privatization agency);
Holding Company: Indicates ownership by a state holding company;
Coll: Indicates ownership by the workers collective and in certain cases
is classified as private ownership.
Enterprises with projects not sufficiently defined to be included in the
attached list were invited to refine their projects and submit them at a future date.
Enterprises with investment projects in excess of US$ 2 million were asked to re-examine
their projects with the intention of either reducing the project to that limit or developing
a phased investment approach which might fit into the World Bank project guidelines.
The number of financing projects will increase further, as the credit line information
becomes generally known.



KYRGYZ RFPUBLIC
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
Table 2.11: Pipeline of Financing Projects - Projects meeting gtiidelines
(See Key aiid Discussion at End of Table)
Enteilprise    Investment       Loan      Loan              Brief              Purpose of     Market    Project
Amount   Period            Description            Loan           for        Risk          Ownership
(US$ mil)   (US$ mil)                                                        product
Ak Maral              3.5       3.0         5 yrs    New production line. JV   Equipment and    100% HC   Moderate   to become 51% pvt
(Tokmak)                                             with Amer. company.       parts                                   within 12 months.
Magnetic ballast for
florescent lights                             _
Ak-Tash               2.7       1.3         3 yrs    New production line. Soft   Equipment &    100%       High        51% Zema, 49% pvt
Drinks and Juices. Plastic   Working Capital  local              investors.
bottle mfg.
Joint venture with foreign
ptr ZEMA
Ala Too               0.5       0.3         3 yrs    New production line.      Equipment        CIS &      Low         51 % coil.,
Production of gas meters                  local                  25% holding co,
24% SPF
Ala Too               0.3       0.2         3 yrs    New production line. Joint  Equipment      CIS &      Low         51% coil.,
Venture with Krups to                     local                  25% holding co,
produce hydraulic                                                24% SPF
hammers
Ala Too               0.3       0.2         3 yrs    New production line.      Equipment        CIS &      Low         51% coll.,
Production of water heaters               local                  25% holding co,
24% SPF                 >
Almeb                 0.6       0.5         5 yr     Improve production        tannery          100%       Moderate   76% pvt.,                xD
quality.                  equipment       CIS                    25% SPF               o 
Baipak                5.0       3.0         5 yrs    Improve production        raw materials,    CIS &     High        75% coll, 25% SPF    Fh
quality.                  packaging       HC
equip., other
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   e uip   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ __eq u ip ._ _ _



EAterprise     Investment       Loan      Loan              Brief              Fwpose of      Market    Project
iAmount   Perilod          Pescriptioxi           LOan           for        Risk          Ownership
(us          ($ mi miV                                                     iducj                     ____
Belovodsky           0.5        0.5         5 yrs    New production line.      PET bottling     100%       Moderate   61% pvt.,
Brewery                                                                       line equipment   local                   39% SPF
Bereke                1.0       0.5         5 yrs    Expand Production of      Equipment        50%        Moderate   100% pvt
knitted goods                             local,
_ 50% HC
Bishkek               1.0       1.0         1 yr     Working Capital           Raw materials.   100%       Low         75% pvt.,
Confectionery &                                                                                 local                  25% SPF
Macaroni
Bishkek               4.0       3.0         5 yrs    New production line.      Equipment and    100%       Moderate   75% pvt.,
Confectionery &                                      Cocoa Bean Processing.    WC               local                  25% SPF
Macaroni                                             Upstream diversification.                                                             l
Bishlkek Drill        1.1       1.0         7 yrs    Widen production line.    Japanese         CIS &      Low         75% pvt.,
Plant                                                                          Equipment for    HC                     25% SPF,
coating drills
with  tin.                              _  _  _  _  _  _
Edelweiss             1.5       1.0         5 yrs    Widen production line.    Equipment,pack   50% CIS,  Low          75% pvt.,
Hosiery                                              Gloves & socks.           aging materials   50% HC                25% SPF
Edelweiss             0.4       0.3         2 yrs    Establish warehouse and   Finish facility    100%     Moderate   75% pvt.,
Hosiery                                              trading company           renovation       local                  25% SPF
Esko                 0.3        0.2         1 yr     Working Capital. Finance   Parts.          100%       Low         100% pvt
import of computer parts                  local
for PC's.
Janar                 1.0       0.5         5 yrs    New production line.      Equipment and    100%       High        75% pvt.,            o  a
Temperature sensors for    technology     CIS                    25% SPF              ax
flowing liquids                            ._|| o 
Janar                 2.5       1.5         5 yrs    New production line.      Equipment for    100% HC   High         75% pvt.,
Photo-electric panels.   cutting crystals.  (arab                25% SPF
Assembly        states)
equipment.                I           I



Enteprise      Investment      Loan       Loan             Brief              Purpose of     Market    Project
:1  IX  Amountf Period                      Description            Loano          for        Risk         Ownership
(US$ mil)  J(US$ mil)                                                       product
Kadam Shoes          3.2       1.3         1 yr     Working Capital. Expand    Spares for     100% HC  Moderate   65% coll
production               Italian export                         35% SPF
Kadam Shoes          1.3       1.3         1 yr.    Working Capital.          Export financing  100% HC  Moderate   65% coll
35% SPF
Kasiet               0.5       0.3         1 yr     Working Capital. Expand    Purchase        100% HC  Low          75% pvt.,
production. Export       Australian wool                        25% SPF,
financing.               to improve
__quality.
KEMZ                 2.0       1.0         1 yr     Working Capital. Expand   Raw mats for    HC         Low         75% pvt.,
production. Export       elec motor       (China)               25% SPF
financing                production.
Kyrgyz               4.0       3.2         5 yrs    New production line. Setup  Equipment &    100%      Moderate   51% pvt.,
Champagne                                           a soft drink.             some WC         local                  49% SPF
Sverl                1.5       1.0         5 yrs    Expand production line.   Equipment        100% HC  High         75% pvt,
Coating of drills with                                          25% SPF
titanium nitride.
Tattuu               0.3       0.2         5 yrs    Improve production line.    Equipment      100%       Low        75% pvt.,
Packing Equipment to                      CIS                   25% SPF
improve marketing
Tattuu               2.5       2.0         5 yrs    New production line. Soft   Equipment      100%       High       75% pvt.,
Drink Production.                         local                  25% SPF
Tokmak Sheet         5.0       3.9         5 yrs    New production line.      Equipment        80% CIS   Moderate
Glass                                               Mirrors, car windows,                      20% local                                     x
shop window glass.                       _o 
Tokmak Sheet         2.5       1.8         5 yrs    Improve product for world  Equipment       100%       Moderate
Glass                                               market. Produce higher                     CIS &
quality thinner glass                     China



Enterprise      Investment       Loan       Loan              Brief               Purpose of      Market      Project
Amount    Period            Description              Loan           for         Risk          Ownership
(US$ mil)    (US$ mil):                                                          productl
Project Totals   J    49.0       34.0       1         1                          I                l           l_           I
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
Table 2. Pipeline of Financing Projects - Projects not meeting criteria
Enterprise       Investment      Loan       Period                  Brief                      Special          Market    Reason  |  Ownership
cinc WC      Amount                               Title                    Purpose of        for new        for
l__________  (US$ mil)                                                          Loan            product   Rejection
Ak Maral (Tokmat)                      0.5      5 yrs     Improve quality of mobile radio    Paris                 95% CIS   ownership   35% pvt,
line                                                     5% local                65% govt
Antimony Kombinat                    unkown    5 yrs      Extraction of precious metals from    Equipment & possibly  100% HC   ownership   SOE
ore                               patents
Antimony Kombinat                      5.0      5 yrs     Additional refining of antimony    Equipment              100% HC   ownership   SOE
Antimony Kombinat                    0.5-1.0    1 yr      Export Financing                   WC                     100% HC   ownership   SOE
Dastan                   3.2       1.6          3 yrs      Long term export financing.       WC for parts.          100% HC   ownership   49% pvt.,
51% SPF
Jalalabad non-woven      3.0       0.5          3 yrs     Finish installation of a production  Training, Spare Parts,  50% CIS   ownership   SOE
materials kombinat                                        line for non-woven materials.      Installation assistance   50% local                            d
Janar                    15.0      9.5          10 yr     New production line. Produce       Equipment for mfg.    80% CIS   project too   75% pvt.,       MD
thermostats and calorimeters. KfW  Purchase of parts     20% local  big          25% SPF        l oo
possibly financing gas meter      sufficient for 5 yrs.                       0l1
project.                                    l_ 



Kyrgyz                                        4.0       unkn         Joint venture with Camus, France to   Labeling equipment           100% HC    product           51% pvt.,
Champagne                                                            export cognac                            and WC                                  (alcohol)     490/o SPF
Tattuu                                        1.3       5 yrs        Finishing construction of a multi-       Materials, labor          local         project        75%  pvt.,
(confectionery)                                                      purpose building                                                                 (construct.)   25%  SPF
Hard currency (HQ: representing rnarkets paying in hard currency including China.
It should be noted that for the enterprises visited, all trade into the CIS is either by barter or
denominated in hard currency.
Projeet Risk: Assessment of project risk is based on:
Enterprise: Privatized name of the enterprise which has been transformed into a joint stock company  (i)   perceptin of anangemem co-petence;
Toal Investment (including working capitl): Estimated value of the total project investment costs  (ii)  the state of the physical faclity and existin  poductxon;
in millions of dollars based on a combination of managemnent's and the World Bank's assessment.  (iii)  estmated competiveness of the proposed product in the proposed or projected market and,
Loan Amount: Estimated value of the credit required by the enterprise to implement the project.  (iv)  appropriatenm  of the technoloa to be utilized.
Period: Projected period required for repaynent of loan.                                        Many other factors such as the fiancial position, access to raw mnaterials, transportability of the
Brief Description: Projects were classified into four basic categories, those proposing:        finished product to the destination mnarket were only superficially considered and will need to be
* To Introduce New Production Line: Including those projects designed to generate a new product  analyzed more thoroughly by the consultants to be engaged under dke technical assistance component
or replace an existing production line with modem equipment.                                  of the World Bank project.
* To Improve Production Ouality: Including projects which enhance an existing product by (i)  Ownerdlp: Only projects with 51 percent or more private ownership are considered in this pipeline.
replacing part of the production line with new equipmnent, (ii) adding one or mnore finishing steps, or  As the privatization program progresses, therefore, additional projects will be added.
(iii) purchasing higher quality raw materials.                                                  Pvt: Indicates private or non-state ownership of sbares;
* To Widen Product Line: Including projects proposing to generate a broader product line by     SPF: Indicates state ownership through the State Property Fund (the Govemrnent's privatization
adding some production steps or expanding the functions of an existing production step.         agency);
* Working Capital Investment: Including projects designed to facilitate an increase in production of  Holding Company: Indicates ownership by a state holding company;
existing lines through the acquisition of spare parts or rw materials.                          Col: Indicates ownership by the workers collective and in certain cases is classified as private
Purpose of Loam- Describes the specific nature of the investment for example, the type of equipmnent   ownership.
required for the project.                                                                       Enterprises with projects not sufficiendy defined to be included in the attached list were invited to
Market for New Product: Most of dte projects were not supported by market studies as the       refine their projects and submit them at a future date. Enterprises with investment projects in excess
engineering /production enphasis of the industrial sector remains very strong. At each company, the  of US$ 2 million were asked to re-examine their projects with the intention of either reducing the
management was asked to identify die market for the project and to provide very rough estimates of  project to that limnit or developing a phased investment approach which might fit into the World Bank
product destination, quantities, and prices. These replies were simplified into:                project guidelines. The number of financing projects will increase further, as the credit line
Local: represnting the Kyrgyz Republic                                                        information becomes generally known.
CIS: representing the former Soviet Union, (which for these companies means principally Siberia,
Kazakstan, and Uzbekistan), and,
o
o 40
0h



- 69 -                                Annex S
Page 1 of 5
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
Implementation Plan and Performance Indicators
A. Critical Start-Up Activities
Project Administration Unit (PAU):
1.          Currently two professional staff of Goskominvest, seconded by the an expatriate
Project Adviser, funded under an advance of the Project Preparation Facility (PPF), are
assigned full time to project preparation activities. They are assisted by staff of the Project
Coordination Unit (PCU) of the IDA financed Rehabilitation Credit (Cr. 2491-KG) and by the
Crown Agents procurement advisors to Goskominvest. This core staff is expected to be
officially confirmed to carry on as permanent, full time PAU staffers. The contract of the
Project Advisor, who is on board since May 15, 1994, and has also been involved in providing
assistance for the restructuring of State owned enterprises (under the PESAC funded "care and
maintenance program" for large loss-making SOEs), will need to be extended for four to six
months upon expiration of the current contract. Other critical tasks being implemented include,
inter alia, the following:
(a)   Recruitment of International bank. The Letter of Bid Invitation for
management of the Enterprise Support Fund is being finalized and should
be sent by April 7, 1995;
(b)   Recruitment of local counterpart bank. The National Bank of
Kyrgyzstan (NBK) has sent letters of invitation to all local banks for bids
to pre-qualify as counterpart commercial bank for management of the
Fund for Enterprise Restructuring and Development (FERD) in
cooperation with the international bank to be recruited competitively.
This process was finalized with the selection of the German-Kyrgyz
Industrial Bank Orient as local counterpart.
(c)   Drafting of Legal Documentation. The PPF financed legal advisory
team of STEPTOE and JOHNSON. of Washington D.C. and Almaty,
Kazakhstan has been in the field since early March 1995, to assist in the
review  and drafting  of (i)  FERD  Statutes /By-Laws, Operating
Procedures and Policy Statement; (ii) subloan contracts between FERD
and its private borrowers, and grant contract for technical assistance
support to private enterprises. This task has been substantially completed.



-70 -                               Annex 5
Page 2 of 5
(d)   Implementation of Enterprise Diagnoses/Pre-feasibility Studies. The
Japan Grant financed diagnostic and pre-feasibility studies of about 30
private enterprises will be implemented around early May 1995, by
ERNST and YOUNG consultants. Based on these studies, business and
investment plans of five private enterprises will be available to the fund
manager upon start up of their assignment around July 1st, 1995.
B. Performance Indicators
Activity                             Benchmark                 Objectives
I. Timeliness of Implementation  - recruitment and appointment of  Before Credit
FERD/TA managers ;           effectiveness
- Creation and staffing of PAU    Before Board
presentation
Fully operational
by May 31, 1995
- Credit Effectiveness         3 months after Board
- Disbursement                 4 months after Board
Presentation. Credit
fully drawn down by
Dec. 31, 2,000
- Compliance with legal        As per Development
Covenants                    Credit Agreement
II. Technical Assistance
a) Financial Sector      - Review of Insurance Sector     Sept. 30, 1996
- Policy & Institutional Impact    - Restructuring plan
of local insurance
companies
- Formulation of new
insurance
regulations
- Feedback to FY96
FSAC



- 71 -                                 Annex 5
Page 3 of 5
Activity                                Benchmark                 Objectives
- Strengthening of Kyrgyz        - Assumption of
Orient Bank                      FERD
management
responsibility as
agent
- IDA accreditation
as financial
intermediary
b) Enterprises            - Number of enterprises           at least 50
effectively diagnosed
- Number of enterprises effectively at least 20
assisted to implement business
plans
- Cost Recovery                  at least 30 percent
of cost of enterprise
support recovered
through IDA
subloans
- Improvement in productivity    Remain viable and
and efficiency of enterprises  profitable (Ex-post
assisted                       Evaluation)
c) Training and Local     - Number of local staff and      (i) Ratio of staff
Participation            managers of project units and    trained/total project
enterprises trained              unit staff
d) Subloans               - Volume of Foreign exchange      Ex-post
generated by project financed
- Success in redirecting sales to
hard currency markets



- 72 -                                     Annex 5
Page 4 of 5
C. Project Implementation Schedule
Implementation of the project is expected to proceed according to the
following schedule.
Activit            1995    1 1996   1 1997  1             1998    11999
Activity_ _ 
1/2   2/2   1/2   2/2   1/2   2/2   1/2   2/2   1/2   2/2
Project Administration Unit
Establishment                  X
Staffing                       X
Equipment Procurement                X
Operating Rules                      X
Opening Special Accounts             X
Staff Training                       X      X     X      X     X
Mid-Term Review                                         X
Audit Project Accounts                            X            X            X            X
Periodic Reports                            X     X     X      X     X      X     X      X
Enterprise Lending
Drafting FERD Statutes         X
Drafting Subloan Contract      X
Drafting TA Contract           X
FERD Creation                  X
Signing Management
Contract of FERD                     X
Staffing Assignments           X     X
Equipment Procurement                X
Operating Rules                      X
Appraisals of Subprojects            X      X     X      X     X     X      X     X
Commitment Subloans                  X      X     X      X     X     X      X
Disbursement Subloans
Subproject Implementation            X      X     X     X      X     X      X     X      X
Supervision Activities                      X     X      X     X     X      X     X      X
Mid-Term Review                                          X



- 73 -                                     Annex 5
Page 5 of 5
1995         1996         1997          1998         1999
Activity-                         -
1/2   2/2   1/2   2/2   1/2   2/2   1/2   2/2   1/2   2/2
Enterprise TA
Diagnoses of 30 Enterprises
Pre-feasibility Studies         X      X
Short-term diagnoses                   X     X      X      X     X      X      X
Study Tours/Training                         X      X      X     X      X      X
Financial Sector Studies
Review Insurance                       X



- 74 -                                   Annex 6
Page 1 of I
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
IDA Supervision Plan
STAFF
WEEK    COST
FY        ACTIVITY           SKILLS REQUIREMENTS              INPUT        (US$'000)
Missions
95                         Legal, Procurement,
5/95 (Launch)        Disbursement                          3             24
Missions             Finance, Enterprise Support,
96   9/95                  Procurement/Environment               3            24
Sub-Loan Reveiws
5 Sub-Loans          Finance, Technical                    3             10
3/96                 Finance,                              2             16
Sub-Loan Review
5 Sub-Loans          Finance, Technical                    3             10
97   Missions
Mid-Term Review
12/96                Finance, Technical, PSD               3            24
4/97                 Finance, PSD                          3             10
98   Missions
10/97                TBD                                   1             8
4/98                 TBD                                   1             8
99   PCR
3/99                 Financial, Economical, Technical      3            24



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
Procurement Implementation Schedule
Contracts
Contract Type        Contracts         with       Procurement Method             Bid Invitation/  Invitation to Bid  Signing of
with Firms    Individuals                                    Preparation      or Proposal       Contracts
(US$1,000)    (US$1,000)                                                  _                _
PAU
Consultants
Project Advisor *                           130        Sole Source(SS)                                                  PPF/June 1994
Legal Advisor *               50              -        SS                                                     -         PPF/Feb.
Local Consultants              -             45        Competitive Selection of CVs    March 1995      April 1995       28,1995
Training and Study Tour       75              -        N/A                            June 1995        July 1995        PPF/May 1995
Office Eguipment              30                       International Shopping (IS)           -                -         August 1995
Vehicle                       20                       Is                             June 1995        July 1995               -
August 1995
Management FERD                                       ._.
Consultants                 1540              -        Short Listing (SL)             March 1995       April 1995       June 1995                u
Office Equipment              80              -        is                             May 1995         June 1995        July 1995
Vehicle                       20              -        IS                             June 1995        July 1995        August 1995
Enterprise Support                             __
Consultants/Study Tour       630 1/           -        SL                                        September 1995 to June 1998
Financial Sector
Audit S. Bank                200              -        SL
Insurance Review              100             -        SS                             June 1995        July 1995        September 1995
Trade Finance                 50              -        SS
Audit Project Accounts 2/     150                                                     June 1995        August 1996      September 1996
Subtotal Training/
Study Tour                    175                      N/A                                                                                     o
Subtotal TA
* PPF Financed
1/ Including $100,000 for training and study tours for enterprise managers.
2/ US$50,000 annually in 1996, 1997, and 1998.



- 76 -                                 Annex 8
Page 1 fo 1
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Cumulative Disbursements
(US$1,000)
Quarterly Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year                                                             Cumulative
and Quarter                  TA                  Subprojects             Disbursements
Ending                                                            _______
FY96
Sept. 30, 1995                    150                                               150
Dec. 31, 1995                     100                      600                      700
March 31, 1996                    300                      500                    1,500
June 30, 1996                     380                      500                    2,380
FY97
Sept. 30, 1996                    340                      500                    3,220
Dec. 31, 1996                     340                      500                    4,060
March 31, 1997                    250                      700                    5,010
June 30, 1997                     200                      850                    6,060
FY98
Sept. 30, 1997                    240                      900                    7,200
Dec. 31, 1997                     240                     1,050                   8,490
March 31, 1998                    260                     1,200                   9,950
June 30, 1998                     270                     1,300                   11,500
FY99
Sept. 30, 1998                                             500                    12,020
Dec. 31, 1998                                              500                    12,520
March 31, 1999                                             475                    12,995
June 30, 1999                                              475                    13,470
FY2000
Sept. 30, 1999                                             475                    13,945
Dec. 31, 1999                                              475                    14,420
March 31, 2000                                             250                    14,670
June 30, 2000                                              330                    15,000



- 77 -                            Annex 9
Page 1 of 1
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
List of Documents and Data Available in Project File
1.    The Kyrgvz Financial Sector:  Characteristics and Prospects - Mission Report.
2.    Kyrgyz Republic - Review of Recent Developments and Urgent Policy Measures in the Financial
Sector. Back-to-Office Report by C. Claessens (EMTPS) dated December 15, 1994.
3.    Draft Operating Procedures for IDA Subloan.
4.    Business Plan Check List.
5.    Environmental Review Procedures for Banks.
6.    List of Projects in the Pipeline for Technical Assistance.
7.    Program Description of the Central Asian - American Enterprise Fund - USAID document dated
April 8, 1994.
8.    Kyrgyz Republic - List of ongoing and proposed donor funded enterprise assistance projects -
Mission Document.
9.    Kyrgyz Republic - Structure and Performance of Industrial Enterprises - Draft Consultant Report
by Mr. A. Alikhani.
10.   European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) - Kyrayzstan SME Line of Credit
Internal Document dated April 13, 1994.
11.   Draft Terms for Reference for
- Insurance Sector Review
- Diagnostic and Audit Savings Bank
- Legal Advisory Services
12.   German-Kyrgyz Industrial Bank Orient
-  Statutes and Policy Statements
- Provisional Financial Statements
- Annual Report



- 78 -
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
Table 2.1: Number and Book Value of State Enterprises (End 1991)
(Estimates)
Property      Share of          Property
Number of      Value'         Property       per Enterprise
Enterprises    (m Rubles)                     (m Rubles)
Agriculture                               230-270          2,300        21.3%               5.7
- Farms                                    100-200         5,299
- Agro-industry                           400-500            850        48.1%              11.5
Industry2                                 250-300            400         7.9%               3.1
Construction                                 60-90           230         3.7%               5.3
Transport &                                    35            440         2.1%               6.6
Communications                                              1,390        4.1%               0.1
Wholesale, Ind. .Supplies             3,500-3,8003                      12.9%               4.0
TOTAL                                  5,200-5,500        10,810       100.0%               2.0
Services                                    9,500
Other
Memo: Unfinished Construction
2,160
I/ Apparently book value of total physical assets, in 1984 prices.
2/ excluding agro-processing (Ministry of Agriculture) and construction materials (Ministry of Construction).
3/ The number of establishments (most of which did not have their own accounting) was about 9,500, incuding
retail, catering, and other services.
Source: Mission estimates



- 79 -
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
Table 2.2: Estimated Size Structure of the State Enterprise Sector, late 1991
Nurnber of    Percentage     Number of      Percentage
Enterprise Category                           Enterprises'    of Total      Employees       of Total
Small enterprises (1-199 employees)                  4,300         81.6       220,000            23.8
Medium and large enterprises                          950          18.0       555,000            60.0
(200-4,999 employees)
Very large enterprises (5,000 and more                  20          0.4       150,000             16.2
employees)
Total                                                5,270      100.0         925,000            100.0
1/ An enterprise is herein an entity with its own independent accounting. The number of small-scale establishments
-- rather than enterprises -- was about 9,500 in retail, catering, and consumer services alone.
Source: Mission estimates



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
TABLE 3.1: STRUCTURE ACTIVITY OF THE BANKING SYSTEM
(As at March end 1994)
Outsandbig           Pamd-up          Term          current        Overdrafb with
Number of             Loans             Capta           Deposits       Accounts           the NBK
Banks                      Branches
(KGS thousand)
I ADILBANK                                          1               10,519            1,508           1,031          3,776
2 AGROPROM BANK                                    51              991,809           16,398           4,395        340,967               482,023
3 AKNIETBANK                                         1              43,030            1,740            837          35,143                 9,379
4 AVTOBANK                                           2              15,355            1,138            414           5,512
5 DYIKAN BANK                                       8               18,657            1,880           1,707          8,395                 8,232
6 ENERGO BANK                                        1              10,707            2,260           3,335          7,755                 1,132
7 HENFEN                                            0                1,968            2,581                            115
8 ISSYK-KUL                                         0                1,816            1,448           8,163          9,409
9 KRANDS BANK                                       0                8,987            2,207           2,814          3,744
10 KURULUSH BANK                                     3               12,184            2,500          3,249           9.398
11 KYRGYZ-JER BANK                                   0                  762              392            500             221
12 KYRGYZSTAN BANK                                  25             300,564            23,633         15,421         187,734                 4,084
13 MAKSAT BANK                                       2               14,761            1,988          2,430          14,773                 9,044
14 MERCURY BANK                                      0                6,403            1,827            200           5,169
15 ORIENT BANK                                       0                1,797            4,089
16 PROMSTROI BANK                                   27             202,822             8,500          4,622         194,499                44,182
17 SATURN BANK                                       0                2,538            1,031            320           1,983                 3,337
18 VNESHECONOM BANK                                  2               54,528           15,263          3,193          19,142
19 ZBERBANK                                         54              22,539               925         42,713             865
TOTAL                                              177            1,721,746           91,308         95,344         848,600               561,413
Source: NBK



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
Table 3.2: Comparative Performance of Selected Banks as of November 1994
(KGS Thousand)
l                       l           I          I          { ~~~~~~~~OVERDUIELOANSll                                I
Paid-in      Free       Total                 Percent   Paid-in       Free      Market
NAME OF BANK                    Capital      Capital    Loans    Amount          of      Capital     Capital    Share in
Total    to Loans   to Loans   Deposit
._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ '_ _ _ _ _ _    .   _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _   (% )  1% )       (% )
Henfen Bank                                    8270       5543       17153       1315        7.7        48.2       32.3         0
Vnesheconom Bank                              15726       5364       49567       11262      22.7        31.7       10.8       4.3
Mercury Bank                                   2682       2759       10473       5095       48.7        25.6       26.3      1.97
Orient Bank                                    8386      11213        19873      7366       37.1        42.2       56.4      0.06
Kurulush Bank                                  3881        1514      16752       5098        30.4       23.2        9.1      5.76
Kramds Bank                                    4005       4621       18649       4471        23.9       21.5       24.8      2.13
AKB Kyrgyzstan                                26023       19793     401067    329939         82.3        6.5        4.9      22.3
Pagel Source: Original Data From NBK



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
TABLE 3.3: COMMERCIAL BANK BRANCH NETWORK
(As of June 1994)
|  f:: ;;: BANsUKS:; 7  :CHUG            OSH         JALAH         NARYN       TALAS       ISSYK-KYL      TOTAL
_____:: __________      _ ::____i _    _ .____  __    :ABAD     :
1  ADIL BANK                                                                          1                          1
2   AGROPROM BANK               11            12            12            5           5            6            51
3   AKNIETBANK                                 1                                                                 1
4   AVTOBANK                     I                                                                 1             2
5   DYIKAN BANK                                3             1            1           2            1             8
6   ENERGO BANK                  1                                                                               1
7   HENFEN                                                                                                       0
8   ISSYK-KUL                                                                                                    0
9   KRANDS BANK                                                                                                  0
10   KURULUSH BANK                I                           I                                     1             3
11   KYRGYZ-JER BANK                                                                                              0
12   KYRGYZSTAN BANK              7            4             5             3           1            5            25
13   MAKSAT BANK                  1             1                                                                 2
14   MERCURY BANK                                                                                                 0
15   ORIENT BANK                                                                                                  0
16   PROMSTROI BANK               7            10            4             2           1            3            27
17   SATURN BANK                                                                                                  0
18   VNESHECONOM BANK             1             1                                                                 2
19   ZBERBANK*                   12            12            13            5           5            7            54
TOTAL PER REGION            42            44            36           16           15     -     24           177
* Zberbank also maintains a network of about 400 small (2 person) cash windows.
Source: NBK



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
TABLE 3.4: INTEREST RATES ON LOANS
(percentage per annum as of November 1994)
Short-term Loans for up to 3 Months                         Due Loans
Maximum       Minimum         Average         Maximum         Minimum          Average
ADIL BANK                                     240             160             200             300              46             173
AGROPROM BANK                                200              106               --            210             180             195
AKNIETBANK                                    153             106               --            306             212            259
AVTOBANK                                     270               93               --            521             240            373
ENERGO BANK                                   360              96             241             210             180             195
HENFEN                                        210             120             165             320             150            235
ISSYK-KUL                                     180              60             120             300              46             173
KRAMDS BANK                                   120             130             125             400             400             400                         )
KURULUSH BANK                                 250              85             168             500             260             380
KYRGYZ-JER BANK                               230             170             200             300              30             165
KYRGYZSTAN BANK                               171              80             125             370             160             265
MAKSAT BANK                                   220             180               --            780             200             490
ORIENT BANK                                   140             100             120             560             100             330
PROMSTROI BANK                                270              51             120             380             380             380
Source: NBK



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
TABLE 3.5: INTEREST RATES ON DEPOSITS
(Percentage per Annum)
___ __     :::V ::              ::   :   :   D:Deposits  ___
1to3mwns0    3to:6moths              6to:12monihs        lto3years.
............... ,,.................   .............   ............   ....  , . ..........................   ....a ...........
Comm.             codi.   cm.  :indiv.:  comm.   indiv.   commu.   md indiv.
I AGROPROM BANK                                                120      120       120               200
2 AKNIETBANK                       100                110                130
3 DYIKAN BANK                                         180                120
4 ENERGO BANK                                         60                 120                140     240
5 HENFEN                                              90                 110                145
6 KRAMDS BANK                       84                120                         280
7 KURULUSH BANK                    129                160                         167               230              co
8 KYRGYZSTAN BANK                  113                110                113                153
9 MAKSAT BANK                      90                 100                110                160
10 ORIENT BANK                                        150                170
11 PROMSTROI BANK                  117                129                164                140
12 VNESHECONOM  BANK                                            112                143      129
13 ZBERBANK                        180                100                140                250
SOURCE: NBK



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
Table 5.1: Estimated Project Cost
(US$ '000)
Foreign Exchange
1995       1996       1997        1998       1999       2000       Total         %     Amount
1. Investment Projects                   900       2,600      4,000      4,000       3,000      1.680      16,180        86      14,180
11. Technical Assistance*
A. Management ESF
i)  Expatriate Fees               350         800        360         30           -           -      1,540        100       1,540
ii) Operating Expenses 1/         142        202         216        220           -           -       780           -
iii) Equipment                    100           -          -           -          -           -        100        100        100
B. Short-Term Enterprise Support 2/   50         200         200        180           -          -        630         100        600
C. Financial Sector Studies
i)  Audit of Banks                200           -          -           -          -           -       200         100        200
ii) Insurance Sector              100                                             -           -        100        100        100
iii) Trade Finance                 50           -          -           -          -           -         50        100         50       l
D. Project Administration Unit                                                                                                            c
i)  Local Salaries                  6          12         13          14          -           -        45           -           -
ii) Expatriate Advisers Fee       180           -          -           -          -           -        180        100        180
iii) Training                      20          25         30           -          -           -         75        100         75
iv) Equipment                      50           -          -           -          -           -         50        100         50
v) Contingencies 3/                  -          -           -          -          -        200         200        100        200
E. Audit Project Accounts                -        50          50         50           -          -         150        100        150
Total                                  1,898       3,889    4  869       4,494       3,000      1.880    20,280                  19,455
*  Advanced PPF funding.
1/ Pour memoire-to be provided in kind by Kyrgyz Orient Bank.
2/ Including US$100,000 for training and study tours of enterprise managers.
3/ Unallocated amount under the TA. Estimated TA costs inlcude contingency allowances and exclude taxes and duties.
Under the subproject investment components,contingencies cannot be estimated.



KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT
Table 5.2: Financing Plan
(US$ '000)
Participating                   Government
Private Enteprise   Local Banks t/    of Japan  IDA             Total            For.
Amount %        Amount %        Amount %        Amount  %        Anmount         Exch.
1.  Investment Projects                 1,000   6.2      1,000   6.2     -               14,180 87.6    16,180            14,180
11. Technical Assistance
A. Management ESF
i)  Expatriate Fees             -               -                1,500   97.4        40  2.6    1,540             1,540
ii) Operating Expenses          -                  780  100    -                     -    -        780
iii) Equipment                  -               -                -                  100  100        100              100
B. Short-Term  Enterprise Support -                 -                  600  95.2          30  4.8      630               630
C. Financial Sector Studies
i)  Audit of Savings Bank       -               -                  200  100          -    -        200               200
ii) Insurance Sector            -               -                  100  100          -    -         100              100                   oo
iii) Trade Finance              -               -                   50  100          -    -          50               50
D. Project Administration Unit
i)  Local Salaries              -               -                -                   45  100         45
ii) Expatriate Adviser Fee      -                                                  180  100         180              180
iii) Training                   -               -                   50   67          25.  33         75               75
iv) Equipment                   -               -                -                   50  100         50               50
E. Audit Project Accounts           -               -                -                  150  100         150             150
F. Unallocated                      -                -               -                 200  100         200              200
Total                               1,000            1,780           2,500           15.000          20,280           19,455
1/ The counterpart local bank will provide logistic support and staff at an estimated cost of $780,000 over a four-year period.



IBRD 26723
70                                                                                                            75~                                                                                                           LU 
KAZAKHSTAN                                                              _!
KAZAKHSTAN
-,                                                                                A  ~~~~~~~AK4JJz ~~K. .    C-holPo,,Al. 
rO~~~~~~~~~~ ~~           ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~ ~ -zzb                                                                                       / P<O PoAAo7  ody=r
1   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CIIK                                                                                        AL YZ A K HSTANd      
_rv J' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/ ~~~~~~~~ t; I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/n ~~~~YSY KOL                                                                                                         /7A39T_.j
-SAI~~~~~~~~~
\ bol ~~~~~~~~~~MINKUSH w
SHEKALTR                                                                            E    E                                                                         KAJS /5,.
    j                           HAIDARKAN                  OSH                   - /             ,     5'KADAMZAI_                                                        ENTERRISES ON EUrTRACTION                     POLLUTION FROM MINING ACTIVITIES
(        _            ,    _,>                                                                       -     '                                                                           AND PROCESSING OF                              ____LIN
MAILU-~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~NION                                                                             ALN
e T    J  K   S   AN     "  ' ~   '                     i               -                                                                                                 A      ACCUMULATORSAOF INDUSTRIAL
YoPo   TADAYho,Lr ,      - j .o Morgob  %                                                                                                   TI                                            DRAINAGE
----------- L   e     w     r    i     l    o     s    l          \         +         G O L D                + 5         RAILGORIO
tIERrAll~  /  4<1       K A ZAK HUTAN              q /(w                                                                                                                             LANTANOIDS                             _    OTHIER ROADS
e' L .     >8 (Y                           
I                        T. h,,,,.4o,,., t  olo.,SH   dNTRP oIpro                   KILOMETERS                                                     O COAX I TERPRIO                   NOLTION C        P IT L
.9                                                                                                                                                                           ACCUTMULATORS Of INDUSTRIAL'LIUIATE MNIG ETEPRSE
TIAMiC                    4J/                                                                 ,,7 5rhlglanoonlrlor        25         T0         75        10                                                                   0    SELECTED CITIES
RELUEUC  h,.-'  C..,~~~~~ *Y  CHINA    ~~~~'~"~~" ' T -LEOTIN                                                                                                                                                   DRLASTAG
OF IRAN  9                               | '  CLS.,.,,U,,.,                                                                                               H                                                                     - N A-sDsh b:undir,l M                 OBLAST BOUNDARIES
4   r:    ALGULNIlSTAT   o-   , ^                                                                                       75'                                         t     NON-FERROUS METALS                   -__ C  INTERNATIONAL EOUNDARIES
FEBRUARY 199S












