                 Document of
              The World Bank




                                               Report No: 28378

  IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
   (TF-22161 TF-22169 IDA-27170 PPFI-P8390)

                    ON A

                   CREDIT

    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 15 MILLION

                   TO THE

             KYRGYZ REPUBLIC

FOR A PRIVATE ENTERPRISE SUPPORT PROJECT




               MARCH 30, 2004

                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective March 30, 2004)

                    Currency Unit = KGS
                           KGS 1 = US$ 0.02321
                            US$ 1 = KGS 43.08

                         FISCAL YEAR
                    January 1    December 31

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
DITAC        Directorate for Investment and Technical Assistance Coordination
EBRD         European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ERIS         Entrepreneurial Referral and Information Service
FERD         Fund for Enterprise Restructuring and Development
FINSAC       Financial Sector Structural Adjustment Credit
Goskominvest State Commission on Foreign Investment and Economic Assistance
IFC          International Finance Corporation
KPPA         Kyrgyz Project Promotion Agency
NBKR         National Bank of the Kyrgyz Republic
NPRS         National Poverty Reduction Strategy
PAU          Project Administration Unit
PCB          Participating commercial bank
PDO          Project development objective
PESAC        Privatization and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit
PESP         Private Enterprise Support Project
PHRD         Policy and Human Resources Development
ROE          Return on equity
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SSN          Social Safety Net Credit
USAID        United States Agency for International Development
WTO          World Trade Organization



                  Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu
                Country Director      Dennis de Tray
                 Sector Manager       Tunc Uyanik
 Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Alexandra Gross

                                   KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
                              Private Enterprise Support Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                              31
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                            36

Project ID: P008524                                                  Project Name: Private Enterprise Support
Team Leader: Alexandra L. Gross                                      TL Unit: ECSPF
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR                      Report Date: March 30, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Private Enterprise Support                               L/C/TF Number: TF-22161; TF-22169;
                                                                                                     IDA-27170; PPFI-P8390
   Country/Department: KYRGYZ REPUBLIC                                                    Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Other industry (95%); Banking (5%)
                  Theme: Other financial and private sector development (P); Regulation and
                            competition policy (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 08/20/1993                                     Effective: 08/14/1995                01/17/1996
     Appraisal: 06/15/1994                                         MTR: 03/27/1997                  06/10/1997
      Approval: 05/04/1995                                      Closing: 06/30/2000                 06/30/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          KYRGYZ REPUBLIC/GOSKOMINVEST
                      Other Partners:      Japanese Government

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Dennis de Tray                                 Michael A. Gould
Sector Director:                Anil Sood                                      Kadir T. Yurukoglu
Team Leader at ICR:             Alexandra Gross                                Mohamadou Diop
ICR Primary Author:             J. Matthew Mitchell; Carlo Segni


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The original objective of the Private Enterprise Support Project (PESP) was to provide an integrated

program of technical assistance and loans for working capital and investment to private enterprises to
promote their successful adaptation to a market-based system. This objective was an important element of
the country's economic reform program, which aimed to address the major macroeconomic instability that
characterized the first years of Kyrgyz independence, and promoted the transition from the
centrally-planned system of the Former Soviet Union to a market-based economy.

In response to these challenges, the Bank developed a comprehensive series of rehabilitation, adjustment
and investment operations designed to stabilize the economy, create a conducive environment for private
sector development, and finance viable investment projects and technical assistance. The 1993 Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) set the strategic context for the PESP and three other operations: the
Rehabilitation Credit in 1993; the Privatization and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit (PESAC) in 1994;
and the Social Safety Net Credit (SSN) in 1994. The Rehabilitation Credit provided financing for critical
imports to sustain the economy while adjustment and investment operations were under preparation. The
PESAC concentrated on improving the pace and quality of privatization and enterprise sector adjustment,
emphasizing greater transparency in the process. The SSN Credit supported capacity-building to deal with
the social aspects of economic transition, including poverty reduction and the deployment of displaced
workers.

PESP was the first investment operation to target the enterprise and banking sectors. In hindsight, the
development objectives were too broad and difficult to achieve within the timeframe of the project. In
addition, the project design and implementation arrangements were overly complex, involving (i) the
establishment of a new, state-owned financial vehicle, the Fund for Enterprise Restructuring and
Development (FERD) (ii) a Project Administration Unit (PAU); and (iii) a foreign consultant to manage the
operations of the credit line and enter into a twinning operation with a local bank. As a result of these
deficiencies, the project did not achieve its original objectives and was restructured in 1998 to channel
resources instead through local commercial banks. It continued to perform poorly, however, and in 2001
was further modified to target small and micro enterprises. Subsequently, performance and disbursements
began to improve slightly.

3.2 Revised Objective:

By 1998, only one sub-project for US$0.5 million had been financed under the credit line. As a result, the
Bank and the Borrower agreed to restructure the project to concentrate on the Borrower's need to reform
the enterprise and financial sectors, and strengthen the capacity of the commercial banking system. The
project became a credit line providing financing to private enterprises through local commercial banks. The
FERD was dissolved and responsibility for implementation of the credit line was transferred to the National
Bank of the Kyrgyz Republic (NBKR) which established an Apex Unit for the project within the
Directorate for Investment and Technical Assistance Coordination (DITAC). The Investment Promotion
Unit at Gaskominvest assumed responsibilities for the technical assistance component.

The restructured project included new performance indicators. The key indicators were: (i) improved risk
management and management information systems combined with better appraisal capability in commercial
banks; (ii) enhanced risk management systems of the NBKR; (iii) improved infrastructure in the PAU for
providing project preparation guidance to private enterprises; and (iv) improved financial management and
project preparation.

3.3 Original Components:

Lending Component: The lending component consisted of US$14.2 million for investment and working



                                                       - 2 -

capital sub-loans through the FERD to eligible enterprises. Eligible enterprises included viable and sound
private enterprises and state-owned enterprises at an advanced stage of privatization. A private enterprise
was defined as having at least 51 percent control by private investors.

The project included lending for incremental working capital sub-loans up to US$1.0 million equivalent and
free-standing working capital sub-loans up to US$200,000 with terms between one and eight years. In
order to receive project funds, eligible enterprises had to produce financial statements and a feasible
business plan. The project required enterprises to assume the foreign exchange risk and pay market-based
interest rates. Beneficiaries also had to meet minimum financial and economic requirements, such as debt
servicing capacity in foreign exchange, satisfactory environmental reviews, and have a financial and an
economic rate of return for their project of at least 15 percent.

The design of the lending program was based on a survey of 50 enterprises during project preparation. This
survey resulted in a pipeline of 27 eligible sub-projects with total estimated investment cost of US$49
million and a related credit demand of US$34 million. The preparatory work also included a review of
other donor-financed lending products to ensure there was no overlap of donor resources. Among other
donors, for example, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) had established a
credit line for large enterprises and had an estimated pipeline of US$20.4 million.

Technical Assistance Components: The project included two technical assistance components:

    (i) The technical assistance for enterprises (US$620,000) consisted of consulting services to prepare
    diagnostic studies and business plans of individual firms and provide technical, managerial, and
    financial assistance to help implement the proposed business plans. Foreign firms primarily provided
    these services after having signed partnership agreements with local firms. Eligible firms were required
    to cofinance the contracts. A Japanese PHRD grant also supported this component with funding for
    diagnostic and pre-feasibility studies of sample enterprises and established regional centers to provide
    local enterprises with access to market information.

    (ii) The technical assistance for the financial sector complemented other donor activities in the sector
    and included: (i) a diagnostic audit of Savings Bank (US$200,000); (ii) a review of the legal and
    regulatory framework of insurance companies (US$100,000); and (iii) a trade finance study
    (US$50,000).

Implementation Arrangements: During project preparation, the Bank and the Borrower determined that
local banks had neither the operational capability nor the capital to engage in lending activities or manage a
credit line. Thus, in order to bypass the weak banking system, the Fund for Enterprise Restructuring and
Development (FERD) was established under the project to channel funds to eligible enterprises in the form
of sub-loans. The FERD was a government-owned financial intermediary vehicle. It had no staff, minimum
capital, physical assets or structure of its own. Rather, it was materialized by its statutes, operating
procedures and a bank account at the NBKR. Its operations were fully managed by an international bank
that was selected as the Fund Manager financed under a Japanese PHRD grant and entered into a twinning
arrangement with a local bank.

The Fund Manager was responsible both for the lending and technical assistance components of the project.
The Bank retained the right to approve all sub-projects approved by the FERD. The goal was for the Fund
Manager to train staff of the local bank, the Orient Bank, to progressively take over some of the
management and lending responsibilities of the FERD. At the same time, as the banking sector developed,
other local banks would take over the FERD's portfolio.


                                                      - 3 -

The FERD was supervised by a Board of Directors composed of the Chairman of the NBKR, the Minister
of Finance, and the Vice Chairman of the State Commission on Foreign Investment and Economic
Assistance (Goskominvest). The FERD was intended to be an interim financial vehicle, and thus, the
project included a sunset provision for it of 10 years.

A Project Administration Unit (PAU) was established in Goskominvest to monitor the execution of the
management contract for the FERD. Other responsibilities of the PAU included (i) coordination between
the Bank and the Government; (ii) ex-post review of sub-loans; (iii) supervision of consultants hired under
the technical assistance components; and (iv) implementation of technical assistance under the Japanese
grant.

The original implementation arrangements for the project proved to be overly complex and ineffective. The
responsibilities of the PAU, the FERD's manager and the Board of the FERD overlapped and resulted in a
number of conflicts during project implementation. Furthermore, project implementation was affected by
the poor performance of the Fund Manager, and the fact that its local counterpart bank went bankrupt
during an early stage of implementation. The project's design allowed for changes in the implementation
framework, with qualified commercial banks taking over the FERD's lending portfolio, but it was too
open-ended and dependent on the development of the banking sector.

Lessons from Past Projects: The Bank incorporated several important lessons from experience with
financial intermediary lending operations in designing the project. Specifically, the preparation team
focused on how such operations can be hampered by unstable macroeconomic environments, the absence of
market determined interest rates, political interference in lending decisions, and weak and unsound financial
institutions. Thus, the project contained an explicit provision to require a market-based interest rate
structure. In addition, to minimize political interference and, at the same time, address weaknesses in the
private banking sector, the project designated a private international bank to manage the lending program
instead of creating a new government institution.

Benefit/Risk Evaluation: The project's evaluation of benefits in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) was
inadequate. The SAR states the project would support successful post-privatization performance through
improvements in management efficiency and productivity, marketing, and profitability. It adds that these
improvements would result in tangible benefits for investors, workers and the country as a whole, without
defining them. The SAR also notes that the project would: (i) develop the institutional foundation for
financing projects with high financial and economic returns and technical assistance to enterprises; and (ii)
contribute to capacity-building for institutional reform in the financial sector, which a follow-up financial
sector loan would support. However, the SAR does not sufficiently explain the linkage between these
expected results and the detailed indicators of project achievements provided in Annex 5 of the report. In
this context, it does not fully assess the transition process for building local commercial bank capacity to
take over the management of the FERD from the international bank and how this process relates to the
timeline for transition and project performance indicators.

3.4 Revised Components:

In 1998 the Borrower and the Bank restructured the project in an effort to improve performance. The
restructured project redesigned both lending and technical assistance components and introduced
adjustments to take into account emerging market conditions and to reflect a more realistic view of credit
demand.




                                                        - 4 -

Under the new implementation arrangements, funds were channeled through qualified participating
commercial banks (PCBs) directly rather than through the FERD. The FERD was dismantled. The NBKR
took responsibility for the management and supervision of the credit line. As a result, DITAC, established
by the NBKR in 1995, became the Apex Unit of the project. Monitoring financial soundness of the PCBs
relied on the general banking sector supervision activities of the NBKR. The application/approval
procedures for sub-loans remained complex, but more clearly defined. The PCB became solely responsible
for credit decisions, while the Apex Unit assumed responsibility only for supervision and monitoring. The
Bank retained the right of final approval of each sub-loan, with the understanding that, as PCBs progressed
in terms of credit and risk management capacity, these arrangements would be modified to fully entrust
PCBs to approve sub-projects introducing with only a post-review by the Apex Unit. The Bank also
imposed strict eligibility requirements for PCBs in order to select the best performing banks in the country.
These requirements included sound financial condition and management and annual IAS-based audits by
auditing firms satisfactory to the Bank (throughout the life of the project, none of the local auditing firms
were qualified by the Bank to conduct IAS-based audit of banks).

The terms and conditions for the sub-loans did not change substantially. Sub-loans up to a maximum of
US$1.0 million were extended by PCBs to eligible private and privatized enterprises for their medium- and
long-term investment and working capital needs. The maximum maturity was seven years for investment
sub-loans and two years for working capital sub-loans. Interest rates to PCBs were set at US$ six months
LIBOR plus 2 percent to cover operating costs. PCBs were given the option to charge sub-borrowers a 7
percent margin over their funding cost. The PCBs assumed the foreign exchange risk as funding was
provided in US$ and PCBs could extend sub-loans in both US$ and Soms. The project beneficiaries were
required to meet the same financial and economic requirements set forth in 1995 Credit Agreement.

The technical assistance component was revised to include provisions for consultancy services to: (i) help
enterprises prepare and implement business plans and investment projects; and (ii) train commercial bank
officers with a view to strengthening their capacity for project appraisal, risk management and loan
delivery. Additionally, the PHRD grant available for the project implementation provided funding for: (i)
the development of sub-project appraisal software; (ii) the development of local audit capacity through
training in international accounting standards; and (iii) joint training sessions for private enterprises and
commercial banks in preparing and assessing investment projects and business plans. The Apex Unit
became responsible for technical assistance to PCBs and the PAU was restructured into an Investment
Promotion Unit at Goskominvest and named PIU. The PIU then became responsible for technical assistance
to enterprises.

Despite the changes to the project design, the demand for credit funds and technical assistance remained
sluggish. To stimulate demand, there were two further changes to the project design. In December 2001,
the Bank and the Borrower agreed to introduce a micro-lending component. Under this component,
approval procedures for sub-loans of less than US$5,000 with a maturity of less than six months were
streamlined, requiring only post-review by the Apex Unit, and no prior review by the Bank. The PHRD
grant financed consultants (i) to help the PCBs develop and implement new crediting and risk management
procedures and train credit officers on micro-lending, and (ii) to help medium-size enterprises (above
US$5,000 sub-projects) to prepare business plans.

In 2002, an amendment to the Credit Agreement enabled: (i) individuals to become project beneficiaries;
and (ii) the Ministry of Finance to bear the foreign exchange risk. The amendment also reduced the amount
of the credit line to US$5.5 million and extended the closing date of the project to June 2003. This
extension was granted with the idea that experience with the microfinance component would contribute to
the preparation of a new credit line. The Bank agreed with the Borrower that the new credit line would take


                                                     - 5 -

place only if disbursement and the overall quality of the sub-projects improved during the last year of
project implementation.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Project appraisal took place before the establishment of the Bank's formal quality assurance review
process. In general, the project objectives and design: (i) responded to the priority needs of the country; (ii)
reflected the Bank's overall country assistance strategy; (iii) fit into a logical framework of ongoing
projects; and (iv) took into account of some lessons learned from past projects. However, because of
substantial deficiencies in risk analysis, overly complex institutional arrangements, and lack of adequate
market analysis, overall quality at entry is rated as unsatisfactory.

The Bank did not adequately assess the risks of creating a new state-owned institution for credit delivery,
relying heavily on a foreign contractor (the Fund Manager) to ensure effectiveness. Moreover, the absence
of clear division of responsibilities between the FERD Board, the PAU and the Fund Manager created
overlaps and conflicts, thus undermining the overall project implementation. While the project's
restructuring improved the framework for credit delivery, the complex lending procedures potentially could
have been avoided with better preparation.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The overall project outcome is rated as unsatisfactory. This rating is based on original project objectives
and design because the revised objectives resulted primarily from deficiencies in the original project design
and other external factors. The lending component performed poorly and showed only modest
improvements following the restructuring in 1998. Following the amendments in 2001, there was a slight
increase in demand for sub-loans, especially for micro-loans, and the participating commercial banks
gained some experience in credit risk and management and lending to small enterprises.

Technical assistance had no significant impact on the lending component before project restructuring in
1998, mainly due to the reluctance of enterprises to borrow for technical assistance, and the unsatisfactory
performance of the Fund Manager. After restructuring, the execution of a smaller, more clearly focused
technical assistance component helped improve disbursements and the project outcome. However, actual
financial resources delivered to the private sector over the expanded seven-year life of the project amounted
to only 24 percent of the original level and about 30 percent of the revised target at 1998 restructuring.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Line of Credit Component: There were essentially three phases in the implementation of the lending
component. During the first phase, from the Credit's effectiveness to 1998 restructuring, performance was
highly unsatisfactory. The lack of disbursement activity resulted in large part from the lack of demand for
credit, largely due to complex application procedures, poor economic conditions, perceived high interest
rates, excessive collateral requirements, and an unwillingness of enterprises to borrow for technical
assistance to prepare sub-project applications.

During the second phase, from 1998 to December 2001, disbursements increased once the funds were
channeled directly through commercial banks. While the sub-loan approval process remained somewhat
complex with a three-step approval process involving the PCB, the Apex Unit and the Bank, the new


                                                      - 6 -

implementation arrangements were a positive development. Under the new arrangements, the Apex Unit
was in charge only of the supervision of PCBs' activities. Furthermore, the grant-funded technical
assistance helped banks improve their subproject appraisal and risk management skills. As a result, the
project financed 18 sub-projects totaling about US$2 million. This level was still far below the target of
US$12 million for the restructured project, and the project had only one more year of operation. However,
during this period the Bank rated the performance as satisfactory due to improvements in the quality of
sub-projects and the delivery of technical assistance to enterprises.

The third phase began in December 2001 with the shift in focus to micro-enterprises. The result was an
increase in the number of sub-projects financed. Within one year, the project had extended 72 sub-loans
totaling US$318,000. The Bank extended the project's closing date from June 2002 to June 2003 to allow
for continued progress in the lending component. There was also an amendment to allow individual
entrepreneurs--in addition to legal entities--to become sub-borrowers. The Ministry of Finance also agreed
to assume the foreign exchange risk, enabling commercial banks to receive the proceeds of the project
either in local currency or US dollars. At the end of the project, the lending component had financed a total
of 293 sub-loans, of which 266 were small credits.

Technical Assistance Components: Prior to 1998, there were no disbursements for technical assistance
funds to support enterprises. Most of the activities financed from the Japanese grant (about US$3.3
million) did not have a clear development impact. This grant funding helped set up: (i) an Entrepreneurial
Referral and Information Service (ERIS) to assist entrepreneurs in developing small and medium-scale
businesses; and (ii) the Kyrgyz Project Promotion Agency (KPPA), responsible for implementing the ERIS
system. KPPA was to contract with the FERD to provide technical assistance to enterprises and help build
a pipeline of projects for an annual fee. Both local staff of the FERD and ERIS received intense training.
However, the impact of the agencies was negligible, as enterprises made little of their services.

From 1998 to June 2003, the technical assistance focused on training programs and seminars for both
enterprises and commercial banks in business plan preparation, project appraisal and risk/portfolio
management. The project also provided two foreign resident advisors to the credit departments of
participating banks. In addition, the project developed software on project planning and analysis for
dissemination to entrepreneurs and financial institutions. Goskominvest produced promotional materials
and a television campaign to promote the project. Furthermore, it developed a website to promote the
development of Kyrgyz enterprises, provide information to potential foreign investors, and offer a common
forum for various government agencies to promote the Kyrgyz enterprises in world markets.

Intensive Learning Survey and Workshop: At the end of the project, the Bank sponsored an Intensive
Learning Survey and Workshop to assess the achievements of the project and extract lessons (see Annex
8). The workshop was held in Bishkek in June 2003 to discuss the findings of a survey of project
stakeholders. About 60 enterprises and 20 officials and practitioners involved in the project responded to
the survey.

Despite the poor assessment of the project overall, the survey pointed to a number of positive outcomes
resulting from the final changes to project design and the new emphasis on micro loans. The survey also
indicated that the project helped PCBs improve their credit policies and risk management. In particular, the
project's micro lending component helped the PCBs gain a better understanding of the benefits and
constraints in downscaling the credit portfolio and focusing on small/retail banking. The Apex Unit gained
experience in financial management under Bank-financed projects. The benefits for enterprises were: (i)
longer-term financing at competitive rates, especially for medium sized enterprises; and (ii) simplified and
more cost-effective approval procedures under the micro-lending component. In general participating


                                                     - 7 -

enterprises reported improvements in revenues and product diversification.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Not applicable to this project.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable to this project.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The project originally aimed to develop the institutional foundation for providing financing and technical
assistance to private enterprises to develop and implement business plans. To do so, the project focused on
building the capability of the FERD and the PAU. However, the developmental impact was low and these
institutions were ultimately dismantled. Following the restructuring in 1998, institutional development
focused on commercial banks. Overall, during this period, project supervision reports indicate that the
PCBs improved the quality of credit appraisals and became more careful in evaluating business plans and
collateral. The Intensive Learning Survey also indicated that PCBs improved their skills in credit risk
evaluation and management and built capacity to lend to small borrowers. The high repayment rate on
sub-loans under the project (95 percent) reflects these improvements.

During project implementation, nine banks applied for participation, but only four were accepted due to
tight eligibility criteria (DosCredo Bank, AKB Kyrgyzstan, IneximBank and Energo Bank). These four
banks accounted for more than 25 percent of the assets in the Kyrgyz banking system. However, DosCredo
was suspended in 2001 because it was undercapitalized. The bank did not manage to restore its capital
position, and the NBKR limited its license about nine months after it was suspended from the project.
Further, AKB Kyrgyzstan was suspended in 2002 because of the audits prepared by a local auditing firm,
contrary to the project requirements. In 2003 the two remaining banks (IneximBank and Energo Bank)
accounted for about 9.7 percent of banking sector in terms of assets. Section 10 (Additional Information) of
this report provides background and more detailed information on performance of the individual PCBs.

In the final years of the project, the PESP portfolio achieved high quality and steady growth. As of
end-June 2003, about 95 percent of the sub-borrowers were repaying their loans, with problem loans
amounting to less than 10 percent of the PESP portfolio. PCBs disbursed US$1.1 million in small
sub-loans, and US$2.5 million in medium sub-loans, thus contributing to supporting private sector
development. In aggregate, at end-2002, PESP sub-loans accounted for about 35 percent and 6 percent of
the foreign currency denominated long-term (over one year) and short-term (less than one year) credit
portfolio of the whole banking sector.

Overall, the participating commercial banks (excluding DosCredo) have been profitable with capitalization
improving to 25 percent on average as of the end-year 2002, against 22 percent for the whole sector.
Return on operating assets during the same period was positive at 2.3 percent on average, compared to 1.6
for the whole banking sector. Asset quality is good compared with other Kyrgyz banks, with
non-performing loans of about 12 percent on average for the three banks. The three PCBs are also among
the best banks in terms of intermediation functions. On average, at end-2002, the three banks maintained a
deposits-to-assets ratio of 50 percent, a loans-to-deposits ratio of 136 percent, and loans-to-total assets of
51 percent. This compared favorably to the whole sector for which the deposits-to-assets ratio was 45
percent, loans-to-deposit 61 percent, and loans-to-total assets 23 percent. Furthermore, the three banks



                                                      - 8 -

enjoy depositors' confidence, which has been a major weakness in the Kyrgyz banking sector. Their share
of deposits to total banking sector deposits in fact grew from 18.8 percent in 1999 to 21.4 percent in 2003.

IneximBank had the largest portfolio of the participating commercial banks and disbursed about 48 percent
and 78 percent of medium-size sub-loans and small sub-loans, respectively. AKB Kyrgyzstan disbursed 41
percent of the total PESP medium-size portfolio. The bank did not disburse micro sub-loans, as it was
suspended before the new component was developed. Energo Bank disbursed 22 percent of the micro
sub-loans and 10 percent of the medium size sub-loans. DosCredo Bank disbursed only 1 percent of the
medium size sub-loans.

Project supervision reports also indicate that the PESP helped support the institutional development of the
Apex Unit. During the final phase of the project, the Apex Unit improved its capability to supervise
Bank-financed projects, including monitoring procurement and special accounts, as well as increased its
knowledge of credit risk and portfolio management. This experience helped it gain skills that will benefit
the unit in the future when it serves as the PIU for the Bank-financed Payments and Banking System
Modernization Project and the PHRD grant available for the preparation of this project.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Several external factors had a negative impact on the project and contributed to the projects poor
performance. The main factors were:

    (i) The Russian financial crisis in 1998. The Russian financial crisis had a substantial adverse effect
    on macroeconomic performance in the Kyrgyz Republic. Growing external and fiscal imbalances led to
    a rapid depreciation of the national currency. This depreciation increased the cost of capital for both
    enterprises and banks. As a result, it became difficult for some banking system customers to pay back
    loans, especially those denominated in dollars, which accounted for about 40 percent of the banking
    system's assets. The share of non-performing loans in the banking system's portfolio increased
    significantly and banks became reluctant to lend in foreign currency.

    (ii) Weakness of the commercial banking system. The weakness in the banking sector was a main
    reason for the original project design which bypassed the local banking system and relied on an
    international bank to manage the FERD. It was also reflected in the fact that, following the
    restructuring in 1998, nine banks applied to participate in the credit line, however, only four met the
    eligibility criteria and only two ended up participating in the end. The small number of PCBs limited
    the potential impact of the project on the overall banking system and in terms of volume of sub-loans
    delivered to the private sector.

    (iii) The poor performance of the international contractor managing the FERD and the collapse of
    the contractor's local counterpart. The original project design relied on an international bank to serve
    as the Fund Manager and manage both the lending and the enterprise technical assistance components
    of the project. It also required the international bank to enter into a twinning arrangement with a local
    counterpart bank. This arrangement turned out to be unsuccessful due to the very poor performance of
    the international bank and the collapse of the local counterpart, the Orient Bank. The NBKR withdrew
    the license of Orient Bank and appointed an administrator to resolve conflicts between management and
    shareholders. This move undermined the basic framework of the project and contributed to the need for



                                                       - 9 -

    its restructuring.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The improved stability of the economy during the latter part of the project (1999-2003) had a substantial
positive effect on the project by increasing the demand for credit, though at a much lower level than
anticipated. The government's economic reform efforts most likely contributed to this result. The latest
Country Assistance Strategy has shown that the Kyrgyz Republic has made considerable progress in
restoring macroeconomic stability since the Russian financial crisis of 1998. During 1999-2001, real GDP
grew at about five percent on an average annual basis. Consumer prices have declined from nearly 39
(1999) percent to only about 3.7 percent in 2001 and the foreign exchange rate remained relatively stable.

The government's efforts to strengthen the commercial banking sector with support of the Financial Sector
Structural Adjustment Credit (FINSAC, 1996-1998) and the FINSAC Technical Assistance, also had a
positive effect on the project. The FINSAC was a comprehensive reform program aimed at improving the
efficiency and profitability of the financial system. The strengthening of commercial banking sector allowed
the project to use commercial banks to channel the PESP funds following the restructuring in 1998.

The persistence of a poor business environment in the country appears to have had a negative impact on the
project. While the government made some progress in this area, it did not go as far as it could have in
eliminating legal and administrative barriers for micro and small enterprises. By joining the World Trade
Organization (WTO) in 1998, the Kyrgyz Republic liberalized foreign trade and investment and
streamlined registration procedures for micro and small enterprises. However, such enterprises still faced
the constraints of excessive administrative barriers and bureaucracy as well as limited access to finance and
trade facilities. The excessive bureaucracy continues to increase transaction costs, push some businesses
into the shadow economy, and create conditions for corruption. This is likely to become a priority area of
reform in the future.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The main factors subject to the control of the project implementing agencies were the management of the
project, and the use of technical assistance, project promotion and project monitoring. During the first
phase of the project from 1996 to 1998, there was a lack of effective unified project management. The
FERD was responsible for generating marketable projects and assisting enterprises in developing them. The
PAU was in charge of monitoring the performance of the Fund Manager and for managing the project's
financial sector studies. However, project records indicate that the PAU consistently and unduly interfered
in the activities of FERD to an extent that threatened the project's viability. Furthermore, the director of the
PAU was also the head of the KPPA, which created a potential conflict of interest since KPPA was
competing with the FERD in providing technical assistance to enterprises.

During the second phase of the project, the Apex Unit began to supervise the credit line. As a result, the
promotion of PESP improved. Staff from the unit prepared and distributed various promotional materials in
various regions of the country and established a comprehensive internet site. All of these new
implementation measures had at least a modest impact on the increase in lending activity from 1999 until
the end of the project.




                                                      - 10 -

5.4 Costs and financing:

The original project cost was US$20.3 million. This included US$15.0 million from the IDA credit,
US$2.75 million from the Japanese PHRD grants, and US$2.5 million in local co-financing from
sub-borrowers, commercial banks and Orient Bank. Of the US$20.3 million, 80 percent was for the credit
line component and the remaining 20 percent was for the technical assistance component.

The estimated actual cost of the project is US$7.3 million or about 35 percent of the original project costs.
A total of US$4.6 million was disbursed from the IDA credit line and US$2.75 million was from the two
Japanese PHRD grants. In June 2002, US$7.14 million was cancelled from the IDA credit line and the
remaining undisbursed balance of US$1.85 was cancelled at closing.

Project costs were overestimated at both appraisal and during the 1998 restructuring. This was
compounded by weaknesses in project implementation arrangements and other external factors that reduced
demand. Only US$4.6 million (30 percent of the IDA credit) was disbursed to fund sub-loans, the PAU, the
FERD and project audits. None of the co-financing from local sources materialized. There were no
disbursements from the IDA credit for the technical assistance component, as all technical assistance
activities were funded by the Japanese PHRD grants.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Despite the unsatisfactory rating for the project outcome, the sustainability is likely of the project's main
achievements--strengthening the PCBs and supporting small and micro-enterprises following the 1998
restructuring. This rating is primarily due to the fact that external financing will continue to be available to
the participating commercial banks for small and micro lending under the Kyrgyz Micro and Small
Enterprise Finance Facility (see section 6.2 below for more details). In addition, the staff of the
participating commercial banks that were trained under the project have continued in their roles even after
the project has finished, and the banks have continued to lend using the lending methodologies developed
under the PESP.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Follow-Up Projects to Support Enterprise and Financial Sector Development: The Bank will not to
support a PESP follow-up project as was originally envisioned. This is due in large part to the fact that
external financing will continue to be available to private commercial banks through the US$15.3 million
Kyrgyz Micro and Small Enterprise Finance Facility set up by the EBRD, IFC, USAID, and the
Government of Switzerland. The facility aims to provide small and medium enterprises with a long-term
source of financing through commercial banks. The credit line builds directly upon the recent achievements
of the PESP and works through two of the PCBs (among others) and uses the same lending methodologies.
The credit line also provides grant funding for technical assistance, mainly to train credit officers on credit
appraisal and risk management using best practices. The facility focuses on providing loans of less then
US$50,000 with a maximum term of three years.

The Bank is supporting two other projects that will also help to address a number of issues that were
identified under the PESP as weaknesses in the financial and private sectors: (i) the Payments and Banking
System Modernization Project (approved in March 2004) which provides technical assistance to the



                                                     - 11 -

Government in support of priority reforms to improve financial sector infrastructure, and (ii) the
Enhancement of Business Environment Project, which is currently under preparation. This project will help
improve the business climate and competitiveness through eliminating administrative barriers to businesses
and improving the technical regulatory framework and quality standards.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

During project preparation and appraisal, there were a number of positive aspects of the Bank's
performance including: (i) the identification of the need to mobilize financing for a fledgling private sector;
and (ii) the integration of the project into a comprehensive economic rehabilitation and adjustment support
framework. Furthermore, the Bank incorporated reasonable lessons focused on the need for macroeconomic
stability and strong government commitment to reform. The staffing of Bank preparation and appraisal
missions was appropriate, consisting of specialists in economics, finance, investment analysis, and business
management.

However, the negative impact of design deficiencies was substantial, resulting in a complete restructuring
of the project two years after it became effective. The main reasons for this were attributable to: (i) the lack
of a realistic market study at appraisal, which resulted in a large overestimation of size of the credit line
relative to country conditions; (ii) the reliance on a new, state-owned fund as the main vehicle for credit
delivery; (iii) the unclear relationship between the FERD and the local banks; and (iv) the overlapping roles
and responsibilities of the PAU and the FERD, which resulted in ambiguous reporting relationships and
became a continuing source of conflict. These shortcomings could have been avoided. Therefore, on
balance, the Bank's lending performance is rated as unsatisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:

While the Bank's performance during supervision varied substantially throughout implementation, on
balance, project supervision is rated as unsatisfactory. There were several positive aspects of the
supervision during the last three years of operation. The first was the Bank's flexibility in responding to the
government's request to keep the line of credit open and focus on lending to micro enterprises. The second
was the cautious approach to appraisal of sub-projects and the qualification of participating banks, which
resulted in high quality of the portfolio and PCBs. The third was the decision to prepare an
intensive-learning ICR to gain a deeper insight in the project's implementation experience and help define a
strategic future direction for supporting private enterprise in the Kyrgyz Republic.

Unfortunately, these positive elements came late in the project cycle and there were several negative
elements that overshadowed the overall supervision performance: (i) the US$12 million lending component
under the restructured project was unrealistically large; (ii) the Bank's satisfactory project implementation
ratings between 1998 and 2001, which did not accurately reflect the low level of activity of the lending
component; (iii) the frequent turnover of task managers--seven during the eight-year life of the
project--resulting in a lack of continuity and historical memory; and (iv) the lack of consistent monitoring
of agreed performance indicators in project status reports.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The overall performance of the Bank is rated as unsatisfactory.




                                                       - 12 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Borrower's performance during project preparation is rated as satisfactory. The government was
effective in establishing a coherent and comprehensive economic reform program, focusing on
privatization, stabilization and structural adjustment ahead of other former Soviet Union countries. These
actions helped to create a supportive operating environment for PESP.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The government's main role was to support a stable macroeconomic environment for private sector
development. The most recent CAS indicates that the Kyrgyz Republic made good progress in liberalizing
prices and exchange rates as well as initiating difficult reforms. As a result, the country is beginning to see
a reduction in poverty rates. Performance audits of the two Bank-financed projects (the Rehabilitation
Credit and the PESAC) found that government made progress in establishing an effective policy
environment for the implementation of PESP and improving the legal framework for support private sector
development. Regarding the PESP, the Government took a proactive stance in trying to improve the
project's performance, especially supporting the re-focusing of the project on small enterprise lending
through commercial banks. It maintained a reasonable level of commitment to the project throughout
implementation. As a result, the Government's implementation performance is rated as satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Implementing agency performance is rated unsatisfactory as a result of the unsatisfactory performance of
the original implementation agencies--the FERD and the PAU. During the first two years of the operation
of these two institutions, the project made negligible progress toward meeting its objectives. Project files
indicate that management of the FERD by the international bank was unsatisfactory. The records also
indicate that the PAU unduly interfered in the operations of the FERD, mainly in the evaluation of
sub-loans, resulting in a number of conflicts that hindered progress.

The restructuring of PESP in 1998 clarified the project's implementation structure and the performance of
both the NBKR and the PIU (formerly PAU) of Goskominvest was satisfactory. These institutions were
more effective in managing both the line of credit and technical assistance components. Project status
reports consistently noted improvements of the Apex Unit in screening business plans of prospective
sub-borrowers. The main deficiency was identified in the partial implementation of the amendment of 2002,
and especially the provision to allow the Ministry of Finance to bear the foreign exchange risk. This
depended on external factors, such as the required and lengthy process of ratification by the Parliament of
this specific provision of the 2002 amendment.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

On balance, the overall performance of the Borrower is rated as satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Lessons of Broad Applicability:

    (i) Demand surveys are critical elements of project preparation. The demand survey for the PESP
    resulted in an overestimation of credit demand and did not go far enough in identifying demand for
    specific lending products. Evaluations of demand for enterprise finance should rely not only on surveys



                                                     - 13 -

   and technical studies of specific enterprises, but also on a realistic market studies, the existing financial
   infrastructure, macroeconomic development prospects, and the overall size of the credit market.

   (ii) Private enterprises will not pay for technical assistance when there is a perception that donor
   funds are also available for such support. The PESP required partial payment from enterprises for
   technical assistance. However, this component was not successful as enterprises, generally were not
   interested such assistance, perceiving the support either as a waste or available free of charge through
   grant financing. In the end, the project did not disburse any funds for this component.

   (iii) Implementation arrangements should be straightforward and lines of authority clear. It is
   important to make sure that the implementation framework is clear from the outset of the project and
   that lines of authority are unambiguous. Because the lines of authority and limit of roles were not fully
   clear under the project, the PAU often interfered with the day-to-day operations of the FERD, including
   the credit review process.

   (iv) Line of credit projects can build in mechanisms to support business environment policy reforms.
   While the government has taken a number of important steps to strengthen the business environment,
   PESP enterprise surveys indicated a number of perceived deficiencies in the business environment
   continue to adversely affect private enterprise development. These include administrative procedures
   governing businesses; taxation policy; corruption and crime; and adequacy of the legal framework. In
   the future, it would be a useful if the project could identify mechanism to provide feedback to the
   government on many of these issues to help support the policy dialogue on business environment.

   (v) The Bank should minimize changes in task managers to ensure continuity in the project. PESP
   had seven different task managers over an eight-year period. Such changes substantially disrupted
   project supervision, reduced institutional memory, and led to frequent shifts in approaches and
   strategies. This was a problem particularly for a project with a history of implementation problems.

   (vi) Adequate attention needs to be given to strengthening the local auditing profession in
   underdeveloped financial markets. Auditing remains a major issues for SME support projects in
   underdeveloped financial and banking sectors such as the Kyrgyz Republic. In the PESP, several banks
   were disqualified from the project due to the lack of an audit by an auditing firm, satisfactory to the
   Bank. None of the local auditors met the Bank-approval standard, and most banks could not afford an
   international audit.

Key Lessons from the Intensive Learning Survey and Workshop

   (i) Project preparation should include detailed demand surveys to provide insight into the demand
   for specific financial products and services. The size of the project and the features of the sub-loans
   should be determined as accurately as possible, through a consultation process involving surveys and
   focus groups with entrepreneurs and practitioners during project preparation. The Intensive Learning
   Survey indicated that enterprises were particularly interested in the following products: leasing (94
   percent); capital financing (78 percent); mortgages (67 percent); and insurance products (61 percent).
   None of these products were offered through the project, however, this was in part due to the
   rudimentary development of the financial sector at the time of project preparation.

   (ii) Project design should be as flexible as possible so that it can be adapted to changes in the
   enabling environment during implementation. In this regard, surveys and focus groups could provide



                                                     - 14 -

    the necessary feedback information on constraints, obstacles and areas for improvement. The surveys
    and workshops should involve all stakeholders, including officials, financial intermediaries and
    enterprises.

    (iii) In countries with underdeveloped financial and banking sectors, quality of technical assistance is
    crucial to the success of a credit line. The micro-lending component benefited from the direct support
    of a consultant, who provided on-the-job training, developed policies, guidelines and procedures which
    were consistent with the existing environment and easily received and implemented by the banks.

    (iv) Financial intermediaries should be allowed to issue sub-loans in both domestic and foreign
    currency. However, the important issue remains the revenues and the cash management capacity of
    sub-borrowers, which should be an integral part of the credit evaluation process.

    (v) Interest rates should be market-based, if a market exists, or close to the measurable credit risk.
    This is critical to ensure that the credit line does not distort financial markets and so that participating
    commercial banks can fully cover their costs.

    (vi) Credit policies in countries with underdeveloped financial infrastructures should focus on the
    cash and revenue generation capacity of sub-borrowers rather than the collateral. Because court
    systems are often slow and ineffective, collateral can be difficult to realize and not provide a guarantee
    of repayment.

    (vii) The spectrum of the financial intermediaries for Bank credit lines could be enlarged to include
    microfinance organizations and/or small non-bank financial institutions. This would enable the
    development and broadening of the product and customer base, especially in the rural areas, as banks
    are sometimes reluctant to downscale their portfolios and to invest in regions with low financial
    density. It is important to recognize however, that lending to these institutions could be more risky
    because typically less developed and supervised/regulated.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

On March 10, 2004, the Kyrgyz authorities submitted a set of comments on the project and provided a
number of additional inputs to the main text of the ICR (see below). Most of these comments and
corrections have been incorporated in the text.

In addition to the comments below, the authorities actively participated in the ILI Survey and Workshop,
which took place at the end of the project in June 2003. Their comments are reflected in the summary
report in Annex 8.

                                    National Bank of the Kyrgyz Republic
                        Comments for the Implementation Completion Report of the
                                 Private Enterprise Support Project (PESP)
                                                 March 10, 2003

In response to your message of January 27th, 2004, regarding the PESP draft ICR report, the National
Bank of the Kyrgyz Republic would like to inform you of the following:



                                                      - 15 -

In Subsection 3.4, it is written that Banking Supervision Department of the National Bank of the Kyrgyz
Republic is responsible for the reliability of the Participating Commercial Banks. It is necessary to point
out that the Department never had such authorities. The Banking Supervision Department supervises the
whole banking system in accordance with the banking legislature of the Kyrgyz Republic.

In the same subsection it is necessary to note that the external audit of the Joint-Stock Commercial Bank
"Kyrgyzstan" was made by international auditing companies Arthur Andersen in 2001 and Delloite and
Touche in 2002. The data on the bank's development starting from 1999, mismatch the data according to
call reports. Since the call reports are not an open type of information and are used by the National Bank of
the Kyrgyz Republic to fulfill its regulatory functions, we offer you to exclude the above-mentioned figures
from the report.

Concerning "Energobank," it is incorrect to call it the financial unit of the power conglomeration. It is true
that there some energy groups are in the list of its share-holders, but there are not only them in the list. The
data on the bank's development for the period of 2000-2002, mismatch the data of call reports. Since the
call reports are not an open type of information and are used by the National Bank of the Kyrgyz Republic
to fulfill its regulatory functions, we offer you to exclude the above-mentioned figures from the report.

In the same subsection, in the resume of the banks, there is another incorrect information about
"Ineximbank." It is stated, that the bank was previously owned by a Turkish company, which went
bankrupt in 2001. The Bank had not Turkish founders (nor Turkish shareholders). Also we would like to
note that the participation of European Bank for Reconstruction and Development in the authorized capital
stock of the bank practically started in January 2004. From our point of view, it is necessary to make more
exact the information given about Kazakhstan's "Temirbank" obtaining a sizeable share holding of the
"Ineximbank." The data on the bank's development for the period from 1999, mismatch the data of call
reports. Since the call reports are not an open type of information and are used by the National Bank of the
Kyrgyz Republic to fulfill its regulatory functions, we offer you to exclude the above-mentioned figures
from the report.

In section 4 on "Task implementation and the results" there is incorrect information about
"Dos-Credobank" status, it is stated in the report that the license of the bank has been recalled. The
information is incorrect. "Dos-Credobank" had problems with insufficient capitalization, but the license of
the bank has not been recalled, the Bank had a limitation on implementation of some types of banking
services. The information given about the bankruptcy of "Dos-Credobank" is not correct. In the same
subsection there are given two different dates of Doscredobank's dismissal from the project (2000 and
2001).

In subsection 5.2 "Factors, controlled by the Government" it is necessary to define the rate of inflation:
Consumer price index was at the rate of 39.9 percent in 1999 and 3.7 percent in 2001.

In subsection 5.3 it is stated that after the restructuring of the project in 1998, NABK took a common
responsibility for the realization of technical assistance component of the project. The information is
incorrect, since the responsibility for the realization of the technical assistance of the project originally were
taken by the State Committee on Foreign Investments and later passed to State Committee of the Kyrgyz
Republic on State Property and Direct Investments.

In subsection 7.2 on "Supervision", an incorrect amount of the allocated funds shown i.e. 2 mln US
Dollars, while real amount of allocated funds was 3.83 mln USD, which is accordingly 32 percent of the


                                                       - 16 -

revised amount of the credit line.

Due to some unclear interpretation of the questions concerning the exchange rate, the growth of the
monetary base, in the Annex 8, we would advice you to exclude the some of the information given in the
Annex. Particularly, the statement ,given in the document: that the growth of the cash component of the
money supply is the evidence of the growth of the cash-flow rate, but the strict stating that it leads to the
growth of the informal relations, is very disputable. High level of cash US dollar flow and money supply
increase are not the reason of the hidden profit in foreign currency and imperfect reflection and the financial
information but rather a sequent of it.

Also we would like to note, that the duties of the Project administration unit, created within the General
Directorate of the State Commission of the Kyrgyz Republic on foreign investments and economic
assistance, after the first restructuring of the credit line were handed over to the Division on Investment
Advancement of the State Commission of the Kyrgyz Republic on foreign investments and economic
assistance.

From the beginning of 2001, due to the changes in the administrative structure of the Government of the
Kyrgyz Republic, the assignee on the realization of the technical assistance of the project was a State
Committee of the Kyrgyz Republic on State Property and Direct Investments.

The year of creation of the Directorate on Investments and Technical Assistance Coordination (DITAC)
written in the document, is wrong as well. In the document it is written that DITAC was created in 1998,
but it was created in 1995.

The National Bank of the Kyrgyz Republic does not agree with the results of evaluation given by ICR in
subsection 4.1 on "Results and implementation of the objectives", since, despite the fact of incomplete
realization of the project funds, we consider the project to be completed satisfactory, because of the high
level of recurrency of the loans, considering the level of overall development of the banking sector in the
Kyrgyz Republic. Adjustment of the credit funds would be much higher, if there were more participating
banks, as the National Bank mentioned more than once.

                                                  Yours sincerely,
                                               Gulnura Dyikanbaeva
                                              Chairman of the Board
                                      National Bank or the Kyrgyz Republic


(b) Cofinanciers:

Please see Implementation Completion Memo for Japanese PHRD Grant Trust Fund 22169 finalized in
March 2003.


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

As part of the Intensive Learning ICR, there has been an extensive assessment of other partners
perspectives. Please see Annex 8, Summary of Beneficiary Survey and Workshop.




                                                        - 17 -

10. Additional Information

Background and Overview of Performance of Participating Commercial Banks

Following is a short description of the performance of the four participating commercial banks. It is
important to note that data were provided, at various stages, by the commercial banks and may not be fully
consistent with NBKR data.

    (i) IneximBank. The bank was the strongest performer under PESP, and is one of the most developed
    banks in the Kyrgyz Republic. Between 2003 and 2004, a sizeable shareholding of the bank was
    acquired by Temir Bank of Kazakhstan, and EBRD. The bank is now one of the first banks engaged in
    leasing, mortgage lending and standard retail banking products. The bank is relatively large, with total
    assets of US$9.1 million, or 4.9 percent of the whole banking sector. IneximBank experienced
    impressive growth during the last five years. From end of 1999 to the end of 2002, total assets and
    portfolio increased by about 130 percent and 125 percent, respectively. The bank is sound, with
    capitalization of 26 percent. Client deposits represent only 23 percent of the balance sheet.

    (ii) AKB Kyrgyzstan. AKB Kyrgyzstan is one of the largest banks in the country, with total assets of
    about US$17.1 million, or 9.3 percent of the Kyrgyz banking sector. It is a former state-owned
    institution and privatized in the early nineties. Since 1999, total assets and loans of AKB have
    increased by 22.3 percent and 16.5 percent, respectively. Total loans and deposits represented 17
    percent and 11 percent of the whole banking sector, respectively, in 2003. The bank has a return on
    equity of 9 percent and capitalization of 21 percent. The bank was suspended from PESP in 2002
    because it did not provide financial audits by an auditing firm satisfactory to the Bank (as required
    under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement signed between the NBKR and the PCB). Despite this, the bank
    has maintained high standards in terms of governance and credit and risk management policies. This
    performance enabled the bank to be selected as PCB under the new EBRD credit line. Its staff have
    also received training from PESP consultants, and the bank is currently engaged in micro lending with
    its own funding.

    (iii) Energo Bank. The bank has had a relatively troubled history. The bank was owned by the energy
    conglomerate and other shareholders, thus most of its business came from collection of bills and
    lending to suppliers and contractors involved in energy generation and distribution. As the
    conglomerate started to privatize activities and to reduce its monopoly position in the country, the bank
    was slowly restructured to focus more on commercial and mortgage lending to medium-sized
    customers. Despite these changes, the bank managed to grow and to remain profitable throughout the
    life of the project. Its assets grew by about 35 percent from 2000 to 2002 to account for about 4.9
    percent of the banking sector. Energo is now well capitalized, with total capitalization of 19 percent
    and a return on equity (ROE) for 2002 of about 9 percent. The portfolio is relatively large, or 7.5
    percent of the whole banking sector and 43 percent of its total assets. Total deposits represent 7.7
    percent of the banking sector base and 73 percent of the bank's assets.

    (iv) DosCredo Bank. The bank was a relatively active participant in the PESP until it was suspended
    from the project in 2001, as a result of its cross-participation with another commercial bank. Netting
    this position, DosCredo was undercapitalized. The bank went bankrupt a few months after it was
    suspended from the project, following the NBKR's increase in minimum statutory capital requirements
    in July 2001. Despite the bank's insolvency, its sub-projects are still performing.




                                                      - 18 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


A. Project Implementation Indictors at Appraisal

Indicator       Target                          Actual
Recruitment     Before Credit effectiveness     Achieved with delay. There credit became effective in
and                                             January 1996. The Project Status Report of March 1996
Appointment of                                  indicates that three managers of the FERD and seven
FERD/TA                                         local counterparts were fully operational.
Managers
Creation and    Creation Before Board           Achieved with delay. The PAU became fully operational
Staffing of the presentation and fully          by the effectiveness date of the project.
PAU             operational by May 31, 1995
Credit          Three months after Board        Not achieved. The Credit's effectiveness date was about
Effectiveness   approval.                       six months later than originally planned due to
                                                additional time required for the Parliament to ratify the
                                                Development Credit Agreement and operational
                                                problems with the Orient Bank, the local counterpart
                                                institution for the lending component.
Disbursement    Beginning four months after     Not achieved. The project did not become effective until
                Board approval with Credit fullyeight months after Board approval. By the mid-term
                utilized by December 31, 2000. review only US$0.5 million of the project's main
                                                component had disbursed only 4 percent of the original
                                                allocation. The Credit was not fully utilized, and the
                                                Closing Date was extended.
Compliance      In line with Development        Partially Achieved. There is no indication that the
with Legal      Credit Agreement                Borrower was in violation of any covenants. However,
Covenants                                       several project reports indicate that the PAU interfered
                                                substantially with the operations of the FERD and the
                                                Fund Manager, which was a violation of the
                                                Development Credit Agreement.



B. Performance Indicators at Appraisal

                  Target                          Actual
 Financial
 Sector
Review of the   By September 30, 1996            Not applicable. This component was dropped from the
Insurance Sector                                 project.
Policy and      Completion of a restructuring    Not applicable. This component was dropped from the
Institutional   plan for local insurance         project.
Impact          companies
                Formulation of new insurance     Not applicable. The planned study of the insurance
                regulations                      sector was dropped from the project.
                Feedback to the FY1996           Not reported.
                Financial Sector Adjustment
                Credit
                Strengthening of the Krygyz      Not achieved. The NBKR revoked the bank's license in
                Oriental Bank                    1996, and the bank was subsequently liquidated.




                                                  - 19 -

Enterprise       Completed diagnostic work on at Achieved. The project completed diagnostic studies for
Development      least 50 enterprises                a total of 56 enterprises of which 30 were in the
                                                     engineering industry and 26 were in the food and textile
                                                     industries. Consultants prepared feasibility studies of 20
                                                     enterprises for appraisal by the Fund Manager.
                 Assistance to at least 20           Partially achieved. There was no activity on the formal
                 enterprises in implementing         technical assistance component for enterprises due to
                 business plans                      enterprises' unwillingness to pay the required
                                                     co-payment for services. However, the FERD did carry
                                                     out a considerable amount of complementary quick
                                                     diagnostic work for the preparation of 17 business
                                                     plans.
                 At least 30 percent of the cost of Not achieved. Project records do not indicate any
                 enterprise support recovered        disbursements for enterprise support and related
                 through IDA sub-loans.              co-payments as originally anticipated.
                 Improvement in productivity and Not reported. During the time when these indicators
                 efficiency of enterprises assisted, were applicable (prior to 1998), the project provided
                 indicated by financial viability    financing to one enterprise, and there is no analysis of
                 and profitability.                  productivity indicators or financial viability.
Training and     Number of local staff and           Not reported. This indicator was not monitored in the
Local            managers of project units and       Project Status Reports during the time when it was
Participation    enterprises trained and ratio of    applicable (prior to 1998).
                 trained to total project unit staff
Performance of   Ex-post volume of foreign           Not reported. During the time when these indicators
Sub-loans        exchanged generated by project were applicable (prior to 1998), the project provided
                 financed                            financing to one enterprise, and there is no information
                                                     available on the foreign exchange this project has
                                                     generated.
                  Success in redirecting sales to     Not reported. During the time when this indicator
                  hard currency markets.              was applicable, Project Status Reports do not report
                                                      on the issue.

C. Performance/Impact Indicators at Restructuring in 1998

Indicator                                      Achievement
Improved Risk Management Systems and           Achieved. Project Status Reports and the results of the ILI
Management                                     Beneficiary Survey indicate that staff of the participating
                                               banks substantially improved their knowledge of risk
                                               management.
Enhancement of Risk Management Systems Not Achieved. This is mainly because the Bank Supervision
in NBKR's Bank Supervision Department          Department of NBKR received technical assistance under
                                               USAID funding. Technical assistance included: (i) a resident
                                               advisor, who worked for about three years with the Banking
                                               Supervision and Licensing and Methodology Departments to
                                               improve the capacity of the off- and on-site supervision,
                                               including the development of a new early warning and
                                               reporting system; and (ii) computer software for risk
                                               management.
Improved infrastructure and capability in      Achieved. The project established a Technical Assistance
the Investment Promotion and Private           Unit for enterprises in the Investment Promotion and Private
Sector Development section of GoskominvestSector Development Unit of Goskominvest. A short-term
                                               consultant and long-term adviser were recruited to manage



                                                      - 20 -

                                            the technical assistance and training activities designed to
                                            help enterprises develop bankable projects. In addition, under
                                            the Japanese grant funding, a new software package for
                                            business planning was acquired.
Improved financial management and            Achieved with qualification. Project Status Reports indicate
project preparation /appraisal capability in enterprises received training in these areas but do not
enterprises that would become commercial     provide qualitative or quantitative details on the
bank customers and use the IDA credit        improvements in their operations. However, there were
line                                         some notable improvements that resulted from the new
                                             software for business planning and financial analysis.
                                             Business plans are reported to have substantially improved
                                             in terms of quality.



D. Performance Indicators with the Project Amendment of 2002

Indicator                                   Achievement
Two staff from each participating bank       Achieved. The project hired a consultant to help the
and two from the Apex group to be trained    Borrower and the PCBs (i) define the upper and lower
in micro-finance and small business          micro credit boundaries and activities that qualify for
lending                                      financing; (ii) develop and implement a micro-credit
                                             program using PESP funds; (iii) introduce interested PCBs
                                             to best practices in micro-financing through workshops
                                             and training programs; and (iv) develop streamlined
                                             banking procedures conducive to micro and small lending.
                                             As a result, a number of staff of the commercial banks and
                                             in the Apex Unit of the NBKR received extensive training.
                                             The numbers of trained staff were not monitored explicitly.
Sub-Borrowers to give evidence of growth    Undetermined. Project Status Reports do not contain
in: (i) employment; (ii) output; (iii)      information on these indicators. However, the report of the
dollar/som value of output                  ILI Beneficiary Survey and Workshop noted that 93 percent
                                            of the respondents of the survey had reported positive
                                            changes in income. The survey also indicated that there were
                                            no significant changes in the level of employment, only in the
                                            salaries.
Increased credibility of banks among        Achieved. The number of sub-borrowers increased,
borrowers and non-borrowers based on: (i) particularly after 2001 with the shift in focus on lending to
increasing numbers of sub-borrowers         micro enterprises. Project Status Reports indicate that the
(ii) continued high level of loan           repayment rate on loans continued to be high at 95 percent.
repayments




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

 Following is an estimate of the projects costs according to the Bank's available records. Due to the
 numerous changes in staffing and institutional changes during the life of the project, the borrower was
 unable to fully confirm the details of the data.

 Financing Plan


               Financing Plan                                               Actual/Latest
                                                         Estimate
                                                                              Estimate
                                                                                 in US$ .000
              Disbursements                            Appraisal               Actual


 IDA                                                           15,000                4,583
 Orient Bank                                                        780                  -

 Other Local Banks                                                  750                  -
 Sub-borrowers                                                  1,000                    -
 Japanese Government                                            2,750                2,682
  Cancellations                                                                      8,989
 TOTAL                                                         20,280               16,254

 Note: Local co-financing did not materialize.


 Project Costs by Component
 Please note that differences in the total project costs are the result of fluctuations of the SDR/US$
 exchange rate. In addition, local co-financing is not included in the 1998 restructuring cost estimates.



                                                                                                           in 000 US Dollars
                                                               Estimate                     Actual/Latest Estimate

         Project Cost by Component                     Appraisal      Restructuring                  in %             in %
                                                                                       Actual
                                                         (1995)         (1998)*                   (Appraisal)   (Restructuring)


  Investment Projects (Credit Line) a/                     16,180           13,196        4,134           26                 31
  Technical Assistance                                      3,750            3,031        2,774           78                 96
 Audit of Project Accounts                                     150               11         170           13                182
 Contingency                                                   200            -            -                -                  -
 Refund of PPF                                                    0            174          187             -               107
 Unallocated                                                      0            108
 Sub-Total Project Cost                                    20,280           16,520        7,265           36                 44
 Credit Cancellation b/                                                                   8,989           44                 54
 Total Project Cost                                        20,280           16,520       16,254           80                 98


 a/ An estimated contribution of US$14.18 million equivalent from IDA and US$2.00 million equivalent from local counterpart
 banks. Due to medium-term capital limitations in the commercial banking system, funds from counterpart banks did not
 materialize.

 b/ Cancellation of funds allocated to the Credit Line, resulting from a project amendment in 2002 and cancellation of
 undisbursed balance at closing.

 Source: SAR and actual amounts by category from Loan No. 27170, and Trust Funds (Nos. 22161 and 22169)




                                                                    - 22 -

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                      1
                                                            Procurement Method
       Expenditure Category                ICB                  NCB                     2         N.B.F.        Total Cost
                                                                                 Other
  1. Works                                 0.00                 0.00               0.00            0.00             0.00
                                          (0.00)               (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)
  2. Goods                                 0.00                 0.00             150.00            0.00            150.00
                                          (0.00)               (0.00)           (150.00)          (0.00)          (150.00)
  3. Services                              0.00                 0.00            2220.00            0.00           2220.00
                                          (0.00)               (0.00)          (2220.00)          (0.00)         (2220.00)
  4. Miscellaneous (*)                     0.00                 0.00           14180.00            0.00           14180.00
                                          (0.00)               (0.00)          (14180.00)         (0.00)         (14180.00)
  5. Miscellaneous                         0.00                 0.00               0.00            0.00             0.00
                                          (0.00)               (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)
  6. Miscellaneous                         0.00                 0.00               0.00            0.00             0.00
                                          (0.00)               (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)            (0.00)
      Total                                0.00                 0.00           16550.00            0.00           16550.00
                                          (0.00)               (0.00)          (16550.00)         (0.00)         (16550.00)
  (*) Including sub-projects under the Investment Projects Component.
       Note: Excluding US$950,000 of PPF Refinancing.

  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                     1
                                                           Procurement Method
       Expenditure Category                ICB                 NCB                     2         N.B.F.        Total Cost
                                                                                Other
  1. Works                                 0.00                 0.00              0.00            0.00             0.00
                                          (0.00)               (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)
  2. Goods                                 0.00                 0.00              0.00            0.00             0.00
                                          (0.00)               (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)
  3. Services                              0.00                 0.00              0.00            1.95             1.95
                                          (0.00)               (0.00)            (0.00)           (1.46)          (1.46)
  4. Miscellaneous (*)                     0.00                 0.00              4.13            0.00             4.13
                                          (0.00)               (0.00)            (4.13)           (0.00)          (4.13)
  5. Miscellaneous                         0.00                 0.00              0.00            0.00             0.00
                                          (0.00)               (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)
  6. Miscellaneous                         0.00                 0.00              0.00            0.00             0.00
                                          (0.00)               (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)
      Total                                0.00                 0.00              4.13            1.95             6.08
                                          (0.00)               (0.00)            (4.13)           (1.46)          (5.59)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      sub-projects, (ii) managing the project, and (iii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)



                                                            - 23 -

                                                                                                    Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                 Actual/Latest Estimate
                               IDA         Govt.        CoF.        IDA         Govt.       CoF.      IDA     Govt. CoF.
Investment Projects           14.18         2.00        0.00        4.13        0.00        0.00      29.1    0.0    0.0
Technical Assistance           0.97         0.18        2.60        0.24        0.00        2.53      24.7    0.0    97.3
Project Audit                  0.00         0.00        0.15        0.02        0.00        0.15      0.0     0.0   100.0
Refunding of PPF               0.00         0.00        0.00        0.19        0.00        0.00      0.0     0.0    0.0
Contingency                    0.20         0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00      0.0     0.0    0.0
Cancellation (*)               0.00         0.00        0.00        -8.99       0.00        0.00      0.0     0.0    0.0

  (*) Cancellation due to project restructuring in 1998.
  Note: The appraisal estimate of Government financing includes co-financing by local enterprises to investment
  projects and technical assistance, including a contribution by Orient Bank. Co-financing comes from the Japanese
  Government PHRD grants.




                                                          - 24 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable to this project.




                                      - 25 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              12/00/93                  1    COUNTRY OFFICER
                                        1    SENIOR OPERATIONS
                                             OFFICER
                                        1    ECONOMIST

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              06/00/94                  1    TASK MANAGER
                                        1    PRIVATE SECTOR
                                             DEVELOPMENT SPECIALIST
                                        1    BANKING SECTOR
                                             SPECIALIST
                                        1    BUSINESS MANAGEMENT
                                             CONSULTANT
                                        1    BANKING SECTOR
                                             CONSULTANT
                                        1    FINANCIAL ECONOMIST
                                        1    LEGAL SPECIALIST
                                        1    SR. INVESTMENT OFFICER
                                        1    YPP-FINANCIAL
                                             SECTOR/INSTITUTIONS
              12/00/94                  1    PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL
                                             OFFICER
              (Post Appraisal           1    BANKING SECTOR
              Mission)                       CONSULTANT

 Supervision
              03/20/1996                2    SR. OPERATIONS                   S               S
                                             OFFICER (1); PR.
                                             FINANCIAL OFFICER (1)
              10/26/1996                1    PR. FINANCIAL OFFICER (1)        U               S
              02/17/1997                1    SR. OPERATIONS OFFICER           U               S
                                             (1)
              10/25/1997                1    FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1)         HU            HU
              02/17/1998                1    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER (1)          S               S
              11/03/1998                3    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER              S               S
                                             (1); FIN. SECTOR SPECIALIST
                                             (2)
              05/20/1999                1    PROGRAM TEAM LEADER (1)          S               S
              10/26/1999                2     FIN. SECTOR SPECIALIST(2)       S               S
              05/25/2000                2    FIN. SECTOR SPECIALIST (2)       S               S
              09/15/2000                3    FIN. SECTOR SPEC. (1);           S               S
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1)
              09/15/2000                1    TTL (1)                          S               S
              11/12/2000                2    SR. FIN. SECTOR                  S               S



                                              - 26 -

                                                  SPECIALIST; FIN. SECTOR
                                                  CONSULTANT
               06/06/2001                     1   LEAD FIN. SPECIALIST                   S          S
               06/22/2001                     1   TTL (1)                                S          S
               11/07/2001                     3   TTL (1); LEAD FIN.                     S          S
                                                  SPECIALIST; FIN SECTOR
                                                  CONSULTANT
               02/2002-06/2002                1   FINANCIAL SECTOR                       S          S
               (Field-based                       CONSULTANT
               supervision)
               09/01/2002                     1   TTL (1)                                S          S
               11/11/2002                     3   TTL (1); SR. FIN. SECTOR               S          S
                                                  SPECIALIST; FIN. SECTOR
                                                  CONSULTANT
               02/10/2003                     2   SR. FIN. SECTOR                        S          S
                                                  SPECIALIST; FIN. SECTOR
                                                  CONSULTANT
               06/10/2003                     2   TTL (1); FIN. SECTOR                   S          S
                                                  CONSULTANT
               06/18/2003                     2   TTL (1); FIN. SECTOR                  U           U
                                                  CONSULTANT

 ICR
               12/00/03                      2     TTL (1); BANKING                     U           U
                                                   SECTOR CONSULTANT



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                       Actual/Latest Estimate
                                        No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                    NA                            NA
  Appraisal/Negotiation                         NA                          506.1
  Supervision                                   NA                          855.6
  ICR                                           NA                            31.0
  Total                                         NA                        1.392.7
Note: No costs of project identification and preparation reported; NA=Not available in the project
imformation system.




                                                   - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


A. Selected project preparation, appraisal, and supervision documents

1. Staff Appraisal Report, The Kyrgyz Republic, Private Enterprise Support Project, April 14, 1995,
   Report No. 13893-K.
2. Project Reappraisal Mission Back-to-Office Report, April 15, 1998.
3. PESP Aide Memoires and Project Status Reports.

B. Project credit and grant documentation

1. World Bank Integrated Controller's Systems, Category Recap Data as of November 18, 2003 for
   Credit No. 27170, Trust Fund 22161, and Trust Fund 22169.
2. Implementation Completion Memorandum for PHRD Grant TF21619
3. Letter of June 3, 1996 from the International Development Association to the State Commission on
   Foreign Investment and Economic Assistance, Re: Kyrgyz Republic, Private Enterprise Support
   Project (Credit No. 2717-KG), and Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement.
4. Letter of September 15, 1998, from the International Development Association to the Ministry of
   Finance, Re: Private Enterprise Support Project (Credit No. 2717-KG), Amendment to the
   Development Credit Agreement.
5. Letter of May 31, 2002 from the International Development Association to the Ministry of Finance,
   Kyrgyz Republic, Re: Credit No. 2717-KG (Private Enterprise Support Project) Amendment to the
   Development Credit Agreement.
6. Memorandum to ECA Vice President, Johannes Linn, from Country Director ECCU8, April 26, 2002.

C. Related project reports and strategy documents

1. Project Performance Audit, Kyrgyz Republic, Rehabilitation Credit (RC), Credit No. 2491-KG and
   Privatization and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit (PESAC), Credit No. 2639-KG, August 28,
   2000. Rehabilitation Credit (Cr. No. 2491-KG), Report No. 20900.
2. Memorandum of the President of the International Development Association and the International
   Finance Corporation to the Executive Directors on a Country Assistance Strategy for the Kyrgyz
   Republic, April 22, 2003.
3. Intensive Learning ICR Survey and Consultant Report, May 2003.

D. Sector reports

1. Ernst and Young, Private Enterprise Restructuring in the Kyrgyz Republic: Engineering Sectors,
   Feasibility Studies (date uncertain but circa 1995/96).
2. Ernst and Young, Private Enterprise Restructuring in the Kyrgyz Republic: Food and Textile Sectors,
   Feasibility Studies (date uncertain but circa 1995/96).
3. SIAR, Social Marketing and Research, Draft Report on Private Enterprise Support Project Survey,
   Prepared for the World Bank, April 2003.




                                                  - 30 -

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results

                           Intensive Learning Implementation Completion Report
                                             Survey and Workshop
                                                Summary Note

An Intensive Learning ICR (ILICR) was organized to supplement the findings of the Implementation
Completion Report for the Private Enterprise Support Project (PESP). The main objectives of the ILICR
were to summarize the achievements of the PESP project in meeting the original project development
objectives (PDOs), the lessons learned during the implementation of the project and their
applicability/replicability in designing similar projects in the future. The ILICR was organized on a
participatory approach basis, involving the main stakeholders of the project, including the sub-borrowers,
the participating commercial banks (participating banks), the representatives of the National Bank of the
Kyrgyz Republic (NBKR) and the Ministry of Finance.

The ILICR focused on the last phase of the project, after the 1998 restructuring. This is primarily due to
the fact that prior to that date only one sub-loan was disbursed, but also because the implementing and
management agencies and most of the project's stakeholders and practitioners were not involved or
available for interviews. The ILICR involved a survey/interview organized by a local consulting firm
(SIAR). The survey included 75 stakeholders: six SME sub-borrowers and 44 small sub-borrowers, eight
bankers (three from Ineximbank, three from AKB Kyrgyzstan and two from Energo Bank), three
representatives of the NBKR and four Ministry of Finance officials. The survey was followed by a
workshop to discuss the findings of the survey and the overall performance of the project. The workshop
was organized in Bishkek during the Bank's final supervision mission of the project in June 2003. About 20
of the interviewed stakeholders participated in the workshop.

Findings

During the workshop, the stakeholders discussed the achievements of the project in meeting the original
PDOs set forth during appraisal in 1995. The stakeholders confirmed that the lack of disbursement was the
main reasons for not meeting the PDOs, as the project failed to facilitate the delivery of financial resources
to the private sector to the extent originally anticipated, and this despite the decisive improvements after the
NBKR took over the implementation responsibilities in 1998. The officials also indicated that a number of
factors contributed to the disappointing performance, including: (i) deficiencies in the project design,
including excessively complicated implementation arrangements; and (ii) the macroeconomic conditions and
business environment of the country on the aftermath of the first banking and financial crisis of 1995. The
enterprises and the representatives of the banks did not comment specifically on the PDOs and the overall
achievements of the project, as most of them were involved only after the 1998 restructuring and because
they had little involvement and knowledge of the project structure.

Following the 1998 restructuring, the stakeholders of the project, including participating banks and
enterprises, identified the following as the main obstacles to project implementation: (i) the lengthy
approval procedures, with too many parties involved in the decision making process; (ii) the limited number
of participating banks and their reluctance to operate in the regions; and (iii) the excessive collateral
requirements. The representatives of the banks also indicated that the economic conditions and the business
environment continued to be constraining factors after the Russian crisis, especially in the business
environment which did not favor lending and small-scale entrepreneurship thus reducing the opportunity to
find bankable projects. Interestingly, corruption, inefficient judiciary and excessive inspections and
requirements ranked as the major factors affecting businesses in the country, even more than inflation, high


                                                      - 31 -

          interest rates, transportation costs and taxation.

          The entrepreneurs were specifically asked the benefits of the projects and the main obstacles encountered in
          dealing with the project's requirements, especially the application and approval procedures. The enterprises
          considered the terms and conditions of the sub-loans the main elements of attractiveness of the PESP
          project, compared to other sources of financing available in the country. In particular, 88 percent of the
          sub-borrowers considered the interest rate extremely competitive and the main decision factor in applying
          to PESP. Others ranked the availability of long-term financing and the quality of the participating banks,
          respectively. In few cases, and especially enterprises under the SME component, indicated the application
          and approval procedures as major constraints to the project. Collateral requirements were perceived as
          major impediment in applying for funding to the banks, especially for the SMEs. Collateral requirements
          differed depending on the nature of the collateral: real estate, for example, was about 148 percent of the
          loan amount, while vehicles and machineries were about 90 percent of the loan amount. (This result was
          surprising, since the subsidiary loan agreement signed by the participating banks and the NBKR
          established 120 percent of the sub-loan amount as minimum collateral requirement). Most of the small
          entrepreneurs, 71 percent, indicated that the minimum size of the sub-loans was too small and, in some
          cases, the maturity was too short. In particular, 64 percent of the small borrowers indicated that, if
          possible, they would have borrowed up to US$50,000.

          The following table summarizes the enterprises that were interviewed for the survey and categorizes them
          by nature of business, revenues, employees, and import/export orientation.

                                      Table II. Type of Enterprise and Nature of Business

Characteristic                                      Basis                        SMEs           Small
                                                                                              Borrowers
Nature of Business                          Trade                                1               30
                                            Manufacturing                        7                8
                                            Services                             1               13
Years in Business                           Less than 1                          0                3
                                            1  3                                0               13
                                            3  7                                5               22
                                            Over 7                               4               13
Number of Employees                         Less than 5                          1               16
                                            5  25                               2               28
                                            25  100                             5                5
                                            Over 100                             1                2
Annual Revenues                             Less than US$10,000                  1               33
[Two enterprises refused to answer          US$10,000  US$50,000                1               13
this question, and another two said         US$50,000  US$200,000               3                6
they had no revenues]                       Over US$200,000                      3                5
Currency Denomination of                    Som                                  82              86
Revenues (%)                                US$                                  8                7
                                            Other                                8                7
Import                                      Yes                                  67              87
(raw material&equipment-%)                  No                                   33              13
Export                                      Yes                                  33              18
(finished goods&services-%)                 No                                   67              82




                                                               - 32 -

 The following table presents the major obstacles and benefits of the project according to the respondents of
 the survey.
                                          Table II. Benefits and Obstacles

      Responses                   SME Lending Component                      Small Lending Component
Beneficial factors                   Favorable terms and conditions           Streamlined application
                           of the loans (interest rate and maturity)  procedures
                                     Stabilization of foreign                 Simplified approval process
                           exchange                                            Favorable terms and conditions
                                     Improvements in the quality     of the loans (interest rate)
                           and viability of business plans
Obstacles                            Complicated approval process             The US$5,000 limit of the loan
                                     Excessive collateral                     Complicated application
                           requirements                               process
                                     Market and business                      Collateral requirements
                           environment
                                     No sufficient number of PCBs


 Benefits

 The survey and the workshop also tried to assess the financial, economic and developmental benefits of the
 PESP credit to the main beneficiaries of the project, the enterprises and the participating banks. Enterprise
 and participating banks were asked for comments, suggestions and proposals for changes to the credit line
 in order to: (i) identify areas for improvement; and to (ii) assess the developmental impact of the project
 and its replicability.

 In general, the interviewed enterprises were largely satisfied with the services rendered under the project: in
 particular 88 percent responded that they would apply again for PESP sub-loans. A total of 93 percent said
 that they were able to achieve the objectives of their business plans, and 68 percent responded that PESP
 financing had been critical in achieving these objectives. The enterprises provided comments on the main
 qualitative and quantitative benefits of the PESP financing. Among the main four qualitative/quantitative
 benefits of the PESP sub-loan, the enterprises ranked the possibility to improve: (i) their revenues
 generation capacity; (ii) product quality; (iii) product diversification; and (iv) cash flow management. In
 particular, 58 percent of the interviewed enterprises were able to increase revenues up to 50 percent after
 borrowing from PESP, and 18 percent of above 50 percent. Only three enterprises out of sixty posted
 losses after borrowing from the PESP. Very few enterprises were able to hire additional employees, but
 most of them were able to increase salaries.

 The interviewed officials, participating banks and enterprises also commented on the replicability of the
 project experience and proposed suggestions for improvements. Most of the respondents wanted to broaden
 the range of available products to include leasing, capital financing, mortgages and insurance products. The
 second proposed improvement was to broaden the number and type of intermediaries, to include
 micro-lenders and credit unions. Most of the enterprises suggested to completely eliminate the NBKR
 oversight and approval requirement, and most of the officials instead suggested to introduce Som lending
 into the PESP scheme.

 When asked to comment on the replicability of the experience under the project, the officials and the
 participating banks confirmed that the project was particularly useful in: (i) enhancing credit and risk
 management policies; (ii) reaching a better understanding on business planning and cash flow analysis; (iii)


                                                          - 33 -

recognizing the importance of financial information in credit decisions; and (iv) exploring the possibility to
expand into retail and micro-lending. The participating banks particularly stressed this last point during
the workshop. The participating banks confirmed that the micro-lending credit procedures, policies and
guidelines developed with the technical assistance provided under the PESP project will continue to be
applied in the future. They also confirmed that they will continue to target micro-borrowers and to
downscale the banks' portfolios to minimize risks and maximize revenues.

A surprising result of the survey was that the US$
denomination of the sub-loans under PESP was not a major                      Currency Preference

issue according to officials, representatives of the banks and                Other
entrepreneurs. In particular, only 37 percent of the                          17%
respondent enterprises expressed their preference for local
                                                                                                   Som
currency lending, compared to 46 percent which would                                               37%
prefer to borrow in US$. This result was particularly
interesting considering that most of the respondent
enterprises import their raw materials and equipment from
abroad, while most of the revenues are generated
domestically. This could be due to the fact that during the
last four to five years the Som exchange rate stabilized, if                  US$
                                                                              46%
not appreciated, against the US$, thus increasing
enterprises' confidence in financing their projects in foreign currency. However, there are also signs that the
Kyrgyz economy is further dollarizing and informality is growing. The evidence shows that the NBKR
continues to buy currency while the economy improves and the monetary base increases, thus possibly
indicating possible increases in the level of informality in the country. Dollarization and informality could
have been factors affecting PESP in terms of un-disclosed revenues in foreign currencies and inaccurate
financial information disclosure. It is interesting to note that all funds disbursed and outstanding under
PESP represent about 35 percent of the foreign currency denominated long-term credit portfolio of the
whole banking sector in the Kyrgyz Republic.

Conclusions

The ILICR survey and workshop were extremely helpful in providing critical information to evaluate the
success of the project and the possible lessons applicable to project design, implementation and supervision.
The main conclusions and lessons of the ILICR exercise are:

(i)       the size of the project and the features of the sub-loans should be determined more accurately,
maybe through a consultation process involving surveys and focus groups with entrepreneurs and




                                                       - 34 -

practitioners during project preparation;

(ii)     the project design should be as flexible as possible, to enable to adapt to changes in the enabling
environment during implementation. In this regard, surveys and focus groups could provide the necessary
feedback information on constraints, obstacles and areas for improvement. The surveys and workshops
should involve all stakeholders, including officials, financial intermediaries and enterprises;

(iii)    in underdeveloped financial and banking sectors, technical assistance and the quality of this
assistance is crucial in the success of a credit line. The micro-lending component benefitted from the direct
support of a consultant, which developed policies, guidelines and procedures which were consistent with the
existing environment and easily received and implemented by the banks;

(iv)     financial intermediaries should be allowed to issue sub-loans in both domestic and foreign
currency. However, the important issue remains the revenues and the cash management capacity of
sub-borrowers, which should be integral part of the credit evaluation process;

(v)      interest rates should be market-based, if a market exists, or close to the more measurable credit
risk; and

(vi)     credit policies in countries like Kyrgyzstan, with underdeveloped financial infrastructure, should
focus on the cash and revenue generation capacity of sub-borrowers rather than the collateral, which seems
more a blockage than a guarantee of repayment.

In addition to the above, the spectrum of the financial intermediaries for Bank credit lines should be
enlarged to include microfinance organizations and/or small non-bank financial institutions. This would
enable the development and broadening of the product and customer base, especially in the rural areas, as
banks are sometimes reluctant to downscale their portfolios and to invest in regions with low financial
density. Lastly, auditing remains a major issue for credit lines in underdeveloped financial and banking
sectors. Optimal methodologies for qualifying auditors and/or technical assistance to train auditors on bank
audits should be incorporated in the project design, if necessary.




                                                       - 35 -

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results

The results of the Workshop were summarized in Annex 8, together with the results of the Survey.




                                               - 36 -

- 37 -

