Page  1
September 15, 1998
His Excellency Talaibek Koichumanov 
Minister of Finance 
Ministry of Finance 
Erkindik Boulevard,
58 Bishkek 720874 Kyrgyz Republic
Your Excellency:
                 Re:
Credit Number 2717-KG (Private Enterprise Support Project)
Amendment to Credit Agreement
We refer to the Credit Agreement (the Agreement) between us for the 
above-captioned Project dated June 20, 1995, as amended, and to our discussions on the 
subject of amending said Agreement.
We are pleased to inform you that we hereby agree to amend the Agreement as set 
forth in the attachment to this letter.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by signing and dating the form of 
confirmation on the attached copy of this letter and returning said copy to us. The 
amendments will take effect upon provision to the Association of satisfactory evidence 
that: (i) the Financial Agency Agreement, satisfactory to the Association, has been 
executed on behalf of, and is legally binding upon, the parties thereto in accordance 
with its terms; and (ii) at least one Subsidiary Credit Agreement, satisfactory to the 
Association, has been executed on behalf of and is legally binding upon the parties 
thereto in accordance with its terms.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
By /s/ Kiyoshi Kodera 
Director 
Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic and Turkmenistan Country Unit 
Europe and Central Asia Region
CONFIRMED:
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
By /s/ Talaibek Koichumanov
Minister of Finance
Date:  October 1, 1998
ATTACHMENT
1.
Section 1.02 is amended to read:
“Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the 
respective meanings 
therein set forth and the following additional terms have 
the following meanings:
(a)
“Apex Group” means the separate group established within the NBKR 
for the 
carrying out of Parts A and B (ii) of the Project;
(b)
“Beneficiary” means a private enterprise to which a Participating 
Commercial Bank proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan, whose subscribed 
Page  2
and fully paid in 
capital is controlled at least 51% by private investors;
(c)
“Financial Agency Agreement” means the agreement to be entered 
into 
between 
the Borrower and the NBKR, as the same may be amended from time to 
time, pursuant to which 
the NBKR, through the Apex Group, shall act as the 
Borrower’s financial agent for the 
purpose of carrying out Parts A and B 
(ii) of the Project;
(d)
“Goskominvest” means the Borrower’s State Investment Agency; 
(e)
“Investment Sub-loan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by 
a 
Participating Commercial Bank to a Beneficiary for a Sub-project 
out of the proceeds of the 
Credit for capital expenditures for investment in 
fixed assets other than land, including 
buildings (except for housing), plant 
and machinery, equipment, vehicles, as well as 
expenditures for other 
goods and services related to these capital expenditures;
(f)
“NBKR” means the National Bank of the Kyrgyz Republic;
(g)
“Participating Commercial Bank” or “PCB” means any commercial bank 
with which 
the Borrower, through the Apex Group, has entered into a Subsidiary 
Credit Agreement;
(h)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation 
advance 
granted by 
the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of 
letters dated April 28, 1994 and  May 21, 1994 between the Borrower and the 
Association;
(i)
“Soms” means the Borrower’s lawful currency;
(j)
“Special Account” A” and “Special Account B” mean the accounts 
referred to in 
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement. Special Account A and Special 
Account B are collectively 
referred to as “Special Accounts”;
(k)
“Sub-loan” means an Investment Sub-loan or a Working Capital 
Sub-loan;
(l)
“Sub-project” means an investment or a business plan to be carried 
out or 
prepared by a Beneficiary, and approved by a Participating 
Commercial Bank, utilizing the 
proceeds of a Sub-loan;
(m)
“Subsidiary Credit Agreement” and “Subsidiary Credit” mean, 
respectively, any 
agreement entered into by the Borrower, through the Apex Group, 
and a Participating 
Commercial Bank for the purpose of carrying out Part 
A of the Project, and any credit made 
pursuant to a Subsidiary Credit Agreement; and
(n)
“Working Capital Sub-loan” means a loan made or proposed to be 
made by a 
Participating Commercial Bank to a Beneficiary for a Sub-project 
out of the proceeds of the 
Credit for all working capital expenditures (except 
for imports of consumer goods), for the 
procurement of raw materials, 
semi-finished goods, spare parts or services.
2.
Section 2.02 (a) is amended to read:
“Section 2.02(a).  The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement 
for: (i) expenditures made 
(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) 
in respect of the reasonable cost of 
services and training required for Part 
B of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit; 
and (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be 
paid) on 
account of withdrawals made by a Beneficiary under a Sub-loan to meet the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Sub-project in respect of which 
the 
withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested.”
3.
In Section 2.03, the Closing Date is amended to read “June 30, 2002”.
4.
Section 2.09 is deleted.
Page  3
5.
Section 3.01 is amended to read:
“Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this 
end, shall carry out or 
cause to be carried out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, economic, 
financial, environmental and technical practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for 
the Project.
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this 
Section and 
except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall carry 
out or cause to be carried out the Project in accordance 
with the Implementation Program set 
forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.”
6.
Section 3.02 is deleted.
7.
Sections 3.03 and 3.04 are renumbered, respectively, as Sections 3.02 and 3.03.
8.
Section 3.05 is renumbered as Section 3.04 and amended to read:
“Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall, by June 30, 2000, carry out a 
mid-term review 
and prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, a report on the 
progress achieved under the Project and the 
appropriateness of the implementation 
arrangements for the Project and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following 
such date.
(b)
The Borrower shall review with the Association, by September 30, 
2000, or such 
later date as the Association shall request, the report referred 
to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required 
to ensure the efficient completion of 
the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of said 
report and the Association's views on the matter.”
9.
Section 4.01(a) is amended to read:
“Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained 
separate 
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound 
accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the 
project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for 
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.”
10.
Section 4.01(b) is deleted.
11.
Section 4.01(c) is renumbered as Section 4.01(b) and, in the first line of 
letter (i), the words “paragraphs (a) and (b)” are replaced by the words “paragraph 
(a).”
12.
Section 4.01(d) is renumbered as Section 4.01(c).
13.
Section 5.01 is amended to read:
“Pursuant to Section 6.02(h) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional 
events are specified, namely, that: (a) the Borrower or any other 
authority having 
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the 
dissolution, disestablishment, or 
suspension of the operations of 
Goskominvest; and (b) the Financial Agency Agreement shall 
have been repealed, 
suspended or amended without obtaining the Association’s prior 
agreement.”
14.
Section 5.02 is amended to read:  
“Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional 
events are specified:  the events specified in paragraphs (a) and 
(b) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur.”
Page  4
15.
In Section 7.01, the words “Vice Chairman of the State Commission on Foreign 
Investment and Economic Assistance” are replaced by the words “Minister of Finance”.
16.
In Section 7.02, the address of the Borrower is amended as follows:
“Ministry of Finance Erkindik Boulevard, 58 Bishkek 720874
Kyrgyz Republic
Telex: 245156 NUR KH”
17.
The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is amended to read as set forth in Annex 
I to this Attachment.
18.
In paragraph 2(b) of Schedule 1, the words “; and” are replaced by the 
punctuation “.”.
19.
Paragraph 2(c) is deleted.
20.
In paragraph 3(b) of Schedule 1, the words “Sections I through III of” are 
deleted.
21.
Paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 is amended to read:
“The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be 
made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under 
contracts costing 
less than $1,000,000 equivalent per contract with the exception 
of: (i) each contract 
awarded in accordance with international competitive 
bidding procedures; and (ii) the first 
contract funded by each PCB awarded in 
accordance with international or national shopping 
procedures; (b) works under 
contracts costing less than $500,000 equivalent per contract 
with the 
exception of: (i) each contract awarded on the basis of international competitive 
bidding procedures; (ii) the first contract awarded on the basis of national 
competitive 
bidding procedures; and (iii) the first contract funded by each 
PCB awarded on the basis of 
international or national shopping procedures; (c) 
services under contracts not exceeding 
$100,000 equivalent each for consulting firms 
and $50,000 equivalent each for individual 
consultants; and (d) training, 
under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to 
the Borrower.”
22.
Schedule 2 is amended to read as set forth in Annex II to this Attachment.
23.
Section I of Schedule 3 is amended to read as set forth in Annex III to this 
Attachment.
24.
Schedule 4 is amended to read as set forth in Annex IV to this Attachment.
25.
Paragraphs 1(a) and (b) of Schedule 5 are amended to read:
“(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1)(a), (2)(b) and 
(3)(b) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in the 
case of Special 
Account A;
(b)  
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories 2(a) and 3(a) set 
forth in 
the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in the case 
of  Special Account B;”.
26.
In paragraph 1(d) of Schedule 5: (a) the amount “$200,000” is replaced by the 
amount "$1,000,000”, the amount “$100,000” is replaced by the amount “$500,000”, the 
amount “$900,000” is replaced by the amount “SDR 3,000,000”, the amount “$1,000,000” 
is replaced by the amount "$50,000”; and 
(b) the second part of sub-paragraph 1(d)(ii) which reads  “provided, however, 
that unless the Association....$2,400,000.” is deleted.
27.
In paragraph 5(d) of Schedule 5, the words “for Parts A and B of the Project” 
and “with respect to Part A of the Project” are deleted.
Page  5
28.
Paragraph 5(e) of Schedule 5 is deleted.
29.
In the penultimate sentence of paragraph 5 of Schedule 5, the words “for Parts A 
and B of the Project” are deleted. 
ANNEX I
Amount of the Credit 
   % of 
Allocated (Expressed in
Expenditures 
Category
   SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
(a) Sub-loans under  
   9,632,486.06
100% of amounts
Part A of the Project
disbursed
(2)
Consultants’ services
100%  
and training 
(a)  under Part B (i) of
      40,000.00
the Project
(b)  under Part B (ii) of
      40,000.00
the Project
(3) Goods 
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100% of
(a)  under Part B (i)
      40,000.00
local expenditures (ex-
       of the Project
factory cost); and
90% of local expen-
(b)  under Part B (ii) 
      40,000.00
ditures for other items 
of the Project
procured locally
*(4)
Consultants’ services and
      33,379.30
100%
training under Part C of
the Project for the PAU
*(5)
Goods under Part C of 
100% of foreign
the Project for 
expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures 
(a) the PAU
      12,438.23
(ex-factory cost) and
90% of local 
(b) the FERD
      42,756.70
expenditures for 
other items procured 
locally
*(6)
Audit of Project Accounts
       7,938.75
100%
(7)
Refunding of Project
     126,930.46
Amounts due
Preparation Advance
pursuant to
Section 2.02 (c)
of this Agreement
*(8)
Operating Expenditures 
      5,070.50
100% of expenditures
of the PAU
incurred in the first
year; 90% of expen-
ditures incurred in the 
second year; and 70%
of expenditures incurred
in the third year
(9)
Unallocated
    79,000.000
TOTAL
    10,100,000
_______________
Page  6
*    
Amounts shown in Categories (4), (5), (6) and (8) represent amounts already 
disbursed in 
respect of components which were included in the Project but were 
discontinued under this 
letter of amendment.
ANNEX II
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in: (i) accelerating the 
development and growth of private and privatized enterprises; and (ii) strengthening 
the capacity of commercial banks to ensure effective project appraisal, risk 
management and loan delivery.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon, from time to time, to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Credit Line
Operation of a credit facility for the financing of Sub-projects through the 
provision of Sub-loans to Beneficiaries. 
Part B:
Enterprise and Banking Sector Support
(i)
Provision of consultants’ services and training to private and 
privatized 
enterprises for the preparation and implementation of 
business plans and 
investment projects.
(ii)
Provision of consultants’ services and training to commercial 
banks with a 
view to strengthening their capacity for project 
appraisal, risk management 
and loan delivery.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
ANNEX III
SCHEDULE 3
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this  Section, 
as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix I thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works under Part A of the Project estimated to cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Page  7
Goods under Part A of the Project estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 
equivalent per contract, and vehicles, computers and office equipment under Part B of 
the Project estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods under Parts A and B of the Project, estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Civil Works with Small Value
Works (including repairs to existing facilities and installation of equipment) 
estimated to cost $250,000 equivalent or less per contract, shall be procured under 
lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of bids obtained from three 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, 
and, where applicable, relevant drawings.  The award shall be made to the contractor 
who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the 
experience and resources to successfully complete the contract.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts under international competitive bidding procedures or national competitive 
bidding procedures, the proposed procurement plan for Part A of the Project shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the 
provision of Paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods 
and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have 
been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (i) each contract to be procured under the provisions of Part B 
of this Section on the basis of international competitive bidding procedures; (ii) 
each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more; and 
(iii) the first contract funded by each Participating Commercial Bank, the procedures 
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
ANNEX IV
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
The provisions of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of Section 3.01 (b) 
of this Agreement.
A.
Implementation Responsibilities
1.
For the purposes of carrying out Parts A and B (ii) of the Project, the Borrower 
shall cause the NBKR to: 
(a) 
maintain the Apex Group, throughout the execution of Parts A and B (ii) 
of the Project, with staff and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association; 
Page  8
(b) 
monitor, through the Apex Group, the overall execution of Parts A and B 
(ii) of the Project; and 
(c)
maintain records and accounts for Parts A and B (ii) of the Project and 
arrange for the audit thereof; and
(d)
submit to the Association, through the Apex Group, annual reports on the 
overall execution of Parts A and B (ii) of the Project.
2.
For the purposes of carrying out Part A of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
relend to the Participating Commercial Banks, through the NBKR, the 
equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to Category (1) 
of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement under Subsidiary 
Credit Agreements to be entered into between the Borrower, represented by the NBKR, 
and each such Participating Commercial Bank, under terms and conditions which shall 
have been approved by the Association and which shall include, without limitation, 
those set forth in Part B of this Schedule;
(b)
monitor, through the Apex Group, the carrying out by the Participating 
Commercial Banks of their respective Subsidiary Credit Agreements in accordance with 
policies and procedures satisfactory to the Association;
(c)
take or cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate on its part 
to enable the Participating Commercial Banks to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of their respective Subsidiary Credit Agreements all the obligations of the 
Participating Commercial Banks therein set forth, and not take or permit to be taken 
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance;
(d)
exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Credit Agreements, through the 
Apex Group, in such manner as to protect the interests of the Association and the 
Borrower and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and, except as the Association 
shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any such Agreement or any 
provision thereof; and
(e)
submit to the Association, through the Apex Group, semi-annual reports on 
the cumulative amount of Sub-loans made by each Participating Commercial Bank to a 
Beneficiary for a Sub-project out of the proceeds of the Credit.
3.
For the purposes of carrying out Part B (i) of the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain Goskominvest, throughout the execution of Part B (i) of the 
Project, with staff and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
extend to Goskominvest, on a grant basis, the equivalent of the proceeds 
of the Credit allocated from time to time to Category (2)(a) and (3)(a) of the table 
set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(c)
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities and other resources, necessary or appropriate on its part to enable 
Goskominvest to achieve the objectives of Part B (i) of the Project, and not take or 
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with the achievement of 
such objectives; and
(d)
cause Goskominvest to submit to the Association annual reports on the 
overall execution of Part B (i) of the Project.
B.
Principal Terms and Conditions of the Subsidiary Credit Agreements
1.
The principal amount to be relent out of the proceeds of the Credit to a 
Participating Commercial Bank under its respective Subsidiary Credit Agreement shall 
be: (a) denominated in Dollars; and (b) the equivalent of the aggregate amount of the 
principal of all Sub-loans made or to be made out of the proceeds thereof.
2.
The Subsidiary Credit shall be charged, on the principal amount thereof 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, interest, during each one-year period 
commencing on July 15 of each calendar year, at a rate equal to LIBOR, as shall be 
Page  9
determined by the NBKR on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, or at 
such other market-based rate acceptable to the Association, plus a margin of two per 
cent (2%). The Borrower shall ensure that, out of said margin: (a) a portion equal to 
one point twenty-five per cent (1.25%) will be allocated to the NBKR in consideration 
of the operational costs incurred by the Apex Group in the carrying out of Parts A and 
B (ii) of the Project; and (b) a portion equal to zero point seventy-five per cent 
(0.75%) will be allocated to Goskominvest in consideration of the operational costs 
incurred by Goskominvest in the carrying out of Part B (i) of the Project.
3.
The Subsidiary Credit shall be repaid in accordance with an amortization 
schedule pursuant to which each portion thereof utilized in the making of a Sub-loan 
shall have a maturity calculated to conform to the amortization schedule applicable to 
such Sub-loan.
4.
The right of a Participating Commercial Bank to the use of the proceeds of its 
respective Subsidiary Credit shall be: (a) suspended upon failure of such 
Participating Commercial Bank to perform any of its obligations under its respective 
Subsidiary Credit Agreement or to continue to be in compliance with all legal and 
regulatory requirements applicable to its operations; and (b) terminated if such right 
shall have been suspended pursuant to subparagraph (a) hereof for a continuous period 
of 120 days.
5.
A Subsidiary Credit Agreement may be entered into with a commercial bank, duly 
established and operating under the laws of the Borrower, which the Borrower, with the 
assistance of the NBKR, shall have determined, and the Association shall have agreed, 
that such commercial bank:
(a)
is in compliance with all legal and regulatory requirements applicable to 
its operations;
(b)
has been in operation for at least one year and is operating pursuant to: 
(A) investment and lending policies and procedures which the Association and the NBKR 
shall have judged acceptable, and has undertaken to maintain said policies and 
procedures; and (B) prudential regulations, issued by the NBKR, including those 
providing for the following requirements: (i) the commercial bank must satisfy the 
minimum paid-up capital norms; (ii) the risk-weighted capital adequacy ratio of the 
commercial bank must not be less than eight per cent (8%); (iii) the exposure of the 
commercial bank to any single client, as a percentage of the equity capital of the 
commercial bank, must not be higher than twenty-five per cent (25%); (iv) the exposure 
of the commercial bank to insiders and affiliated companies, as defined by the NBKR, 
must not be higher than five per cent (5%) of the equity capital of the commercial 
bank; and (v) the exposure of the commercial bank to companies linked with it, as 
defined by the NBKR, must no
t be higher than sixty per cent (60%) of the equity capital of the commercial bank; 
and
(c)
has a satisfactory financial structure, determined, inter alia, on the 
basis of risk-based capital adequacy criteria satisfactory to the Association, 
policies and performance, and the organization, management, staff and other resources 
required for the efficient carrying out of its operations, including its activities to 
be undertaken under Part A of the Project.
6.
Each respective Subsidiary Credit Agreement shall contain provisions pursuant to 
which each respective Participating Commercial Bank shall undertake to:
(a)
carry out its activities under Part A of the Project and conduct its 
operations and affairs in accordance with appropriate financial standards and 
practices, with qualified management and staff in adequate numbers, and in conformity 
with the investment and lending policies and procedures referred to in paragraph 5 (b) 
hereof, and to provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the purpose;
(b)
(i) make Sub-loans to Beneficiaries on the terms and conditions set forth 
in this Schedule; (ii) exercise its rights in relation to each such Sub-loan in such 
manner as to protect its interests and the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association, comply with its obligations under its respective Subsidiary Credit 
Agreement and achieve the purposes of Part A of the Project; (iii) not assign, amend, 
Page  10
abrogate or waive any of its agreements providing for Sub-loans, or any provision 
thereof, without prior approval of the Borrower, through the Apex Group; and (iv) 
appraise Sub-projects and supervise, monitor and report on the carrying out by 
Beneficiaries of Sub-projects, in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the 
Association and the Borrower;
(c)
maintain staff and other resources and terms of reference, satisfactory 
to the Association and the Borrower;
(d)
(i) exchange views with, and furnish all such information to the 
Association or the Apex Group, as may be reasonably requested by the Association, the 
Borrower, or the Apex Group, with regard to the progress of its activities under Part 
A of the Project, the performance of its obligations under its respective Subsidiary 
Credit Agreement, including its continued compliance with the accreditation 
eligibility criteria, and other matters relating to the purposes of Part A of the 
Project; and (ii) promptly inform the Association and the Apex Group of any condition 
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its activities under 
its respective Subsidiary Credit Agreement;
(e) 
(i) maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with 
international accounting standards and sound accounting practices, its operations and 
financial condition; (ii) prepare and provide to the Association and the Apex Group 
semi-annual financial statements based on international accounting standards, using 
formats and software acceptable to the Association; (iii) have its financial 
statements for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association 
and the Apex Group; (iv) furnish to the Association and the Apex Group, as soon as 
available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each such year, 
certified copies of said financial statements and accounts for such year as so 
audited, and the report of such audit by said auditors in such scope and detail as the 
Association and the Apex Group shall have reasonably requested; (v) furnish to the 
Association such other info
rmation concerning said records, accounts and financial statements, as well as the 
audit thereof, as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request; and (vi) 
carry out, if so requested by the Association or the Apex Group, a performance review 
of its operations under Part A of the Project; and
(f) 
ensure that the appraisal of Sub-projects is undertaken in accordance 
with: (i) the principal terms and conditions set forth in this Schedule; (ii) 
guidelines acceptable to the Association and the Apex Group; and (iii) the applicable 
environmental laws and standards of the Borrower and the environmental policies of the 
Association.
C.
Principal Terms and Conditions of the Sub-loans
1.
The principal amount of each Sub-loan made out of the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated from time to time to Category (1) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement shall be denominated in Dollars or Soms and be equivalent 
in Dollars (determined as of the date or respective dates of withdrawal from the 
Credit Account or payment out of Special Account A) of the value of the currency or 
currencies so withdrawn or paid out on account of the cost of goods, works and 
services financed out of such proceeds for the Sub-project.
2.
Except as otherwise agreed between the NBKR and the relevant Participating 
Commercial Bank, in consultation with the Association, each Sub-loan denominated in 
Dollars shall be charged interest, on the principal amount thereof withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, at a rate equal to the rate that is positive in real 
terms and charged by the NBKR to the Participating Commercial Bank under the relevant 
Subsidiary Credit Agreement, plus a margin not exceeding seven percent (7%).
3.
Each Sub-loan denominated in Soms shall be charged interest, on the principal 
amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate that is positive 
in real terms and equal to the rate charged by the Borrower to the Participating 
Commercial Bank making such Sub-loan, plus a margin not exceeding seven per cent (7%), 
plus such additional margin, acceptable to the Association and the NBKR, as may be 
required by said Participating Commercial Bank to cover its foreign currency exchange 
risk. 
Page  11
4.
Each Investment Sub-loan shall be made for a period determined on the basis of 
the estimated cash flow of financed Sub-projects and not exceeding seven years, with a 
grace period not exceeding two years.
5.
Each Working Capital Sub-loan shall be made for a period determined on the basis 
of the estimated cash flow of financed Sub-projects and not exceeding two years, with 
a grace period not exceeding six months.
6.
Sub-loans shall be made to Beneficiaries who each shall have established to the 
satisfaction of the Participating Commercial Bank making the Sub-loan, on the basis of 
guidelines acceptable to the Association and the Apex Group, that:
(a)
it is creditworthy, and has a satisfactory financial structure and the 
organization, management, staff and financial and other resources required for the 
efficient carrying out of its operations, including the carrying out of the 
Sub-project; and
(b)
its debt-to-equity ratio, after receipt of the Sub-loan, does not exceed 
a proportion of 70:30.
7.
Sub-loans shall be made for Sub-projects which are each determined, on the basis 
of an appraisal carried out in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the 
Association and the Apex Group, to be:
(a)
technically feasible and economically, financially and commercially 
viable;
(b)
estimated to provide a financial rate of return of not less than twenty 
per cent (20%) and an economic rate of return of not less than fifteen per cent (15%); 
and
(c)
contributing to the increase of production and productivity in areas of 
economic activity agreeable to the Borrower and the Association, except for the 
production of goods such as military equipment, illegal drugs, tobacco, and products 
and services which adversely affect the environment.
8.
Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the Participating Commercial Bank 
making the Sub-loan shall obtain, by written contract or other appropriate means, 
rights adequate to protect its interest and those of the Borrower and the Association, 
including the right to:
(a)
require the Beneficiary to carry out the Sub-project with due diligence 
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate technical, economical, financial and 
commercial practices, to maintain adequate records, and to provide, promptly as 
needed, the fund, facilities and other resources required for the purpose;
(b)
require that the goods, works and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit to be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 
to this Agreement, and use such goods, works and services exclusively in the carrying 
out of the Sub-project;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association or 
the Apex Group on behalf of the Borrower, if the Association, the Borrower, or the 
Apex Group shall so request, the goods and the sites, works, plans and construction 
included in the Sub-project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and 
documents;
(d)
require that the Beneficiary shall take out and maintain such insurance, 
against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound business 
practice, including such insurance to cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Beneficiary to replace or repair such goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Association, the Borrower, or the Apex 
Group shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, 
Page  12
operations and financial condition of the Beneficiary and to the benefits to be 
derived from the Sub-project; and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the use of the 
proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such Beneficiary to perform its obligations 
under its contract with the Participating Commercial Bank.
