Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
TF 022161
Japanese Grant Agreement
(Entrepreneur Referral and Information Service Project)
between
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of Grant Funds
provided by JAPAN
Dated February 21, 1996
TF 022161
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 21, 1996, between KYRGYZ REPUBLIC (the Recipient) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) acting as Administrator (the 
Administrator) of grant funds provided by JAPAN (Japan).
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to a letter agreement dated July 30, 1990 between Japan and 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and the Association, 
Japan has requested the Bank and the Association, and the Bank and the Association 
have agreed, to administer grant funds to be made available by Japan for the financing 
of certain programs and projects supported by the Bank and the Association, as the 
case may be, in accordance with the provisions of such letter agreement;  and
(B)
Japan has agreed to make available to the Recipient a grant out of said 
grant funds (the Grant) to finance the cost of carrying out the technical assistance 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Technical Assistance) on the terms and 
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable 
to Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), (12), 
and (13), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Sections 4.01 and 4.05;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (g) and (h), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
(viii)Sections 9.01, 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, and  9.08;
(ix)
Article X; and
(x)
Article XI.
 
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
the term "Association," wherever used in the General Conditions, 
other than in Section 6.02 (e) thereof, means the International 
Development Association acting as Administrator of the Grant 
pursuant to the letter agreement between Japan and the Bank and 
the Association referred to in Recital (A) of this Agreement, 
except that in Section 6.02, the term "Association" shall also 
include the International Development Association acting in its 
own capacity;
(ii)
the term "Borrower," wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient;
(iii)
the term "Development Credit Agreement," wherever used in the 
General Conditions, means this Agreement;
(iv)
the term "Credit," wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Grant;
(v)
the term "Credit Account," wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the Grant Account, an account opened by the 
Administrator on its books in the name of the Recipient to which 
the amount of the Grant is credited; and
(vi)
the term "Project," wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the technical assistance described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement.
(vii)
The second sentence of  Section 5.01 shall be modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no withdrawals shall be made: (i) on account of expenditures in the 
territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank or for 
goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (ii) 
for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is 
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to 
this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
Page  3
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to make available to the Recipient, on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the Grant in an 
amount of  two hundred and fifty thousand dollars  ($250,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such 
Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Recipient and the 
Administrator, for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of carrying out the Project and to be financed 
out of the Grant.
(b)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Administrator, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient 
of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Recipient shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate business, financial and accounting 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than four months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Administrator shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Administrator shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has 
received the audit for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
Page  4
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator's representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the proce-dures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the applicable provisions of Article IX of 
the General Conditions, the Recipient shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the 
Administrator, a plan designed to ensure the sustainability of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Recipient on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the 
parties hereto. With the entry into force of this Agreement, the Japanese Grant 
Agreement (Entrepreneur Referral and Information Service Project) between the 
Recipient and  the Association, on its own behalf and as Administrator of Trust Funds 
provided by Japan, dated July 28, 1994, shall automatically terminate.
Section 4.02. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the Grant has been 
fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their obligations 
hereunder.
ARTICLE V
Representation
Section 5.01. The Vice Chairman of the State Commission for Foreign Investment 
and Economic Assistance of the Recipient is designated as representative of the 
Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
State Commission for Foreign
   Investment and Economic Assistance
58a Erkindik Street
72003 Bishkek
Kyrgyz Republic
Telex:
245169 AFKAR SU
For the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
Page  5
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as 
of the day and year first above written.
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC                          
By /s/ Askar I. Sarygulov
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
    as Administrator of the Grant
By /s/ Yukon Huang
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
Grant, the allocation of the amount of the Grant to each Category and the percentage 
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Grant Allocated
   % of
(Expressed
Expenditures
Category
in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods (computer equipment
67,000
100%
  and software, office and 
  telecommunication equipment, 
  reference material)
(2)
Consultants’ Services:
(a)
Information Technology
83,000
100%
Services
(b)
Local Consultants
45,000
100%
(c)
Training
35,000
100%
(3)
Operating Expenses of ERIS 20,000
100%
TOTAL
     250,000
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
3.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for contracts not exceeding 
$50,000 equivalent, and for operating expenses under such terms and conditions as the 
Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
4.
Operating expenses include office supplies, network telecommunication costs, 
local travel expenses, and financial accounting services provided by external firms or 
individuals.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of Technical Assistance
Page  6
The Technical Assistance plans to meet the need of entrepreneurs in accessing 
market information needed to make sound investment decisions by establishing an 
Entrepreneur Referral and Information Service (ERIS) to be implemented through a head 
office at Bishkek and six regional centers by the Kyrgyz Project Promotion Agency 
(PPA). Each PPA/ERIS regional center is conceived as a small unit comprising two or 
three trained professionals with access to information search systems, who would 
assist entrepreneurs in preparing project proposals and business plans to be financed 
by the banking system.  ERIS will offer a range of information and support services 
needed by enterprises in their effort to develop new products, improve technological 
capabilities, enter new markets, and improve productivity and performance.  These 
include:
1.
Market Information through information networks, databases, publications, 
reports and other sources (e.g., American Demographics, Dataquest, Trade Associations, 
Expert Networks);
2.
Technology Information, including sources of production equipment, new 
technologies, technological trends, and technical expertise;
3.
Support Services, including accounting, management, marketing, finance, legal, 
packaging, product development, freight and customs; and
4.
Project Preparation, including preparation of business plans and project 
feasibility studies for investments proposed by small businesses and entrepreneurs 
suitable for submission to financial institutions.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods 
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"  published by the Bank 
in January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
National Shopping
Goods as defined above estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less and 
aggregating to $67,000 or less may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 
3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
The procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers 
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the 
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be 
based on the standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by the 
Association, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the 
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the 
Association, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be used. 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
Page  7
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts, shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts 
for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. 
However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association, (d) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract 
value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent 
or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) to  (3) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the amount of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $100,000 
to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Administrator 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $50,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Grant Account 
plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of $100,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Administrator shall, on 
behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit in the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the Administrator shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Administrator the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Administrator from the Grant Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
Page  8
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator within 
the period of time specified in Section 3.03 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Recipient of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect 
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Administrator shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Administrator shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so 
request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Administrator shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant  provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
