Page  1
                                                              CONFORMED COPY
                                                       CREDIT NUMBER 2717 KG
                        Development Credit Agreement
                    (Private Enterprise Support Project)
                                   between
                               KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                             Dated June 20, 1995
                                                       CREDIT NUMBER 2717 KG
                        DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated June 20, 1995, between KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in
the financing of the Project; and
     (B)   the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
Page  2
     (a)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated April 28, 1994 and May
21, 1994 between the Borrower and the Association;
     (b)   "Special Account A" and "Special Account B" mean the
accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
Special Account A and Special Account B are, collectively,
referred to as "Special Accounts";
     (c)   "PAU" means the project administration unit established
within the Directorate General of the State Commission on
Foreign Investment and Economic Assistance of the Borrower;
     (d)   "FERD" means the Fund for Enterprise Reconstructing and
Development established by the Borrower pursuant to a Decree
dated April 6, 1995;
     (e)   "Charter of the FERD" means the Decree dated April 6,
1995, establishing the FERD, the by-laws of the FERD, and the
FERD's operating procedures and statement of policy, as amended
from time to time;
     (f)   "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and the FERD pursuant to
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Agreement;
     (g)   "Fund Manager" means an international banking
institution satisfactory to the Association selected pursuant
to the provisions of Section II.1 of Schedule 3 of this
Agreement for the purposes of assisting in the carrying out of
Parts A and B of the Project;
     (h)   "Fund Management Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into by the Borrower and the Fund Manager according to
the provisions of Section 3.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement;
     (i)   "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
the FERD to a Beneficiary for an Investment Project out of the
proceeds of the Credit;
     (j)   "Beneficiary" means (i) a private enterprise to which
the FERD proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan, whose
subscribed and fully paid in capital is controlled at least 51%
by private investors or (ii) an enterprise to which the Fund
Manager on behalf of the FERD proposes to make or has made a
Technical Assistance Loan;
     (k)   "Investment Project" means: (i) a specific development
project to be carried out by a Beneficiary utilizing the
proceeds of a Sub-loan, including incremental working capital
needs of a Beneficiary to expand or modernize its production;
and (ii) the increase of the working capital of a Beneficiary
using the proceeds of a Sub-loan;
     (l)   "TA Financing" means financing made or proposed to be
made by the FERD for the provision of consultants' services
under Part B of the Project out of the proceeds of the Credit
made available to the FERD under the Subsidiary Agreement; and
     (m)   "TA Sub-project" means a specific technical assistance
intervention for the benefit of a Beneficiary under Part B of
the Project using proceeds of a TA Financing.
                                 ARTICLE II
                                 The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
Page  3
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to ten million one hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 10,100,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) amounts paid (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on
account of withdrawals made by the Beneficiary under a Sub-loan
to meet the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Investment Project in respect of which the withdrawal from
the Credit Account is requested; and (ii) expenditures made
(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars two special deposit accounts
(Special Account A and Special Account B) in a commercial bank
acceptable to the Association on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be made
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of
the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual
date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled;
and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately
preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as may be set
from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.
The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from
the next payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of
this Agreement.
     (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as
may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the
provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
Page  4
be payable semi-annually on June 15 and December 15 in each
year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each June 15 and December
15 commencing June 15, 2005 and ending December 15, 2029.  Each
installment to and including the installment payable on
December 15, 2014 shall be one and one-fourth per cent (1-1/4%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall
be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
     (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded
$790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and
(ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association
and after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not
yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have
been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association
may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all
of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant
element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
     (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly,
the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of
installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
     Section 2.09. The Fund Manager is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions in respect of Parts A and B of the Project.
                                 ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end:
     (a)   shall carry out Part C of the Project through the PAU
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for such Part C of the Project;
     (b)        (i) shall cause the Fund Manager selected in
accordance with the provisions of Section II.1 of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement to carry out Parts A and B of the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative and financial practices and in accordance with
the Fund Management Agreement under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association, and which shall
include the operating procedures to be followed by the Fund
Page  5
Manager, the eligibility criteria for Sub-loans, the procedures
for and terms and conditions of Sub-loans, the procedures for
and terms and conditions of TA Financing, all as set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, (ii) shall take or cause to be
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to
enable the Fund Manager to carry out Parts A and B of the
Project, and (iii) shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with the carrying out
of said Parts A and B of the Project by the Fund Manager;
     (c)   shall relend the proceeds of the Credit and make
available part of the proceeds of the Credit to the FERD under
a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and the FERD under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Association which shall include: (i) a variable
interest rate indexed to the rate of ten year US Treasury bonds
and a final maturity of fifteen years, including five years of
grace, for the funds relent out of the proceeds of the Credit
for the purpose of Part A of the Project, and the principal
amount of the Sub-loan to be denominated in Dollars, to be in
the equivalent amount of the proceeds withdrawn from the Credit
from time to time; and (ii) a grant in respect of the funds
made available out of the proceeds of the Credit for the TA
Financing under Part B of the Project; and
     (d)   shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary
Agreement and the Fund Management Agreement in such a manner as
to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association
and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or
Fund Management Agreement or any provision of any such
agreement.
     Section 3.02. During the execution of the Project, the
Borrower shall maintain the  PAU under the leadership of a
suitably qualified director assisted by qualified staff in
adequate numbers for the purpose of, inter alia, the monitoring
of the performance of the Fund Manager under the Fund
Management Agreement.
     Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
     (a)   prepare and furnish to the Association not later than
six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the
Association, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, for the future operation
of the Project;
     (b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan; and
     (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking
into account the Association's comments thereon.
     Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall, through the PAU, by
March 31, 1997, carry out a mid-term review and prepare, under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, a report on
the progress achieved under the Project and the appropriateness
of the implementation arrangements for the Project and setting
out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
Page  6
thereof during the period following such date, including a
recommendation on the renewal of the Fund Management Agreement,
and recommending remedial actions, if needed.
     (b)   The Borrower shall review with the Association, by June
30, 1997 or such later date as the Association shall request,
the report referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, and,
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of said
report and the Association's views on the matter.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                             Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain through the
PAU records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of Part C of the Project.
     (b)   The Borrower shall cause the Fund Manager to maintain
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of Parts A and B of the Project.
     (c)   The Borrower shall:
           (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in
                paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section, including
                those for the Special Accounts for each fiscal
                year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                auditing principles consistently applied, by
                independent auditors acceptable to the
                Association;
          (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as
                available, but in any case not later than six
                months after the end of each such year, a
                certified copy of the report of such audit by
                said auditors, of such scope and in such
                detail as the Association shall have
                reasonably requested; and
         (iii)  furnish to the Association such other
                information concerning said records,
                accounts and the audit thereof as the
                Association shall from time to time
                reasonably request.
     (d)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account for the Project were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
           (i)  maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of this
                Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
          (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the
                Association has received the audit report for
                the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                from the Credit Account, or payment out of the
                Special Account was made, all records
                (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                and other documents) evidencing such
                expenditures;
         (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to
                examine such records; and
          (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                included in the annual audit referred to in
                paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
Page  7
                report of such audit contains a separate
                opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                statements of expenditure submitted during
                such fiscal year, together with the procedures
                and internal controls involved in their
                preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                related withdrawals.
                                  ARTICLE V
                         Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)   the Fund Manager shall have failed to perform any of
its obligations under the Fund Management Agreement;
     (b)   as a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall
have arisen which shall make it improbable that the Fund
Manager will be able to perform its obligations under the Fund
Management Agreement;
     (c)   the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of the FERD;
     (d)   the Charter of the FERD shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to materially
affect the execution of Parts A or B of the Project; and
     (e)   the Fund Management Agreement shall have expired or
have been terminated by either party thereto.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)        the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a
period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower; and
     (b)        the events specified in paragraphs (c), (d) or (e)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                         Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
     (a)   the Fund Management Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and the Fund Manager pursuant to the
provisions of Section 3.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement; and
     (b)   the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf
of the Borrower and the FERD pursuant to the provisions of
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement.
     Section 6.02. The following is an additional matter, within
the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to
be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the
Association, namely that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and the FERD and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and the FERD in accordance
with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
Page  8
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VII
                  Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Vice Chairman of the State Commission on
Foreign Investment and Economic Assistance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
           State Commission on Foreign
             Investment and Economic
             Assistance
           58a Erkindik Blvd.
           720003 Bishkek
           Kyrgyz Republic
                                        Telex:
                                          245169 AFKARSU
     For the Association:
           International Development Association
           1818 H Street, N.W.
           Washington, D.C. 20433
           United States of America
           Cable address:                   Telex:
                INDEVAS                       248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.               82987 (FTCC)
                                               64145 (WUI) or
                                              197688 (TRT)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                KYRGYZ REPUBLIC
                By /s/ Almaz T. Chukin
                                                   Authorized Representative
                INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                By /s/ Wilfried Thalwitz
                                                     Regional Vice President
Page  9
                                                     Europe and Central Asia
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Credit Allocated              % of
                             (Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                    SDR Equivalent)          to be Financed
(1)    Part A of the Project:
       (a) Sub-loans          6,330,000              100% of
          for specific                               amounts
          development                                disbursed
          projects,
          including
          incremental
          working capital
       (b) Sub-loans for       2,680,000             100% of
          free-standing                              amounts
          incremental                                disbursed
          working capital
(2)    TA Financing               20,000             100% of
       under Part B                                  amounts
       of the Project                                disbursed
(3)    Services in                20,000             100%
       respect of the
       management of
       the FERD
(4)    Consultants'                                  100%
       services and
       training under
       Part C of the
       Project for:
          (a) the PAU             40,000
          (b) the financial       13,000
            sector and
            other studies
(5)    Goods under                                    100% of foreign
       Part C of the                                  expenditures,
       Project for:                                   100% of local
                                                      expenditures
                                                      (ex-factory
          (a) the PAU              40,000             cost); and
          (b) the FERD             70,000             90% of local
                                                      expenditures
                                                      for other items
                                                      procured locally
(6)    Audit of                   110,000             100%
       Project accounts
(7)    Refunding                  640,000             Amounts due
       of Project                                     pursuant to
       Preparation                                    Section 2.02
       Advance                                        (c) of this
                                                      Agreement
Page  10
(8)    Unallocated               137,000
         TOTAL                10,100,000
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)      the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower
for goods or services supplied from the territory of any
country other than that of the Borrower;
    (b)      the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower; and
    (c)      the term "incremental working capital" means
increases in initial stock of raw materials and other semi-
finished input goods, spare parts and energy supplies, but does
not include salaries and other cash expenditures unrelated to
the acquisition of working capital assets.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made:
    (a)      for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
and
    (b)      in respect of a Sub-loan, unless the Sub-loan has
been made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in Sections I through
III of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
4.  The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
for expenditures for goods, works and services under contracts
not exceeding $200,000 equivalent in respect of expenditures
under Part A of the Project, including expenditures under
Categories (3) and (6) and in respect of expenditures under
Parts B and C of the Project not exceeding $50,000, under such
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice
to the Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to promote the adaptation
of private enterprises to a market based system and export
through provision of an integrated program of technical
assistance and provision of loans and to assist in the
strengthening of key financial institutions of the Borrower.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon, from time to time, to achieve such objectives:
Part A:      Lending Component
    Operation of a credit facility for the financing of specific
development projects and incremental working capital of export
oriented and import substituting private enterprises through
the provision of Sub-loans.
Part B:      Enterprise Support
    Provision of consultants' services to enterprises for the
preparation of diagnostic studies and the preparation and
implementation of business and investment plans.
Part C:      Financial Sector Support
Page  11
    Strengthening of key financial institutions through the
provision of training, the carrying out of an audit of
Sberbank, a study of the insurance sector, and such other
studies as the Borrower and the Association may agree.
                                    * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1999.
                                 SCHEDULE 3
                    Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.       Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:      General
    Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of
this Section, as applicable.
Part B:      International Competitive Bidding
    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section,
goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:      Other Procurement Procedures
1.      Limited International Bidding
    Works under Part A of the Project estimated to cost $300,000
equivalent or more per contract, which the Association agrees
can only be purchased from a limited number of suppliers,
regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of
the Guidelines.
2.  National Competitive Bidding
    Works under Part A of the Project estimated to cost $300,000
equivalent or less per contract and $3,000,000 equivalent or
less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of
the Guidelines.
3.      International Shopping
    Goods under Part A of the Project estimated to cost
$2,000,000 equivalent or less per contract and $12,000,000
equivalent or less in the aggregate, and vehicles, computers
and office equipment under Part C of the Project estimated to
cost $150,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.      National Shopping
    Goods under Part C of the Project estimated to cost $50,000
equivalent or less may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
5.      Direct Contracting
    Direct contracting procedures acceptable to the Association
Page  12
may be used where considered appropriate under the Guidelines.
6.      Procurement of Civil Works with Small Value
    Works (including repairs to existing facilities and
installation of equipment) estimated to cost $100,000
equivalent or less per contract, and not to exceed $3,000,000
in the aggregate, shall be procured under lump sum, fixed price
contracts awarded on the basis of bids obtained from three
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written
invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed
description of the works, including basic specifications, the
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable
to the Bank, and, where applicable, relevant drawings.  The
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest
price quotation for the required work, and who has the
experience and resources to successfully complete the contract.
Part D:      Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.      Procurement Planning
    Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan
for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all
goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.      Prior Review
    With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated
to cost $2,000,000 equivalent or more, each contract procured
under the provisions of Part B of this Schedule and the first
two contracts for goods and the first two contracts for works
procured under Part C.1 of the Schedule, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply.
3.      Post Review
    With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix
1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.      Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form
of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with
such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have
been issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the
Association shall be used.
2.      Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Association review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for
the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior
Association review shall not apply to (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of
Page  13
consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Association, (d) amendments to
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or
above.
                                 SCHEDULE 4
            Terms and Conditions of, and Procedures for Sub-loans
                              and TA Financing
    The following eligibility criteria for Sub-loans, terms and
conditions of Sub-loans, procedures for Sub-loans and
procedures for and terms and conditions of Technical Assistance
Loans shall be incorporated in the Fund Management Agreement
according to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.
I.  Eligibility Criteria for Sub-loans:
    (a)      detailed business plan acceptable to the Association;
    (b)      the projected debt servicing capacity in foreign
exchange of the Beneficiary (defined as the ratio of expected
annual interest and principal payments to cash-flow generated
from operations of the Beneficiary), shall be no less than 1.2
over the life of the Investment Project;
    (c)      the debt to equity ratio shall be no more than
1.5:1.0, with the ratios calculated on the basis of the
Beneficiary's total debts, inclusive of those to be incurred
under the Investment Project;
    (d)      in the case of Sub-loans for specific development
projects, a financial and an economic rate of return of at
least 15%; and
    (e)      in the case of Sub-loans for incremental working
capital, a restructured balance sheet depicting improved
financial structure indicators (e.g., debt/equity, liquidity
ratio) and operating and financial performance indicators
(e.g., stock and assets turnover, profitability, cash-flow)
would be the additional criteria applicable to assessment and
justification for lending for free-standing working capital.
All the above ratios and criteria to be calculated on the basis
of guidelines satisfactory to the Association to be set forth
in the operating procedures of the Fund Management Agreement.
    (f)      the by-laws, management structure and procedures of
the Beneficiary is consistent with private enterprise
governance principles.
II.     Terms and Conditions of, and Procedures for Sub-loans:
1.  The principal amount of each Sub-loan made or proposed to be
made out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be:
    (a)      denominated in Dollars; and
    (b)      in a maximum principal amount of $1 million
equivalent, provided that the principal amount shall be: (i) no
more than 80 percent of the total investment cost of the
Investment Project, including incremental working capital for
expansion and modernization projects; (ii) no more than 70
percent of the total investment cost of the Investment Project,
including incremental working capital in the case of newly
established Beneficiaries; and (iii) up to $200,000 equivalent
in the case of Sub-loans for free-standing, incremental working
capital.
Page  14
2.  The maturity of each Sub-loan shall be no less than one year
and no more than eight years, including a grace period of no
less than six months and no more than one year.
3.  The interest rate of Sub-loans shall be a market determined
rate, set in accordance with a methodology acceptable to the
Association.
4.  No expenditures for goods or services required for an
Investment Project shall be eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit unless the Sub-loan for such Investment
Project shall have been approved by the Association and such
expenditures shall have been made not earlier than ninety (90)
days prior to the date on which the Association shall have
received the application and information required under
paragraph 2 (a) of this Schedule in respect of such Sub-loan.
5.  When presenting a Sub-loan to the Association for approval,
the Borrower shall cause the Fund Manager to furnish to the
Association an application, in form satisfactory to the
Association, together with (i) a description of the Beneficiary
and an appraisal of the Investment Project, including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit; (ii) the proposed terms and
conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of
amortization of the Sub-loan to be used for the Investment
Project; (iii) an evaluation of the environmental impact; and
(vi) such other information as the Association shall reasonably
request.
6.  Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the FERD shall
obtain, by written contract with the Beneficiary which shall be
based to the extent possible, on the model contract approved by
the Association, rights adequate to protect the interests of
the Association, the Borrower and the FERD, including, the
right to:
    (a)      require the Beneficiary to carry out and operate the
Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with sound technical, financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records;
    (b)      require that: (i) the goods, works and services to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
and (ii) such goods, works and services shall be used
exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project;
    (c)      inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives
of the Association if the Association shall so request, such
goods, works, plants and construction included in the
Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents;
    (d)      require that: (i) the Beneficiary take out and
maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such
risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
business practice; and (ii) without any limitation upon the
foregoing, such insurance cover hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery of goods financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit to the place of use or
installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a
currency freely usable by the Beneficiary to replace or repair
such goods;
    (e)      obtain all such information as the Association, the
Borrower or the FM shall reasonably request relating to the
foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial
condition of the Beneficiary and to the benefits to be derived
from the Investment Project;
    (f)      require that the Beneficiary comply with the
Page  15
Borrower's environmental guidelines and regulations; and
    (g)      suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to
the use of the proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such
Beneficiary to perform its obligations under its contract with
the FERD.
III.    Terms and Conditions of, and Procedures for TA
Financing:
1.  The FERD shall make available to Beneficiaries for the
purposes of Part B of the Project funds blended on loan and
grant terms.  The principal amount of each loan portion of the
TA Financing made, or proposed to be made, out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be:
    (a)      denominated in Dollars;
    (b)      in a maximum principal amount of $75,000 equivalent
provided that the Fund Manager shall determine the principal
amount of the loan portion on the Beneficiary's ability to pay
such portion of the total cost of the TA Sub-project; and
    (c)      repayable in accordance with an amortization schedule
prepared in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the
Association to be set forth in the operating procedures of the
Fund Management Agreement.
2.  The interest rate of the loan portion shall be indexed to
five-year US Treasury bonds and shall provide for a margin of
2 percent thereabove.
3.  Each request for authorization to make withdrawals from theCredit Account in 
respect of a TA Financing shall contain: (i)
a summary description of the proposed TA Sub-project; and (ii)
the terms and conditions of the TA Financing, including the
schedule of amortization therefor.
4.  The FERD shall enter in a written contract with the
Beneficiary which shall, to the extent possible, be based on
the model contract approved by the Association.  Such contract
shall specify the grant portion to be made available to the
Beneficiary for the TA Sub-project and include rights adequate
to protect the interests of the Association, the Borrower and
the FERD, including: (a) similar rights as referred to in
paras. (e), (f) and (g) of Section II. 6 of this Schedule; (b)
the undertaking of the Beneficiary to cover the local cost
related to the TA Sub-project; (c) the undertaking by the
Beneficiary to cover the following cumulative proportions of
the costs of consultants' services, training and study tours:
        up to $30,000                       30 percent
        from $30,000 to $50,000             40 percent
        from $50,000 to $80,000             50 percent
        over $80,000                       100 percent
and (d) the undertaking by the Beneficiary to procure the
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit in
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
                                 SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Accounts
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)      the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
and (2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement in the case of Special Account A;
Page  16
    (b)      the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (3),
(4), (5) and (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement in the case of Special Account B;
    (c)      the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
    (d)      the term "Authorized Allocation" means: (i) in the
case of Special Account A an amount equivalent to $200,000 to
be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount
equivalent to $100,000 until the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $900,000; and
(ii) in the case of Special Account B an amount equivalent to
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate
amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of
$2,400,000.
2.  Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Accounts have been duly opened, withdrawals
of the Authorized Allocations and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Accounts shall be made as follows:
    (a)      For withdrawals of the respective Authorized
Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association a
request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not
exceed the aggregate amount of such Authorized Allocation. On
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit in the Special Accounts such amount or amounts as the
Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)      (i)      For replenishment of the Special Accounts,
                      the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                      requests for deposits into the Special
                      Accounts at such intervals as the Association
                      shall specify.
          (ii)        Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                      the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                      the documents and other evidence required
                      pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for
                      the payment or payments in respect of which
                      replenishment is requested. On the basis of
                      each such request, the Association shall, on
                      behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
                      Credit Account and deposit into the
                      respective Special Account such amount as the
                      Borrower shall have requested and as shall
                      have been shown by said documents and other
                      evidence to have been paid out of the
                      respective Special Account for eligible
Page  17
                      expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories,
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Accounts:
    (a)      if, at any time, the Association shall have
determined that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)      if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section
4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for
the Special Accounts; or
    (c)      if, at any time, the Association shall have notified
the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions; or
    (d)      once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories for Parts A and B of the
Project, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to Part A of the Project, shall
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation; or
    (e)      once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories for Part C of the Project,
less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to Part C of the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories for Parts A and B of the Project shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special
Accounts as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)      If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of a Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association: (A) provide such additional
evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into
the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or
Page  18
justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)      If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in a Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
    (c)      The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
    (d)      Refunds to the Association made pursuant to
paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be
credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this
Agreement, including the General Conditions.
