CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 384 MLI
Project Agreement
(Second Railway Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
REGIE DU CHEMIN DE FER DU MALI
DATED MAY 23, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 384 MLI
Project Agreement
(Second Railway Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
REGIE DU CHEMIN DE FER DU MALI
DATED MAY 23, 1973


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 23, 1973, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and the
REGIE DU CHEMIN DE FER DU MALI (hereinafter called the R6gie).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between the Republic of Mali (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association,
the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to six million seven hundred thousand dollars ($6,700,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that the R6gie agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and the R6gie, the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to the R6gie; and
WHEREAS the R6gie, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The Rdgie shall carry out the Project, described in Schedule
2 to the Development Credit Agreement, with due diligence and efficiency and


﻿4
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices,
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. In order to assist the R6gie in planning, statistics and data,
accounting services, storekeeping and personnel management, under Part C of the
Project, the Rdgie shall employ management consultants acceptable to the
Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. In carrying out any works included in Part A of the Project
not to be done by the Rdgie itself, the R6gie shall employ contractors acceptable
to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.04. Except as as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods
and services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis
of international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published by the Bank
in April 1972, and revised in October 1972, and in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions set forth in the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) The R6gie undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds :f
the Credit relent to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
R6gie to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the R6gie shall cause
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by
the Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) The R6gie shall furnish to the Association promptly upon
their preparation, the plans, specifications, contract documents and work and
procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   The R6gie shall: (i) maintain records adequate to record the progress
of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower, and to
disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) without limitation upon the provisions


﻿5
of Section 5.03 of this Agreement, enable the Association's representatives to
examine the Project, the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit so relent to it and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
Section 2.07. The R6gie shall duly perform all its obligations under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
R6gie shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of
amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any
provision thereof.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of the R6gie
Section 3.01. The R6gie shall at all times manage its affairs, maintain its
financial position, plan its future expansion and carry on its operations, all in
accordance with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and railway
practices and under the supervision of qualified and experienced management
assisted by qualified and experienced staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. The Rdgie shall at all times operate and maintain the Railways
and promptly make all necessary renewals and repairs, all in accordance with
appropriate engineering and railway practices.
Section 3.03. The R6gie shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers
or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for insurance against such
risks and in such amount as shall be consistent with sound practice.
Section 3.04. The R6gie shall take such action as shall be reasonable in the
circumstances to facilitate railway operations between the territories of the
Borrower and the territories of the Republic of Senegal, in accordance with the
International Traffic Agreement, the Customs Agreement and         the Railway
Convention.
Section 3.05. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree and except for
miscellaneous items of small equipment not exceeding in value a total of $150,000
equivalent in any one year, the R6gie shall limit its investments to those included
in the Project, until its completion.


﻿6
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The R6gie shall maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. The R6gie shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of the R6gie and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the R6gie shall
not incur any debt unless the amount of its net cash revenue for its fiscal year
next preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later twelve-month period
ended prior to the date of such incurrence, whichever amount is the greater, shall
be not less than 1.25 times the maximum debt service :-*quirements for any
succeeding fiscal year on all its debt including the debt to be incurred. For the
purposes of this Section:
(a)   "debt" means all debt, except debt incurred in the ordinary course
of business and maturing by its terms on demand or less than one year after the
date on which it is originally incurred;
(b)   debt shall be deemed to be incurred (i) under a loan contract or
agreement, on the date and to the extent it is drawn down and outstanding pursuant
to such loan contract or agreement; and (ii) under a guarantee agreement, on the
date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been entered into but only
to the extent that the underlying debt is outstanding;
(c)   the term  "net cash revenue" means gross operating revenue from all
sources, adjusted to take account of the R6gie's tariffs in effect at the time of
the incurrence of debt even though they were not in effect during the entire fiscal


﻿r                                              7
year or twelve-month period to which such revenue relates, less all operating
expenses, including adequate maintenance, taxes, if any, and administrative
expenses, but before provision for depreciation and debt service requirements;
(d)   the term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of
amortization (including sinking fund payments, if any), interest and other charges
on debt; and
(e)   whenever in connection with this Section it shall be necessary to value
in the currency of the Borrower debt payable in another currency, such valuation
shall be made on the basis of the rate of exchange at which such other currency
is obtainable by the R6gie, at the time such valuation is made, for the purposes
of servicing such debt or, if such other currency is not so obtainable, at the rate
of exchange that will be reasonably determined by the Association.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association and the R6gie shall otherwise
agree, the R6gie shall from time to time take all such steps (including, but without
limitation, adjustment of its tariffs) as shall be required to provide revenue sufficient
to enable the R6gie to meet out of internally-generated resources all of its
administrative  and  operating   expenses  (including  adequate  provision  for
*        depreciation), taxes, if any, and interest and other charges on debt as well as a
reasonable portion of the cost of its capital investments including replacement of
assets; provided, however, that the R6gie shall earn an annual return on the average
current net value of its fixed assets in operation of at least 2% over its fiscal
year 1974 and 1975, 3% over 1976, to reach 3.5% over fiscal year 1977.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         The annual rate of return shall be calculated in respect of each
fiscal year by dividing the Rdgie's net operating income accrued
over such year from the Rgie's services, as numerator, by the
average of the current net values of the fixed assets in operation
at the beginning and at the end of such year, as denominator.
(ii)        The term "current net value of fixed assets in operation" shall
mean the gross book value of such assets, less the amount of
accumulated depreciation, as valued from time to time in
accordance with sound and consistently maintained methods of
valuation acceptable to the Association.
(iii)       The term   "net operating income" shall mean the difference
between:


﻿8
(A)   all gross operating revenues accruing from    the R6gie's
services; and
(B)   all the R6gie's administrative and operating expenses
(including adequate provision for depreciation) and taxes,
if any, but excluding interest and other charges on debt.
(c)   Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the R6gie shall as
of January 1, 1974 revise its tariffs by an average calculated to produce an increase
in revenue of 8%, on the basis of the simplified tariff system recommended as
a result of the recently updated consultants' cost study.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association and the R6gie shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and the R6gie shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange
views through their representatives with regard to the performance of their
respective obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and
financial condition of the R6gie and other matters relating to the purpose of the
Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association and the Rdgie shall promptly inform each
other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the performance by either of them
of its obligations under this Agreement or the performance by the Borrower and
the R6gie of their respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.03. The R6gie shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine the Railways and all plants, sites, works, properties and equipment of
the R6gie and any relevant records and documents.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.


﻿9
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of the Rdgie thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       a date twenty-six years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify the R6gie of this event.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿10
For the R6gie:
R6gie du Chemin de Fer du Mali
Bamako
Mali
Cable address:
FERMALI
Bamako
Mali
Section 7.02. (a) Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of the R6gie or under the Development Credit Agreement by the Rdgie on behalf
of the Borrower, may be taken or executed by the Director of the R6gie or such
other person or persons as the R6gie shall designate in writing.
(b)   The R6gie shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons who
will act under paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 7.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa
REGIE DU CHEMIN DE FER DU MALI
By /s/ Seydou Traor6
Authorized Representative


﻿*                                  11
SCHEDULE
Procurement
1.    With respect to any contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000
or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the R6gie shall furnish to the Association, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documcnts shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the R6gie shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with the reasons for the intended
award. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of this
Agreement, promptly inform the R6gie and the Borrower, state the reasons for
such determination and advise the R6gie of any cancellation pursuant to the
provisions of paragraph 3(c) of Schedule I to the Development Credit Agreement.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
2.    With respect to any contract under $30,000 equivalent, the Regie shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract.
is


