CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 384 MLI
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Railway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF MALI
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 23, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 384 MLI
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Railway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF MALI
AND
INTEPNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MAY 23, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 23, 1973, between the REPUBLIC OF MALI
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project, described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement, by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out by the R6gie du Chemin de Fer du
Mali (hereinafter called the R6gie) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the Rdgie the proceeds of
the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and the R6gie;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto 'iereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have -he respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and the Rdgie of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes any schedules to the Project Agreement;


﻿4
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the R6gie pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes any
schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)   "Railways" means the railways owned, operated or administered by
the Rdgie and includes all railway property, equipment and materials owned,
operated or administered by the R6gie;
(d)   "International Traffic Agreement" means the agreement dated June 8,
1963, between the Borrower and the Republic of Senegal relating to international
railway traffic, as the same may from time to time be amended by agreement
of the parties thereto;
(e)   "Customs Agreement" means the Accord douanier dated June 8, 1963,
between the Borrower and the Republic of Senegal, as the same may from time
to time be amended by agreement of the parties thereto;
(f)   "Railway Convention" means the Convention dated June 8, 1963,
between the R6gie and the R6gie des Chemins de Fer du Senegal, as the same
may from time to time be amended by agreement of the parties thereto; and
(g)   "Statutes" means Ordonnance No. 62 bis PGP/RM of November 29,
1960, published in Journal Officiel No. 78 of February 23, 1961, of the Borrower,
relating to the establishment of the R6gie, and includes the Statutes attached as
a schedule to such Ordonnance.
ARTICLE H
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to six million seven hundred thousand
dollars ($6,700,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the


﻿*                                 5
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1978 or such other date
as shall be ag..-d between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January 15
and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installm: ts payable on each January 15 and July 15 commencing
July 15, 1983, and ending January 15, 2023, each installment to and including
the installment payable on January 15, 1993, to be one-half of one poer cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment tO -eafter to be one and
one-Italf per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Rdgie is irrevocably designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause


﻿6
the Rdgie to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement
and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations of the R6gie therein set
forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the R6gie
to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to the R6gie
under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
the R6gie under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Association including a term of 25 years with four years of grace and a rate of
interest of 7-1/4% per annum.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall use its best efforts to ensure that the
number of experts being provided to the Rdgie through technical assistance be
maintained at the level required to ensure compliance by the R6gie with Section
3.01 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, promptly as required, take all steps
necessary on its part to enable the Rdgie to set and maintain its tariffs at the
levels required under Section 4.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take or cause the Rdgie to take such action
as shall be reasonable in the circumstances to facilitate railway operations between
its territories and the territories of the Republic of Senegal, in accordance with
the International Traffic Agreement, the Customs Agreement and the Railway
Convention.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:


﻿7
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by the Rdgie of its obligations under the Project
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the administration, operations and
financial condition of the R6gie and, in respect of the Project, of the departments
or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out any part of the Project,
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition of the Rdgic and,
in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement or the performance by the Rgie of its obligations under the
Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.02. The Development Credit Agreement, the Project Agreement
and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall be free from any taxes on or in connection
9


﻿8
with the execution, delivery or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 6.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   The R6gie shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement or
obligation of the R6gie under the Project Agreement or the project agreement
between the Association and the R6gie dated September 29, 1966.
(b)   The Statutes shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived, without the approval of the Association, in such a way as materially
and adversely to affect the conduct of the Rgie's operations or its financial
condition, or the ability of the Borrower or the R6gie to carry out their respective
covenants or agreements set forth in this Agreement, the Project Agreement, the
development credit agreement between the Borrower and the Association dated
September 29, 1966 or the project agreement of the same date between the
Association and the Rgie.
(c)   Railway traffic between the territories of the Borrower and the
territories of the Republic of Senegal shall have been substantially interrupted for
other than technical reasons, unless such reasons shall be manifestly beyond the
Borrower's control.


﻿9
(d)   Any part of the principal amount of any loan to the R6gie having
an original maturity of one year or more shall, in accordance with its terms, have
become due and payable in advance of maturity as provided in the relative
contractual instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable.
(e)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the R6gie or for the
suspension of its operations.
(f)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that the R6gie will be able to perform its obligations under the Projec:
Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 6.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue fcr a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and the R6gie.
(b)   any event specified in paragraph (b), (c), (d), or (e) of Section 6.02
of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
the R6gie have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary administrative
and governmental action; and
(b)   The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and the Rgie, respectively, have been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action.


﻿10
Section 7.02, The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the R6gie, and constitutes a valid and
binding obligation of the R6gie in accordance with its terms; and
(b)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and the Rdgie,
respectively, and constitutes valid and binding obligations of the Borrower and
of the R6gie in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date August 20, 1973 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.03 and 3.04
of this Agreement and the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c), (d) and (e) of Section
6.02 of this Agreement and those of paragraph (b) of Section 6.03 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty-six years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the
Minister responsible for Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Bamako, Koulouba
Republic of Mali
Cable address:
MINIFINANCES
Barnako                           Telex:     522


﻿11
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS                         Telex:   440098 (ITT) or
Washington, D.C.                         24423  (RCA)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF MALI
By /s / Seydou Traore
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Roger Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of imported items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and the allocation of amounts of the Credit
to each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                          Dollar Equivalent)
1.    Equipment and materials                               1,800,000
for track maintenance
and renewal and bridges;
equipment for marshalling
yard;
II.   Shunting locomotives;                                 3,700,000
railcars; trailers;
freight cars; spare
parts;
III.  Consultants' services                                   600,000
and training; office
equipment;
IV.   Unallocated                                             600,000
TOTAL               6,700,000
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods produced
in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower;
(b)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and


﻿13
(c)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof.
3.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request of
the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit, subject,
however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the Association,
in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association   shall have reasonably  determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement, no expenditures
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project comprises the investment plan of the R6gie for the period
1973-1976 and covers specifically the following Parts:
Part A.    Track renewal, bridge repairs and strengthening, construction of a new
traffic yard at Bamako, and miscellaneous works.
Part B.    The procurement of track-maintenance equipment and materials and
of rolling stock and spare parts therefor, including mainline
locomotives, shunting locomotives, railcars, trailers and freight and
passenger wagons.
Part C.    The employment of consultants to assist the management of the R6gie.
The procurement of office equipment.
Part D.    The training abroad of personnel of the R6gie.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1977.


