Report No. 1027-TU                                                             FILE  COPY
Appraisal of Third Livestock
Development Project Turkey
May 10, 1976
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1             =    Turkish Lira (LT) 15.0
LT 1             =    US$0.0666
LT 1,000,000     =    US$66,667
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)                  =   2.20 pounds
1 metric ton                     =   1,000 kilograms
1 metric ton                     =   0.98 long ton
1 meter (m)                      =   1.09 yards
1 kilometer (km)                 =   0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha) = 10,000 m2       =   2.47 acres
1 decare = 0.1 ha     2 :        =   0.25 acre
1 square kilometer (km )=100 ha =   0.386 square mile
1 liter (1)                      =   0.264 gallon
ABBREVIATIONS
DANB   -  Directorate of Artificial and Natural Breeding and
Record Keeping of MFA
DVS    -  Directorate of Veterinary Services of MFA
EDLD   -  Encouragement and Development Loans Division of TCZB
GOT    -  Government of Turkey
IDPD   -  Intensive Dairy Production Division of LDP
LDP    -  Directorate for Livestock Development Projects
of MFA
MFA    -  Ministry of Food and Agriculture
SPO    -  State Planning Organization
TCZB   -  Agricultural Bank of Turkey
TSEK   -  Milk Corporation
FISCAL YEAR (GOT)
March 1 - February 28
FISCAL YEAR (TCZB)
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TURKEY
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ................................    i-iii
I.    INTRODUCTION  ...........................................                        1
II.    THE AGRICULTURAL  SECTOR  .....            ......................                2
A.   General  .......        ........................... .                       2
B.   Agriculture in the Economy  .....               ....................        4
C.   The Milk Industry  ......           .......................                 6
D.   Agricultural Credit  .....            .......................               9
E.  Government Policy  ..................................                      11
III.    THE PROJECT  ............................................                        12
A.   Objectives  .........................................                      12
B.  Description                 ........................................        13
C.  Detailed Features .              ..................... .                  14
D.  Cost Estimates .          .     .      ..................................  18
EF.  Financing  ..................           .................... .           20
F.   Procurement  ........................................                     21
G.   Disbursements  ......................................                      21
H.  Environmental Impact  ...............................                      22
IV.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ...............            ..      ................      22
A.   Organization and Management  ..........           ..     ............      22
B.   Lending Policies and Procedures  ........ ..               ..........     24
C.   Technical Services  .................................                     26
D.   Technical Studies/Training  ...........           ..     ............     26
E.   Accounting and Auditing  ............          ..      ..............     27
F.   Monitoring  . ...... .............             ....................       28
V.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .............................                        28
A.   Production          .....................      ....................       28
B.   Prices        .......................       ......................        29
C.   Marketing  ..........................................                     29
D.  Producer Income  ................          ..      ..................      30
E.   Benefits and Beneficiaries  ..........           ..     .............     30
VI.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ....... .. ........                     32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
ANNEXES
1. The Agricultural Sector with Special Reference to the
Livestock Subsector
2. Milk Production
3. The Agricultural Bank of Turkey
4. Development and Financial Projections
5. Total Project Cost and Cash Flow
6. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
7. Staffing Requirements for Technical Services
8. Rate of Return to the Economy
9. Terms of Reference for Technical Specialists
10. Terms of Reference for Technical Studies and Training
11. Terms of Reference for the Special Operational Fund
ChIARTS
15657R      Project Organization
15658(2R)   Implementation Schedule
MAP S
IBRD 2764R Relief, Climate and Agricultural Regions
IBRD 12037R Location of Project Area



APPRAISAL OF
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TURKEY
Summary and Conclusions
i.        This report appraises a follow-up project for intensive dairy pro-
duction in Turkey. There are good possibilities for expanding dairying and
the Government of Turkey has given it high priority in its Third Five-Year
Development Plan (1973-77). The earlier project, (the Intensive Dairy Pro-
duction Project -- Credit 236-TU -- for US$4.5 million), which became effec-
tive in 1971 during Turkey's Second Five-Year Development Plan (1968-72), was
a first attempt on the part of the Government to modernize its dairy industry.
The project, after a slow start due to staffing constraints, organizational
difficulties, problems of collateral and conservatism on the part of farmers
has been successful in establishing a nucleus of some 3,500 high-quality im-
ported dairy animals in Turkey, in setting up about 152 demonstration farms,
and in building infrastructure and promoting modernized dairying through pro-
vision of credit and technical services to farmers. Although the appraisal
target of 250-300 beneficiaries was not reached due mainly to increases in
input costs, and the technical studies and training components did not develop
fully, overall the project is considered to be satisfactory.   Currently, all
funds are committed and the project is expected to be completed in June 1976.
ii.       Although a satisfactory start has been made, the need for strength-
ening infrastructure still exists, and this would be a central thrust of the
proposed project along with pilot lending to small village farmers. The pres-
ent project, which is one of several comprising Government's Third Plan (1973-
77), will represent a second stage of dairy development in Ankara, Istanbul,
Izmir, Adana and Konya and a first stage in Balikesir, Denizli, Kayseri,
Malatya and Adiyaman. The project will include a five-year lending program
by the Agricultural Bank of Turkey (TCZB) for on-farm investment in improved
dairy stock, buildingsi tractors and machinery. The project will also provide
for technical studies for further development of dairy production and milk
marketing, and for training of technicians and farmers in modern production
and management. Some 750 subborrowers would participate. All will be small
dairy producers initially. About 250 will develop 40-cow herds, 200 will
develop 12-cow herds, and 300 will develop 5-cow herds. Pilot lending to
the latter two categories will provide credit and extension agencies with
preliminary and practical experience in servicing small village farmers, the
main milk producers of Turkey, who must subsequently be reached in big num-
bers in any large program of dairy modernization. The appraisal mission
examined the possibility of involving a higher proportion of smaller units
at this stage but concluded it would prejudice the long-term development of
the industry to do so. On technical grounds, the proposed number of larger



- ii -
farmers is considered necessary to ensure a sufficient supply of good quality
replacement heifers and breeding bulls to the industry in the future. The
project will also make a small but significant contribution to milk production
(about 1% of national production amounting to some 45,000 tons p.a.), particu-
larly in ten urban areas of high population growth where supplies are now
scarce or non-existent.
iii.      The project will be executed by the Intensive Dairy Projects Divi-
sion (IDPD) of the Directorate of Livestock Development Projects (LDP) of the
Ministry of Food and Agriculture (MFA), whose staff will be approximately
doubled for the purpose. Credit will be provided by TCZB for farm plans drawn
up by IDPD staff, which will include three internationally recruited technical
specialists. Supervision of the plans on individual farms will be the respon-
sibility of the same IDPD staff. The credit channel will be the Encouragement
and Development Loans Division (EDLD) of TCZB, which is considered adequate.
Successful execution will be dependent on the expected continued close coop-
eration between officers of IDPD and EDLD which developed in the first project.
Overall organization and management will be similar to the first project, which
is satisfactory.
iv.       The Bank and IDA have already made seven loans and seven credits to
Turkey for agricultural development totaling some US$350 million. The pres-
ent project is estimated to cost US$34.7 million equivalent. A Bank loan
equivalent to US$21.5 million, equal to the foreign exchange cost (62% of
total project cost), is proposed. The loan will be made to the Government
of Turkey for 17 years with a grace period of 5 years. Government will on-
lend the Turkish lira equivalent of US$18.5 million to TCZB on the same terms.
TCZB will make these funds, along with about LT 104 million (US$6.9 million)
from its own resources, available to eligible subborrowers to finance some
80% of the cost of on-farm investments for 10 - 12 years with 2 - 4 years of
grace at 11% interest per annum. This is the maximum effective lending rate
(by Government Decree) for loans to farmers for agricultural development and
the current rate charged by TCZB for such loans. This rate and other lending
terms and conditions will be subject to review by Government and the Bank if,
in the opinion of either party, such review is warranted.
v.        Some 10,500 purebred Holstein and Brown Swiss heifers and bulls
will be imported. Procurement will be organized by IDPD on the basis of at
least three bids from not less than two countries. Because animals will be
procured in 12 - 15 shipments averaging about 800 head each, and would have
to be selected in small groups, ICB is impracticable. Tractors, sowing and
harvesting equipment, and milking machines will be procured through ICB under
current Bank guidelines. Orders from individual farmers will be bulked by
IDPD who will organize procurement and distribution to farmers.



- iii -
vi.       Proceeds of the Bank loan will be disbursed against:
(a)  100% of foreign expenditures on cattle;
(b) 100% 'of foreign expenditures, or 100% of local expenditures
ex-factory, on tractors, sowing and harvesting equipment,
and milking machines;
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures on technical specialists; and
(d) 100% of foreign expenditures on training and group study
tours.
vii.       The direct beneficiaries would be the approximately 750 families
(about 4,500 persons) who would have a higher and more evenly distributed in-
come. Also, full-time farm jobs would be created for about 1,200 workers.
Incremental milk production of some 45,000 tons per annum will provide milk
for an additional 400,000 indirect beneficiaries (most of whom will be in
urban areas where milk is now short) at the present level of per capita milk
consumption (110 liters p.a.).
viii.      Direct economic benefits include the above milk (valued at some
US$10 million p.a.) and annual production of over 10,000 head of cattle for
dairying and breeding (valued at around US$3.3 million p.a.). The great-
est benefits to the economy, which are difficult to quantify, would be in-
direct and long-term and include:
(a) improvement of the national dairy herd through upgrading with
exotic blood;
(b) improved land utilization and herd output through applica-
tion of modern technology and better management;
(c) establishment of infrastructure in central Government insti-
tutions, including upgrading of staff through training and
provision of technical services and long-term credit to farm-
ers, especially for dairy development; and
(d) increased supplies of milk to existing and projected Govern-
ment processing plants which are expected to operate for
several years with excess capacity.
ix.       Excluding these non-quantifiable benefits, the rate of return to
the economy over a 20-year project life is estimated at 22%.
x.        On the basis of the satisfactory assurances received on all major
matters during negotiations, the project is suitable for a Bank loan of
US$21.5 million to the Government of Turkey for a term of 17 years with a
grace period of 5 years.






APPRAISAL OF
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TURKEY
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Turkey has requested a Bank loan to assist in fi-
nancing further modernization of dairy farming and expand credit and technical
services for dairying. The project would comprise part of Turkey's Third
Five-Year Plan (1973-77) for modernizing the livestock sub-sector. IDA Credit
236-TU (the Intensive Dairy Production Project) for US$4.5 million was approved
in 1971 to help finance the first phase of dairy intensification, on a pilot
basis. That project became effective in December 1971 and, after a slow start
due mainly to staffing difficulties, has been successful in introducing modern
dairying concepts on about 152 farms around the four main milk consuming cen-
ters (Ankara, Istanbul, Izmir and Adana). The present project would build on
the gains of the first phase in these regions and in Konya (in the original
project area) and extend benefits to two additional regions (Kayseri and
Malatya).
1.02      The Bank and IDA have previously made seven loans and seven credits
to Turkey for agriculture as follows: Grain Storage, Loan 27-TU (US$3.9 mil-
lion); Seyhan Irrigation, Loan 63-TU (US$25.2 million), Credit 38-TU (US$20.0
million), Credit 143-TU (US$12.0 million), Loan 587-TU (US$12.0 million); Fresh
Fruit and Vegetable Export, Loan 762-TU (US$10.0 million), Credit 257-TU
(US$15.0 million); Intensive Dairy Production, Credit 236-TU (US$4.5 million);
Irrigation Rehabilitation Completion, Credit 281-TU (US$18.0 million); Second
Livestock Development, Credit 330-TU (US$16.0 million); Ceyhan Aslantas Multi-
purpose, Loan 883-TU (US$44.0 million), Credit 360-TU (US$30 million); Corum-
Cankiri Rural Development, Loan 1130-TU (US$75.0 million); Agricultural Credit
and Agroindustries, Loan 1248-TU (US$63.0 million).
1.03      The present project includes a supervised farm credit component for
about 750 individual farmers who would invest in imported and local dairy
animals, farm buildings, tractors, equipment and forage production. It would
also involve an expansion of technical and extension services to dairy farmers,
and training of farmers and professional staff.
1.04      The project was prepared by the General Directorate of Livestock
Development Projects (LDP) of the Ministry of Food and Agriculture (MFA) with
the assistance of an FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program (CP) mission which visited
Turkey in July/August 1975. This report is based on the findings of an ap-
praisal mission which was in Turkey in October-November 1975 consisting of
Messrs. N.A. Worker, F.J. Tellez. G. Donovan (Bank), end J. Graff (Consulta.t).



- 2 -
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A.  General
2.01      Turkey is located in the Middle East between latitudes 360 and
420 N and longitudes 260 and 440 E. It shares boundaries with the USSR, Iran
Iraq, Syria, Greece and Bulgaria, an over 70% borders the Black, Marmara,
Aegean, and Mediterranean Seas. The total land area is about 78 million hec-
tares of which roughly 3% is in Europe and 97% in Asia. Total population
(1975) exceeds 40 million and is growing at about 2.6% p.a. The proportion
of urban population is 42% and rising at around 4.4% p.a. against 1.3% in-
crease in rural areas. GNP per capita is estimated at US$785 at 1974 prices
and current exchange rate or US$480 at average 1965-1971 prices and exchange
rates. The current poverty income level is estimated at US$240.
Relief
2.02      Turkey comprises a series of mountain ranges extending from the
Balkans to Iran and relief is, for the most part, undulating to mountainous
(Map 2764R). Only-about 10%, mostly in the coastal regions, is level or
gently sloping. Mean altitude is over 1,000 m, with most areas in the east
being over 2,000 m.
Climate
2.03      Climate is extremely variable.  Coastal areas are usually humid and
the interior semiarid. The former receives rainfall varying between 600 -
2,000 mm per year, and the latter between 250 - 500 mm per year (Map 2764R).
Most coastal areas have a reasonable distribution of rainfall, relatively
high summer temperatures, and mild winters. With irrigation, many such areas
have a continuous growing season. Central and eastern areas have poorly dis-
tributed rainfall, warm summers and freezing winter temperatures with snow for
one to four months, depending on location and altitude. The growing season is
only three to four months under rainfed conditions and five to six months with
irrigation.
Soils
2.04      The country has a range of soils determined by differences in cli-
mate, vegetation, and geology. Most of the interior is covered with alkaline
brown and reddish-brown steppe soils alternating in the driest parts with
desert gray and saline soils. In the north and south coastal regions, red
and reddish-brown podzolic soils predominate. Strongly acid red soils are
common in the wetter eastern Black Sea coast and slightly acid brown and
yellowish-brown podzols cover much of the northwest. In the Mlediterranean
area, red clayey soils are common. The transitional regions between the
dry interior and the humid coastal areas are occupied by brown forest soils.
Phosphate deficiency in soils is widespread and responses to potassium and
calcium are common. Little is known of micro-element deficiencies.



-3-
Production Patterns
2.05      Due to variations in relief, climate and soil, agricultural prac-
tices tend to vary with region. At least five regional patterns are generally
recognized (Map 2764R).
(a)  The Black Sea coast region in the north is mountainous with
abundant and well distributed rainfall, warm summers and mild
winters. It is densely forested and contains about one-third
of the country's woodlands.  It is an important area for tea,
corn, wheat, hazelnuts, tobacco, and livestock.
(b)  The Mediterranean region, along the south coast, is dominated
by the Taurus Mountains. It experiences hot, dry summers and
cool, moist winters. The area produces 90% of the country's
citrus and two-thirds of its cotton; also, vegetables and
livestock.
(c)  The Marmara and Aegean region is the most heavily urbanized
and industrialized area. The climate is essentially Mediter-
ranean and its agricultural importance rests on the production
of several export crops including tobacco (50% of total Turkish
production), cotton (30% of total), and oranges (50% of total).
It also produces grapes, figs, rice, sunflower, and livestock.
(d)  Central Anatolia, the largest region, has a continental steppe
climate with cold moist winters and hot dry summers. The area
produces some 40% of the country's wheat. Over one-third of
the country's sheep and goats are found in the region.
(e)  Eastern Anatolia is composed of high mountains and rugged ter-
rain with mostly warm moist summers and very severe winters.
Coniferous forests and alpine pastures predominate in the
northeast and wooded steppes in the south. Summer wheat and
barley are the dominant crops. The northeast is an important
dairy and beef cattle area. Sheep and goats predominate in
the south.
Land Tenure
2.06      Information on land tenure is incomplete.  Not all land has been
surveyed, and titles are not always available. Again, many titles have not
been formally registered.  Of the total land area, only about 21 million ha
(27%) are titled and registered. Statistics on this sample indicate that
about 25% of holdings are less than 1 ha, about 70% are 5 ha or less, and
96% are 20 ha or less. Often these areas are fragmented in several parcels
whiich acts as a constraint in farming them effectively. Large holdings are
comparatively uncommon, only 0.1% of registered property being over 100 ha.



-4-
Statistics on tenancy arrangements are sketchy, but probably about 95% of
units are farmed either by owners, or by owners in partnership with tenants.
Only some 5% of units are farmed by tenant farmers, share farmers and the
like.
B. Agriculture in the Economy
2.07      The contribution of agriculture to GNP has declined from around 50%'
in the early '50s and 40% in the early '60s to 26% at present, a trend shared
by many countries in the process of developing their economies. Nevertheless,
agriculture is still significant in the Turkish economy as it not only pro-
duces the total food needs of the nation but earns about 57% of export in-
come and employs about 63% of the total work force. It also supplies raw
materials for industry, serves as a labor pool for industrial expansion, and
provides an important market for local manufacturers of fertilizer, herbi-
cides, tractors, equipment and consumer goods.
2.08      Cereal, industrial and horticultural crops account for about two-
thirds of the value of agricultural output. Livestock products account for
about 30%, and forestry and fishing make minor contributions. During the
'50s, agricultural growth in real terms averaged about 5% p.a. due principal-
ly to steady increase in the area under crop, particularly under wheat. This
growth slowed in the '60s and output fell short of targets set in the First
(1963-1967) and Second (1968-1972) Development Plans. Throughout the '60s,
agricultural growth averaged about 3% compared with about 6.5% for the economy
as a whole. Over the last five years, growth has slowed further despite an
increase of about 0.6 million ha (2.4%) in the area cropped and about 0.8
million ha (30%) in the area of horticultural crops. Bad weather for cereals
in 1973 and 1974, low world prices and insect damage in cotton, and negligi-
ble growth in livestock numbers (para 2.11) will probably result in little
more than half the 4.5% p.a. targeted increase of the Third Development Plan
(1973-1977) being attained.
Cropping Patterns
2.09      Of Turkey's total land area, about 25 million ha are cropped, 3 mil-
lion ha are devoted to horticulture, 26 million ha are meadowlands, and 19
million ha are forested. Of the area cropped, over one-third is fallow at
any time. Principal crops include wheat and barley (11 million ha), cotton
(0.7 million ha), pulses (0.6 million ha), sunflower (0.5 million) tobacco
(0. million ha), potatoes (0.18 million ha) and sugarbeet (0.15 million ha).
2.10      Turkish agriculture is mainly rainfed and thus subject to large
variations in yield, depending on season. Some 2 million ha is irrigated,
but production from this area is substantially below the potential because of
inefficient and/or incomplete irrigation and drainage systems. Government is
proceeding as quickly as possible in expanding public irrigation facilities



-5-
and current plans call for a doubling of the irrigated area by 1985. Crop
production is reasonably well mechanized and annual consumption of fertili-
zers, herbicides, improved seeds, and other inputs is increasing. In 1973,
tractors numbered about 160,000, (or one to approximately 160 ha of culti-
vated land), up substantially from some 60,000 in 1962 and around 80,000 in
1969. Currently, about 25,000 new units are being added annually, of which
some 80% are of domestic manufacture.  There is a strong demand for both
tractors and equipment, and their use is likely to increase, along with that
of other inputs. Their greater use is constrained at present mainly by avail-
ability and credit. Government is aware of such constraints and the strategy
of the Third Development Plan (1973-1977) is largely directed to overcoming
them.
Livestock Production
2.11      There are currently estimated to be some 13 million cattle (about
4.5 million of which are dairy cows), 40 million sheep, 19 million goats and
3 million horses, donkeys and mules in Turkey. Statistics on livestock num-
bers and production are imprecise, however, as accurate census figures are not
available. Livestock numbers are based on sampling techniques and total pro-
duction figures are derived from applying average production coefficients.
There is room for large discrepancies in judgment and interpretation. Pub-
lished figures indicate little increase in total livestock since the mid '60s.
Sheep numbers appear to have increased, cattle have remained about stable,
and goats have decreased.
2.12      The First and Second Five Year Plans called for a growth of live-
stock output of 5.6% and 4.8% p.a., but actual rates achieved were only 2.6%
and 3.2%, respectively. The Third Plan target is 5% p.a., but present indi-
cations are that a growth of not more than 2.5% will be achieved. Thus,
growth of livestock production over the past 15 years has barely matched
human population increase. Government hopes for an increase in cattle num-
bers throughout the rest of the '70s to some 14 million by 1980. This, how-
ever, will be difficult. Present cattle, sheep and goat numbers are in equi-
librium with the available feed supplies which come mainly from the 26 mil-
lion ha of meadowland and some relatively small amounts of forage crops (e.g.,
alfalfa grown under irrigation) and prepared feeds. The area of meadowland
is already being fully utilized. Its area cannot be extended due to pres-
sure from cropping and forestry. The only way its carrying capacity and
output can be increased is by intensification. However, the principal live-
stock rearing regions are in eastern Turkey where land for the most part is
only marginally fertile and is extensively farmed, and terrain and climate
preclude very intensive exploitation. Much can be done to improve this land,
but it: will be slow as farmers there are conservative and farming patterns
are traditional. A more immediate possibility for increasing national --ro-
duction lies in integrating livestock with cropping in central and west, m
Anatolia, particularly in the fertile coastal regions. The wider adoption
of mixed farming using fallow land (some 9 million ha) to expand the forage
base to intensify fattening and dairy production in those regions is a sotend



-6-
strategy given the country's present natural resource base.  This is es-
sentially the approach Government is emphasizing in its present agricultural
planning.
C. The Milk Industry
Present Status
2.13      Milk and milk products are traditional in the Turkish diet.  They
are consumed mainly as yogurt, ayran (diluted yogurt), and cheese; also as
liquid milk, butter and ice cream. While accurate statistics are not avail-
able, it is estimated that total milk production is around 4.3 million tons
p.a. of which 2.5 million tons (58%) is cows' milk and 1.8 million tons is
from sheep, goats, and buffalo (0.9, 0.6 and 0.3 million tons respectively).
Annual per capita consumption of milk and milk products is estimated at about
110 liters,l/ although intake of rural families is considerably higher than
that of urban families, particularly the poorer ones. Present rapid growth
in the population is aggravating this disparity.
2.14      To maintain supplies to the population and, in particular, to the
rapidly expanding urban sector, Government is faced with the difficulty that
neither total milk production nor cow milk production has increased signifi-
cantly over recent years. Each has averaged less than one percent increase
p.a. from 1962 through 1973 as illustrated hereunder:
No. Cows         Cow Milk         Production/Cow       Total Milk
Year           ('000 head)      ('000 tons)           (kg/head)       ('000 tons)
1962             4,010           2,349                   590             4,067
1963             5,024           2,351                   470             4,059
1964             4,157           2,437                   590             4,135
1965             4,180           2,446                   590             4,158
1966             4,423           2,590                   590             4,322
1967             4,564           2,666                   580             4,426
1968             4,528           2,664                   590             4,451
1969             4,485           2,609                   580             4,381
1970             4,402           2,551                   580             4,293
1971             4,382           2,535                   580             4,280
1972             4,541           2,558                   560             4,358
1973             4,591           2,747                   590             4,536
Sourte:  State Statistical Institute:  Abstracted by LDP.
2.15      To improve milk availability, total animals in milk and, particular-
ly, total cows in milk must be expanded. Total milking animals are limited by
food supplies, and increases in the latter can only occur through the intro-
duction of newer technology (para 2.12). The quality of locai milk cattle
1/   Considerably less than Ireland's annual milk consumption of 218 liters
per capita but more than Greece's 56 liters per capita (FAO "World
Dairy Economy in Figures", 1969).



-7-
is generally poor and needs improving. Average annual milk production is
less than 600 liters per cow, about one-fifth of imported dairy animals.
Standards of housing, veterinary care and management, in general, also need
raising.
2.16      The potential for increasing dairy production particularly in humid
coastal regions and irrigated areas is good. Adequate rainfall or irrigation
is important for cheap and reliable forage, which is essential for low-cost
milk production.  Many forages grow well in such areas, including alfalfa,
corn, sorghum, oats and vetch. With carefully planned rotations and double
cropping of fallow lands, forages need not necessarily be produced at the
expense of cereal and industrial crops, but as a complement to them.
Milk Marketing
2.17      The marketing of milk and its products follows traditional patterns.
Sources of milk are widely scattered and few producers are specialized dairy-
men. Apart from a limited number of public sector farms, the only modern
dairy farms are those established under Credit 236-TU. The present milk mar-
keting system's major deficiency is its inability to provide for the rapid-
ly expanding urban centers, where there is chronic scarcity which is particu-
larly severe in winter.
2.18      Most milk comes from small farmers who produce principally for their
own need and that of neighbors. They either convert any small surpluses to
yogurt or cheese, or sell it in liquid form to intermediaries who dispose of
it fresh or processed. There are no reliable figures indicating relative
quantities of milk processed to different products, but yogurt is by far the
most common. Milk production throughout Turkey is seasonal, with peak sup-
plies in spring and summer and minimum in winter. There is generally keen
competition for all milk produced, except in the summer peak or in very iso-
lated localities. Recent improvement in farmgate prices of the order of 50%,
due to increased floor prices offered by government processing plants and to
shortages, has greatly increased farmer interest in dairying. Floor prices
for cows' milk now vary between LT 3.25-3.75/liter, with an average of around
LT 3.50/liter (US$0.23/liter). Prices paid by intermediaries are frequently
higher, depending on season and locality. Overall market prospects for milk
producers, therefore, appear good.
2.19      The activities of intermediaries are generally unregulated and
their standards of milk handling and hygiene are low. Adulteration of milk
is common. Their function in the marketing chain, however, is critical as
they distribute over 90% of total milk marketed and they are likely to con-
tinue to play a dominant role in the industry in the foreseeable future.
Strong'ier government control of marketing is undoubtedly needed but, given
Bile trC . ional and fragmented structurc of the milk industry, and the fact
that Qouxernment milk plants can presently handle only a small fraction of
to il irGduction, it is not easy to achieve. Nevertheless, government
strucegy is to -"ert more control with time (para 2.34).



-8-
2.20      Incremental production from the proposed project, estimated at
about 45,000 tons of milk p.a. at full development in project year 6 (1982),
is expected to be easily absorbed, as has been production from Credit 236-TU.
Private peddlars and buyers for small processors and Government plants are
active in all project areas. As most farms involved in the project will be
in and around large centers of consumption, this increased production is
expected to assist in alleviating acute shortages in those centers. Much of
the incremental production is expected to be procured by processing plants.
Technical Services
2.21      MFA offers extension assistance to livestock farmers through several
of its technical directorates (e.g., LDP, Agriculture, Veterinary Services,
(DVS), Artificial and Natural Breed and Record Keeping (DANB)).  However, such
services are thinly spread and are staffed by professionals who often lack
practical skills, as university courses in agriculture and veterinary science
in Turkey tend to be highly theoretical. Yearly output of students with spe-
cialized training in agriculture and veterinary science from the country's
universities 1/ and high schools number some 750 at the degree level and 700
at sub-degree level. Mot of these-enter government, the best being employed
in various semi-autonomous State Economic Enterprises which offer better remu-
neration, particularly-side benefits. The standard of staff of the various
directorates of MFA is variable and difficulty is experienced in recruiting
capable staff due to low basic salaries, side benefits and per diem allowances.
Slow recruitment delayed the early development of Credit 236-TU and the Second
Livestock Development Project (Credit 330-TU) and is still limiting the execu-
tion of the village development component of the latter project. Adequate
staffing of the proposed project is considered essential to ensure its timely
implementation (para 4.04). Provision for a strong program of in-service
training in modern dairying techniques is also considered necessary (paras
4.15, 4.16). Such training is not otherwise available in Turkey.
2.22      Technical back-stopping for professionals working in livestock
development in Turkey is not strong. Funds for research are limited, staff-
ing is a constraint and little coordination of research effort exists. Weak
links between research and extension staffs preclude efficient dissemination
of research findings and there is limited feedback of field problems to
research centers.  Capable extension staff are scarce and much of their time
is involved with routine duties not connected with their extension responsi-
bilities. In-service and advanced professional training is rarely available
to extension staff and high-calibre individuals tend not to be attracted to
the service. Low morale and high staff turnover sap its efficiency. Govern-
ment is aware of these problems and is desirous of correcting them, but has
not yet instituted the necessary programs.
1/   There are three colleges of Veterinary Science and four colleges of Agri-
culture in Turkey.



-9-
2.23      Dairy processing and manufacturing also lack adequate technical
support.  Professional courses are deficient in practical training and
graduates are not adequately prepared for positions in industry. This defi-
ciency is recognized by the Milk Corporation (TSEK) which requires increasing
numbers of dairy technologists over the coming years to staff its expanding
efforts (para 2.33). Programs offered by the University of Ankara are cur-
rently being upgraded to meet this need with assistance from UNDP and the
Swedish Government.
2.24      Livestock health is covered by DVS of MFA, one of the strongest
arms of the Ministry. DVS has a staff of some 4,000, about half of whom are
professionals, working in health, management, breeding and food inspection.
DVS has a well-developed diagnostic service backed by over 20 laboratories
located throughout the country.  Vaccines, drugs and medicines are available
and livestock health in general is under good control. Close cooperation was
developed between the staffs of DVS and LDP in the implementation of Credit
236-TU. Serious animal health problems have not constrained the project. A
continued close relationship is expected in the proposed project.
2.25      Recently the Directorate of Artificial and Natural Breeding and
Record Keeping (DANB) was created within MFA, with responsibility for develop-
ing a national artificial insemination (Al) service for upgrading local live-
stock. Programs are being developed for sheep, goats and cattle and priority
is being accorded to dairy breeding. The main thrust in dairying will be in
the areas of Samsun, Istanbul, Ankara, Izmir, Adana and Kayseri. It will
take time for the program to become fully operational, but some farmers parti-
cipating in the proposed project are expected to benefit from the scheme.
D. Agricultural Credit
2.26      Over 90% of institutional credit for agricultural and livestock
development in Turkey is provided by the Agricultural Bank of Turkey (TCZB).
It and the Central Bank and 41 other banks and financial agencies make up the
banking system of the country. TCZB is the largest credit institution in
Turkey, and accounts for over 25% of deposits of the banking system. It is
a semi-autonomous body owned by Government and controlled by a six-man Board
of Directors appointed by the Council of Ministers. It functions as a com-
mercial Bank engaging in all types of banking transactions. Its function is
to provide credit for agricultural, fishery and forestry development. At
least 80% of its lending is for this purpose. Of total loans to agriculture,
the majority are short-term. About 55% of agricultural loans are to market-
ing or credit cooperatives and some 15% are annual production loans to indi-
vidual producers; other loans include long- and medium-term credits for
tractors, machinery, equipment, livestock and buildings.
2.27      Creditworthiness of borrowers is evaluated on the basis of col-
lateral offered by borrowers and their repayment record. Property title is



- 10 -
the preferred collateral and is normally obligatory for loans over TL 100,000.
Up to this limit, a chattel mortgage over movable assets (e.g., machinery,
livestock) and a cosigner's guarantee are acceptable. Over this limit, a
property title is needed along with chattel mortgage and/or cosigner's
guarantee, depending on circumstances. The requirement of a property title
for collateral purposes is not always an easy one for borrowers to meet.
Surveys in some areas of Turkey are not complete; and not all surveyed land
is titled (para 2.06).
2.28      TCZB has over 855 branches throughout Turkey and is well represented
in the proposed project area. Loans up to LT 150,000 can be approved by divi-
sion heads, provincial managers and managers of main branches. Loans of LT
50,000-100,000 can be approved by managers of first-and second-class branches.
All loans over LT 150,000 must be approved by TCZB's Board of Directors in
Ankara.
2.29      Interest rates are set by the Central Bank and enforced by Govern-
ment Decree and loans vary depending on their purpose and term from 8% p.a.
effective interest rate (after charges, fees, taxes and rebates) for agricul-
tural credit cooperatives to a maximum of 14.4% p.a. for agroindustries proj-
ects in developed regions. Loans to farmers for agricultural development are
currently 11% p.a., including charges. TCZB policy is to charge maximum legal
interest rates. These are, however, generally below current private market
rates in line with Government policy to stimulate the agricultural sector;
and consequently demand for credit tends to exceed available loan funds. This
necessitates a rationing of credit, which TCZB does through standard credit
limits which depend on the type and area of crop or the nature of the agricul-
tural enterprise. Cash credits are supplemented with credits in kind (e.g.,
fuel, seeds, fertilizers), but together they seldom adequately cover producer
needs. Lending for livestock development tends to be based on even more arbi-
trary limits and the relative shortage of medium- and long-term funds makes
long-term investment in the sub-sector (e.g., in herd or flock build-up) dif-
ficult, if not impossible, for all but the biggest farmers.
2.30      The effectiveness of TCZB as an agricultural development institu-
tion was recently evaluated by a Bank mission and some weaknesses were identi-
fied. The mission found the need for strengthening TCZB's management and
organization, for improving the equity base, for strengthening its financial
structure by reducing overdue accounts, for reorganizing the accounting system
and streamlining loan procedures. Despite these shortcomings in its institu-
tional effectiveness, the mission concluded TCZB has the potential and com-
petence.-to meet the need of the country's developing agricultural sector if
some appropriate remedial measures are taken. It is intended that the mea-
sures would be instituted in the course of execution of the Agricultural
Credit RlXd Agroindustries Project (Loan 1248-TU).
2.31      As a channel for the poposed second stage dairy loan, TCZB is ade-
quate. It is expected that the credit aspects of the project would be admin-
Lstered through the Encouragement and Development Loans Division (EDLD) of
TCZ3 (para 4.05), as was Credit 236-TU.



- 11 -
E. Government Policy
2.32      Government's policy toward agriculture in its First, Second and
Third Five-Year Development Plans has been to emphasize increased production
to satisfy both rising demands of domestic consumers and to expand exports
and thereby earnings of foreign currency. Its main policy instruments have
been price control of inputs, price incentives for products, exchange control
and export/import regulation, export incentives, public-sector investments and
credit regulation. In its Third Plan (1973-77), Government is according high-
est priority to development of livestock and, within the sub-sector, to poultry
and dairying. It aims to increase dairying through a strategy of:
(a) providing assured outlets for incremental production by
expanding collection and processing facilities;
(b) increasing profitability through price incentives; and
(c) improving technology at the farm level by provision of
adequate investment-credit and better technical services.
2.33      Through TSEK, Government is currently expanding its milk collection
and processing facilities. The program provides for the construction of over
150 cooling/collecting stations, most of which are built, and involves con-
struction of some 40 processing plants. Ten plants are already built and
operating, five are under construction and twenty-five are to be built du-
ring 1976 and 1977. 1/ These, together with five other plants owned jointly
with private interests, will provide the country with a potential processing
capacity of over 460,000 tons p.a. at full development in 1978, providing
processing capability for about 20% of milk marketed. It is probable that
many of these plants will not run at full capacity for a number of years and
will make losses in the foreseeable future. Government is aware of this and
has budgeted funds to cover current operating deficits. It appears that in-
sufficient planning has gone into the siting of cooling/collecting stations
and processing plants. The capacity of many of the latter are also too small
to be operated at optimum financial efficiency. Some economies can be ef-
fected by their more rational coordination and this and other aspects would
be studied in the proposed project (para 3.15, 4.14).
2.34      Floor milk prices paid by Government milk plants have recently been
increased (para 2.18). Plants are also paying incentives for large-quantity
pick-up.s and premiums for fat content and cleanliness.  An extra premium is
paid- for winter milk. These measures are designed not only to increase pro-
duction, particularly of winter milk, but to improve overall quality and
encourage milk to enter regulated channels (para 2.19) and permit stricter
government regulation.
1/   Contracts for-construction and equipment have already been awarded.



- 12 -
2.35      The Intensive Dairy Production Project (Credit 236-TU) initiated
during the Second Five-Year Development Plan (1968-1972), was the first
attempt by Government to provide investment credit facilities and technical
expertise to dairy producers. The project had a slow start, due mainly to
staffing constraints, organizational difficulties, problems of collateral,
an4 the conservative attitudes of farmers. At the end of 1975, the last of
available credits were committed and about 152 farmers are expected to be-
nefit under the Project. This number is less than the 250-300 beneficiaries
anticipated at appraisal, due mainly to price increases. Imported cattle
have performed well. Calving rates and milk production have, on the aver-
age, exceeded appraisal estimates. Animal diseases have been well control-
led and have not created problems except in isolated cases where individual
farmers failed to follow recommendations. Calf mortality was higher than
expected in the early stages of the project, but later improved to an ac-
ceptable level in line with appraisal estimates. Overall, the project has
been successful in establishing a valuable nucleus of over 3,500 high-
quality dairy animals in Turkey, setting up demonstration farms, building
infrastructure, and in promoting dairy modernization through provision of
credit and supporting technical services to dairymen. Government wishes to
expand these efforts through the present project.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.01      As noted, the main impact of the First Project was to establish
infrastructure through which the dairy potential of Turkey could be subse-
quently developed. Virtually all lending was to larger (30-40 cow) units
which was essential to introduce technology and establish nucleus herds of
a size and type from which superior cattle could be produced for upgrading
of local herds whose dairy merit was low. Despite progress so far, there
is a need to develop infrastructure further before dairy modernization can
be widely applied at the village level in small herds where most of the milk
in Turkey is produced. Accordingly, the present project will involve mainly
technical lending to develop this necessary infrastructure. At the same
time, a pilot program of lending to small village dairy producers will be
introduced to provide credit and extension institutions with preliminary
experience in servicing such farmers who must, in the years to come, be the
cornerstone of any large effort to modernize dairying in the country. In
addition, the project will make a small but significant contribution to milk
production, particularly in ten large urban areas where, due to rapid popula-
tion increase, milk is scarce, and in some cases unobtainable. Specifically,
the objectives of the Third Livestock Development Project will be to:



- 13 -
(a) increase the nucleus of genetically superior dairy
animals to provide heifers and breeding bulls for
upgrading local herds;
(b) continue the introduction of modern techniques of dairy
cow management and nutrition commenced under the First
Project;
(c) develop a pilot program for lending to small village
dairy producers;
(d) strengthen extension services for dairying;
(e) provide training in modern dairying;
(f) finance studies and surveys for further development of
dairy production and milk marketing; and
(g) expand milk production in five large milk-consuming
centers-Ankara, Istanbul, Izmir, Adana and Konya--and
in the regions of Kayseri and Malatya which have high
potential and rapidly expanding populations.
B. Description
3.02      The project will be the second phase of intensive dairy development
in the Ankara, Istanbul, Izmir, Adana and Konya regions and a first phase in
Kayseri and Malatya (Map 12037R). It will include a 5-year lending program by
TCZB for on-farm investments. Planning, extension and supervisory services,
emphasizing modern production practices, will be provided by the Intensive
Dairy Production Division (IDPD) of LDP. Training of local technicians in
modern management, feeding, breeding and health care will be provided both
locally and in various countries with developed dairy industries. Training
will be provided for farmers through study tours, field days and extension
activities. The project will also include production and marketing studies
for subsequent development of the dairy industry.
3.03      About 10,500 selected Holstein and Brown Swiss in-calf heifers and
bulls will be imported to increase the nucleus of similar animals distributed
under the first project. This expanded nucleus, totaling over 14,000 animals,
in all, will serve as an important source of genetically superior stock for
upgrad'ing the national herd, which is of mixed background and generally low
dairy merit.
3.04      Herds will vary in size from about 5 to 40 milking cows at full
development plus dry stock. It is anticipated that the project will com-
prise approximately



14 -
300           5-cow herds;
200           12-cow herds; and
250           40-cow herds 1/.
3.05      Milking animals will be housed; they will not normally graze out-
doors, but be fed under cover on purchased concentrates and home-grown for-
ages. 2/ The latter will include greenfeed (alfalfa, green maize, oats
and vetch), silage (maize, sorghum-sudan hybrid, oats and vetch), and hay
(alfalfa, oats and vetch) grown under irrigated or rainfed conditions. Proj-
ect farmers, most of whom would be mixed farmers, will invest in barns and
buildings, imported and local cattle, farm machinery and forage production
(including land preparation, seed and fertilizer), on the basis of plans pre-
pared by technicians of IDPD of LDP. They would apply the inputs under close
supervision of these technicians.
C. Detailed Features
3.06      The project area comprises essentially that of the first project 3/
plus the provinces of Balikesir, Denizli, Kayseri, Malatya and Adiyaman (Map
12037R). The latter provinces have considerable areas of irrigated land and
good dairy potential. In the project area there is a chronic shortage of
milk of the order of some 130,000 tons/year, a shortage which cannot be met
by transporting milk from adjacent areas, all of which are in deficit.
3.07      To expedite implementation, additional IDPD offices will be estab-
lished in'Konya, Kayseri and Malatya which, with the existing offices in Ankara,
Istanbul, Izmir, and Adana, would provide adequate coverage of the project area
(para 4.01). Assurances that the three additional offices will be provided
were obtained at negotiations. Initially, project staff will concentrate on
the existing project area serving the five centers of Ankara, Istanbul, Izmir,
Adana and Konya to allow time for recruiting and training staff to service
subsequent expansion into the Kayseri and Malatya regions (paras 3.14, 4.04).
1/   Model size is for illustrative purposes only.  Individual models would
be expected in practice to vary somewhat above and below the indicated
herd size.
2/ - ERceptions include the dry and young stock (and sometimes the milking
animals) of very small farmers with limited land which are usually sent
each day to common grazing (para 3.08).
3/   Including parts of seven provinces excluded from the first project.



- 15 -
3.08      Credit will be extended to eligible subborrowers by TCZB (paras
4.05, 4.08, 4.09) for up to 80% of the cost of on-farm investments in live-
stock, farm buildings, tractors and equipment, based on individual dairy
development plans drawn up by technical staff of IDPD, who will-be responsi-
ble for supervising implementation of the plans on individual farms (para
4.02). Successful execution of the project will depend on the expected
continuation of the close coordination established between staff of IDPD and
TCZB under the first project. Three models are presented (Annex 4) repre-
senting the different farmers expected to participate in the project. All
will be small dairy producers initially, at least 50% of whom will be in the
target group. It is anticipated that some 20% of farmers in each model will
be phased in each year (Annex 5, Table 1) although it is likely that the pro-
portion of larger units will be higher early in the project and lower in the
later stages. The first model, of which there will be about 300 units, is
that of a very small farmer with an initial herd of 3 indigenous cows devel-
oping in 3 years to an exotic herd of 5 cows. The second model, of which
there will be about 200 units, represents a small producer with 6 indigenous
cows before the project, increasing to 12 exotic cows by year four. The third
model, of which there will be about 250 units, is that of a farmer expanding
from 10 indigenous cows before the project to a herd of 40 exotics by year
four. The latter will also have 5 to 6 surplus in-calf heifers and about 4
breeding bulls to sell each year at full development which will represent an
important source of superior replacement cattle for smaller producers. The
possibility of including a larger proportion of very small units was examined
by the appraisal mission, but it was concluded it would prejudice the long-
term development of the industry to do so at this stage.  The proposed larger
units are important because of the surplus high quality heifers and breeding
bulls they generate. Village farmers with small herds and limited land for
forage usually send their dry stock and young stock (and sometimes their milk-
ing animals) daily to common pasture with other village cattle. There is a
health hazard in this. There is also a mating risk, as few male animals in
village herds are castrated and better cows may easily be mated with non-
descript bulls. In larger units herds are invariably segregated and these
hazards do not exist to the same degree. Thus, a reasonable proportion (33%)
of larger herds in the proposed project is considered essential to ensure
maintenance of a nucleus of purebred animals and a supply of superior replace-
ment heifers and breeding bulls to the industry.
3.09      Imported heifers and bulls will be registered purebreds of the
Holstein and Brown Swiss breeds. The latter breed is known to be well adapted
to conditions in central and eastern Turkey and is expected to be the main
breed. dIstributed to farmers in Ankara, Kayseri, and Malatya. Of the total
animals imported (approximately 10,000 heifers and 450 bulls), some 70% will
be Holsteins and 30% Brown Swiss. Heifer selections will be made from Holstein
dams avetaging not less than 5,000 kg milk/year or Brown Swiss dams averaging
not less than 4,000 kg milk/year. All imported heifers will be in calf to
proven sires or sons of such sires. All imported bulls will be sons of



- 16 -
proven sires and out of dams with a certified average milk production of 6,000
kg/ year for Holsteins and 5,000 kg/year for Brown Swiss. Before export, all
cattle will be certified as in calf, in good general health and free from
tuberculosis, brucellosis, leptospirosis, trichomoniasis and vibriosis, and
vaccinated against foot and mouth disease (Types A and C). During negotia-
tions assurances were obtained that only animals meeting the above conditions
would be imported.
3.10      Dairy buildings will be of simple and inexpensive construction
appropriate to the area in which they are to be located. Experience in the
first project indicated that many farmers tend to invest more than is neces-
sary and build structures too elaborate for small dairy farms--this will be
discouraged and controlled in the present project. In Istanbul, Izmir and
Adana, barns of open construction with portable shelter against cold winter
winds (e.g., baled straw) have proved serviceable. In Ankara, Kayseri and
Malatya barns will need enclosing, but will not be over-capitalized. It
is envisaged that farmers with 5 cows will not need much additional barn
space, as many small producers already have it available. Where additional
space was needed, it will be as an extension to an existing structure built
at minimumm cost by the farmer with family labor. Farmers with 12 cows will,
in most cases, need some additional barn space. Again, this will, wherever
possible, be provided as an addition to existing barn space, using family
labor to the maximum. Farmers with 40 cows will nearly all need extra buil-
dings.  Farmers will be expected to provide not less than 75% of the cost of
buildings and structures (built to specifications acceptable to IDPD). This
will be their principal contribution to the subproject cost.
3.11      A key aspect of the project will be on-farm production of feed-
stuffs. These will include greenfeed (usually alfalfa under irrigation,
maize, and oats and vetch), silage (mainly from maize or sorghum-sudan
hybrids, also from oats and vetch), and hay (mainly from alfalfa but also
from oats and vetch). Experience in the first project showed that high pro-
duction and profits were closely related to the farmer's ability to produce
adequate homegrown forages and keep purchased feeds (e.g., concentrates) to
a minimum. Land used for forage production can reduce output of another
crop (e.g., wheat, maize, or cotton). However, this need not necessarily
be serious if forages are double cropped and the cropping pattern carefully
planned to avoid or minimize fallow, e.g., maize or sorghum-sudan hybrid
grown in summer under irrigation following winter wheat, or oats and vetch
grown in winter before summer cotton. Double cropping is particularly adapted
to conditions in Istanbul, Izmir and Adana and to a lesser extent in Kayseri
and Malatya. In Ankara, forage will be based almost entirely on alfalfa
under' irrigation. In all project calculations, some cash crop is assumed to
be sac'rificed and has been allowed for in the projections. Concentrate feed-
ing will be kept to a minimum. Intake by young stock will be restricted to 1 -
2 kg per day depending on stage of growth. Milking cows will be fed at 1 kg
concentrate per 2.5 liters of milk produced. The prepared feed industry in
Turkey is well organized and adequate supplies of concentrates of acceptable
quality and price are assured.



- 17 -
3.12      Some farmers already have a tractor and machinery.  However, it
will probably be necessary for larger units to buy a further tractor and
additional cultivating machinery, depending on farm size and enterprise mix.'
Most 40-cow units will need a tractor-mower, side rake, pick-up baler or,
forage harvester, trailer, foreloader and milking machines. Similarly, most
12-cow units will require a small tractor (about 12 HP.), mower and trailer.
Minor provision for mechanization of the 5-cow unit is anticipated.
3.13      Al services are currently being expanded in Turkey by DANB of MFA
(para 2.25). It will be some time, however, before the scheme becomes fully
effective; and probably only a few project subborrowers will obtain imme-
diate benefit from it. Therefore, all the 40- and 12-cow units will have
a herd bull (two in the case of the largest herds), which will be replaced
every second or third year.  Some bulls will be imported and some will be
available from herds established under the first project. Farmers with 5-cow
units will not normally be expected to maintain a bull, and project tech-
nicians will assume responsibility for coordinating service for these farm-
ers through Al (where it is available) or arranging use of bulls of 12-cow
and 40-cow farmers (which would, in many cases, be underutilized). Where
this were impracticable, a group of 5 or 6 small farmers might form a group
and buy a bull for cooperative use. It is assumed they will finance this
themselves as it represents a continuation of an existing service they have
without the project and financing for it will not be provided by the Proj-
ect.
3.14      The technical capability of IDPD, developed under the first project,
will be further strengthened to assure subborrowers of farm planning services,
supervision and extension support on a continuing basis. An effective nucleus
of 18 Turkish professional and 10 middle level staff, together with 2 technical
specialists, was formed during the first project under the direction of an ex-
perienced project manager. This will need supplementing by about 23 profes-
sionals, 13 middle-level technicians and 1 technical specialist to execute the
proposed project. Assurances were given that in Turkey's fiscal year 1976
an additional 18 staff and in 1977 an additional 16 staff will be appointed.
Furthermore, general veterinary assistance will be required from veterinarians
of DVS of MFA, at not less than the level of the first project. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that the Borrower will employ, on a full
time basis a qualified and experienced project manager for IDPD and not less
than 41 professional and 23 middle level local staff will be employed by IDPD.
Assurances were obtained that, if appointment of a new project manager was
necessary for any reason, such appointment would be undertaken in consultation
with the Bank. Assurances were also obtained that all necessary veterinary
assistance will be made available to the project by DVS.
3.15      Government is assigning priority to livestock development and, par-
ticularly, dairying. Consequently, a technical studies component is included
in the project (para 4.14). It will include surveys and practical research
and demonstration, particularly in forage production and utilization and im-
proved livestock management (paras 2.12, 2.15, 2.16). Milk marketing studies



- 18 -
will also be carried out in the project areas aimed at improving coordination
of production, cooling/collecting, transportation and processing (para 2.33),
and standards of handling of milk at all stages of the marketing chain to im-
prove hygiene and nutrition (para 2.19). Terms of Reference are in Annex 10.
The recommendations of the studies will be discussed by the Bank and the
Turkish authorities and any agreed course of action implemented as expedi-
tiously as possible. It is expected that the studies component would also
provide the basis for the preparation of a subsequent livestock development
project.
3.16      Training will be given particular emphasis in the present project
(paras 2.21, 4.15, 4.16). Due to shortage of staff in the early stages of the
first project, it was difficult to spare staff for training, and this aspect
was not fully developed. It is important, in this context that most staff
needed to execute the present project be appointed at an early date (para
4.04). Terms of Reference for training are in Annex 10.
D. Cost Estimates
3.17      Estimated total project costs, based on current input prices, and
including price increases, are about LT 520 million (equivalent to US$34.7
million), of which US$21.5 million (62%) is the foreign exchange component.
The estimated foreign exchange cost will be largely for imported cattle,
tractors, machinery, technical studies, overseas training and technical spe-
cialists. Price increases were estimated at US$8.1 million (29.9%) over the
5 years of the project. They allow for annual increases in equipment costs
of 10% in 1976, 8% in 1977-79 and 7% in 1980. They also allow for annual
increases in the costs of civil works of 14% in 1976, 12% in 1977-79 and 10%
in 1980. Physical contingencies are not included, as inputs for the project
were able to be quite precisely estimated and are directly related to the
number of expected subloans. Summarized costs are given in the following
table; detailed estimates are in Annex 5.



- 19 -
%
Local Foreign Total/I Local Foreign Total Foreign
----  LT million ----    ---- US$ million ----
Livestock
Imported Cattle          12.6   169.2   181.8       0.8      11.2    12.0    93
Bulls local               7.0      -        7.0     0.5        -       0.5      0
Subtotal               19.6   169.2   188.8       1.3      11.2    12.5    90
Buildings                  72.2    12.7    84.9        4.8       0.8     5.6    15
Equipment
Tractors                  7.6    17.8    25.4       0.5       1.2      1.7    70
Agricultural
machinery              42.3    45.4    87.7       2.9       3.0      5.9    52
Subtotal               49.9    63.2   113.1       3.4       4.2      7.6    56
Technical Services
Technical
Specialists             3.6     5.4    9.0        0.2       0.4      0.6    60
Technical Studies/
Training                    0.9      3.6    4.5        0.1       0.2     0.3    80
Total Base Costs        146.2   254.1  400.3        9.8      16.8    26.6
Price increases
(29.9%)               52.0    68.0  120.0         3.4       4.7      8.1
Total Project
Costs              198.2   322.1  520.3        13.2      21.5    34.7    62
/1   Discrepancies due to rounding.



- 20 -
E. Financing
3.18      The project will be financed on the basis of a farmer contribution
of 18% (equivalent to US$6.3 million), a TCZB contribution of 20% (equivalent
to US$6.9 million), and an IBRD contribution of 62% (equivalent to US$21.5
million) equal to the foreign exchange cost. Investment costs will be shared
as follows:
Subborrower   TCZB          IBRD       Total
Amount   %  Amount  %  Amount  %  Amount   %
-----------------US$ millions--------------
Project Component /_
On-Farm Investments
Livestock                        0.5    3    1.1   7   14.9   90   16.5  100
Buildings                        5.6   75    1.8  25       -     0    7.4  100
Equipment                        0.2    2    4.0  48    5.7   58    9.9  100
Subtotal                   6.3   18    6.9  20   20.6   60   33.8  100
Technical Services                  -      0     -    0    0.5  100    0.5  100
Technical Studies/Training          -      0     -    0    0.4  100    0.4  100
Total Project Cost          6.3   18    6.9  20   21.5   62   34.7  100
/1   Price increases added to each component.
3.19      The Bank Loan of US$21.5 million will be made to Government, which
will bear the foreign exchange risk. Government will on-lend to TCZB in
Turkish lira the equivalent of US$18.5 million at not less than 8.50% interest
p.a., which, with a further LT 104 million contribution from TCZB 's own re-
sources (equivalent to US$6.9 million), will comprise the funds for on-farm
lending (equal to some LT 380 million). With subloans being made by TCZB
over a 5-year period, the final repayments by subborrowers are not expected
until 16 years from the commencement of the project. The project cash flow
(Annex 5, Table 2) indicates that, allowing for contingent delays, a repay-
ment to Government by TCZB over 12 years following 5 years' grace will be
appropriate. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Government
will on-lend project funds equivalent to US$18.5 million to TCZB at not
less than 8.50% interest p.a. for 17 years with a grace of 5 years and that
TCZB will make an additional LT 104 million (equivalent to US$6.9 million)
available from its own resources for on-lending to farmers.



- 21 -
F. Procurement
3.20      Dairy cattle will be procured in 12-15 shipments averaging about
800 head. For this reason, and because shipments would be made up of small
selected groups of animals, ICB is impracticable. Purchase of individual
shipments will be on the basis of not less than three quotations from at least
two countries. Orders of individual subborrowers will be obtained by regional
managers of IDPD and sent to the project manager, who will organize bulk pro-
curement of animals with the assistance of the project consultants. This
procedure was followed in the earlier project and is satisfactory. Suppliers
will offer for selection only cattle which equalled or exceeded the minimum
performance and health specifications in para 3.09; and suitable documentation
verifying standards will be required. Individual selection will be undertaken
in the supplier country by the project manager, one project technical special-
ist and a veterinary officer of DVS. Purchase contracts will require the sup-
plier to insure the cattle against loss in transit, to make satisfactory ar-
rangements for delivery, and to assume responsibility for them until received
by project farmers. Suppliers will also be responsible for ensuring that cat-
tle meet all veterinary and other standards of both the exporting and import-
ing countries and those countries through which the cattle will travel in
transit. Assurances were obtained from Government during negotiations that:
(a) full support and cooperation of DVS would be provided at all stages during
procurement to assist veterinary and production clearances; and (b) Turkish
border entry will be expedited.
3.21      Several international tractor and agricultural machinery manufac-
turers are represented in Turkey, but tractors and equipment are scarce and
there are long delays for major items. Service is acceptable for major
brands and spare parts are usually available. To ensure timely implementa-
tion of the project, tractors, sowing and harvesting equipment, and milking
machines will be procured by ICB in accordance with current Bank guidelines
and assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations. Up to
15% domestic preference or the level of import duties, whichever is the lower,
will be allowed local manufacturers. Orders&from individual farmers would
be bulked and procured by IDPD as in the first project and assurances on this
will be obtained during negotiations. Bidding documents will state that
suppliers will guarantee adequate servicing and spare parts for both tractors
and major equipment in the seven project centers.
G. Disbursements
3.22      The proposed Bank Loan of US$21.5 million will be disbursed over
a 5-year period as follows:



- 22 -
(a)  100% of foreign expenditures on cattle;
(b)  100% of foreign expenditures, or 100% of local expendi-
tures ex-factory, on tractors, sowing and harvesting
equipment and milking machines;
(c)  100% of foreign expenditures on consultants;
(d)  100% of foreign expenditures on training and group study
tours.
3.23      The schedule of disbursements is in Annex 6.
H. Environmental Impact
3.24      Use of chemical fertilizers, pesticides and herbicides in forage
production, under technical supervision of IDPD field staff, is not expected
to pollute water supplies through runoff as levels of chemicals applied under
the project would be the minimum necessary for satisfactory crop production.
Effluent from project dairies, which are small by standards in many parts of
the world and fairly scattered, is not expected to have any deleterious en-
virodimental effect. In the majority of cases, solid residues would be spread
back on the land as fertilizer which would be beneficial.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
4.01      The project will be administered similarly to Credits 236-TU and
330-TU (the Second Livestock Development Project). General management of the
project will be the responsibility of LDP. Detailed execution of technical
and financial aspects will be undertaken, as in the case of Credit 236-TU,
by IDPD of LDP. IDPD is headed by a project manager responsible to the Gen-
eral Director of LDP. Regional control will be through offices in Ankara,
Istanbul, Izmir, Adana, Konya, Kayseri, and Malatya, each headed by a man-
ager 1/ responsible to the project manager, and staffed with a deputy man-
ager,l/ and at least one agronomist, one veterinarian and 2-3 field assistants,
along wLth supporting staff (Chart 15657R).
4.02      Specifically, IDPD field staff will:
1/   In organizing the staffing of such branches, LDP's practice is to fill
one of the top two posts by a senior agronomist, the other by a senior
veterinarian.



- 23 -
(a) promote the project to farmers;
(b) provide an initial screening of those farmers requesting
subloans;
(c) assist successful applicants prepare dairy development
plans;
(d) supervise implementation and provide general extension
assistance;
(e) encourage farmers to maintain records; and
(f) maintain records of overall project performance.
4.03      Three technical specialists acceptable to the Bank will be employed
by LDP under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank for the duration of
the project (equivalent to 15 man-years), and assurances of this were obtained
at negotiations. 1/ They will be responsible to the project manager. Terms
of reference are summarized in Annex 9. One each will cover Istanbul/Izmir,
Ankara/Adana/Konya, and Kayseri/Malatya. They will provide technical advice
to managers (particularly on planning and implementation of farm development),
and training of field staff (paras 4.15, 4.16). They would also assist in
design and supervision of technical studies (para 4.14). This will generally
parallel the organization under the first project, which worked satisfactorily.
All three technical specialists will begin their duties under the present
project no later than January 1, 1977, and the two existing technical special-
ists under Credit 236-TU will also be assigned to the present project until
December 31, 1976, it being understood that such assignment should not prevent
them from satisfactorily discharging their duties and responsibilities under
Credit 236-TU. Assurances on this were obtained at negotiations. The cost of
technical specialists is estimated at US$40,000 per man year at present costs,
of which US$28,000 is basic salary and US$12,000 represents allowances and
miscellaneous expenses.
4.04      Prior to 1975, LDP faced considerable difficulty in recruiting
staff, and as a result both Credit 236-TU (First Livestock Development Proj-
ect) and Credit 330-TU (Second Livestock Development Project) encountered
extended delays, although now they are being implemented satisfactorily.
The Village Development Sub-Project of Credit 330-TU is still moving slowly,
but a major recruitment in the past six months, supported by use of recently
authorized special staff incentives, has now brought actual staff close to
full cotmplement and, as a result, accelerated implementation is hoped for
this year (paras 3.14, 4.13). Improvements in salary and per diem supple-
ments became effective in LDP's 1976 fiscal year which together with assur-
ances, received during negotiations, on staff increases should overcome
the staffing constraints of Credit 236-TU.
1/   Two of these positions were established under Credit 236-TU and will
continue in the present project and a third post will be created to
provide adequate technical coverage (para 3.14).



- 24 -
4.05      The credit aspects of the project will be handled through EDLD of
TCZB (para 2.31). The role of EDLD will involve establishing the credit-
worthiness of individual subborrowers and credit limits (para 4.08), providing
subloans, and supervising subloan disbursements and repayments. Close coordi-
nation was developed between EDLD and IDPD during the first project and a good
working relationship currently exists between them. The relationship is gov-
e&rned by an existing protocol which is satisfactory. LDP proposes to amend
this protocol slightly for the purposes of the proposed project. The signing
of the amended protocol is a condition of effectiveness.
B. Lending Policies and Procedures
4.06      Total lending to farmers by TCZB will be around LT 380 million,
equivalent to US$25.4 million, derived from US$18.5 million equivalent of the
Bank Loan on-lent to TCZB by Government and US$6.9 million equivalent from
TCZB's own resources (paras 3.18, 3.19).
4.07      To be eligible for a dairy loan, a farmer will:
(a)  have had experience in dairying;
(b)  occupy, or have access to, an appropriate area of till-
able land (approximately 0.5 ha/milking cow) suitable
for forage crop production; and
(c)  meet the creditworthiness criteria of TCZB.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that only farmers meeting the
above criteria would qualify for dairy loans.
4.08      Farmers will make application for a dairy loan to the nearest of-
fice of TCZB or IDPD. After determination of the farmer's creditworthiness
and credit limit by TCZB, an appropriate development plan will be prepared
by an IDPD technician who will subsequently submit the plan to the regional
manager and consultant for review. In accord with TCZB's existing delegation
of authority, plans for less than LT 150,000 credit will be reviewed by the
regional technical specialist, approved on the authority of the IDPD regional
manager and sent to the local TCZB branch manager for credit approval and
funding, with copies to IDPD and TCZB head offices. Plans for credit in ex-
cess of LT 150,000, after review by the regional technical specialist and re-
gional manager, will be forwarded by the regional manager to IDPD headquarters
and approved by the project manager. Applications will then be submitted
through the EDLD to the board of TCZB for credit approval. This procedure
was followed in Credit 236-TU and is considered satisfactory.



- 25 -
4.09      Of total on-farm investments, farmers will contribute up to 20%,
according to their means (para 3.18). Farmers, in general, and particularly
larger (40-cow) farmers, are expected to finance the major part (at least
75%) of the cost of dairy buildings and associated structures (e.g., silage
pits, hay barns) as their contribution. Credit in excess of 25% for build-
ings will be provided only to small farmers (20 cows or less at full de'velop-
ment) on the specific recommendation of field staff preparing individual farm
plans and on the approval of the project manager. Most farmers will also be
expected to provide for labor (either through family or hired labor) and for
forage crop production from their own resources. Farmers entering the project
will already have a functional dairy operation with a labor complement and
will, in most cases, be producing some forage crops. Incremental labor and
forage crop costs associated with expanding dairy numbers will be expected to
be minor, as utilization of labor for dairying and land for forage cropping
is now relatively inefficient. With technical assistance and better planning,
the productivity of labor and yield of crops could be considerably increased
at little extra cost. Credit will thus be provided for incremental costs
of labor and forage cropping only in exceptional cases where so recommended
in writing by technical staff preparing individual plans and with the written
approval of the project manager. Assurances to this effect were obtained
from Government and TCZB during negotiations.
4.10      Lack of adequate collateral was a problem which constrained the
first dairy project and prevented its benefits reaching smaller farmers.
TCZB prefers a land title to secure its loans, but titles are not always
available (para 2.06). In the present project, TCZB will secure loans up
to LT 100,000 with chattel mortgages on livestock and machinery plus the
guarantee of creditworthy cosigners. Loans over LT 100,000 would be secured
partially by land title, and partially by a chattel mortgage on livestock and
machinery, and/or guarantees of cosigners. Assurances on the acceptability
of these conditions to TCZB were obtained at negotiations.
4.11      Subloans to project farmers will be made at not less than 11% in-
terest p.a.. for 10-12 years with 2-4 years of grace depending on plan size. 1/
Repayment periods and repayment schedules will reflect the cash flow position
of the dairy farm investment plan and the capacity of the beneficiary to repay.
Grace periods for smaller farmers (i.e., 5-cow and 12-cow) will, in general,
be more favorable than for larger farmers (40-cow), but each case will be
evaluated individually by project technicians, depending on net income gen-
erated in the plan. No subloans to project farmers in excess of the equiva-
lent of US$80,000 will be made without the prior approval of the Bank. At
least 66% of subloans (i.e., 500 subloans) will be to smaller farmers with
20 cows or less at full development. The 11% effective interest rate is
1/   Subloans in Credit 236-TU were made at 9% p.a. for 12 years with 4 years
grace.



- 26 -
currently the maximum (under Government Decree) which may be charged on agri-
cultural loans and is the present rate charged by TCZB for such loans. The
inflation rate for 1975 is estimated to have been.about 15% which results
in the above proposed project interest rate being effectively negative, a
situation which prevails in public sector operations in the context of the
low interest rate regime in Turkey. Government, however, is pursuing an anti-
inflationary policy which is meeting with some success, and it is committed
to bringing inflation rates down to 10% in the medium-term. Government also
recognizes the desirability of ultimately achieving a positive real interest
rate structure. However, an abrupt change in the present complex financial
and interest rate system could be disruptive. To establish a sound factual
and analytical basis for a more responsive system of financial mobilization
and allocation in Turkey, the Government has initiated a broad study of the
country's financial sector. Depending on the results of this study and the
future direction of inflation in the country, the proposed interest rate may
need adjustment. The appropriateness of the 11% rate and other lending terms
and conditions will therefore be subsequently reviewed by Government and the
Bank if, in the opinion of either party, such review is warranted in the light
of prevailing conditions. Assurances on these matters were obtained during
negotiations.
4.12      As in the first project, TCZB will place 0.5% of the interest re-
ceived from farmers in a Special Operational Fund to be made available to
LDP for partial payment of miscellaneous expenses incurred in project execu-
tion. Expenditures from this fund will be authorized by the General Director
of LDP or any other person duly designated by him for such purpose. Assur-
ances to this effect were obtained during negotiations. Terms of Reference
for the Special Operational Fund are in Annex 11.
C. Technical Services
4.13      Technical servicing of the project will rest primarily with IDPD
staff. Staff needs are estimated at about 41 professionals and 23 middle-
level technicians (paras 3.14, 4.01). They will be supported by 3 inter-
nationally recruited technical specialists (para 4.03). The staff will be
grouped to work from the 7 field offices under the ultimate direction of the
project manager (paras 3.07, 4.01). Also, extra veterinary assistance will
be provided to project farmers by veterinarians of DVS (para 3.14). Such
assistance would be coordinated by IDPD regional managers. This general
pattern of servicing is similar to that in the first project, which proved
satisfactory.
D. Technical Studies/Training
4.14      Technical studies, particularly in the areas of livestock produc-
tion and milk marketing (para 3.15), will be organized under the guidance
of the project manager. Terms of Reference are in Annex 10. Such studies
t_)?I  commence not later Than the beginning of the second year of the project.



- 27 -
The three technical specialists will be expected to play a major role in col-
laborating with the project manager in planning such studies, in supervising
their implementation, and in advising on further development possibilities in
the dairy sub-sector (para 4.03). Prior to their implementation, annual plans
for such studies will be sent to the Bank for comment; the first of such plans
and subsequent annual plans will be submitted not later than the third quarter
of the year prior to that of its implementation. During implementation, pro-
gress and results from such studies will be reported in the quarterly reports
submitted by the project manager on general project execution (para 4.20).
Assurances to this effect were obtained from Government at negotiations.
4.15      Terms of Reference for training are in Annex 10.  The program will
consist of:
(a) In-service training of LDP staff at all levels.
(b) Training for farmers, particularly through field days and
on-farm demonstrations on the most progressive project farms.
(c) Group study tours for LDP staff and prominent farmer leaders;
such tours to be coordinated as far as possible with trips
abroad for cattle procurement.
(d) Study leave for individual LDP or Government staff for spe-
cialized overseas training in dairy production and technology.
Such leave would be for practically-oriented studies.
4.16      It is expected that the technical specialists will play a key role
in organizing training programs in consultation with the project manager (para
4.03) who will assume ultimate responsibility for approval of the program and
ensuring its timely execution. The project manager will present a draft train-
ing program to the Bank for comment within six months of effectiveness. A
ances to this effect were obtained from Government during negotiations.
E. Accounting and Auditing
4.17      A separate project account will be kept by EDLD.  The account will
be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and a copy
of the certified account and the audit report would be submitted to the Bank
in Engfish within seven months of the end of TCZB's financial year. Assur-
ances on this were obtained from TCZB during negotiations.
4.18      The project manager-will be responsible for maintaining accounts
of expenditures on the Technical Services and Technical Studies/Training com-
ponents of the project. Details of expenditures will be reported in quar-
ter-ly reports on the project (para 4.20). The accounts of each component



- 28
will be subject to annual audit by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
and a copy of the certified accounts and the audit reports will be submitted
to the Bank in English not later than seven months after the end of LDP's fi-
nancial year. Assurances on these arrangements were obtained during negotia-
tions.
4-19      The accounts of the Special Operational Fund will be maintained by
the General Director, LDP.  He will be responsible for arranging an annual
audit of the account by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and for
sending a copy of the accounts and the audit report to the Bank within seven
months of the end of LDP's financial year. Assurances to this effect were
obtained from Government at negotiations.
F. Monitoring
4.20       In order to measure progress of the project against the project im-
plementation schedule (Chart 15658(2R)), the project manager will submit
quarterly progress reports to the Bank through TCZB within two months from the
end of each quarter. The fourth quarterly report of each year will, in addi-
tion to reporting progress over the preceding three months, contain a compre-
hensive summary of progress during the preceding year. Assurances on this
were obtained from Government at negotiations.
V. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Production
5.01      The project will develop about 750 dairy units around seven large
population centers in western and central Turkey, viz., Ankara, Istanbul,
Izmir, Adana, Konya, Kayseri and Malatya. Significant production increases
are expected in liquid milk, improved dairy animals and forage crops. Addi-
tional forage will be made available in rainfed and irrigated areas by utiliz-
ing land now in fallow. This will improve the efficiency of land use and the
additional forage will allow farmers to raise feeding standards and to decrease
their dependence on purchased feeds. Three dairy models (40-, 12- and 5-cow
units at full development) have been used to demonstrate the project effects,
each one with a particular cropping pattern, farm services and labor utiliza-
tion mix (Annex 4).
5.02      Following is a summary of estimated production flows with the proj-
ect (Annex 8, Table 1):



-29-
Pre-          At Full          %
Product                  Unit           Project       Development    Increase
Whole Milk           million 1           5.4              51.0          840
Cattle               '000 AU             2.9              10.8          270
Alfalfa hay          '000 t              5.6              50.4          800
Oats/Vetch hay       '000 t               -               13.5
Maize silage         '000 t                              135.0
B. Prices
5.03      Prices for inputs and outputs of the project are based on current
local and farmgate prices collected throughout the project area from farmers
and project technicians in Credit 236-TU and commercial houses. These fi-
nancial prices are adjusted for the economic analysis, based on projections
in real terms provided by the Bank's Economic Analysis and Projects Depart-
ment and, where applicable, allowances have been made for transfer payments
(Annex 8, Tables 2 and 3).
C. Marketing'
5.04      The project will contribute to increasing the supplies of milk in
ten main consumption centers where there is currently a shortage of milk
for processing of some 130,000 tons p.a., I/ which cannot be supplied from ad-
jacent areas which are also in deficit. Incremental milk production from the
project, amounting to about 45,000 tons p.a. at full development, is expected
to be easily absorbed, as buyers for plants and other processors as well as
peddlars are active in the proposed areas. The concentration of supplies
will also make it attractive for further milk pick-up routes to be estab-
lished thus ensuring outlets for additional output, particularly of summer
milk.  Over 3,000 high-quality purebred dairy animals and over 7,000 lesser-
quality purebred breeding animals 2/ will be made available annually by the
project (Annex 4, Tables I and 6).. The former, particularly, will help meet
the large unsatisfied demand from small dairy producers anxious to improve
their herds, since the project is located in areas where dairying is estab-
lished and where good possibilities exit for expansion (paras 2.12, 2.16).
1/   Mission estimates based on 1975 excess capacity of existing processing
plants in the project area.
2/   The latter figure assumes that, because of the lack of animals in Turkey
of high genetic dairy merit, virtually all surplus purebred animals pro-
duced by project farmers will be passed on to other farmers for breed-
ing and none slaughtered for meat.



- 30 -
D. Producer Income
5.05     Annual net income of the dairy units will increase under the proj-
ect as follows:
Estimated Net Operating  Estimated Net Operating Income  Financial
Income from Dairying  from All Farming Activities  Rate of  Sensitivity
Unit Size at    after Income Taxes /2  after Income Taxes /2  Return o3  Test /4
Full DevelopmentId    Pre-project   Full Development   Pre-project   Full Development
--------------------------- Us$-----------------------------  ----------2-----------
5-Cow        300       2,940      527       3,087      41      38-35-30
12-Cow        900      4,555      3,013     6,305       17     16-13-10
40-Cow      1,013      20,331    10,669     27,773      21     19-16-12
/1  Full development reached in year 3 in 5-cow units  7ear 5 in 12-cow units, and year 7 in 40-cow units.
X   Income tax calculated on the basis of sliding s-    e ccording to law.
73  Calculated on income from all farrming activit-;.  before taxes.
74 Financial rate of return as investment costs increase 102, operating costs increase 10% or gross returns
decrease 10%, respectively.
Note:  Farm family size of each unit varies in the range 4.5-6.0.
The financial rates of return and sensitivity analyses of the respective units
are satisfactory. The financial rate of return for the 5-cow model at 41% is
relatively high but no investments in buildings, large machinery and bulls
have been charged to this category. Furthermore, production from animals in
the 5-cow herds is likely to be more variable for technical reasons than in
the bigger herds and consequently the probability of having decreases in gross
returns of 10% and even 20% could be expected to be higher in such herds. A
decrease of 20% in gross returns, for example, will reduce the financial
rate of return of 5-cow farmers to 19% (Annex 4, Table 10). Dairy farmers in
Turkey have reinvested constantly in their farms in the past, and it is like-
ly that project farmers would continue to do so. They will also be reinvest-
ing in their herds (mainly by retention of breeding stock), as the herd values
show (Annex 4, Table 11). Debt repayment will be effected over 10 years for
the 40-cow units (including 2 years of grace) and over 12 years for the 12-
and 5-cow units (including 4 years of grace). Illustrative budgets for model
farms are contained in Annex 4, Tables 5, 9 and 10.
E. Benefits and Beneficiaries
Aggregate Economic Return
5.06     Direct economic benefits include some 45 million liters of milk
valued at about US$10 million p.a. and cattle for dairying and breeding worth
some US$3.3 million p.a.  Annexe.^ 4, 5 and 8 present data on which the cal-
c.ulation of these benefits is baspd.



- 31 -
5.07      The greatest benefits to the economy, which are difficult to quan-
tify, would be indirect and long-term and involve:
(a)  improvement in the milking quality of the national herd
through upgrading of indigenous cattle with improved
exotic breeds -- the 1,200 purebred breeding bulls pro-
duced by the project e-ach year at full development, for
example, will provide for mating of a potential 36,000
local cows per year 1/;
(b) introduction of newer methods of husbandry and management
resulting in better land utilization and overall higher
animal productivity;
(c) establishment of infrastructure at the national level pro-
viding trained manpower, technical studies and services and
long-term credit facilities especially for dairying; and
(d) increased supplies of milk for processing by Government
plants already operating or under construction, which will
initially have excess capacity, thereby increasing their
efficiency of operation.
5.08      With an assumed phasing-in of each category of dairy farmers at a
rate of 20% annually, the economic rate of return of the project is estimated
at 22% over 20 years.  Sensitivity tests show the following-ranges:
Invest-    Operating      Gross Returns        Gross Returns      Rate of
ments         Costs           of Milk            of Cattle        Return
+ 5%                                                -             21.2%
+10%           -                                    -             20.4%
-          + 5%                                   -             21.0%
-          +10%               -                   -             19.9%
-              -10%                  -             18.7%
_-_            - 5%                  -             20.4%
-10%           21.1%
-       -                     -                  - 5%           21.6%
+ 5%          + 5%            - 5%                 - 5%           17.8%
+ 5%          + 5%            -10%                  -             16.7%
Beneficiaries
5.09      The direct beneficiaries of the project will be the approximately
750 families (about 4,500 persons) who increase their dairy income. They
would have not only a higher income but a more evenly distributed one (para
1/   Assuming a 4-5 year working life for each bull, the potential could be
as high as 150,000-180,000 cows over the working life of 1,200 bulls.



-32--
5.04). In addition, permanent employment in dairying will be provided to
about 1,000 workers (drawn for semi-urban or rural underemployment), and to
about 200 skilled workers (for cropping activities). Also, better utiliza-
tion will be made of the labor of the farm families directly involved.
5.10      The incremental milk production of some 45,000 tons p.a. will 'pro-
vide milk for an additional 400,000 indirect beneficiaries at the present
level of per capita national consumption (110 liters p.a.). This contribution
is considered particularly important since the major part of this production
is. expected to be marketed in urban areas where milk is scarce and, in many
cases, not available at all.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      Agreement having been reached on the principal issues referred to in
Chapters III and IV, and subject to the condition of effectiveness described
in para 4.05, the project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$21.5 million to the
Government of Turkey for a term of 17 years with a grace period of 5 years.
May 1976



ANNEX 1
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TURKEY
The Agricultural Sector with Special Reference to the
Livestock Subsector
General
1.        Turkey is located in the Middle East between latitudes 360 and 420 N
and longitudes 260 and 440 E. It shares boundaries with the USSR in the north-
east, Iran in the east, Iraq, Syria in the southeast and Greece and Bulgaria
in the west, and over 70% borders the Black, Marmara, Aegean, and Mediterranean
Seas. The total land area is about 78 million hectares of which roughly 3% ly-
ing on the west of the Bosphorous is in Europe and 97% lying on the east is in
Asia. The latest population census (October 1975) indicates total population
exceeds 40 million and is growing at about 2.6% p.a. The proportion living in
urban areas is 42% and rising quickly. Increase in urban population is cur-
rently around 4.4% p.a. against 1.3% increase in rural areas. GNP per capita
is estimated at US$785 at 1974 prices and current exchange rates or US$480 at
average 1965-71 prices and exchange rates. The current poverty income level
is estimated at US$240.
Relief
2.        Turkey comprises a series of mountain ranges extending from the
Balkans to Iran and relief is, for the most part, undulating to mountainous
(Map 2764R). Mean altitude is over 1,000 m with most areas in the east being
over 2,000 m. The highest point is Mount Ararat in the extreme east which
reaches almost 5,200 m. The generally mountainous and broken nature of the
country greatly affects the climate and limits the extent to which the land
can be improved, and hence its potential productivity. Many undulating and
mountainous areas are heavily eroded, particularly in higher rainfall regions.
Only about 10%, mostly in the coastal regions, is level or gently sloping.
This land for the most part is of excellent quality and capable of supporting
a wide range of agricultural production, but it is comparatively limited in
extent and widely scattered over the country.
Climate
3.        As would be expected from its relief, the climate of Turkey is ex-
tremely variable. Coastal areas are usually humid and the interior semiarid.
The former receives rainfall varying between 600-2,000 mm per year, and the
latter between 250-500 mm per year (Map 2764R). Most coastal areas have a
reasonable distribution of rainfall, relatively high summer temperatures,
and mild winters. With irrigation, many such areas have a twelve-months'
growing season. Central and eastern areas have poorly distributed rainfall,
warm summers and freezing winter temperatures with snow for one to four
months, depending on location and altitude. The growing season is only



ANNEX I
Page 2
three to four months under rainfed conditions and five to six months with
irrigation. As such conditions are experienced by the greater part of the
country, they tend to be an important constraint in increasing agricultural
output at the national level.
Soils
4.        The country has a range of soils determined by differences in
climate, vegetation, and geology. Most of the interior is covered with
alkaline brown and reddish-brown steppe soils alternating in the driest parts
with desert gray and saline soils. These are the main soil groupings of the
country and they are of only moderate fertility. In the north and south
coastal regions, high-quality red and reddish-brown podzolic soils predo-
minate. Strongly acid red soils, of good quality, are common in the wetter
eastern Black Sea coast and slightl-- acid brown and yellowish-brown podzols
and rich lime soils cover much of -he northwest.  In the Mediterranean area,
fertile red clay soils alternate wi - red podzolic soils.  The transitional
regions between the dry interior and the humid coastal areas are occupied by
brown forest soils of average quality. There is a general paucity of in-
formation on soil nutrient status, but phosphate deficiency is known to be
widespread and responses to potassium and calcium are common. Little is
known of micro-element deficiencies. These exist, but their extent is con-
sidered to be limited. They pose no known threat to animal health in the
main livestock production regions of the country.
Production Patterns
5.        Due to variations in relief, climate and soil, agricultural prac-
tices tend to vary with region. At least five regional patterns are generally
recognized (Map 2764R).
(a) The Black Sea coast region in the north is mountainous with
abundant and well distributed rainfall, warm summers and mild
winters. The region is densely forested and contains about
one-third of the country's woodlands. It is an important area
for tea, corn, wheat, hazelnuts, tobacco, and livestock.
(b) The Mediterranean region, along the south coast, is dominated
by the Taurus Mountains. It experiences hot, dry summers and
cool, moist winters. The area produces 90% of the country's
citrus and two-thirds of its cotton; it is also important for
-    vegetable and livestock production.
(c) The Marmara and Aegean region is the most heavily urbanized and
industrialized area.- The climate is essentially Mediterranean
but some areas have the advantage of higher and better distri-
buted summer rainfall providing for good growth conditions for
the greater part of the year. The agricultural importance of
the region rests on the production of several export crops in-
cluding tobacco (50% of total Turkish production), cotton (30%



ANNEX 1
Page 3
of total), and oranges (50% of total). It also produces
grapes, figs, rice, sunflower and livestock. Because it
has a relatively high proportion of gently sloping land,
good quality soils and generally favorable climate, the
region has one of the best potentials in the country for
agricultural and livestock production.
(d) Central Anatolia, the largest region, has a continental steppe
climate with cold moist winters and hot dry summers. The area
produces some 40% of the country's wheat. Over one-third of
the country's sheep and goats are found in the region. Trans-
humant livestock production, of which there is a long history,
is important in the region (para 7).
(e) Eastern Anatolia is composed of high mountains and rugged ter-
rain with mostly warm moist summers and very severe winters.
Coniferous forests and alpine pastures predominate in the
northeast and wooded steppes in the south. Summer wheat and
barley are the dominant crops on the easier slopes. The
northeast is an important dairy and beef cattle area and the
principal source of store cattle for western fattening farms.
Sheep and goats predominate in the south. As in Central
Anatolia, transhumance is widely practiced and important in
the economy of region (para 7).
Land Tenure
6.        Information on land tenure is incomplete.  Not all land has been
surveyed, and titles are not always available. Again, many titles have not
been formally registered. Such problems are particularly common in the east
of the country. Of the total land area, only about 21 million ha (27%) are
titled and registered. Statistics on this sample indicate that:
(a) the average holding is about 7 ha;
(b) about 25% of holdings are less than 1 ha;
(c) about 70% are 5 ha or less;
(d) 96% are 20 ha or less; and
(e) only 0.1% of registered properties are over 100 ha.
Often these areas are fragmented into several parcels which acts as a constraint
in farming them effectively. It is estimated that about half of all holdings
are in .six or more parcels. This has arisen because of succession laws requir-
ing that property be subdivided equally between heirs.
7.        Statistics on tenancy arrangements are sketchy, but probably about 95%
of units are farmed either by owners, or by owners in partnership with tenants
or sharecroppers. Only some 5% of units are farmed by tenant farmers, share
farmers, and the like. Much land is held by provincial and mLnicipal bodies
and most towns and villages have areas of common land which are usually in
native pasture and utilized by community flocks and herds. The availability



ANNEX 1
Page 4
of such land results in many individuals and families who do not otherwise
own land being able to have livestock, if only a few animals to provide milk,
meat and fibre for immediate family needs. Again, there is a well developed
system of transhumant livestock production in many parts of Turkey, partic-
ularly in the central and eastern regions (para 5). Flocks and herds mov.e to
common grazing located in higher areas as spring growth starts after snows
thaw and remain throughout the summer into the autumn before returning to the
villages for winter. These large grazing areas, although of limited produc-
tivity, represent an important resource. They not only provide sustenance for
a significant part of the year to large numbers of breeding herds and flocks,
but allow a wider livestock ownerships base than would otherwise be the case.
Most of the store sheep and cattle for fattening in the west for the large
terminal markets there originate in the central and eastern regions from
such herds and flocks.
Agriculture in the Economy
8.        The contribution of agriculture to GNP has declined from around 50%
in the early '50s and 40% in the early '60s to 26% at present, a trend shared
by many countries in the process of developing their economies. Nevertheless,
agriculture is still significant in the Turkish economy and is likely to remain
so in the foreseeable future as it not only produces the total food needs of the
nation but earns about 57% of export income and employs about 63% of the total
work force. It also supplies raw materials for industry, serves as a labor pool
for industrial expansion, and provides an important market for local manufac-
turers of fertilizer, herbicides, tractors, equipment and consumer goods.
9.        Cereal, industrial and horticultural crops account for about two-
thirds of the value of agricultural output. Livestock products account for
about 30%, and forestry and fishing make minor contributions. During the
50's, agricultural growth averaged about 5% p.a. due principally to steady
increase in the area under crop, particularly under wheat. This growth
slowed in the '60s and output fell short of targets set in the First (1963-
1967) and Second (1968-1972) Development Plans. Throughout the '60s, agri-
cultural growth averaged about 3% compared with about 6.5% for the economy
as a whole. Over the last five years, growth has slowed further despite an
increase of about 0.6 million ha (2.4%) in the area cropped and about 0.8
million ha (30%) in the area of horticultural crops. Bad weather for cereals
in 1973 and 1974, low world prices and white fly damage in cotton, and neg-
ligible growth in livestock numbers (para 12) will probably result in little
more than half the 4.5% targeted increase of the Third Development Plan
(1973-1977) being attained.
Cropping Patterns
10.       Accurate census figures for areas in various crops are not avail-
able but estimates have been made by the State Statistical Institute.  Of
Turkey's total land area, about 25 million ha are cropped, 3 million ha are



ANNEX 1
Page 5
devoted to horticulture, 26 million ha are meadowlands, and 19 million ha
are forested. Continuous cropping has exhausted many of the lighter soils
in the central and eastern regions and some 9 million ha of cropping land
4u>ie fallow at any-one--time, representing a resource wastage of signif-
icant magnitude. Principal crops include wheat and barley (11 million ha),
cotton (0.7 million ha), pulses (0.6 million ha), sunflower (0.5 million ha),
tob`acco (0.3 million ha), potatoes (0.18 million ha), and sugarbeet (0.15
million ha).
11.       Turkish agriculture is mainly rainfed and thus subject to large
variations in yield, depending on season. Some 2 million ha is irrigated,
but production from this area is substantially below the potential because
of inefficient and/or incomplete irrigation and drainage systems. Government
is proceeding as quickly as possible in expanding public irrigation facilities
and current plans call for a doubling of the irrigated area by 1980. Crop
production is reasonably well mechanized and annual consumption of fertilizers,
herbicides, improved seeds, and other inputs is increasing. In 1973, tractors
numbered about 160,000, (or one to approximately 160 ha of cultivated land),
up substantially from some 60,000 in 1962 and 80,000 in 1969. Currently,
about 25,000 new units are being added annually, of which some 80% are of
domestic manufacture. Around 10,000 combine harvesters were operating in
Turkey in 1973, the majority owned by contractors spread throughout the
cereal areas. It is estimated some 25% of the area in grain was combined,
the balance being harvested by conventional methods. There is a strong de-
mand for both tractors and equipment generally, and their use is likely to
increase, along with that of other inputs. The greater use of modern tech-
nology is constrained at present by a relative scarcity of inputs, by shortage
of credit and paucity of technical knowledge. Government is aware of these
constraints and the strategy of the Third Development Plan (1973-1977) is
largely directed to overcoming them.
Livestock Production
12.       There are currently estimated to be some 13 million cattle (about
4.5 million of which are dairy cows), 40 million sheep, 19 million goats and
3 million horses, donkeys and mules in Turkey. Statistics on livestock num-
bers and production are imprecise, however, as accurate census figures are
not available. Livestock numbers are based on sampling techniques and total
production figures are derived from applying average production coefficients.
There is room for large discrepancies in judgment and interpretation. Pub-
lished figures indicate little increase in total livestock since the mid '60s.
Sheep numbers appear to have increased, cattle have remained essentially stable,
and goats have decreased.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
Estimate of Livestock Numbers in Turkey, 1962-1972 ('000)
Total         Milking                               Horses, Donkeys,
Year        Cattle          cows         Sheep       Goats             Mules
1962         12,390         4,010       33,310       22,126            3,229
1963        12,718         5,024        32,118       21,446            3,171
1964        12,910         4,157        32,655       21,150            3,156
1965        12,779         4,180        33,380       20,810            3,117
1966        13,345         4,423        34,666       21,117            3,188
1967        13,628         4,564        34,911       20,960            3,293
1968        13,760          4,528       35,770       20,513            3,101
1969        12,990         4,485        36,350       20,234            2,986
1970        12,864          4,402       36,470       19,519            2,864
1971         12,761        4,382        36,784       18,992            2,771
1972        12,907         4,541        37,727       18,469            2,964
1973        13,236         4,591        40,093       18,700            2,854
Source:   State Statistical Institute:  Abstracted by LDP.
13.       The First and Second Five Year Plans called for a growth of live-
stock output of 5.6% and 4.8% p.a., but actual rates achieved were only 2.6%
and 3.2%, respectively. The Third Plan (1973-1977) target is 5% p.a., but
present indications are that a growth of not more than 2.5% will be achieved.
Thus, growth of livestock production over the past 15 years has barely matched
human population increase. Government hopes for an increase in cattle numbers
throughout the rest of the '70s to some 14 million by 1980. This, however,
will be difficult. Present cattle, sheep and goat numbers are in equilibrium
with the available feed supplies which come mainly from the 26 million ha of
meadowland and some relatively small amounts of forage (mainly alfalfa grown
under irrigation) and prepared feeds. The area of meadowland is already being
fully utilized. In many instances it is being overgrazed and its productivity
is progressively decreasing. Its area cannot be extended due to pressure from
cropping and forestry. The only way its carrying capacity and output can be
increased is by better management and intensification. However, the principal
livestock rearing regions are in eastern Turkey where land for the most part
is only marginally fertile and is extensively farmed, and terrain and climate
preclude very intensive exploitation (paras 2-4). Much can be done to improve
this land, but it will be slow as farmers there are conservative and farming
patterns are traditional. The Second Livestock Development Project (Credit
330-TU) which became effective in January 1973 is intended to provide a lead
in this respect in the 'rzurum, Kars and Agri regions (Village Sub-Project).
14.       A more immediate possibility for increasing national animal prod-
ductivity lies in integrating livestock with cropping in central and western
Anatolia, particularly in the fertile coastal regions. The wider adoption of
mixed farming using land under fallow to expand the forage base to intensify



ANNEX 1
Page 7
fattening and dairy production in those regions is a logical approach given
present cropping practices and the fact that many millions of hectares of
land, equivalent to about one-third of the total area cropped, is fallowed
each year. Land under fallow may be out of production for six to eighteen
months, depending on locality and the rotation followed on a particular
farm, providing opportunity for forage crops to be produced in the intervening
period. Ideally, if such crops could be produced wholly in the fallow period,
their production need not interfere with that of cereal and industrial crops.
Examples of such double cropping would be maize or sorghum-sudan hybrid grown
under irrigation in summer after winter wheat, or oats and vetch grown in
winter before summer cotton. This ideal cannot always be attained, however,
more particularly where perennial forages (e.g., alfalfa) are employed which
can have a useful life of several years. In such cases, some cash crop must
be sacrificed. In practice, farmers are likely to use a combination of both
annual and perennial forages to ensure a range of forages to provide for
hay, silage, green chop and direct grazing, depending on need. The extent to
which farmers are prepared to double crop and, more particularly, grow peren-
nial forages, will depend very much on the price of milk in relation to
prices of cash crops, and the extent to which farmers wish to diversify.
In many areas in Turkey, decreasing crop yields resulting from overcropping
and pest and disease problems (e.g., white fly in cotton, which has been
particularly prevalent in recent years) are prompting farmers to broaden their
product base and enter dairying and fattening. The response of farmers to
the first project (Credit 236-TU), even in the absence of established demon-
stration units to convince them of its feasibility, is evidence of this as is
also the response of farmers in the fattening subproject of Credit 330-TU.
This trend is considered likely to grow, particularly as the success of the
better units established under these projects becomes more widely publicized.
With many such units now available for dairy demonstration and extension pur-
poses, the success of the proposed dairy project is considered assured.
Technical Services
15.       The Ministry of Food and Agriculture (MFA) offers extension assis-
tance to livestock farmers through several of its technical directorates
(e.g., Livestock, Agriculture, Veterinary Services, Artificial and Natural
Breed and Record Keeping). However, such services are thinly spread over
the country and are staffed by professionals who often lack practical skills,
as university courses in agriculture and veterinary science in Turkey tend to
be highly theoretical. Yearly output of students with specialized training
in agriculture and veterinary sciences from the country's universities 1/ and
high schQols number some 750 at the degree level and 700 at subdegree level
and are increasing. Most of these enter Government, the best being employed
in various semi-autonomous State Economic Enterprises which offer better re-
muneratiqn, particularly side benefits. The standard of staff of the various
1/   There are three colleges of Veterinary Science and four colleges of
Agriculture in Turkey.



ANNEX 1
Page 8
directorates of MFA is variable and difficulty is often experienced in re-
cruiting capable staff due to low basic salaries, side benefits and per diem
allowances. Although in theory there should be little difference in the total
remuneration received by technicians of comparable standing in Government
service, in practice, substantial differences occur through differential rates
for side salary, special corps allowances and per diem (Table 1); also for
certain extras for duties performed outside official hours (e.g., consul-
tancy and other fees for services to the private sector), for which certain
disciplines have more opportunities than others.
16.       Technical back-stopping for professionals working in agriculture
and livestock in Turkey is not strong. Funds for research are limited, staff-
ing is a constraint and little coordination of research effort exists. Weak
links between research and extension staffs preclude efficient dissemination
of research findings, and there is limited feedback of field problems to
research centers. Capable extension staff are scarce and much of their time
is involved with routine duties not connected with their extension responsibil-
ities. In-service training is rarely available to extension staff, and
high-calibre individuals tend not to be attracted to the service. Low morale
and staff turnover sap its efficiency. Government is aware of these pr-oblems
and is desirous of correcting them, but has not yet instituted the necessary
programs.
17.       Dairy processing and manufacturing also lack adequate technical sup-
port. Professional courses are deficient in practical training and graduates
are not adequately prepared for positions in industry. This deficiency is
recognized by the Milk Corporation (TSEK) which requires increasing numbers
of dairy technologists over the coming years to staff its expanding efforts
in dairy manufacturing (Annex 2, para 11). Programs offered by the University
of Ankara are currently being upgraded to meet this need with assistance from
UNDP and the Swedish Government.
18.       Livestock health is covered by the Directorate of Veterinary Services
(DVS) of MFA, one of the strongest arms of the Ministry. DVS has a staff of
some 4,000,.about half of whom are professionals, working in health, management,
breeding and food inspection. DVS has a well-developed diagnostic service
backed by over 20 laboratories located throughout the country. Vaccines, drugs
and medicines are available and livestock health in general is under good
control. Close cooperation was developed between the staffs of DVS and LDP
in the implementation of Credit 236-TU. Serious animal health problems have
not constrained the project nor that of Credit 330-TU. A continued close
relationship is expected in the proposed project.
19.       Recently a new Directorate of Artificial and Natural Breeding and
Record Keeping (DANB) was created within MFA with responsibility for devel-
oping a national artificial insemination (AI) service for upgrading local
livestock. Programs are being developed for sheep, goats, and cattle, and
priority is being accorded dairy breeding. The main thrust in dairying
will be in the regions of Samsun, Istanbul, Ankara, Izmir, Adana and
Kayseri, i.e., largely in the areas of the proposed project. The program



ANNEX 1
Page 9
will be phased in gradually over several years, however, and will take time
to become fully operational. A small proportion of farmers participating in
the proposed project are expected to benefit from the scheme. It is anti-
cipated by Government that by 1985 at the latest, a country-wide AI service
will be operating for dairy and beef cattle, sheep and goats.



ANNEX I
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TURKEY
Basic Salary and Side Benefits Paid to Government Staff in Turkey 1/
1.   Basic Salary
2.   Side salary
(a) Special risk
(b) Special project
(c) Special qualification
(d) Special incentive
3.   Special corps
(e.g., Civil Engineers)
4.   Per diem allowances
1/   Information supplied to Appraisal Mission of Livestock III in
October 1975.
March 1976



ANNEX 2
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TURKEY
Milk Production
General
1.        Milk production has a long history in Turkey and milk and milk pro-
ducts are traditional in the diet of the people. There are estimated to be
over 32 million milking animals in the country producing around 4.3 million
tons of-milk p.a. The main sources of milk are:
Head     -Production of Milk    Production/Head        % of Total
(millions)  (million tons p.a.)        (kg/p.a.)         Production
Cows             4.5              2.5                   570                58
Sheep           20.0              0.9                    45                21
Goats            7.5              0.6                    80                 14
Buffalo          0.3              0.3                 1,000                  7
32.3              4.3                    -                100
Source:   State Statistical Ins.tituter 1972. Ahstracted by LDP.
2.        These figures are estimates.  They are derived by applying average
production coefficients to estimates of animal population based on population
sampling data. There is room for large errors, but more accurate census
figures are not available. Of total milk produced, cow milk is the most
common (accounting for about 58%) and is generally preferred, particularly
for making yogurt and ayran (diluted yogurt), the commonest milk products
(para 6). Sheep and goat milk accounts for some 35% of total and is used
mainly for producing cheese, which is also popular (para 6).
3.        Milk production per animal is low for all species.  However, the
figures may be more a measure of the conservative coefficients used by
Government estimators than of actual milk production capability. Neverthe-
less, g!Fneral observation would suggest that the milking quality of most
species is in fact poor and the standards of nutrition and general manage-
ment to which they are subjected are not conducive to high production.
While national production at 4.3 million tons is considerable, there is no
developed dairy sub-sector and milk tends to be an incidental by-product
of livestock keeping and a minor component of most farmers' incomes. The



ANNEX 2
Page 2
only specialized dairy units in Turkey are public sector farms (on which
the general standards of management and efficiency are not high) and the
152 private units established under the Intensive Dairy Production Project
(Credit 236-TU).
Milk Marketing
4.        The estimated intake of milk and milk products per capita is some
110 liters p.a. However, intake in rural households is considerably more than
this and in urban households, particularly those of the poorer sectors, it is
considerably less. In general, all rural households have access to milk, as
small-scale livestock ownership is almost universal among village families.
Lack of land does not constrain ownership of livestock as virtually all vil-
lages have areas of common grazing (Annex 1, para 7). Those few village
families without animals can still obtain milk through neighbors. In urban
areas, however, milk is frequently unobtainable, particularly in centers of
higher population growth, and during winter. While current growth of total
and rural population is around 2.6% p.a. and 1.3% p.a. respectively, some
urban centers are growing at more than 6% p.a., while the increase in urban
population as a whole in Turkey over the past 10 years has been of the order
of 4.4% p.a. This disparity in growth, coupled with the fact that both total
milk production and cow milk production have grown at less than 1% p.a. over
recent years (1962-1972), have been mainly responsible for the shortages now
being experienced in many urban areas.
5.        The situation is further aggravated by the fact that changes in
milk marketing have not kept abreast of the rapid change in population struc-
ture and distribution of available supplies in centers of rapid growth tends
to be inequitable. The marketing of milk and its products is largely unor-
ganized and follows traditional patterns. Marketing statistics are not avail-
able, but something less than 40% of the milk produced is considered to
enter regular commercial channels. Most milk comes from small farmers who
produce mainly for their own need and that of immediate family or neighbors,
who may pay either in cash or kind. Any small surpluses are either converted
to yogurt or cheese, or sold in liquid form to intermediaries who dispose of
it either as liquid milk or in processed form. Since there are few special-
ized dairies and milk is produced in small amounts by farmers who are widely
scattered, these intermediaries currently serve ad vital role in the market-
ing chain. Of total milk marketed, they distribute over 90%. Less than
10% is channeled through processing plants, the combined capacity of which
is currently only about 160,000 tons p.a. Standards of milk handling by
intermediaries are low and hygiene is poor. This, coupled with the fact that
milk is produced under substandard conditions and is invariably adulterated
at some point in the distribution chain, makes for generally low quality.
There is a strong case for greater Government intervention and regulation but,
taking into account the traditional nature of the industry and its fragmented
structure, and the fact that regulated milk plants (mainly Government owned)
can currently handle only a small part of available supplies, it is considered
inappropriate by Government to do so. Government's long-term strategy, however,
is to increase its involvement in the industry and exert more control u!ith time
(para 11).



ANNEX 2
Page 3
6.         Because of the number and variety of marketing channels, there are
no accurate statistics concerning the amounts of milk processed to different
products. However, yogurt and ayran (diluted yogurt) are the forms in which
milk is principally consumed. Cheese is common, especially in the more
remote areas, and those of high sheep and goat density. Liquid milk,
butter and ice cream are also marketed but these are consumed in smaller
amounts. Since processed liquid milk is relatively cheap and convenient to
produce, and the form in which quality can be most readily standardized and
controlled, Government policy is to encourage consumption of milk in pro-
cessed liquid form rather than as ayran or cheese.
7.         Milk production is seasonal, with peak supplies in spring and
summer, and minimum in winter. Prices vary with season, locality, volume,
fat content and quality. There is generally keen competition for all milk
produced, except during the summer peak when traditional marketing channels
can become clogged, or in very isolated areas.   Floor prices offered by
Government milk plants, in effect, set minimum price levels. Intermediaries
frequently pay above these, especially in winter. Prices have increased
significantly in recent years. The following table summarizes farmgate
prices for cows' milk over the past four years.
Year          Price Range /1           Average Price /2
(LT/1)                      (LT/1)
1972           1.30 - 1.80                   1.60
1973           1.45 - 2.05                   1.80
1974           2.00 - 2.55                   2.30
1975           3.10 - 3.75                   3.50
/1 Actual price depends on season, locality, volume,
fat content, and quality.
/2 Estimated weighted average price received by farmers
in accessible localities for annual output assuming
30% of output produced in winter and 70% during the
rest of the year.
Source: IDPD estimates.
8.         Recent price increases in excess of 50% for cows' milk are aimed at
making dairying attractive and stimulating farmer interest. Price incentives
are a key policy instrument currently employed by Government to expand milk
output (para 10). While such incentives are not offered for milk from other
species, prices for their milk also benefit from price increases in cows'
milk.



ANNEX 2-
Page 4
Government Development Policy
9.        In it Third Five-Year Development Plan (1973-1977), Government is
according high priority to increasing livestock productivity. Within the
subsector, poultry and milk production are being given particular encourage-
ment. Since some 58% of the country's total milk output is from cows, Gov-
ernment is anxious to see cow numbers expand (Annex 1) and production per
animal increase, to ensure sufficient milk to meet the country's needs,
particularly those of the rapidly expanding urban population. Despite
Turkey's long dairy background and traditional self-sufficiency in milk,
the country imported 1,800 tons of butter and 150 tons of dried milk powder
in 1974 and Government wishes to avoid a repetition of this and the conse-
quent drain on scarce foreign exchange.
10.       Government's main policy instruments in expanding agricultural
production in general have been controls on the price of inputs, price incen-
tives for products, exchange control, regulation of exports and imports, ex-
port incentives, public sector investments and credit regulation. Specific-
ally, its policies to expand dairying include:
(a) increasing the attractiveness of milk production through
price incentives (para 8);
(b) improving collection and processing facilities to provide
assured outlets for incremental production; and
(c) modernizing farming by the introduction of newer technology
and technical services, and provision of adequate credit.
11.       Through the Milk Corporation (TSEK), a semi-autonomous State
Economic Enterprise established in 1968 with UNESCO assistance, Government
is undertaking a major building program to expand milk collection and pro-
cessing. The program, costing in excess of LT 1 billion is financed en-
tirely by local funds and provides for a national milk grid with some 150
cooling/collecting stations and 40 processing plants. The latter, along
with five other plants owned jointly with private interests, will provide
an annual processing capability of about 460,000 tons at full development.
There are currently fifteen plants, owned wholly or partly by Government,
operating in Turkey. Five more are under construction and twenty-five are
to be constructed during 1976-77. At full development in 1978, these plants
will have the potential capability of processing some 20% of the total milk
entering market channels '.e., about 460,000 tons p.a.). They will thus
not only p'rovide an assured outlet for increases in production expected in
coming years, but will greatly increase Government's involvement in and
control of the milk industry (para 5). With price incentives for bulk
milk pick-ups, fat content and cleanliness, and premiums for winter milk,
Government hopes not only to expand overall production but to encourage
farmers to specialize in dairying and provide better quality milk with a
taore zv&n seasonal distribution.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
12.       In the course of appraisal of the proposed project, evidence
gathered by the appraisal mission indicated that Government planning of the
above processing component left much to be desired. For example, decisions
on the siting of plants do not appear to be based on surveys of milk avail-
ability or area dairy potentials; nor have such plans taken account of im-
portant considerations of scale which are essential to ensure efficient
plant operation. Too many small plants are planned with overlapping supply
areas. The cooling/collecting component is considered inadequate and is
poorly planned. There is insufficient coordination between milk procurement
and milk processing. It is certain that many of the plants will run under
capacity for several years and make considerable losses. Government is aware
of this and is prepared to budget funds to meet such deficits. Concern over
these matters was expressed by the mission to officials of TSEK and the State
Planning Organization (SPO) on several occasions during appraisal. The mis-
sion was told, however, that Bank assistance had not been requested for TSEK's
program, which was being wholly financed by Government, and that the mission
should not concern itself with such considerations which were matters in-
ternal to the country.
The Intensive Dairy Production Project - Credit 236-TU
13.       This project, which became effective in 1971, midway through the
Second Five-Year Plan (1968-72), represented Government's first attempt to
provide investment credit and technical expertise to dairy producers. A
special directorate, the Directorate of Livestock Development Projects (LDP),
was established by Government to execute the project, which was prepared by
SPO with FAO assistance. The project had a slow start due mainly to staff-
ing constraints, organizational difficulties, problems of collateral, and
conservatism of farmers. It was not until 1974 that staffing normalized
and the project gained momentum. In the meantime input costs rose signifi-
cantly. Because of this and stringent eligibility requirements imposed by
TCZB, only about 152 of the 250-300 farmers anticipated at appraisal actually
entered the project. At the present time, the project is nearing completion
and has succeeded largely in fulfilling its purpose. Although total benefici-
aries did not reach the appraisal target, the project has been successful in:
(a) establishing a valuable nucleus of over 3,500 exotic milk
animals of superior genetic merit;
(b) setting up, for the first time, specialized private dairy
-    units stocked with the purebred special-purpose milk animals
and employing modern production and management techniques;
and
(c) building an infrastructure within Government to provide
planning and advisory services and long-term development
credit and supervisory services especially for dairying.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
14.       Imported cattle have performed well.  Abortion occurred in the ini-
tial shipment of heifers due to delays in transit, but apart from this iso-
lated instance, problems of health and adaptation have been minimal. Neither
foot and mouth disease nor tick fever (piroplasmosis), to which imported
cattle are particularly susceptible, has proved a problem, though isolated
cases of piroplasmosis occurred on some farms where dipping practices were
relaxed. Most technical coefficients are in line with appraisal estimates.
Calf mortality slightly exceeded estimates early in the project but has since
improved to an acceptable level. Milk production, while varying widely
between farms has, on the average, exceeded appraisal estimates by 500 kg per
head and more in animals in their first and second lactations. Thus, 700
heifers completing their first lactation in mid-1975 on which accurate records
were available averaged 3,030 litres milk/head compared with appraisal esti-
mates of 2,500 litres/head, and some 80 cows completing their second lactation
in late 1975 averaged 3,460 litres milk/head compared with appraisal estimates
of 2,600 litres. Calving rate on most farms has also equalled or exceeded
estimates. Taken overall, production coefficients are highly satisfactory.
15.       The technical studies component of Credit 236-TU has not achieved as
much in the area of surveys or applied research and demonstrations as envis-
aged at appraisal, due mainly to staff constraints. However, a second project
was prepared satisfactorily by project staff with FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program
assistance and that effort is the basis of the proposed project. Similarly,
training has not been as comprehensive as hoped, although in-service train-
ing has been acceptable. It is anticipated that some ground lost in this
area will be made up between now and the completion of the project expected
in June 1976.
The Present Project
16.       On balance, the first project has been a satisfactory demonstration
project and has set the stage for the present project which will, in effect,
be a follow-up to it. The present project involves the provision of credit
to some 750 farmers 1/ who will invest in improved imported and local cattle,
buildings, tractors, machinery and forage production (land preparation,
seed, fertilizer, etc.). A technical services component to strengthen the
Intensive Dairy Production Division (IDPD) of LDP will be provided, along
with technical studies on production and marketing, and training for profes-
sional'staff and farmers in modern dairy production and management.
1/   Farmers benefiting under the proposed project will comprise:
300 with 5-cow herds at full development
200 with 12-cow herds at full development
250 with 40-cow herds at full development



ANNEX 2
Page 7
17.       The appraisal mission considers LDP has the potential of reaching
this target number of beneficiaries providing its staff is strengthened in
number and quality. Current staff strength stands at some 18 Turkish profes-
sional and 10 middle-level staff and 2 technical specialists. Estimates'by
tht appraisal mission indicate that an additional staff of about 23 profes-
sionals, 13 middle-level technicians and one technical specialist (i.e., a
total of about 37 individuals), making a total local staff of about 64, will
be needed to:
(a) implement the credit component of the proposed project (50 staff);
(b) provide for staff in training (6 staff);
(c) facilitate execution of technical studies (3 staff); and
(d) supervise dairy units established under Credit 236-TU (5 staff).
Continuation of the assistance received by LDP from veterinary officers of the
Veterinary Services Division (DVS) of MFA, at the same level of intensity as
the first project, is also considered vital to the project's successful out-
come. It is considered that staffing is likely to constrain the project un-
less carefully provided for. Staffing of the present project has to be
considered along with the staffing of the Second Livestock Development
Project (Credit 330-TU) which is presently about 10 technicians under
strength. The total combined extra staff needs of the latter project and
the present project are therefore some 50 staff. Some changes in the Second
Project, which are currently under consideration, could result in its staff
needs being reduced somewhat, but the combined additional needs of that proj-
ect and the proposed project are not likely to be appreciably below 40 pro-
fessional staff. Prior to 1975, LDP faced considerable difficulty in recruit-
ing staff, and as a result both Credit 236-TU (First Livestock Development
Project) and Credit 330-TU (Second Livestock Development Project) encountered
extended delays, although now they are being implemented satisfactorily. The
Village Development Sub-Project of Credit 330-TU is still moving slowly, but
a major recruitment in the past six months, supported by use of recently
authorized special staff incentives, has now brought actual staff close to
full complement and, as a result, accelerated implementation is hoped for
this year (paras. 3.14, 4.13).  Improvements in salary and per diem supple-
ments effective for LDP's 1976 fiscal year in its regular budget and the
assurances received during negotiations on staff increases will overcome
the staffing constraints of Credit 236-TU.
18.       Much of the success of the first project must be attributed to
the leadership, technical guidance and training given by the two technical
specialists. Their need was foreseen at appraisal of the first project and
insisted upon at negotiation, even though Turkish authorities were not con-
vinced they were necesssary. The capability and knowledge of Turkish tech-
nicians has increased considerably as a result of experience gained in the
first project. However, in appraising the proposed project, the mission
concluded that services were still necessary to assist in strengthening the
staff resources of IDPD and ensure successful execution of the project.



ANNEX 2
Page 8
Accordingly, fifteen man-years have been provided in the cost estimates of
the proposed project to provide for the employment of three technical spe-
cialists full-time for the duration of the project. 1/ In effect this re-
presents a continuation of the two existing posts under Credit 236-TU plus
one addition. One technical specialist will be assigned to advise on project
development in Ankara/ Adana/Konya, another in Istanbul/Izmir and the third
in Kayseri/Malatya. All three technical specialists will begin their duties
under the present project no later than January 1, 1977, and the two existing
specialists under Credit 236-TU will also be assigned to the present project
until December 31, 1976, it being understood that such assignment should not
prevent them from satisfactorily discharging their duties and responsibilities
under Credit 236-TU. Assurances on this were obtained at negotiations. Their
Terms of Reference are in Annex 9.
19.       The area of the present project will comprise that of the first
project 2/ plus the provinces of Balikesir, Denizli, Kayseri, Malatya and
Adiyaman (Map 12037). To expedite implementation, additional offices will
be established in Konya, Kayseri and Malatya which, with existing offices in
Ankara, Istanbul, Izmi-r and Adana will allow suitable coverage of the project
area. It has been assumed in making the cost estimates that each new office
would be staffed in the regular IDPD pattern with a manager, deputy manager,
agronomist, veterinarian, 2-3 field assistants and supporting staff. A too
rapid thinning out of existing trained staff by posting them to the new areas
too early would, in the view of the appraisal mission, be detrimental to
attaining the overall goals of the project. Providing staff are appointed in
the number and of the quality needed, the execution is foreseen as largely
routine. IDPD has a sound administrative structure and is under competent
central management. It has a nucleus of competent and experienced regional
managers to proevide regional leadership and a cadre of trained and experienced
field staff capable of planning and supervising on-farm development.
20.       Procedures for selecting farmers, establishing creditworthiness,
developing, implementing and supervising farm plans, arranging construc-
tions, procuring livestock and machinery, maintaining records and the many
other routines involved in project execution have been developed by IDPD
during the first project, and are satisfactory. The first project has re-
ceived wide publicity. Farmers are interested in diversifying, and dairy-
ing is currently financially attractive, and the long-term prospects for milk
appear good.
1/   The cost of techn: al specialists is estimated at US$40,000 per man
year at present costs, of which US$28,000 is basic salary and
US$12,000 represents allowances and miscellaneous expenses.
2/   Including parts of seven provinces excluded from the first project.



ANNEX 2
Page 9
21.       Project farmers, the majority of whom will be mixed farmers,
will invest in barns and dairy buildings, silage pits, imported and local
cattle, tractors, farm machinery and forage on plans drawn up by technical
staff of IDPD. They will contribute up to 20% of the cost of such plans,
depending on their means, the balance being financed by TCZB. Most farmers,
and particularly the larger (40-cow) ones, will be expected to finance at
least 75% of the cost of dairy buildings and associated structures (silage
pits, hay and storage barns, etc.) as their major contribution. Credit in
excess of 25% for buildings will be advanced only to smaller farmers (20
cows or less at full development), when so recommended by field staff pre-
paring individual plans and approved by the project manager. This provision
is considered necessary to minimize the tendency shown by farmers in the
first project of overcapitalizing farm constructions.
22.       Farmers entering the project will already be experienced in dairying
and will have family labor or be employing some labor. The majority would
also be producing some forage crops. They will be expected to continue to
provide for labor and forage crop production and, in general, meet any incre-
mental costs in those associated with the project. The latter need not be
large as there is generally extra family labor available; also, hired labor
is usually poorly utilized and there is room for significant increases in its
efficiency. Similarly, present production of forage crops is inefficient as
land is poorly utilized, unimproved varieties are used and general husbandry
is of a low standard. With better planning, improved methods and extension
assistance, forage crop yields can be considerably increased at little addi-
tional cost. Credit would thus not be provided for financing incremental
costs of labor and forage crops except in exceptional cases where specifically
recommended by field technical staff and approved by the project manager.
23.       With respect to the size of dairy units in the project, the ap-
praisal mission examined the possibility of excluding larger units from
the project and involving only small ones. The possibility was rejected,
however, because it was considered not in the best interests of the long-term
development of dairying in Turkey. The present project is a follow-up of
the first project which, although satisfactory, was limited, in that it in-
volved only some 152 beneficiaries. The appraisal mission viewed the proposed
project as a multiplier project which should reach as many farmers as possible
consistent with LDP's staff limitations and, at the same time, ensure that the
number of replacement heifers and bulls generated from project farms for gen-
eral improvement of local herds outside the project was a maximum.
24.       In evaluating present and future possible LDP staff strength, it was
concluded that doubling the present complement of around 30 technicians was
the most that could reasonably-be expected. Of the total staff, it was
considered that about 14 would be needed to cover training needs, technical
studies and supervision of units established under the first project (para
17). This would leave some 50 staff for execution of the credit aspect of the
present project, which number could cover an estimated 750 new farmers.



ANNEX 2
Page 10
25.       In determining the most desirable mix of farmer size, two considera-
tions were deemed significant:
(a) The time needed by LDP field staff for servicing a smaller
farmer was estimated at about the same as for a larger one;
thus, in view of limited staff numbers and an upper ceiling
on the number of farmers that could be serviced, a reason-
able proportion of larger farmers in the project was consider-
ered essential to ensure that the nucleus of high-quality
exotic cattle for subsequent upgrading of the national
herd would be of substantial size.
(b) The practice of small dairy farmers with limited land of send-
ing their dry and young stock, and sometimes their milking
animals, to common grazing with other village cattle during
the day, presented serious management risks. The first was
the health hazard occasioned by mixing animals from 10-20
owners, as is commonly done. The second was the risk of
unplanned mating of exotic or graded-up females with non-
descript bulls, the latter being common in village herds
in which male animals are seldom castrated.
26.       Current management practices are of long-standing and would be
difficult to change because of conservatism and also the fact that small
farmers with limited land are dependent on common pasture to maintain their
livestock. Their ability to guarantee the purity of exotic cattle provided
under the project is therefore questionable. Larger units, on the other hand,
do not depend on village grazing areas and livestock on such units are invari-
ably segregated. Such livestock are not exposed to health and mating hazards
as are the animals of smaller producers and maintenance of purebred stock is
more assured. A reasonable proportion (33%) of such herds therefore was
considered essential on these grounds; also, to provide for importation of
exotic animals in numbers sufficient to provide a nucleus substantial enough
to ensure adequate supplies of high-quality heifers and bulls to the industry
in the future.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TURKEY
The Agricultural Bank of Turkey
1.        The Agricultural Bank of Turkey, T C Ziraat Bankasi (TCZB), has been
reviewed in several recent appraisal reports. It was discussed in some detail
in 1971 in the appraisal report of the Intensive Dairy Production Project
(Credit 236-TU). In the same report, Banking and Credit in Turkey were also
reviewed. In 1972, TCZB was the subject of a further annex in the appraisal
report of the Second Livestock Development Project (Credit 330-TU). In 1975,
the most complete study to date was made during the appraisal of the Agricul-
tural Credit and Agro-Industries Proj-ect (Loan 1248-TU). In that report the
structure, organization and procedures of the institution were discussed in
detail. Several of its limitations were also discussed.
2.        Because TCZB has been subject to such exposure, it is not considered
necessary for the purposes of the present project to dwell on it unduly.
Salient points only are presented, summarized from the above reports and
obtained by the mission in the course of appraisal.
Structure and Organization
3.        TCZB was founded in 1863 and reorganized in its present form under a
special law in 1937. It is a semi-autonomous statutory body wholly owned by
Government. It functions as a State Economic Enterprise (SEE) under the
jurisdiction of the Ministry of Commerce. Control is exercised by a Board
of six appointed by the Council of Ministers. It is one of the 43 banks and
financial agencies making up the banking system of Turkey. Under the Banking
Law of 1958, its main purpose is to provide credit for agricultural, fishery
and forestry development, and over 80% of its lending is in these fields. It
is the biggest bank in Turkey, accounting for over 25% of total deposits, and
the largest source of institutional credit for agriculture. Over 90% of farm
credit in Turkey is provided by TCZB, the balance being provided by the Cotton
Bank, Sugar Bank, Tobacco Growers Bank, Vine Growers Bank, and Tea Bank.
4.        As of the end of 1974 TCZB 's net worth was just over LT 2 billion.
Its resource stiucture was: deposits, 49.9%; Central Bank rediscounts 31.7%;
paid-in capital, 2.3%; reserves and profit accruals, 0.7; other resources,
15.4%. Deposits have always constituted the most important of TCZB's re-
sources and have grown at some 20% p.a. over the past decade, mostly from
deposits by Government agencies. In the last 2-3 years, most of TCZB's



ANNEX 3
Page 2
incremental resources have cone from Central Bank rediscounting facilities.
This was needed to provided rapidly expanding levels of credits to agricul-
tural cooperatives to purchase crops under Government price support schemes.
Its share capital and reserves represent a small and decreasing element of its
resources. Its debt/equity ratio has increased form 6.6:1 to 31.9:1 between
1964 and 1974 and currently a considerable strengthening of this ratio is
required. This could be achieved by an increase in Government subscription
and/or by allowing TCZB access to its accrued profits, which by law revert to
the Treasury.
5.        TCZB engages in all types of banking transactions, but its main
lending (about 85%) is short term. Some 55% of its agricultural loans are to
marketing or credit cooperatives and about 15% are annual production loans to
individual farmers. Long- and medium-term loans are provided by TCZB for
tractors, machinery, equipment, livestock and buildings, but such loans ac-
count for only a small proportior. of its portfolio. Much of TCZB's lending
goes to maintain agricultural production or assist marketing and other aspects.
It is not significantly involved in providing financing for the acquisition or
creation of income earning assets.
6.        TCZB has a network of over 850 branches extending throughout the
country and a professional and technical staff of over 18,000. It is managed
by a General Manager, four Assistant General Managers, and a Secretary General.
TCZB policy is determined by a twelve-member Higher Committee on Credit Regu-
lation under the chairmanship of the Minister of Commerce. The Committee meets
annually to develop policy and priorities and establish lending criteria. It
does not, however, determine interest rates, which are set by the Central Bank.
Lending Policies and Procedures
7.        Funds for lending are allocated annually by the Higher Committee.
The law requires that not less than 80% of TCZB's lending be for agricultural
purposes and, within this limit, funds are divided between branch offices on
the basis of previous performance, projected loan demand, and area development
priorities. Loans are made for a wide variety of agricultural purposes. Most
credit is advanced on the basis of TCZB's standard credit limits for particular
undertakings. Cereal production is the largest category. The amount lent
short-term to a farmer for crop production is computed from standard tables of
cash requirements per unit area of particular crop; for marketing, it is based
on a standard amount per kilo of crop sold. There are standards per unit area
for land reclamation, land improvement, and the like. Standards also exist
for livestock loans.
8.        Annual operating loans are disbursed in cash and kind principally
LDlrough marketing and credit cooperatives working closely with TCZB. Inputs
such as fuel, seed, and fertilizer are provided in kind in standard units re-
lated to land area. Cash is advanced for general expenses up to a fixed limit
per unit area, depending on the crop concerned. Because of general credit



ANNEX 3
Page 3
shortage, credits in cash and kind do not usually cover farmer needs and
credit tends to act as a constraint in expanding output. This is especially
true of loans for livestock, where the shortage of long- and medium-term
funds, in particular, imposes a serious limitation on farmers wishing to ex-
pand herd and flock numbers.
9.        Creditworthiness of farmers is evaluated principally on the basis
of collateral and previous repayment record. Loans in excess of LT 100,000
usually requireg a property title as security. Depending on the size of the
loan, additional collateral may be required such as a chattel mortgage on
livestock and machinery, with possibly a guarantee by a creditworthy co-
signer. Loans under LT 100,000 can be secured by a chattel mortgage over
livestock and machinery and cosigner's guarantee. Land titles are not al-
ways available -- surveys are not complete in all areas and there can be long
delays in formal registration. The preferred collateral is title to a city
property. Title to land in some areas bears considerable risk as, in the
event of foreclosure, surrounding farmers will boycott the sale. Similarly,
chattel mortgages on livestock and machinery have limited value when the
assets are located in remote villages where their repossession may be
resisted.
10.       Large loans in excess of LT 500,000 and supervised credits in ex-
cess of LT 100,000 are appraised by a Project Evaluation Section operating
under the control of the Secretary General. In the appraisal and supervision
of such loans, close collaboration is always maintained with extension staff
of the Ministry of Food and Agriculture. TCZB is attempting to expand its
supervised credit program which was introduced on a trial basis in 1964.
About 2% of TCZB's credit resources are now devoted to it and it currently
operates in over 40 of the country's 67 provinces. Although its impact has
been limited by high eligibility requirements, some 35,000 farmers are cur-
rently benefitting, and TCZB would like to see a substantial increase in this
number.
11.       Since 1950, according to law, all loans over LT 150,000 (some
US$10,000) must be approved by the Board of Directors. Below this ceiling,
there are a series of prescribed limits for loans which can be approved by
divisional heads, by regional and principal branch mangers, etc. These limits
are outdated due to cost increases and require revision to provide for a more
realistic delegation of authority within the organization.
12.       The interest rate structure is established by the Central Bank and
enfor-ceZf by Government decree. Interest rates to agricultural enterprises
vary depending on the nature of the operation. Current minimum rates are 8%
p.a. to agricultural credit cooperatives and 14.4% to agro-industrial projects
located in developed regions. -The current effective rate paid by farmers
for agricultural purposes is 11% p.a. This comprises a nominal interest rate
of 10.5% plus an annual commission of 0.5%. It is TCZB policy to charge
the maximum rate allowed by law. Interest rates to agriculture are generally



ANNEX 3
Page 4
lower than rates in the current open market. Government desires to encourage
agricultural development generally and regards interest rate structure as a
useful instrument to achieve it. An undesirable effect of this situation has
been to increase demand for credit to a point where TCZB has placed strict
limits on credit available for different purposes (paras 6 and 7).
13.       Loan collections have been a major problem in TCZB's lending opera-
tions and overdues constitute a considerable proportion of TCZB's outstanding
loans, resulting in a considerable erosion of its financial position. In 1972
and 1973, overdues amounted to 25% and 20%, respectively, of loans outstanding.
It is significant that over half of the overdues were cooperatives which were
required to underwrite Government price support policies without adequate
financial resources to do so. At the end of 1974, the position had improved
somewhat, but overdue loans still amounted to over 15% of loans outstanding,
equivalent to some LT 5.5 billion, or almost 3 times TCZB's net worth. The
problem probably originates in inadequate loan appraisal and is accentuated by
a lack of strong collection policies, and, to a varying degree, political con-
siderations. The situation is also aggravated by almost negligible provision
in the accounts to meet overdues and defaults. It is a problem requiring
urgent remedial action.
Summary Evaluation
14.       In addition to the weak equity base and problem of overdue loans,
the Bank has identified weaknesses in TCZB's accounting system and deficien-
cies in external audit procedures. There is also a need to strengthen manage-
ment and organization generally, and streamline lending procedures. Despite
these shortcomings, however, the institution has the potential and ability to
meet the needs of the country's developing agricultural sector providing ap-
propriate remedial measures were adopted. TCZB has agreed to undertake a
program of improvement of its operations, financial planning, and resources in
connection with the Agricultural Credit and Agro-Industries Project (Loan 1248-
TU).    In addition, under that project, TCZB has agreed to hire consultants
to assist TCZB in studying and improving its activities in several key areas
of its organization.
15.       As a channel for the proposed second dairy loan, TCZB is considered
entirely adequate. As in the case of Credit 236-TU, subloans would be admin-
istered through the Encouragement and Development Loans Division (EDLD) of TCZB.
EDLD is also the channel for Credit 330-TU (the Second Livestock Development
Project). In the course of execution of Credits 236-TU and 330-TU, close co-
operation has developed between staff of EDLD and the Directorate for Live-
stock'Development Projects (LDP) of the Ministry of Food and Agriculture, the
chief executing agency. It is anticipated that this cooperation would continue
in the development of the proposed third project and materially contribute to
its success.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TURKEY
Development and Financial Projections
1.        An estimated total of 750 farm units would be involved in the proj-
ect. Three representative farm models have been used for analysis -viz, a
40-cow model (of which there would be 250 units), a 12-cow model (of which
there would be 200 units), and a 5-cow model (of which there would be 300
units). Each model has a corresponding cropping pattern, farm services pack-
age and labor utilization mix.
2.        All farms have in common the following characteristics:  some dairy
activity at the preproject stage; and upgrading of dairy activity via number
and quality of milk cows; a shift towards self-sufficiency in forage; adequate
rainfall or access to irrigation facilities; and improved management through
technical servicing.
40-Cow Model
3.        The 40-cow model (Table 1) represents an existing producer upgrading
his dairy from 10 local to 40 exotic cows at full development with milk yields
increasing gradually, reflecting better management and improvement in the gen-
etic quality of the herd.
4.        Improved feeding requires an increase in forage crop production.
Areas would be increased for alfalfa (both for green feed and hay) and for
oats/vetch (mixed) and maize, for silage (Table 2). These crops would, in
general, provide for maintenance requirements, with purchased concentrates
providing for milk production (estimated at the rate of 1 kg concentrate/2.5
1 milk produced). Forage crops have been fully-costed and imputed to the
project (Table 4), and farmgate prices have been applied (Annex 8, Tables 2
and 3). The financial benefits generated in this model are sufficiently high
to make the proposed investments attractive (Table 5). Returns from cattle
sales (sold mainly as dairy and breeding animals) and milk stabilize at full
development in the seventh year. The 250, 40-cow units would be expected to
provide an offtake of some                                             tl
bulls during the life of the project for upgrading of other herds in adjacent
areas.
5.        Cash cropping activity would continue, both to diversify farm activ-
ity and as a cushion for family income, and would not be changed with the
project (i.e., no new inputs would be introduced and yields would be kept con-
stant). The land area in cotton under the preproject situation would continue



ANNEX 4
Page 2
in cotton, or, depending upon market prices or farming schedules, this area
might be shifted to winter wheat from time to time.
6.        Investments in cattle, buildings, machinery and tools would be
spread over 4 years, the farmer contributing 20% from his own resources (Table
3). The farmer's contribution would be mainly in buildings.
7.        Labor requirements have been estimated at three full-time workers
plus a contribution of about one-third of the owner's time.  Other skilled
labor is imputed to the cropping activity.
8.        Development credits would be for ten years with two years grace.
9.        The projected financial rate of return over a 20-year period is
estimated a 21%, the sensitivity test showing gross returns as negatively
influencing it the most.
12-Cow and 5-Cow Models
10.       These two models (some 500 farm units) represent existing dairy
farmers upgrading dairy activity by doubling cow members and improving quality
through use of exotic cattle (Tables 6 and 7).
11.       All such units are assumed to triple the areas allotted to alfalfa
to provide an adequate forage base.  Such areas would be shifted away from
wheat and low yielding meadow/fallow areas. The 12-cow model would continue
to grow sugar beets (for cash sales) and vegetables (cash and family disposal),
with by-products made available to the herd. The 5-cow model would have
access to communal grazing land of the farmer's municipality to complement
other feeds. Both models would purchase some concentrates to meet milk pro-
duction needs (about 1 kg concentrate/2.5 1 milk produced).
12.       It is assumed the 12-cow model would require investment in buildings,
while the 5-cow model would use existing space wherever possible, with some
adaptations. The 12-cow units would be provided with a small tractor (12 hp),
watering facilities, and some machinery whereas the 5-cow units would invest
only in watering facilities and hand tools. Milking would be by hand in both
units. Investment schedules are presented in Table 8.
13.       Labor for the 12-cow model is budgeted at two family members working
half-tixe and one full-time worker (hired from a semi-urban or rural environ-
ment)-. Other skilled labor is imputed for the remainder of the cropping ac-
tivities. The labor rervuirements for the 5-cow model would be met by the
owner wo,Kking one-third uf his time and a family member working half time. No
hired labor is anticipated.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
14.       The 200, 12-cow units would be expected to provide over 7,000 high-
quality dairy heifers and breeding bulls during the lifetime of the project
for upgrading local herds in adjacent areas.
15.       Development credits would be for 12 years with 4 years grace.
16.       Budget and financial flows (Tables 9 and 10) show that the finan-
cial rates of return would be satisfactory for both farm units (17% for the
12-cow and 41% for the 5-cow models). No building investments have been as-
sumed for the 5-cow units which, together with the absence of large machinery
and a bull for breeding, accounts for the relatively high financial rate of
return.  Sensitivity tests are satisfactory for both models.  It should be
emphasized, however, that the production from animals in the 5-cow herds is
likely to be more variable for technical reasons than in the bigger herds
and consequently the probability of having decreases in gross returns of 10%
and 20% could be expected to be higher in such herds (Table 10).



ANNEX 4
Development and Financial Projections
Table 1    40-Cow Model:  Herd Projection
Table 2    Outline of Cropping Patterns
Table 3    40-Cow Model:  Investment
Table 4    Crop Operating Costs
Table 5    40-Cow Model:  Projected Income Statement, Financial Rate of Return,
and Cash Flow
Table 6    12-Cow Model:  Herd Projection
Table 7    5-Cow Model:  Herd Projection
Table 8    12-Gow and 5-Cow Models: Investment
Table 9    12-Cow Model:  Projected Income Statement, Financial Rate of Return,
and Cash Flow
Table 10   5-Cow Model:   Projected Income Statement, Financial Rate of Return,
and Cash Flow
Table 11   Sale of Herd at Year 20



ANNEX 4
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TURKEY
40-Cow Model: Herd Projection
____________-----End of Production Year---------------------
Before
Development    1        2      3       4       5      6    7 onwards
Herd Composition
Cows                      10         29     28      39      40     40      40        40
Heifers (1 yr)             3          -     13      11      12     12      17        17
Heifers (calves)           3         14     12      13      13     18      18        18
Bulls                      1          1       1      2       2      2       2         2
Total                 171l       44      54      65     67      72      77        77
Total AU/2             14        30      42      52     54      54      59        59
Deaths
Cows                       -          1       1      1       2       2      2         2
Heifers (2 yr)             -          -      -       1       1       1      1         1
Heifers (1 yr)             -          -       1      1       1       1      1         1
Calves (heifers)           1          1      1       1       1      1       1         1
Calves (bulls)             1          1      1       1       1      1       1         1
Total                   2          3      4       5      6       6       6         6
Sales
Cows (cull)                2          2      -       -       -      2       3         7
Cows (in calf)                        8                      -      -       -         -
Heifers (cull)             -          -      -       -       2       1      1         1
Heifers (in calf)          1          3      -       -       5       6      5         6
Heifers (1 yr)             -          3      -       -       -      -       -         -
Calves (bull)              3         11     10      10       9     14      14        14
Bulls (breeding)           -          2      2       2       3      4       4         4
Bulls (cull)               -          1      -       -       -      1       -         -
Total                   6        30      12      12     19      28      27        32
Purchases
Heifers (in calf)          -         30/3    -       1       -              -         -
Bulls (breeding)           -          1/3    -       1              1
Total                             31      -       1      -       1                 - -
Technical Coefficients
Calving %                 80         95     90      95      95     95      95        95
Mortality %                8          4       6      6       6       6      5         5
Culling %                 20          -       -      -       -     20      20        30
Milk sold,l/cow/yr       1,300      2,000  3,000  3,200  3,500  3,500  3,800    3,800
Total milk, 1000 1/yr  13.0         59.0   85.5   88.0   133.0  136.5  148.2    148.2
/1  Indigenous animals sold at beginning of year 1.
/2 One animal unit (AU) is equivalent to one animal, one year or older.
7T Imported animals purchased at beginning of year 1.
March 1976



ANNEX 4
Table 2
APPRAISAL OF
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TURKEY
Outline of Cropping Patterns
40-Cow Model          12-Cow Model            5-Cow Model
Item                  Development Year    Development Year    Development Year
0          1-         0          1-          0          1-
------------- decares ----------------------
Wlheat                      180         -          30          10         30         20
Cotton                      300        300         -           -          -          -
Sugar beet                   -          -          20          20         -          -
Alfalfa                                 60         20          60         10         30
Oats/Vetch
Maize            S"                    120         -           -
Fallow                                  -          20          -          10
Meadow           3
Vegetables                   -          -          10          10         -          -
Total                   480         480        100        100          50         50
Crop Yields /2
Item                                        Development Year
0        ~~1           2
-------- t/decare --------
Wheat                                   0.132         0.132        0.132
Sugar beet                              4.00         4.00          4.00
Alfalfa hay                             0.8           1.0          1.4
Oats/Vetch hay                          0.2           0.23         0.45
Maize silage                            2.0           4.0          4.5
Cotton                                  0.2          0.2           0.2
Legumes                                 1.0           1.0          1.0
/1 Oats/vetch double cropped in winter before cotton, and maize or sorghum-
sudan hybrid double cropped in summer after winter wheat.
/2  Crop yields assumed similar in each model (based on irrigated land for all
but wheat).
^irc,i~ l'78



APPRAISAL OF
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TURKEY
40-Cow Model - Investment
(LT)
Item                               Financial      Economic                          Year
Unit Price   Unit Price           1               2             3,5
Cattle
30 Imported in-calf heifers              16,500        16,500         495,000
1 Imported bull                          29,000        29,000          29,000
2 Native bulls                           10,000        10,000                                         10,000
Subtotal                                                           524,000                         20,000
Machinery
1 Tractor (65 hp)                       103,000        71,034         103,000
1 Mower                                  11,230         8,120          11,230
1 Side rake                               8,204         5,945           8,204
1 Forage harvester                       41,381        29,986          41,381
1 Baler                                  48,824        35,380          48,824
1 Trailer (3 t)                          17,925        15,000          17,925
1 Foreloader                             17,925        15,000          .17,925
1 Milking machine (2 u)                  33,053        20,340          33,053
1 Drill (24 row)                         35,000        25,362          35,000
1 Water motor pump (4")                  12,800         8,834          12,800
Tools                                    15,000        15,000          15,000
Subtotal                                                           344,300
Buildings
Cow shed                                 76,805        76,805          76,805
Milking parlor                           64,680        64,680          64,680            -
Young stock                              94,370        94,370            -             94,370
Silage bunker                            32,000        32,000          32,000            -
Subtotal                                                           173,485         94,370
March ].76 7



ANNEX 4
Table 4
APPRAISAL OF
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TURKEY
Crop Operating Costs
(LT/decare)
Crop                                           ------------- Year --  --------
1         2          3          4
Alfalfa
Seed /1                                      100                             100
Triple superphosphate /2                      44         44         44        44
Ploughing /3                                  30                               30
Discing /3                                    15                               15
Harrowing /3                                  10                               10
Sowing & Rolling /3                           15                               15
Mowing /4                                    120        120        120        120
Baling                                       120        120        120       120
Transporting /5                              322        322        322        322
776       606        606        776
Oats/Vetch
Seed                                          42
Triple superphosphate                         18
Ploughing /3                                  30
Discing /3                                    15
Harrowing /3                                  10
Sowing /3                                     15
Harvesting /3                                 30
Baling /3                                     15
Transporting                                  40
215
Maize
Seed                                           9
Triple superphosphate                         44
Ammonium nitrate /6                           90
Ploughing                                     30
Discing                                       15
Harrowing                                     10
Sowing                                        15
Harvesting                                    30
Baling                                        15
Transporting                                  40
298
/1 2.5 kg of Mediterranean-type seed.
/2 (0:44:0).
/3 Tractor: LT 29/hr.; driver: 10 hr. day.
/4 8 cuts/yr.
/5 Trailer: LT 3.30/hr.
6  (26:0:0).
March 1976



APPRAISAL OF
YRIRD LIVESTOCK DEVRLROMENT PROJECT
TURKEY
40-Cow Model
(LI ROEO)
A. Pfoterd lntP-  Slte.t-t
Pr-        ------~------~----~~--- ~    -~~*~~~~-------------------------------------------------------- Yer -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------.-----------_---
Uteos                           Project
O         1         2          3         4          5         6          7         8          9        10         11        12         13        14         15         16        17         18         19        SR
Revenues
.ilk                                 45.5      206.5     299.3      308.0     465.5      477.8     51S.7      518.7     518.7      518.7     518.7      518.7     518.7      518.7     518.7      518.7      518.7     518.7      518.7     518.7      518.7
COllie.                               71.0     171.0      50.0       50.0     116.5      151.0     148.0      1R0.5     180.       ORO.R     180R5      IRO.5     180.5      iRR.       100.5     180.0      100.5     URO.S      1R0.5      000.5     80.
Subtot.l                          66.5      377.5     349.3      358.0     582.0     628.8      666.7     699.2      699.      6 699.2     699.         2 699.2   699.2             699.2      699.2     699.2      699.2      699.2     699.2   1Y322.2
C.eh Crop                           523.4      468.0     468.0      408.0     468.0      468.0     468.0      468.0     468.0      468.0     468.0      468.0     460.0      468.0     468.0      468.0      468.0     460.0      468R0      468.0     466.0
Tot.1                            589.9      845.5     817.3      826.0  100.0   1.096.8   1,134.7   1.167. 2   1.167.2   1.167.2   1.167.2 1.167.2 1S167.2   1,167.2   1.167.2   1.167.2   1.167.2   1.167.2   1.167.2   1.167.2   1.790.2
Op-rati. EbXPgP.-
-.ocr1l                            7.0      20.3      19.6       27.3      28.0       20.0      28.0       28.0      28.0       28.0      28.0       28.0      28.0       28.0       28.0      28.0       28.0      28.0       28.0       28.0      28.0
CoocncIr-te-                     13.0       59.0      85.5       88.0     133.0      136.5     148.2      148.2     148.2      148.2     148.2      148.2     148.2      148.2      148.7     148.2      148.2     148.2      140.2      148.2     148.2
L.bor                             18.0      54.0      54.0       54.0      54.0       54.0      54.0       54.0      54.0       54.0      54.0       54.0      54.0       54.0       54.0      54.0       54.0      54.0       54.0       54.0      54.0
SpbtotRI                      38.D      133.3     159.1      169.3     215.0      218.5     230.2      230.2     230.2      230.2     230.2      230.2     230.2      230.2     230.2      230.2      230.2     230.2      230.2      230.2     230.2
2. C-OP-
C00h                            349.2      313.6     313.6      313.6     313.6      313.6     313.6      313.6     313.6      313.6     313.6      313.6     313.6      313.6      313.6     313.6      313.6     313.6      313.6      313.6     313.6
-o-r                              03.3     100.0      97.9       9.9       108.1      97.9      97.9      108.1      977.9      97.9     100.1       97.9      97.9      108.1       97.9      97.9      108.1       97.9      97.9      108.1       97.9
SRbtotok                     362.5      421.7     411.5      411.5     421.7      411.5     411.5     421.7      411.5     411.5      421.7     411.5      411.5      421.7     411.5      411.5      421.7     411.5      411.5      421.7     411.5
N0t operol-eg I00000                   189.4     290.5      246.7    245.2      413.3      466.8     493.0      515.3     525.5      525.5     515.3      525.5     525.3      515.3      525.5     525.5      515.3      525.5     525.5      515.3   1,146.5
I-cr-oeotll oper-tiro Igo -e                     101.1       57.3      55.8     223.9      277.4     303.6      325.9     336.1      336.1     325.9      336.1     336.1      325.9      336.1     336.1      325.9      336.1     336.1      325.9      9S9.1
B.  Preioeltd FiR-oeil Re.  of Retvrn
Fiooi.l Rtoe of R.t-ro:  217.
S-ositioty reel 
INve-   nt tR 1 osts plus 107.l: 197
Opers tieg tOpeoe pltR 107.:  167.
Gro-Rreveooes minus 107.:  127
C. P-oIeeltd C..s Flow
inflow
FundN g--troled                               290.5      246.7     245.2     413.3      466.8     493.0      515.3     525.5      525.5     515.3
O0-or'0 .o.trib.tf.o                          208.4       18.9       2.0         -        2.0         -         -          -         -          -
Credit (-odinr--000)                          833.4       75.5       8.0       _          8.0                 -          -         -
T0t11                                    1,332.3     341.1      255.0     413.3      476.8     493.0      515.3     525.5      525.5     515.3
nevsetmfonFQ  - CQttle                       524.0         -       10.0         -       10.0                   -          -         -          -
- RoildiUg.                      173.5       94.4        -
-Mhchi-ery                       344.3         _        -           _         _          _          _         _          _         _
Subto-l                                  1,041.8      94.4       10.0         -       10.0         -         -          -         _
50bt s000ice- I0t01000                        101.7      101.7     101.7       89.1      76.4       63.8      55.1       38.5      25.8       13.2
- FrUeoUpoO                     -      ~~~~~~     ~~~~~~115.0  115.0  115.0  115.0  105.0   115.5      115.0     120.0
Sokt-trl                                   101.7     101.7      216.7     204. 1.    191.4      178.8     166.1      153.5     140.0      133.2
Net LrflPv                                       188.0      145.0      28.5      209.Z     275.4      314.2     349.2      372.0     384.7      382.1
Coorrltive                                   188.8      333.8     362.3      571.5     846.9   1,161.1   1,510.3   1,882.3   2,267.0   2,649.1
M-och 1976



Table 6
APPRAISAL OF
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
TURKEY
12-Cow Model: Herd Projection
----------------- End of Production Year --------------
Before
Development      1        2        3        4      5 onwards
Herd Composition
Cows                               6          11       11       12       12         12
Heifers (1 yr)                     2           -        4        4        4          4
Heifers (calves)                   2           4        5        5        5          5
Bulls                              1           1        1        1        1          1
Total                          11 /1       16       21      22       22         22
Total AU /2 t9                             12      T6       17       17         17
Deaths
Cows                               -           -        -        1        1          1
Heifers (2 yr)                     -           -        -        1        -          -
Eleifers (I yr)                    -           -        -        1        1          1
Calves (heifer)                    -           1                 -        -          -
Calves (bull)                      1           -        1        -        1          1
Total                           1           1        1       3        3          3
Sales
Cows (cull)                        1           2        -        -        -          2
Cows (in calf)                     -           2        -        1        1          -
Heifers (cull)                     -           -        -        -        1          _
Heifers (in calf)                  I           1        -        -        1          1
Heifers (l yr)                     -           2        -        -        -          -
Calves (bull)                      2           4        3        4        4          4
Bulls (breeding)                   -           1        1        1        1          1
Bulls (cull)                       -           1        -        I        -          -
Total                           4          13       -4      -7        8          8
Purchases
Heifers (in calf)                  -           8 /3     -                 -          -
Bulls (breeding)                   -                             1        -          _
Total                                       9                 1
Technical Coefficients
Calving %                         80          95       90       95      95          95
Mortality                          7           3        4        9        9          9
Culling Z                         15           -        -        -        -         20
Milk sold,  1/cow/yr          1,100        1,800   2,500   3,200   3,500        3,800
Total.jmilk, 1000 1/yr           6.6        19.8    27.5    33.6    40.3          43.7
/1   Indigenous animals of which all sold at beginning of year -1 except 2 cows
and 1 heifer.
/2   One animal unit (AU) is equivalent to one animal, one year or older.
/3   Imported animals purchased at beginning of year 1.
March 1976



ANNEX 4
Table 7
APPRAISAL OF
THIRD LIVESTOCK PEVTELnPmPNT PROJECT
TURYEY
5-Cow Model: Herd Projection
------------- End of Production Year ---------
Before
Development         1          2        3 onwards
Herd Composition
Cows                                     3             5 /1       5            5
Heifers (1 yr)                           1             1          2             2
Heifers (calves)                         1             2          2             2
Total                                5              8          9            9
Total AU /2                          4              6          7            7
Deaths
Cows                                     -             -          1            -
Calves                                   -             1          -1
Total                                -1                        1            1
Sales
Cows (cull)                              1             1          -            1
Heifers (in calf)                        -             -          -             1
Calves (bull)                            1             2          2            2
Calves (heifer)                          -             1          -            -
Total                                2              4          2            4
Purchases
Heifers (in calf)                        -             '3 /3      -      -     -
Total                                -              3          -            -
Technical Coefficients
Calving                                 67            95         90           95
Mortality                                -             8          9            7
Culling                                 25            33          -           30
Milk s6ld, 1lcow/yr                    900         1,500      2,500        3,500
Total milk, 1000 1/yr                 2.7            7.5       11.3         17.5
/1  Of which 2 would be indigenous and 3 imported.
/2 One animal unit (AU) is equivalent to one animal, one year or older.
t3 Purchased at beginning of year 1.
March 1976



ANNEX 4
Table 8
APPRAISAL OF
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TURKEY
12-Cow Model - Investment
(LT)
Item                           Financial       Economic                 Year
Unit Price    Unit Price          1               3
Cattle
8 Imported in-calf heifers           16,500         16,500        132,000
1 Imported bull                      29,000         29,000         29,000
1 Native bull                        10,000         10,000           -            10,000
Subtotal                                                       161,000         10,000
Machinery
1 Tractor (12 hp)                    30,000         20,704         30,000
1 Mower                              11,230          8,120         11,230
1 Trailer (3 t)                      17,925         15,000         17,925
Cattle watering facilities           12,800          8,834         12,800
Hand tools                           10,000         10,000         10,000
Subtotal                                                        81,955
Buildings                              89,605         89,605         89,605
Total                                                       332,560
5-Cow Model - Investment
(LT)
3 Imported in-calf heifers           16,500         16,500         49,500
Cattle watering facilities           12,800          8,834         12,800
Hand tools                            7,500          7,500          7,500
Total                                                        69,800
March 1976



APPRAISAL OF
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TURKEY
12-Cpw Model
A.  Prolect*d Incom  Statemnt
Item                   ~~~~~~       ~        ~~Proect  --- ---------------------------------------------------------- Year ----- ------------------------------------------------------------____________
Item                            Project
0        1         2        3       4        5       6        7        8       9       10       11      12       13       14       15      16       17       18.     19       20
Revenues
Milk                                 23.1      69.3      96.2   117.6   141.1   153.0   153.0   153.0   153.0   153.0   153.0   153.0   153.0   153.0   153.0   153.0   153.0   153.0   153.0   153.0   153.0
Cattle                               14.5      72.0      19.0    36.0    44.0    40.5    40.5    40.5    40.5    40.5    40.5    40.5    40.5    40.5    40.5    40.5    40.5    40.5    40.5    40.5   223.0
Subtotal                          37.6    141.3    115.2   153.6   185.1   193.5   193.5   193.5   193.5   193.5   193.5   193.5   193.5   193.5   193.5   193.5   193.5   193.5   193.5   193.5   376.0
Cash Crops                           64.3      58.1      58.1    58.1    58.1    58.1    58.1    1 58    58.1    38.1    58.1    58.1    58.1    58.1    1 58    58.1    58.1    58.1    58.1    58.1    58.1
Total                            101.9    199,4    173.3   211.7   243.2   251.6   251.6   251.6   251.6   251.6   251.6   251.6   251.6   251.6   251.6   251.6   251.6   251.6   251.6   251.6   434.1
Operating Expenses
1. Dairy
General                           4.2       7.7       7.7     8.4      8.4      8.4     8.4      8.4     8.4      8.4      8.4     8.4      8.4      8.4      8.4     8.4      8.4      8.4      8.4     8.4      8.4
Concentrates                      6.6      19.8      27.5    33.6    40.3    43.7    43.7    43.7    43.7    43.7    43.7    43.7    43.7    43.7    43.7    43.7    43.7    43.7    43.7    43.7    43.7
Labor                              -       18.0      18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0    18. 0    18.0
Subtotal                      10.8     45.5      53.2    60.0    66.7    70.1    70.1    70T-.1    70.1    70 .1    7.1    70.1    70.1    70.1    70.1    70.1    70.1    70.1    70.1    70.1    70.1
2. Crops
Cash                             32.6      28.6      28.6    28.6    28.6    28.6    28.6    28.6    28.6    28.6    28.6    28.6    28.6    28.6    28.6    28.6    28.6    28.6    28.6    28.6    28.6
Forage                           13.3      46.6      36.4    36.4    46.6    36.4    36.4    46.6    36.4    36.4    46.6    36.4    36.4    46.6    36.4    36.4    46.6    36.4    36.4    46.6    36.4
Subtotal                      45.9      75.2     65.0    65.0    75.2    65.0    65.0    75.2  - 65.0    65.0    75.2    65.0    65.0    75.2    65.0    65.0    75.2    65.0    65.0    75.2    65.0
Net,Operating Income                    45.2     78.7      55.1    86.7   101.3   116.5   116.5   106.3   116.5   116.5   106.3   116.5   116.5   106.3   116.5   116.5   106.3   116.5   1J.3   116.53                  .0
Incremental Operating Income              -      33.5       9.9    41.5    56.1    71.3    71.3    61.1    71.3    71.3    61.1    71.3    71.3    61.1    71.3    71.3    61.1    71.3    71.3    61.1   253.8
B.  Projected Financial Rate of Return
Financial Rate of Return:  177%
Sensitivity Test
Investment costs plus 10%: 167.
Operating expenses plus 10%:  13X
Gross revenues minus 10%:  10%
C.  Projected Ceh Flow
Inflow
Funds generated                                78.7      55.1    86.7   101.3   116.5   116.5   106.3   116.5   116.5   106.3   116.5   116.5
Owner's contribution                           66.5        -       2.0       -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -
Credit (medium-term)                          266.1        -       8.0       -       -        -        -       -        -       -        -        -
Total                                      411.3      55.1    96.7   101.3   116.5   116.5   106.3   116.5   116.5   106.3   116.5   116.5
Outflow
Investments - Cattle                          161.0        -      10.0       -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -
- Buildings                       89.6        -        -        -       -        -        -       -
- Machinery                       82.0                              -        -       -        -            -        -
Subtotal                                   332.6        -      10.0      -        -                 -       -
Debt Service - Interest                        30.1      30.1    30.1    30.1    30.1    26.4    22.7    18.9    15.2    11.4           7.7      4.0
- Principal                        -         -       _        _      34.0    34.0    34 0    34 0    34 0    34.0    34 0    36.1
Subtotal                                    30.1      30.1    30.1    30.1    64.1    60.4    56.7    52.9    49.2    45.4    41.7    40.1
Nce Inflow                                       48.6      25.0    56.6    71.2    52.4    56.1    49.6    63.6    67.3    60.9    74.8    76.4
C-umlative                                     48.6      73.6   130.2   201.4   253.8   309.9   359.5   423.1   490.4   551.3   626.1   702.5
March 1976



APPRAISAL OF
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPhENr PROJECT
TURY
S-Cow Model
(LT '000)
A. projected Incoa Statsment
Pre--Ya
Item                           Project
0       1       2      3      4      5      6       7     8       9      10    11      12     13      14     15     16     17     18    19       20
Revenues
Milk                                 9.4    26.2   39.6  61.2   61.2   61.2  61.2   61.2  61.2  61.2  61.2   61.2   61.2   61.2   61.2   61.2   61.2   61.2   61.2  61.2    61.2
Cattle                               6.5    16.0     6.0   22.0   22.0  22.0  22.0   22.0  22.0  22.0  22.0   22.0   22.0   22.0   22.0   22.0  22.0   22.0  22.0  22.0    95.5
Subtotal                         15.9   42.2   45.6  83.2   83.2  83.2  83.2  83.2   83.2  83.2  83.2  83.2   83.2  83.2   83.2   83.2  83.2   83.2  83.2  83.2   156.7
Cash Crops                           9.3     6.2     6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2    6.2        6.2
Totsl Returns                    25.2   48.4   51.8   89.4   89.4   89.4  89.4   89.4   89.4  89.4  89.4   89.4   89.4  89.4   89.4   89.4   89.4   89.4   89.4  89.4   162.9
Operating Expenses
1. Dairy
General                          2.1     3.5     3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5    3.5        3.5
Consultants                      2.7     7.5    11.3   17.5   17.5   17.5  17.5   17.5  17.5  17.5  17.5   17.5   17.5   17.5   17.5   17.5   17.5   17.5   17.5  17.5    17.5
Labor                             -       -              -       -      -      -      -      -      -      -       -      -      -      -      -       -      -      -      -       -
Subtotal                      4.8    11.0   14.8   21.0  21.0   21.0  21.0   21.0   21.0  21.0  21.0   21.0   21.0            21.0   21.0   21.0  21.0   21.0   21.0  21.0    21.0
2. Crops
Cash                             5,9     4.0     4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0    4.0        4.0
Forage                           6.6   23.2   18.1   18.1  23.2   18.1   18.1  23.2   18.1  18.1  23.2  18.1   18.1   23.2   18.1   18.1  23.2   18.1  18.1  23.2    18.1
Subtotal                     12.5    27.2   22.1    =       27.2   22.1   22.1   27.2   22.1  22.1   27.2   22.1   22.1   27.2   22.1   22.1   27.2   22.1   22.1  27.2    22.1
Net Operating Inucme                    7.9   10.2   14.9  46.3   41.2  46.3  46.3  41.2  46.3  46.3  41.2  46.3  46.3   41.2   46.3   46.3   41.2  46.3   46.3  41.2   119.8
Incremental Operating Income            -      2.3     7.0  38.4   33.3  38.4  38.4  33.3  38.4  38.4  33.3   38.4  38.4  33.3   38.4   38.4   33.3  38.4  38.4  33.3   111.9
B. Projected Financial Rate of Return
Financial Rate of Return: 41%
Sensitivity Test
Investment costs plus 107.: 38%
Operating expenses plus 10%: 35%
Gross revenues minus li:  0
Gross revenues minus 2  :  9%
C. Preleeted Cash Flow
Inf low
Funds generated                             10.2   14.9   46.3   41.2   46.3   46.3   41.2  46.3  46.3   41.2   46.3   46.3
owner's contribution                        14.0      _      -       -             -       -      -      -      -      -      -
Credit (medium-term)                       55.8                                   --   -      - 
Total                                    80.0    14.9  *46.3   41.2   563   46.3   41.2   46.3  46.3   41.2              46.3
Outflow
Investments - Cattle                       49.5       -       -      -      -      -      -       -      -      -      -      -
- Miscellaneous                20.3      -        -      -      -      -      -      -       -      -      -      -
Subtotal                                69.8       -       -      -      -      -      -       -      -      -      -      -
Debt Service - Interest                     6.1      6.1     6.1    6.1    6.1    5.4    4.6    3.8    3.1    2.3    1.5    0.8
- Principal                     -       -        -      -     7.o    7.0    7.0    7.0    7.0    7.0    7.0    6.8
Subtotal                                  1       1      6.1    6.1   13.1   12.4   11.6   10.8   10.1    9.3    8.5    7.6
Net Inflow                                      4.1     8.8    40.2  35.1  33.2  33.9   29.6  35.5  36.2   31.9   37.8  38.7
Cu1pulative                                 4.1    12.9   53.1   88.2  121.4  155.3  184.9  220.4  256.6  288.5  326.3  365.0
March 1976



ANNEX 4
Table 11
APPRAISAL OF
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TURKEY
Sale of Herd at Year 20
(LT)
Financial
Unit Price             Total
40-Cow Model
40 Cows                           10,500               420,000
17 Heifers (1 year)                 6,000              102,000
18 Heifers (calves)                4,500                81,000
2 Breeding bulls                  10,000                20,000
Total                                             623,000
12-Cow Model
12 Cows                           10,500               126,000
4 Heifers (1 year)                 6,000                24,000
5 Heifers (calves)                 4,500                22,500
1 Breeding bull                   10,000                10,000
Total                                             182,500
5-Cow Model
5 Cows                            10,500                52,500
2 Heifers (1 year)                 6,000                12,000
2 Heifers (calves)                 4,500                 9,000
Total                                              73,500
March 1976



ANI-TE.X 5
Total Project Cost and Cash Flow
Table 1   Total Project Cost and Phasing
Table 2   Project Cash Flow Forecast



APPRAISAL OF
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TURKEY
Total Project Cost and Phasing
(LT Millions)
Item                          Year 1          Year 2          Year 3         Year 4          Year 5              Total
L      F       L       F       L       F      L       F       L       F       Local   Foreign
Cattle Purchases
Base Cost                       3       34     3       34      3       34      3      34      3       34        16       170
Price Increases                 -        2     1        5      1        8      1       12     2       15         5        42
Subtotal                      3      36      4       39      4      42      4       46      5       49        21      210
Machinery
Tractors & Harvesters           4.      10     4       10      4       10      4       10     4       10         22        50
Milking Machines                1        1      1       1      1        1      1        1     1         1         3         5
Watering Facilities & Tools  2           1      2       1      2        1      2        1     2         1        13         3
Base cost                       7.    12        7      12      7       12      7       12      7      12         38        59
Price Increases                 -        1      1       2      2        3      3        4     4         5        10        15
Subtotal                    8       12      8       13    10        14    11       16    12        17        49        74
Buildings
Base Cost                      14        3    14        3     14        3    14         3    14         3        72        13
Price Increases                 1        -      3       1      5        1      8        2    10         2        27         6
Subtotal                   15        3    17         3     20        3    23        5    25         4       103        19
Technical Assistance
Technical Services              4        2      4       2      4        2      4        2      4        2        20        10
.Technical Studies                                              -        1      -        1     -        1          1         4
Base Cost                       4        2      4       2      4        3      4        3      4        3        21        14
Price Increases                 -        -      1       -      2        1      2        2      3        2         7         5
Subtotal                    4        2      5        3              6 5    6        5      7        5        28        19
Total - Base Cost           29      51    30        51    30        52    30        52    30       52       147        255
Total - Price Increase    2           3     5        7    JQ        12    15        20    20       24        52         68
Grand Total                 31      54    35        58    40        64    45        72    49       76       199       323
Notes:  Individual items may not total to these figures due to rounding errors.  All figures have been rounded to the
nearest LT lmillion, and items of less than LT 0.5 million are indicated by "-" in the table.  A blank cell                        I- x
indicates that the item is zero.                                                                                                     . >
March 1976



APPRAISAL OF
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TURKEY
Project Cash Flow Forecast
(LT million)
Itree-                                                                                                                  Year --------- ---                                                                             Total
1         2         3         4          5         6         7          8         9        10        11         12        13         14        15         16        17
Source of Funds
1.  TCZB (own resources),                         30.0      30.0       14.5      14.5      14.5         -         -         -          -         -         -          -         -          -         -          -         -        103.5
2.  Government (for supporting
services to IDPD)                           6.7       7.6       10.6      10.6      11.8        6.2       6.2       6.2        6.2       6.2       6.2        6.2       6.2        6,7       6.2        6.2        -         115.5
3.  TCZB (withdrawal of IBRD loan
from Government)                           46.0      50.6       54.8      60.0      66.1         -         -          -         -         -          -         -         -          -         -          -         -        277.5
4.  Interest income from loans                     6.9      14.5       22.7      31.1      39.4       37.1      35.6      28.9       24.0      18.9      13.7        9.1       5.3        2.5       0.8        0.3        -         290.8
5.  Subborrowers' loan repayments /1 A                         -        5.9      12.4      21.3      31.0       41.4      43.7      46.2       46.2      40.3      33.8       24.9      15.3        4.8        2.5        _         369.7
Total Foods                             89.6    102.7    108.5       128.6    153.1        74.3       83.2      78.8      76.4       71.3      60.2      49.1       36.4      2a.0       11.8       9 0        _       1,153.0
Application of Foods
1.  Loans to subborrowera                         62.8      69.0       74.8      81.9      88.8         -         -          -         -         -         -          -         -   '         _       _         _                   377.3
2.  Interest and repayment of
IBRD loan to Government                     3.9       8.2       12.9      18.0      23.6      37.8       37.8      37.8       37.8      37.8      37.8       37.8      37.8       37.8      37.8       37.8      37.8        520.2
3.  Operational food /2                            0.3       0.7        1.0       1.4       1.8        1.7       1.6       1.3        1.1       0.9       0.6        0.4       0.2        0.1       /3         /3          -         13.1
4.  Technical services and training /4             6.7        7.6      10.6      10.6      11.8        6.2       6.2       6.2        6.2       6.2       6.2        6.2       6.2        6.2       6.2        6.2         -        115.5
Total Applications                      73.7      85.5      99.3    111.9    126.0         45.7       45.6      45.3      45.1       44.9      44.6      44.4       44.2      44.1       44.0      44.0       37.8    1.026.1
Net cash flow - annual                            15.9       17.2       9.2      16.7      27.1       28.6      37.6      33.5       31.3      26.4       15.6       4.7       (7.8)    (20.1)    (32.2)    (35.0)   (37.8)             -
- accumulated                     15.9      33.1      42,       59.0      86.1     114.7    152.3    185.8    217.1    243.5    259.1    263.8    256.0    235.9                 203.7      168.7    130.9         130.9
LI   Includes 2% collection losses.
/2   Fund for IDDP at 1/2% of loans outstanding for 16 years.
/3   Less than LT 50,000.
/4 Refunds for expatriate experts, vehicles (charged to first three years of project), and studies (charged to last three years of project).
March 1976



ANNEX 6
APPRAISAL OF
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TURKEY
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year                          Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter                                at End of Quarter
(US$ million)
1977:
September 30, 1976                                 0.7
December 31, 1976                                  1.5
March 31, 1977                                     2.3
June 30, 1977                                      3.1
1978:
September 30, 1977                                 4.1
December 31, 1977                                  5.0
March 31, 1978                                     6.0
June 30, 1978                                      7.1
1979:
September 30, 1978                                 8.1
December 31, 1978                                  9.2
March 31, 1979                                    10.3
June 30, 1979                                     11.4
1980:
September 30, 1979                                12.6
December 31, 1979                                 13.8
March 31, 1980                                    15.2
June 30, 1980                                     16.7
1981:
September 30, 1980                                18.2
.-December 31, 1980                                 19.8
March 31, 1981                                    20.7
June 30, 1981                                     21.5
March 1976



ANNEX 7
APPRAISAL OF
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TURKEY
Staffing Requirements for Technical Services /i
Livestock III (FY76)
Credit                          Technical            Supervision of
Type of Staff                         Processing 12    Training  /3       Studies /4    Livestock I 236-TU(FY71) -    Total
---------------------------man years equivalent /6 -------------------------------
Professional: Higher level               28  76  8                          2 /9                 5                          41
Middle level              22 /7             -               1 79                 -                           23
Technical Specialists                     -                -                -                                                 3-10
50                 6               3                    5                           671-
/1  Based on a total project cost of US$34.7 million (US$25.4 million for credit operations and US$0.4 million for
technical studies and training).
/2 To process an estimated 750 subloans phased in at 20% of total per annum over 5 years.
/3 As detailed in Annex 10.
/4 As detailed in Annex 10 and not including staffing contributions from other governmental organizations.
/5  Based on:  subloans, 150; visits per annum, 1,800 (12 per farm per year); visits per day, 2 per staff member for
200 working days.
/6 All staff computed on full-time basis.
/7  Based on:  subloans, 750; 4 subloans processed and supervised per technician per year (including 20% slippage)
in 200 working days.
/8 Time allowed for both training abroad and on-the-job training activities.
/9 Under the supervision of regional managers and technical specialists.
/10 Three full-time technical specialists with work loads spread over the main project activities in their respective
regions.
/11 To achieve this target, about 34 additional staff need to be appointed in addition to the present complement of
30 in Credit 236-TU. Staffing for Livestock III (FY76) also needs to be considered in the context of the short-
fall of staff currently experienced in Second Livestock Development Project (Credit 330-TU, FY73), shown as
follows:
Fattening                   Village
Staff                            Subproject                 Subproject              Total
Appraisal estimate
(excludes 3 technical specialists)             15                         50                     65
Recruited as of April 30, 1976                    8                          40                     48
Staff Shortfall                       7 /a                       10 /b                  17
/a   Of which 3 staff are under recruitment.
/b   Of which 6 staff are awaiting confirmation of appointments.
The combined additional required staff for Credit 330-TU and the present project is thus some 50 technicians.
Changes in Credit 330-TU currently under consideration might reduce somewhat the staff for that project, but it
is unlikely-that the additional staff needed for both projects would fall below 40 technicians.
March 1976



ANNEX 8
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TURKEY
Rate of Return to the Economy
1.        The information for the economic rate of return calculations is in
the tables of this annex and in Annexes 4 and 5.
2.        The following assumptions underly these calculations:
(a) The exchange rate adopted is LT 15 = US$1.
(b) Most project components and each category of farms are phased
in at the rate of 20% a year. However, project vehicles are
charged to the first three years of the project and training
and technical studies are charged to the last three years.
(c) Agricultural labor has been divided into three categories
with the following shadow wage rates: hired skilled labor
originating from urban sources and needed during peak sea-
sons with prevailing wage rates reflecting output foregone
elsewhere = 1.0; permanently hired unskilled or semi-skilled
labor from semi-urban or rural sources otherwise employed
five months during peak season agricultural activities at
LT 50/man day and two further months as casual labor at the
same rate = 0.6; family labor, with the same opportunity
cost as unskilled labor = 0.6.
(d) Current yields and farmgate prices have been applied in
calculating the returns, adjusted on the basis of Bank pro-
jections; any inflationary pressure would be expected to
affect both costs and benefits to the same extent, thus
maintaining the present relationship between them.
(e) As far as possible, transfer payments have been eliminated
from the project.
(f) The same technical coefficients have been applied to all
farm models with the exception of the mortality and calv-
ing coefficients.
3.        Based on these criteria, the economic rate of return of the project
is estimated to be 22% with the following results for sensitivity tests:



ANNEX 8
Page 2
Gross       Gross        Rate
Operating    Returns      Returns        of
Investments       Costs       of MIilk    of Cattle    Return
+5%             _            _           -          21.2%
+10%             -     -                  -          20.4%
_            +5%           _            -          21.0%
-           +10%           -            -          19.9%
-         -10%           -          18.7%
_  _       -5%           -          20.4%
-              -           -          -10%         21.1%
-              -           -           -5%         21.6%
+5%            +5%         -5%          -5%         17.8%
+5%            +5%        -10%           -          16.7%
4.        The sensitivity tests show a relatively small variation in the
economic rate of return as a result of 5-10% variations in costs or returns.
An increase in real terms of 5% or 10% in either investment or operating
costs would reduce the economic rate of return to 19.9% at the most. De-
creases in milk returns affect negatively the rate of return in a somewhat
larger proportion than returns from cattle (18.7% as compared with 21.1% for
10% decrease in milk and cattle returns respectively).
5.        Assuming a concurrent increase of 5% in investment and operating
costs, the price of milk would have to decrease from LT 3.50 to LT 3.15/1
or overall milk yields decrease from 3,600 to 3,000 1/cow/year before the
economic rate of return fell to below 16%. The probability of milk prices
decreasing appreciably is very unlikely given the overall milk shortage and
Government price incentive policy. Also, production data from the first
project (Credit 236-TU) would indicate a much higher likelihood of the
higher output being obtained rather than the lower.



ANNEX 8
Rate of Return to the Economy
Table 1   Estimates of Major Physical Input and Output Flows
Table 2   Prices for Farm Inputs
Table 3   Prices for Farm Outputs
Table 4   Yields
Table 5   Economic Rate of Return



APPRAISAL OF
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TURKEY
Estimates of Major Physical Input and Output Flows
Item                         Unit           Pre-       --------------------------------------------------------- Year -------------------
Project
0       1          2         3          4          5         6          7          8         9          10          11-19             20
Inputs
Fertilizer
Triple superphosphate         t            137.5    530.0    885.0    1,240.0    1,595.0    1,950.0   1,950.0   1,950.0   1,950.0   1,950.0   1,950.0    1,950.0                 1,950.0
Single superphosphate        "             360.0    297.6    235.2        172.8       110.4        48.0      48.0       48.0       48.0      48.0       48.0        48.0            48.0
Ammonium sulphate                          270.0    583.2    896.4    1,209.6    1,522.8    1,876.0   1,876.0   1,876.0   1,876.0   1,876.0   1,876.0    1,876.0                 1,876.0
Seeds
Wheat                                      960.0    793.6    627.2        460.8       294.4       120.0      120.0     120.0      120.0      120.0      120.0      120.0            120.0
Alfalfa                                      17.5     32.0      46.5       61.0        75.5        90.0      90.0       90.0       90.0       90.0      90.0        90.0             90.0
oats/Vetch                                    -       78.0    156.0       234.0       312.0       390.0     390.0      390.0      390.0      390.0     390.0       390.0           390.0
Maize                                         -       18.0      36.0       54.0        72.0        90.0       90.0      90.0       90.0       90.0      90.0        90.0             90.0
Concentrate feeds                          2,152.0  3,398.0  5,389.0    7,676.0   10,971.0   14,390.0  16,796.0  18,458.0  19,824.0  20,182.0  20,416.0   20,416.0                20,416.0
Labor
Hired - skilled            '000 md          53.6      52.3     51.0        49.8        48.5        47.2      47.2       47.2       47.2       47.2      47.2        47.2             47.2
Hired - unskilled                          104.6    172.7    240.8        305.9       377.0       445.1     445.1      445.1      445.1     445.1      445.1       445.1           445.1
Family                                     106.4    127.8    149.0        170.4       191.6       212.9     212.9      212.9      212.9      212.9     212.9       212.9            212.9
Outputs
Milk                      million 1           5.4      8.5      13.5        19.2       27.4        36.0       42.0      46.1       49.6       50.5       51.0        51.0            51.0
Cattle                    '000 AU             2.9      4.6       4.9        5.4         6.4         7.7        7.4       8.7        9.7       10.4       10.6        10.8            37.2
Wheat                      '000 t             7.9      6.5       5.2         3.8         2.4        1.1        1.1        1.1       1.1        1.1        1.1         1.1             1.1
Alfalfa hay                   "               5.6     11.7      20.6        29.6       38.6        46.5       50.4      50.4       50.4       50.4       50.4        50.4            50.4
Oats/Vetch hay                                0        1.4       4.1         6.8        9.5        12.2       13.5      13.5       13.5       13.5       13.5        13.5            13.5
Maize silage                  "               0       24.0      51.0       78.0       105.0       132.0      135.0     135.0      135.0      135.0      135.0       135.0           135.0
March 1976



Table 2-
APP'RAISAL OF
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TURKEY
Prices for Farm Inputs
Item                                            Price for             Price for
Unit      Financial Analysis   Economic Analysis
LT       US$          LT       US$
Seeds
Alfalfa - Mediterranean                kg          80.00      5.33        80.00    5.33
Alfalfa - Kayseri                                  40.00      2.67        40.00    2.67
Oats                                                3.00      0.20         3.00    0.20
Vetch                                               3.37      0.22         3.37    0.22
Maize                                               3.00      0.20         3.00    0.20
WXheat                                              3.00      0.20         3.00    0.20
Cotton (delinted)                                   4.35      0.29         4.35    0.29
W4hite bean                                         7.50      0.50         7.50    0.50
Chemicals
Urea (46%)                             kg           2.75      0.18         3.60    0.24
Single superphosphate (0:18:0)                      0.75      0.05         1.46    0.10
Triple superphosphate (0:44:0)                      1.75      0.12         3.60    0.24
Aimmonium nitrate (26:0:0)                          1.50      0.10         1.75    0.12
Diammonium phosphate (18:46:0)                      2.90      0.19         4.65    0.31
Compound fertilizer (20:20:0)                       2.75      0.18         3.90    0.26
Labor
Skilled                              manday        80.00      5.33        80.00    5.33
Unskilled                               "          50.00      3.33        30.00    2.00
Family                                                         -          30.00    2.00
Fuel
Gasoline - regular                    litre         2.80      0.19         1.32    0.09
Diesel                                              2.61      0.17         1.68    0.11
Concentrate mixture                    kg           2.50      0.17         2.50    0.17
(16% protein)
March 1976



ANNEX 8
Table 3
APPRAISAL OF
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TURKEY
Prices for Farm Outputs
Cattle
It em                                       Price
(LT)            (US$)
In-calf cow (native)                    6,500             433
Cull cow (native)                        4,500            300
Cull cow (Friesian)                      6,500            433
In-calf heifer (native)                  6,000            400
In-calf heifer (Friesian)               9,500             633
Cull heifer (Friesian)                   6,000            400
Heifer calf (native)                     4,000            267
Bull calves (native)                     2,000            133
Bull calves (Friesian)                   3,000            200
Cull bull (Friesian)                     7,500            500
Breeding bull (Friesian)                10,000            667
Whole milk (liter)!/                      3.50           0.23
Salvage Value at Year 20
Cow (Friesian)                        10,500             700
Heifer - 1 yr. (Friesian)               6,000            400
Heifer calf (Friesian)                 4,500             300
Breeding bull (Friesian)              10,000             667
Crops
Price for                Price for
Financial Analysis       Economic Analysis
(LT)     (US$)          (LT)      (US$)
Wheat           m ton         2,350       157          1,971      131
Sugar beet                      500        33            -         -
Legumes                       6,000       400            -
Cotton                        7,800       520            -         -
Barley                        2,000       133          1,676      112
/I  Fluid milk is locally produced and consume6  and is not traded
nt-rnationally.
76,



Table 4
APPRAISAL OF
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TURKEY
Yields
Pre-
Item                             project        Year         Year        Full
Unit         1975          1            2      Development
Crops
'Alfalfa hay            t/decare       0.80         1.0          1.4           -
Oats/Vetch bay             "           0.20        0.23         0.45          -
Maize silage               "           2.00         4.00         4.50         -
Cotton                                0.20         0.20         0.20          -
Wheat                      "           0.132        0.132        0.132        -
Sugar beet                 "          4.00          4.00        4.00          -
Legume                                 1.00         1.00        1.00          -
Milk
40-cow units           1/cow/yr       1,300        2,000        3,000        3,800
12-cow units              "           1,100        1,800        2,500        3,800
5-cow units               "             900        1,500        2,500        3,500
March 1976



APPRAISAL OF
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TURKtEY
Economic Rate of Return
(LT millions)
Item                                      --~~-----------------------------------------------  Year   ----------------_---------------------------------------------
1        2         3        4         5         6        7         8         9        10         11-15         16-19          20
Incremental Economic Benefits
1.  Milk                                     10.9     28.2       48.3      77.2     107.1      128.1    142.7    154.6   157.8    159.8          159.8        159.8        159.8
2.  Cattle                                   10.4     12.0       15.2      22.1      30.6       28.5      36.9     43.6    46.5       48.1        49.7         49.7        264.0
3.  Wheat                                    (2.7)    (5.4)      (8.1)   (10.8)    (13.5)    (13.5)   (13.5)   (13.5)  (13.5)   (13.5)           (13.5)       (13.5)       (13.5)
Total                             18.6      34.8      55.4      88.5      124.2     143.1    166.1    184.7  1190O.       194.4       196.0        196.0        410.3
Project Investments
1.  Cattle                                   37.0     37.0       37.0      37.0      37.0        --                      -                         -            -            -
2.  Machinery                                15.5     15.5       15.5      15.5       15.5       -         -         -       -         -           4.4          -            -
3.  Farm buildings                           17.0     17.0       17.0      17.0       17.0                 -         - _,       _                  - _          _
4,  Vehi-les                                  0.8       0.8       0.8       -                     -        -                                                    - _
Total                             70.3      70.3      70.3      69.5       69.5                                                         4.4
IncremRntal Operating Costs
1.  On farms                                  7,.6    16.8       29.1      39.9      53.6       60.0      64.7     68.1    69.0       69.5        69.5         69.5         69.5
2.  Technical services                        3.7      3.7        3.7       3 .7      3 .7       3.7       3.7      3.7      3.7       3.7         3.7          3.7          3.7
3.  Foreign consultants                       1.8      1.8        1.8       1.8        1.8                 -         _            -                -            -            -
4.  Technical studies and training            -         -         1.5       1.5        1.5       _         _ -      -         -         -                 -            -
5.  Labor - hired                             1.9      3.9        5.8       7.5       9.5        9.5       9.5,     9.5      9.5       9.5         9.5          9.5          9.5
- family                           0.6       1.3       1.9       2.5        3.2       3.2       3.2       3.2     3.2       3.2         3.2          3.2          3.2
Total                             15.6      27.5      43.8      56.9       73.3       76.4     81.1      84.5    85.4      85.9        85.9         85.9         85.9
Economic Rate of Return:   22.1%
Sensitivity Test
Investment costs + 10%.: 20.4%l
Operating coAts  + 10%:  19.8%
Project benefits - milk: -10%:  18.6%
- cattle: -10%: 20.0%
March 1976
coI



ANNEX 9
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TURKEY
Terms of Reference for Technical Specialists
1.        Three Technical Specialists will be employed on the proposed prQject
throughout its five-year duration. One Technical Specialist will be located
in Ankara and work in the Ankara/Adana/Konya regions. A second will be in
Istanbul and work in the Istanbul/Izmir regions. The third will be located
in Malatya and work in the Kayseri/Malatya regions.
Qualifications
2.        Technical Specialists will be diploma or degree graduates in dairy
science, agriculture or veterinary science, preferably with some postgraduate
research experience, and at least five years practical experience in dairy
development, preferably associated with irrigated forage crop production in an
environment ecologically similar to that of Turkey.
Responsibilities and Duties
3.        The Technical Specialists will be responsible to the Project Manager
and will:
(a)  Act as technical advisors to the Project Manager, Regional
Managers and project staff in developing the proposed live-
stock project.
(b)  Carry out a working program and travel schedule agreed joint-
ly with the Project Manager.
(c)  Under the guidance of the Project Manager and in collabora-
tion with the Regional Managers and technical staff:
(i)  promote the project to farmers;
(ii) assist with the preparation and/or review of dairy
development plans;
(iii) supervise plan implementation;
(iv) provide general extension assistance;



ANNEX 9
Page 2
(v)  play a major role in the design and supervision of
technical studies;
(vi)  provide leadership in the planning and implementation
of training programs; and
(vii)  assist in selection of dairy cattle imported under the
project.
(d)  Review both local and overseas veterinary and agricultural re-
search findings pertinent to intensive dairying in Turkey and,
where relevant, apply them to project farms.
(e)  Assist the Project Manager and Regional Managers in maintain-
ing the records of the prcrect.
(f)  Assist the Project Manager with the preparation of quarterly
reports.
(g)  Advise senior staff of IDPD and LDP on future development
possibilities in the dairy sub-sector.
(h)  Consult in the general area of dairy development with senior
staff of IDPD, LDP, the Ministry of Food and Agriculture, and
other related Government agencies when called upon to do so.



ANNEX 10
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMIENT PROJECT
TURKEY
Terms of Reference for Technical Studies and Training
A. Technical Studies
1.        Virtually no research has been undertaken on dairy production in
Turkey, and the only development work that has been initiated was that under
the Intensive Dairy Development Project (Credit 236-TU). Studies were pro-
vided for under that project but, other than preparing the report on which the
proposed project is based, little was done, mainly because of staff con-
straints. Accordingly, it is considered important that the technical studies
component of the proposed project be given emphasis.
2.        Two areas of studies are envisaged:
(a) Production Studies.
(b) Milk Marketing Studies.
3.        Production Studies will include surveys and practical research and
demonstration, particularly in forage production and utilization and improved
livestock husbandry. Priority will be accorded studies on:
(a) Forage species and cultivar adaptability.
(b) Fertilizer Responses.
(c)  Forage Utilization/Management.
(d) Animal Health/Management.
(e)  Feed Requirements in relation to Production.
(f) Animal Breeding.
(g) Early weaning of calves and calf growth.
(h) Costs of production.
4.        Production studies will be expected to be undertaken mainly, but not
exclusively, on properties of project farmers. Collaboration will also be



ANDNEX 10
Page 2
expected between the project and other Government bodies,and institutions of
higher learning. The bulk of the undertaking is expected to be contained
within the area of the project.
5.        Milk marketing studies will include surveys and studies aimed main-
ly-at the coordination of production, cooling/collecting, transportation, and
processing; also at pricing incentives and marketing. The Milk Corporation
(TSEK) is currently involved in a large program of expanding milk proces-
sing facilities (including cooling/collecting) and there is evidence that its
program is not based on completely rational planning. Many plants appear too
small to operate efficiently and the siting of many appears arbitrary. Thus,
a review of milk production potential and its relation to processing facili-
ties and market outlets would be given priority. Dairy Cooperatives are just
being initiated in Turkey, and their development should be encouraged.
Studies of ways and means of achieving and accelerating dairy cooperative
formation i-n Turkey are urgently needed.
6.        Prior to implementation, annual plans for studies financed under the
Technical Studies compQnent will be submitted to the Bank for comment, the
first such plan and subsequent annual plans to be submitted not later than
the third quarter of the first and subsequent years of the project. Studies
will become fully effective at the beginning of the second year of the proj-
ect and extend through the fifth year.  Execution of the studies will be
undertaken by three IDPD technicians appointed for the task.
7.        The three technical specialists, under the guidance of the Project
Manager, will play a leading role in the design and supervision of the Tech-
nical Studies component and assist the Project Manager in the preparation of
reports.
B. Training
8.        Training was provided for in the first project (Credit 236-TU), but
was not fully implemented due mainly to staff constraints. Training will,
therefore, be given priority in the proposed project and will comprise:
(a) In-service training of LDP staff, at all levels, in animal
nutrition, animal breeding, crop production, agricultural
machinery, general farm management, farm planning, finan-
cial analysis, accounting and recording;
(b) Training for farmers, particularly through field days and
on-farm demonstrations on the most progressive project farms;
also visits to state farms, institutions of higher learning
and processing plants;
(c) Group study tours for LDP staff and prominent farmer leaders;
such tours to be coordinated as far as possible with trips



ANNEX 10
Page 3
for cattle procurement (not less than five such study tours
to be organized in the course of the proposed project); and
(d)  Study leave for individual LDP or goverment staff for spe-
cialized overseas training in advanced dairy production and
technology--such leave to be for practically-oriented studies
of direct application to the developing dairy industry in
Turkey.
9.        The project technical specialists will play a major role in organiz-
ing training programs in consultation with the project manager (who would
assume ultimate responsibility for approval of the program and ensuring its
timely execution).
10.       The project manager would present a draft training program to the
Bank for comment within six months of project effectiveness. Such a program
would include proposals for LDP and Government staff in the milk industry
(both for in-service and overseas training) as well as for farmers. The train-
ing program would become fully effective by the beginning of the second year of
the project and operate through the fifth year. Thirty man-years of local
professional staff time have been allowed in the staffing estimates to provide
for absences of staff in training and for staff time needed for planning and
executing training programs for farmers and middle-level project staff.



APPRAISAL OF
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TURKEY
PROJECT ORGANIZATION CHART
INTERMINISTERIAL COORDINATION ................ MINISTER FOR FOOD AND AGRICULTURE
COMMITTEE
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
GENERAL DIRECTOR VETERINARY SERVICES
GENERAL DIRECTOR AGRICULTURAL SERVICES
GENERAL D RECTORATE                                      GENERAL DIRECTOR STATE FARMS
DEPUTYGENER                  FOR LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT               DEPUTY GENERAL      GENERAL DIRECTOR SUGAR CORPORATION
IDIRECTORJ                        PROJECTS (L D P)DRECTOR                                PRESIDENT AGRICULTURAL BANK
GENERAL DIRECTOR                                        GENERAL DIRECTOR LDP
TCZB                                                      INTENSIVE DAIRY PRODUCTION             GENERAL LIVESTOCK
ENCOURAGEMENT ...................................                   DIVISION (I D P D)        DELOPMENT
AND                                                            PROJFCT MANAGER                     PROJECT DIVISION
DEVELOPMENT
LOANS DIVISION                                                                                                    -LGE
(Credit 330-TU)
TCZB
BRANCH
MANAGERS  REGIONAL OFFICE        ~TECHNICAL           RGOAL OFIETECHNICAL                               REIONAL                TECHNICAL
MAAGERS F3       SPECIALIST                 MANAGER  21SPECIALIST                             OFFICEIS
TECHNICAL FIELD STAFF                         TECHNICAL FIELD STAFF                          TECHNICAL FIELD STAFF
l                                             l                                              I
ANKARA/ADANA/KONYA                               ISTANBUL/IZMIR                                KAYSERI/MALATYA
E
PROVINCIAL COMMITTEES*
PROVINCIAL GOVERNORS 
AND AGRICULTURE STAFF
*CONSULTATIVE COMMITTEE UNDER CHAIRMANSHIP OF PROVINCIAL GOVERNOR
(GOVERNMENT OF TURKEY INTERNAL ADMINISTRATIVE ORGANIZATION)



APPRAISAL OF
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TURKEY
Implementation Schedule
IBRD FISCAL YEAR                        1976            1977            1978           1979            1980             1981             1982
CALENDAR YEAR                                1976                            1978             1979            1980             1981           1982
Implementation of farm development plans                              8              8                                                   1iL LION 
by subborrowers                                                    78           |  86          |  9 L4                1fu2             109...m
Cattle imports                                                        39             4                                   50               54       LT MILLION 
Machinery purchases                                                                         ERmI LT MILLIONI
20         ~21             2326                                 27
Subloans processed                                                                                                                         I              
__80       _       _150          160        _       _  170      _     190
Subloans under supervision I                                    _      0 _  mm                                           170              1 _
1E 2             23             2252                                 712
Supporting Services
Consultants:
Candidates proposed for IBRD approval
Consultants' contracts formalized
Consultants in post                                          _       _ _                _          _     _             _     _  
Technical Studies:
Submission of outlines for technical studies
to IBRD for comment
Execution of studies                                                           m             *     i        m. ..                  m
Technical Training:
Proposals submitted to IBRD for comment
Study tours/study leave implemented                 _ _    _                             - _          * _ _       * _ _
Quarterly reports by Project Manager                                   .       _ _                   m I_   _  II
Accounts and Audit Reports:
TCZB (EDLD)
LDP (Special Operational Fund)
IDPD (Technical Services and
Training Accounts)                                I    _        I    I         I  I
1/ Includes 152 Subloans processed under Credit 236-TU
World Bank-i 5658(2RH






e   u    LAG   A   R0 I   A                  a                                               c                                                              ,
|=> >
AE   .E j                                                                                                      vrgnaSTANB         l
A NKARA-'J 
N      A                                                 A N
ZM.R   U G I -  
I'   T                                                                          mA
A.E;G E A-N         W~~ANRELEFAND CLIAT
0  N ~ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ 9            50 10 IO20                                  o~~ 
Al,~~~~~~~~~~~KlieesAI aor,roA A0~~na
E G I 0 N-1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SR Sari~fAr






7571
BULGARIA                                                                                              e  a                                 4101                                           4' 5-
6    a  c  k                                                                                        U. S. S.  R.
RELI
Lu                                                                      ASTAMONU
SAMSUN                                                  ,CR
RI Z E
-lj\ TRABZOM
AMASYA          ORDU eGIRESUr-11                                     KARS
TOKAT                                  E
KK                                                                                                                                        ERZURUMC\-----\
m
GAT                          r,CZ-
GA T                                 -1-1 CA
c
ui
LIKESIR
KU AH                                                                                         r,
l RAN
ui
0
us
KA  Al
AFYON
0
CL,                                                                                                                                                                              VAN
KA                                  ELAZIG                     BITLIS
Di  RBAKIR
--NIGDE
RTA                                                                                                                       HAKKARI
'o,
0
U   URE)                                                                        IYAM
GLA
MARDIN
N,                                      URFA                                      I R AQ
A N
AZIANT
CA                                                                                                                                      P,.j-t A-
P,,-t Rgi ... I B ... d.lil
T U R K E Y                                                                                                             P,.j-t A- U.d, C,dit 236-TU
APPRAISAL OF  THIRD   LIVESTOCK                                                              S Y R I A                                     N.,, ... I C.Pit.1
0   C,,.J f P-j- j P,.j.t A-                 35-
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                  P-1-1.1 B
C Y P R U Sl
too        200        300
lm-ai-l B-d--                                 CP
KILOMETER$                                                                                                                                                                M
200
MEDIrERkANEAN SEA
MILES
30,
4-



