FILE         COPY                          Documlent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-1847-TU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
FOR A THIRD LIVESTOCK
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 12, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its motents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Unit                      Turkish Lira (TL)
US$ 1           =           TL  16.0'
TL  1           -           US$ 0.0625
TL 1,000           =           US$ 62.50
TL 1,000,000           =           US$ 62,500
Turkish Fiscal Year          March 1 to February 28
ABBREVIATIONS
DANB    -   Directorate of Artificial and Natural Breeding and
Record Keeping of MFA
DVS     -   Directorate of Veterinary Services of MFA
EDLD    -   Encouragement and Development Loans Division of TCZB
GOT     -   Government of- Turkey
IDPD    -   Intensive Dairy Production Division of LDP
LDP     -   Directorate for Livestock Development Projects
of MFA
IIFA    -   Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Livestock
SPO     -   State Planning Organization
TCZB    -   Agricultural Bank of Turkey
TSEK    -   Milk Corporation
1/ Appraisal Report is based on a rate of exchange of
US$1 = TL 15.00; as a result of several recent
adjustments the rate stood at US$1 = TL 16.00 as
of April 2, 1976



FOft omciAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF TURKEY FOR
A THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT.
1.        I submit the following Report and Recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Turkey for the equivalent of US$21.5 million to help
finance a Third Livestock Development Project. The loan would have a term of
17 years including 5 years of grace, with interest at 8-1/2 percent per annum.
Up to the equivalent of US$20.7 million will be relent to the Agricultural
Bank of Turkey (TCZB) on the same terms.
PART I - THE ECONOMY i/
2.        An economic updating mission visited Turkey in November 1974 and
its report (No. 71la-TU) entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects of
Turkey" dated June 9, 1975, was circulated to the Executive Directors on June
17, 1975. The economic situation of Turkey was reviewed anew by a Bank mis-
sion in April 1976 but its findings have not yet been analyzed. A country
data sheet is attached as Annex I.
3.        Despite an uncertain domestic political situation resulting in fre-
quent changes of Government since 1971 and, more recently, the international
recession, Turkey has maintained an impressive rate of economic growth. GNP
grew rapidly in the last decade, averaging an impressive 7 percent annual
growth in real terms in the period 1962-72. Industry, power, transport and
construction were the sectors contributing most to this growth rate. Due
largely to a decrease in agricultural production reflecting poor weather con-
ditions, the growth rate dropped to 5.5 percent in 1973, but recovered to 7.4
percent in 1974, and reached an estimated 7.9 percent in 1975, compared to the
Third Plan (1973-77) target of an average of 7.9 percent per annum. Despite
some difficult problems that the economy faces, this relatively high growth
rate underlines the basic vitality of the Turkish economy. The main issues
facing the Government, which require the establishment of priorities as well
as of corrective measures, are: (a) high rate of inflation; (b) insufficient
mobilization of public resources; (c) employment generation problems; (d)
deterioration in the balance of payments; and (e) inadequate coordination
among Government agencies in project implementation (discussed in para 14
below).
4.        The budgetary situation in the last decade was dominated by the
relatively rapid growth of public expenditures. Although tax revenues also
1/ This section is the same as that contained in the President's Report
(P-1816-TU) for the Agricultural Credit and Agroindustries Project,
dated April 14, 1976.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
grew rapidly, the increase was more than offset by the rise in Government
expenditures and transfers. As a result, the overall budget deficit widened
and the Treasury borrowed increasingly from the Central Bank. In 1972 and
1973, the Treasury introduced a stricter control of current expenditures and
succeeded to some degree in shifting the sources of finance for the budget
deficit from the Central Bank to the sale of Government bonds to the public.
However, partly due to a shortfall in tax revenues and partly due to increased
current expenditures resulting from inflation and the Cyprus operations, the
budget deficit rose again in 1974 to TL 7.3 billion (compared to TL 5.4 bil-
lion in 1973). Central Bank financing of the Treasury rose by TL 4 billion
and became a major factor in monetary expansion at a time when stricter mone-
tary controls were needed. The deficit in 1975 was originally estimated at
TL 9 billion, but is likely to be significantly larger.
5.        Over the years, the State Economic Enterprises (SEEs) have general-
ly earned low profits, necessitating an increase in budgetary transfers from
public resources to meet their operating and investment needs. A significant
portion of the SEEs' deficits are accounted for by the Turkish Railways and
the Coal Corporation. Other SEEs have shown either small profits or small
losses. During 1974, the prices of several SEE products were raised sub-
stantially (ranging from 20% to 167%) to improve their respective financial
situations. In addition, railway tariffs were increased by an average 56 per-
cent in 1975. The savings performance of the SEEs showed some improvement in
1973 and 1974, and they were able to finance an increased proportion of their
investment from their own resources. However, because of delays in implement-
ation - resulting from poor managerial and limited technical capabilities - and
because of difficulties in the procurement of imported materials, the gains are
still below Third Plan targets. Consequently, many SEEs continue to rely on
substantial budgetary transfers. The reform of the SEEs--in organization,
management, executive and labor skills and pricing policies--remains crucial,
especially if Turkish industry is to be prepared for competition from the ECC.
Realistically, these basic reforms can only be initiated by a strong and stable
Government which commands significant and coherent parliamentary support.
6.        The rate of domestic inflation has been high in recent years.     The
average rate of increase in wholesale prices rose from about 20 percent per
annum in 1973 to nearly 30 percent in 1974. Inflationary pressures have been
partly fueled by growth in domestic liquidity, which averaged about 25 percent
per year during 1970-74. Other contributing factors include increases in
agricultural support prices for domestic and export products as well as in
minimum wages, and substantial increases in import prices. Measures to re-
duce the growth of domestic liquidity, without discouraging investment and
growth, are essential to ease inflationary pressures. The trend towards
rapid increases in Central Bank financing of the public sector needs to be
reexamined. In late 1974, the Government raised interest rates to encourage
private savings and long-term lending. The interest rate on medium-term
credit was raised from 12 to 14 percent and rates on time deposits up to one
year from 4 to 6 percent. The present government of Prime Minister Demirel



regards the restoration of domestic price stability as one of the key prob-
lems on which Government policy must be focused. There has in fact been a
significant reduction in the rate of inflation in the last year. The whole-
sale price index rose by only 11.0 percent in 1975 compared to 30 percent in
1974; and the Government estimates an average rate of inflation (as measured
by their GNP deflator) of only around 16 percent in 1975, compared to 27
percent in 1974.
7.        Turkey's development strategy places greater emphasis on growth
of output through higher labor productivity, than on increased employment. As
a result, the labor surplus, including that in agriculture, rose from an esti-
mated 1 million in 1962 to 1.6 million in 1973, representing about 10 percent
of the labor force. Until 1973, emigration, especially to Germany, partially
eased the pressure on employment. Between 1965 and 1973, net emigration
totaled about 450,000. The economic slowdown in Europe has, however, consider-
ably reduced labor emigration from Turkey, from 136,000 in 1973 to only 20,000
in 1974 and 5,000 in 1975. Nevertheless, the Third Plan continues to emphasize
investment in capital-intensive industries and estimates the non-agricultural
labor surplus to grow to 300,000 by 1977. With prospects of further emigration
of Turkish labor to Europe reduced, at least in the medium-term, unemployment
should be a major concern of economic policy. A pilot land reform program is
currently underway in Urfa province in the southeast where most of the larger
farms are located; expropriation of land was started in November 1974. Speedy
implementation of rural development programs would also help to slow migration
and ease unemployment in rural and urban areas. In addition, labor intensive
production methods need to be emphasized, where appropriate, in the formulation
of projects. However, even with these measures, and faster growth than
planned in construction and services, unemployment is likely to remain a
significant problem.
8.        The Third Plan constitutes the first phase of Turkey's long-term
strategy for the period 1973-95. The ultimate objective is to raise stand-
ards of living in 1995 to those of Italy in 1970, through rapid industraliza-
tion and decreasing dependence on external resources. The Plan aims at an-
nual growth rates of 8 percent in GDP, 12.7 percent in fixed investment,
a marginal national savings ratio of 38 percent (compared with about 18 per-
cent in the Second Plan), an annual increase in commodity imports and exports
of 9.4 percent and 7.1 percent respectively, which, taken together with pro-
jected growth in invisible earnings (mainly workers' remittances), is ex-
pected to result in a decline in gross inflows of official external assistance.
9.        Prospects for continued high economic growth remain good, although in
view of the shortfall of the first two years of the Third Plan, achievement of
the 7.9 percent average rate of annual growth during the Plan period seem un-
likely. The Plan's projections also seem to be overly optimistic on prospects
of an increased savings level and balanced external accounts with reduced
levels of external assistance. Experience during the last two years suggests
that present efforts to mobilize greater domestic savings to support a rapid
growth of investment, especially in the public sector, need to be greatly
intensified. The Plan anticipates that two-thirds of the increase in national



savings will come from the public sector, through increases both in surpluses
of the SEEs and in tax revenue. Given the past performance of SEEs and delays
in implementing a general reform in the SEEs (see paragraph 5 above), the
expected rapid growth in their surpluses is not likely to be realized. Given
the present domestic political outlook, it will also be most difficult to raise
tax revenues to the extent envisaged by the Plan. There is nevertheless scope
for increases, if appropriate policies are pursued more vigorously, e.g. im-
proving tax administration, widening tax coverage to include agricultural
incomes and service incomes, increasing the rate of property taxation and
introducing a value added tax. Domestic resource mobilization in the public
sector is, in any case, likely to continue to be a significant constraint in
the growth of public investment. Besides improved financial performance from
the SEEs, increased borrowing abroad as well as increased long-term borrowing
from the domestic private sector will be necessary to achieve the ambitious
public sector investment targets. As Turkey's development program requires
funds in excess of savings that can be mobilized domestically, and these cannot
be provided in adequate amounts if foreign finance is limited to foreign
exchange cost of high-priority projects, some local cost financing by foreign
lenders will be required.
10.       The balance of payments projections of the Plan have not taken into
account recent developments on the international scene. The sharp increase
in the price of petroleum and other imports during 1974 and the prospects of
further increases in import prices in the next several years, indicate that
foreign exchange needs for financing imports will be much higher than projected.
Commodity imports and exports in 1973 were already above the level projected
for 1977. Workers' remittances in 1972 were higher than the 1977 target and
continued to grow until recently. However, they decreased by 8.0 percent in
1975 as compared to 1974, and their future is uncertain, due to the temporary
restriction on further entry of foreign workers into the major labor-importing
countries of Europe. On the other hand, recent agreements between Turkey and
Libya to send Turkish workers to Libya, and the possibility of similar arrange-
ments with other oil-producing countries, should help alleviate the situation.
11.       After substantial surpluses in 1972 and 1973, Turkey's overall bal-
ance of payments experienced a deficit in 1974, with net reserves declining
by about $360 million. This was due partly to a sharp increase in the trade
deficit and a slowdown in the growth of workers' remittances, as well as to a
reduction in official capital aid inflows. The large trade deficit resulted
mainly from an 80 percent increase in the import bill (in particular, petro-
leum, wheat, iron and steel), due mainly to higher prices. Imports continued
to rise at a rather rapid rate in 1975, and totaled about $4.7 billion during
the year. On the other hand, export earnings, which totaled about $1.4 bil-
lion in 1975, registered a decline because of the recession in major importing
countries, agricultural supply constraints, restrictions on exports to relieve
domestic shortages, relatively inflexible export pricing policies, diversion
of some goods to Cyprus, and deteriorating terms of trade. As a result, gross
reserves declined to about $1.8 billion at the end of 1974, and further to
about $1.0 billion at end of December 1975 (the equivalent of about 2.7 months
of imports at the present rate). In the medium-term, Turkey's balance of
payments is likely to come under significant presure. Such pressure could,



- 5 -
however, be partly eased, by lifting quantitative restrictions on certain ex-
ports, e.g. cement and olive oil, designed to accommodate domestic supply.
The Government should also avoid fixing commodity prices at levels above those
prevailing in international markets. Even more important are deliberate
measures to contain the growth of imports. Without such measures, and in the
absence of a resurgence of growth in Europe, Turkey faces the prospect of
continued, perhaps intensified, pressures on its balance of payments and its
reserves. In May 1974, the Turkish lira was revalued vis-a-vis the dollar from
TL 14.00 per US$ to TL 13.50 per US$, without a change in parity with other
currencies. In September 1974, the exchange rate per US$ was readjusted to TL
13.85, and in April 1975, it was restored to the previous parity of TL 14.00.
As a result of subsequent small devaluations, the rate per US$ stood at TL
16.00 as of April 2, 1976.
12.       At the end of 1974, total external debt outstanding and disbursed
was estimated at $3.1 billion, of which all but 3 percent was public or pub-
licly guaranteed. The share of the Bank Group was about 11 percent of total
debt outstanding and about 8 percent of total debt service in 1974. The aver-
age terms of new credits made available to Turkey have been hardening in
recent years, and this trend is expected to continue. Debt service as a
ratio of exports of goods and non-factor services plus workers' remittances
was about 6.5 percent in 1974, compared to 12 percent in 1971. Despite
the deterioration in the balance of payments in 1975, the debt service ratio
is expected to remain within acceptable limits in the medium term, if proper
policies are pursued. In view of the decline in foreign reserves and anti-
cipated pressures on its balance of payments in the medium-term, Turkey should
continue to exercise considerable care in its external debt management, and
its resort to suppliers' credit financing should also be kept within closely
monitored limits. Meanwhile, Turkey continues to be creditworthy for Bank
financing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY 1/
13.       The 1970 economic stabilization program (see para 11 above) and
devaluation of the Turkish lira, which improved the balance of payments, en-
abled Bank Group lending, which had previously been intermittent, to be es-
tablished on a continuing basis at a high level. As of May 5, 1976, the
Bank Group had lent $1,148.2 million to Turkey through 45 lending operations
(or 39 projects, since both loans and credits were provided for some pro-
jects), of which $1,064.2 million was outstanding. Fifteen of these opera-
tions have been in agriculture and rural development (including multi-
purpose), sixteen in industry (including DFCs), eight in power and the rest
in urban development, transportation, and education. Agriculture and rural
development account for 32 percent of the funds lent, industry and DFCs for
35 percent and power for about 25 percent. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of March 31,
1/   This section is the same as that contained in the President's Report
(P-1816-TU) for the Agricultural Credit and Agroindustries Project,
dated April 14, 1976.



- 6 -
1976 respectively, with notes on the execution of ongoing projects. Imple-
mentation of projects has been satisfactory in the private sector, but less
so in the public sector where significant delays have resulted from political
uncertainty, limited coordination.among agencies, staffing problems and
related administrative delays. Disbursements have consequently been slower
than expected. To improve this situation, the Government established in
August 1975, a ministerial coordinating committee, supported by a new
secretariat located in the Ministry of Finance, which is responsible for
coordinating all aspects of Bank Group operations. In connection with this
new framework, the Government and the Bank initiated in June/July 1975, joint
quarterly reviews to identify and resolve key bottlenecks impeding satisfac-
tory project implementation. The results so far have been encouraging,
considering that these reviews were initiated only a few months ago, and the
rate of commitments and disbursements in the last few months has begun to
improve.
14.       A serious issue continues to beset the Elbistan power project (Loan
No. TU-1023).   As a condition of effectiveness of the loan, the Government had
undertaken to raise electricity tariffs by about 30 percent in order to enable
the power authority (TEK) to earn the 8 percent rate of return prescribed by
the TEK law and set forth in Loan Agreements with the Bank. Because of
serious inflationary pressures faced in 1974-75 and in recognition of the
Government's anti-inflationary policies, agreement was subsequently reached
on a lesser tariff increase that would enable TEK to earn 6 percent in 1976 as
a transitional measure. Since the Government has not yet implemented the
requisite measures, the Bank has not been able to declare the Elbistan loan
effective. The Bank is in close consultation with the Turkish Government on
this issue, as well as with its co-lenders for the Elbistan project.
15.       Bank lending to Turkey is mainly directed at supporting Turkish ef-
forts to improve: (a) lagging public sector saving, through gradual improve-
ment in the SEEs; (b) better income distribution and improvement in the level
of living standards, through rural development efforts, better urban planning
and increased employment and incomes; and (c) long-term capacity to earn fo-
reign exchange, through promotion of industrial and agroindustrial exports
and tourism. While the Bank continues to support gradual institutional and
structural changes in the sectors in which lending is provided, continued
substantial external financial assistance is equally important, in view of
the increase in projected capital import requirements and the anticipated
medium-term pressures on the balance of payments and on overall fiscal re-
sources, mentioned in paragraphs 9-11 above.
16.       In support of these objectives, it is proposed to continue to devote
the Bank's development efforts to certain key sectors, of which agriculture
is the most important. In this sector, emphasis is being put on rural devel-
opment, the strengthening of agricultural credit mechanisms and livestock, as
provided for under the proposed project. Loan 1248-TU to the Agricultural
Bank of Turkey (TCZB) signed May 5 supports these objectives. Industry (in-
cluding DFCs) and power, where industrial and power development as well as
the gradual strengthening of the SEEs are the key tasks, are also receiving
significant support. The Balikesir Newsprint Project scheduled for the con-
sideration of the Executive Directors on May 18, furthers this effort. This



- 7 -
program will be supplemented by future projects in selected sectors including
tourism, urban development, and transport. Until recently, Bank lending was
also focused in two geographical areas: (i) the Istanbul region, with em-
phasis on urban planning, water supply, power distribution and industrial fi-
nance; and (ii) the Cukurova region around Adana on the southern coast, with
emphasis on power, irrigation, and fruit and vegetable production. Lately,
the focus has been gradually broadened, especially to include the Anatolian
plateau and eastern Turkey, in support of efforts to widen the geographical
base of development, develop rainfed agriculture, improve the distribution of
income, and discourage rapid urban migration and encourage tourism development.
The latter will be supported through the proposed tourism infrastructure proj-
ect in the south Antalya coastal area which is scheduled for negotiations in
mid-May. Other projects under preparation and being processed towards ap-
praisal include wastewater disposal in Istanbul, a hydroelectric project, a
second DFC operation with the State Investment Bank (DYB), and a second rail-
ways project.
17.       IFC has invested in the production of nylon yarns, pulp and paper,
glass, aluminum and steel pipes. As of March 31, 1976, gross commitments
totaled $118.1 million, of which $70.8 milion were still held by IFC. IFC
is currently investigating investment opportunities in the industrial sector,
including textiles, synthetic fibers and inorganic chemicals.
PART III - LIVESTOCK SUBSECTOR
Introduction
18.       Although agriculture's share in Turkey's GDP has gradually declined
since the early sixties, it remains a crucial sector in the economy. In
1974, it contributed about 26 percent of GDP, accounted for 60 percent of
commodity export earnings, and employed about 63 percent of the Labor force.
Turkish agriculture is predominantly rainfed, but is characterized by signif-
icant regional differences. The coastal areas are humid (700-2,000 mm rain-
fall per year) and the interior semi-arid (250-400 mm rainfall per year.)
Most of the irrigated agricultural development has taken place on the coast
where most of the land suitable for irrigation is to be found. The high,
semi-arid central Anatolian plateau and eastern highlands, where the majority
of the rural poor live, produce mainly cereals under rain-fed conditions, and
livestock.
19.       Turkey's major crops include cereals (mainly wheat and barley),
industrial crops (such as cotton, tobacco, sugar beet and oilseed), and
fruit and vegetables, which together account for about two-thirds of the
value of agricultural output. Livestock products account for about 30 per-
cent; forestry and fishing make minor contributions. Growth of value added
in agriculture averaged a compound rate of about 4 percent from 1969 to 1974,
as a result of substantial increases in the use of fertilizer, mechanization
and irrigation during the Second Plan period. Productivity per unit of
land improved gradually but was largely confined to the export crop sector
(cotton and sugar beet) and was not matched by comparable increases in per
capita food production.



-8-
20.       Turkey's Third Plan (1973-77) aims at an average annual growth
rate in agriculture of 4.5 percent, based on a strategy favoring investments
in projects with short gestation periods and low capital-output ratios,
supported by a price policy balanced between providing incentives to the
farmers for increasing production, and protection of the consumers. The Plan
also aims at strengthened agricultural research, extension and marketing
services, and adequate credit allocations. This strategy appears to be
appropriate, but negative growth (-1.7 percent) in 1973, as a result of
adverse weather conditions, is likely to result in an overall growth rate of
only about 3 percent for the Plan period.
Livestock Production
21.       Turkey has one of the highest livestock populations in the Middle
East. Although accurate census figures are not available, the livestock popula-
tion is estimated at about 13 million cattle (about 4.5 million of which are
dairy cows), 40 million sheep, 19 million goats and 3 million other animals.
Partly as a result of a steady conversion of meadows and pastures to cultiva-
tion, the size of the herd has remained roughly constant since the mid-1960s.
In general, animal productivity is low. Breed quality is generally poor and
husbandry and marketing techniques are largely traditional. The present cat-
tle, sheep and goat populations are in equilibrium with the available feed
supplies coming from about 26 million ha of natural pasturelands and relative-
ly small amounts of forage crops and prepared feeds. The pasture-lands are
being fully utilized, and pressures from cropping and forestry preclude signif-
icant extensions. If national production is to be raised, the carrying capa-
city of the natural grassland must be increased through intensification. Also,
livestock and cropping need integrating, through more efficient use of fallow
lands in the central and western Anatolian region and in the fertile coastal
regions. The wider adoption of mixed farming and the use of fallow lands (some
9 million ha) to expand the forage base to intensify fattening and dairy opera-
tions in these regions, is a sound strategy given Turkey's national resource
base, and is being adopted by the Government. The rate of growth of livestock
output (including d-airy products) was only 2.6 percent in the First Five Year
Plan period (1963-67), and 3.2 percent during the Second Plan (1968-72). Al-
though the Third Plan target is 5 percent per annum, present indications are
that a growth of only about 2.5 percent is likely to be achieved.
Milk Production
22.       Total annual milk production in Turkey is around 4.3 million tons;
of this, 58 percent, about 2.5 million tons, is cow's milk, with the rest
coming from sheep, goats and buffalos. Annual per capita consumption of
milk and milk products is estimated at about 110 liters. 1/ Between 1962
and 1972, the increase in milk production averaged less than 1 percent an-
nually, well below the population growth rate. As a consequence, the access
of the very rapidly growing urban populations, particularly the poorer ones,
to milk and its products has been gradually decreasing.
1/ Higher than Greece's 56 liters/year and lower than Ireland's 218 liters/
year ("World Dairy Economy in Figures", FAO).



- 9-
23.       The bulk of Turkey's milk is produced by small and widely scattered
small farmers, who produce for themselves and their immediate neighbors. The
only modern dairy farms, excluding a few Government farms, are those estab-
lished under the Bank's First Livestock (Dairy Production) Project (Credit
236-TU), which is being satisfactorily completed. The productivity of local
cows - less than 600 liters of milk per year on average - is only about 20
percent of that of imported cows. The quality of local milk animals is poor
and needs considerable upgrading if the productivity of the dairy industry in
Turkey is to be significantly improved. The standards of animal housing,
veterinary care and management also need to be improved. Therefore, to im-
prove milk availability, not only the total number of milk animals needs to
be increased, but their quality and productivity of milk output need to be
enhanced, through breeding and better management.
Milk Marketing
24.       Besides the absolute decrease in milk production per capita, the
major obstacle to availability of milk and its products in urban centers, is
the lack of a well-integrated marketing infrastructure. At present, over 90
percent of all milk (and milk products) is marketed through small-scale, gen-
erally uncontrolled peddlers, whose standards of milk handling are low. Milk
is frequently dirty and adulterated with water. Milk production is seasonal
with peak supplies in spring and summer and minimum in winter. There is gen-
erally keen competition for all milk produced, except in isolated localities.
A recent 50 percent increase in farmgate prices of milk, due to increased
floor prices offered by Government processing plants, has greatly enhanced
farmer interest in dairying. Floor prices for milk average around TL 3.5 per
liter ($0.23 per liter) and prices paid by intermediaries are frequently
higher. The overall prospects for milk producers are good.
25.       Government milk plants handle only a minor fraction of total produc-
tion and marketing. A national program to construct over 150 Government-owned
cooling/collection stations and 40 processing plants is currently underway and
by 1978 is expected to provide modern processing and storage capability for
about 20 percent of milk marketed. However, because of problems of market or-
ganization and transportation, it may take longer before all of these plants
are able to run at full capacity. Under the proposed project, milk marketing
would be studied, with a view to encouraging improved coordination of pro-
duction, cooling/collecting, transportation, and processing, as well as higher
quality (Part C of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement).
Government Policy Towards Dairy Livestock
26.      High priority is given to livestock, and particularly to dairy devel-
opment, with a strategy aimed at increasing the supply of milk and improving
its quality by: (i) providing market outlets through expanding collection and
processing facilities; (ii) increasing profitability and quality through the
use of price incentives; and (iii) introducing improved technology at the farm
level through provision of both better technical services and increased access



- 10 -
to credit. The basic constraints in developing dairying are low dairy merit
of the national herd, lack of feed supplies, shortage of credit and an absence
of technology. Government livestock planning, therefore, emphasizes intensif-
ication through improvement in the productivity of natural grasslands and in-
tegration of livestock and forage cropping as a complement to cereal and in-
dustrial cropping, crossbreeding, provision of technical services, and wider
availability of credit for farm modernization and development.
Credit for Livestock
27.      To meet its objectives, the Government has used TCZB as its major in-
strument for transferring substantial financial resources to stimulate agri-
cultural growth. TCZB is a State Economic Enterprise (SEE) under the Ministry
of Commerce. It is Turkey's largest bank, and its only agricultural bank. It
accounts for over 90 percent of the institutional credit to agriculture, which
accounted for 18 percent of the increase in total outstanding bank credit be-
tween 1963 and 1971. Despite this substantial increase, there has not been
sufficient credit made available to farmers for agricultural purposes. Half
of Turkey's 3.1 million farm families still do not appear to have access to
institutional credit, in particular the small farmers, who have generally been
considered uncreditworthy largely because of the lack of clear land title or
other traditional loan security. This problem has particularly affected the
livestock sub-sector, in which the relative shortage of medium- and long-term
funds makes long-term investment difficult for small and medium sized farms.
28.      TCZB has some 850 branches, located throughout the country.     The im-
plementation of TCZB's credit functions under several Bank loans and IDA cred-
its are the responsibility of three well-established TCZB operating divisions
under the responsibility of TCZB's Secretary General: the Project Evaluation
Division, the Supervised Credit Program Division and the Encouragement and
Development Loans Division. All three divisions will have responsibility for
on-lending credit operations under different components of the Agricultural
Credit and Agroindustries Project (Loan 1248-TU). The Encouragement and De-
velopment Loans Division is responsible for sub-lending operations under the
First and Second Livestock Projects (Credits 236-TU and 330-TU) and will
administer credit operations under the proposed Loan.
29.      The Government uses specialized governmental institutions, such as
TCZB, as a channel for fiscal resources to stimulate the growth of various
sectors of the economy, including agriculture, to obtain planned objectives.
These institutions benefit from special rediscounting facilities through the
Central Bank and access to various sources of Government funds. The Govern-
ment has provided TCZB with access to substantial sources of public funds such
as, Government advances, Central Bank rediscount facilities, official deposits
and social security premiums. Interest rates do not, therefore, play as
marked a role in the allocation of resources in Turkey, as they do in other
market economies. The rates are fixed as a matter of Government policy, to
achieve the desired sector goals established in Turkey's current Development
Plan; within the agricultural sector, rates can also vary in accordance with



- 11 -
objectives at the sub-sector level. TCZB 's nominal lending rates, as fixed
by Government, therefore vary depending on the type of sub-sector activity
concerned. The effective cost of its credit to subborrowers, inclusive of
the additional fees, commissions and taxes, ranges from 8 to 14.4 percent.
The maximum rate fixed by the Government for agricultural activities, such
as livestock development, is 11 percent. These rates allow TCZB an average
spread of about 4 percent, which is adequate to cover its administrative ex-
penses and risks, and is acceptable under present interest rate relationships
prevailing in the country.
30.      Even with the reduced rate of inflation (see para 6), the present
ceiling on interest rates in the sector merits adjustment. The Government
recognizes the desirability of ultimately achieving a positive real interest
rate structure. However, an abrupt change in the present complex financial
and interest rate system could be disruptive. To establish a sound factual
and analytical basis for a more responsive sytem of financial mobilization
and allocation in Turkey, the Government has initiated, with Bank assistance,
a broad study of the financial sector. The Bank is hopeful that as a result
of this study it will be possible for the Government to consider such changes
in the financial sector as the study might indicate, including adjustments in
the interest rate regime.
Technical Services for the Livestock Development
31.      The technical services for the livestock subsector (including dairy),
are provided by several agencies. Important among them is the Directorate of
Livestock Development Projects (LDP) of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and
Livestock. Three operating divisions of LDP administer the technical aspects
of the First and Second Livestock Projects. The Intensive Dairy Production
Division (IDPD) of LDP will continue supervising sub-projects financed under
Livestock I, and will be responsible for preparing and approving farm develop-
ment plans under the proposed Project. LDP established regional offices in
Ankara, Istanbul, Izmir and Adana to execute Livestock I. Under the proposed
Project, LDP will open additional offices in Konya, Kayseri and Malatya in
east-central Anatolia (Loan Agreement Section 3.01(d)).
32.      Prior to 1975, LDP faced considerable difficulty in recruiting staff.
As a result, both Livestock I and Livestock II encountered extended delays.
Livestock I and the fattening sub-project of Livestock II are now being im-
plemented satisfactorily. The village development sub-project of Livestock
II is still moving slowly; but a major recruitment effort in the past six
months, supported by use of authorized special staff incentives, has now
brought actual staff close to full complement, and, as a result, accelerated
implementation is hoped for this year. IDPD now employs 30 professional and
sub-professional staff who would be largely available to work on the proposed
project (except for supervision responsibilities under Livestock I). Assur-
ances were given that in Turkey's fiscal year 1976 (beginning March 1) an
additional 18 and in 1977 an additional 16 such professional and sub-profes-
sional staff would be recruited (Loan Agreement Section 3.01(c)), which would
bring total IDPD staff to 64, a level and phasing considered satisfactory for



- 12 -
effective implementation of the proposed project. During negotiations, the
Government confirmed that the 34 additional positions had already been ap-
proved as had budgetary funds for special staff incentives in FY1976.
33.       Assurances were also given that three internationally-recruited
technical specialists, satisfactory to the Bank, would be on post by January
1, 1977 to assist the Project Manager (Loan Agreement Section 3.01(b)). Two
internationally recruited technical specialists are assisting the Project
Manager under Livestock I through the end of 1976. Arrangements would be made
by the Government to ensure that they will also assist with Livestock III dur-
ing their remaining tenure. Agreement was also reached that all veterinary
assistance needed for the proposed project would be provided by the Veterinary
Services (DVS) of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Livestock, as in
Livestock I (Loan Agreement Section 3.01(e)). LDP/IDPD would submit a staff
training program to the Bank for comment within six months after loan effec-
tiveness (Loan Agreement Section 3.07(b)). Annual plans for technical studies
in the areas of livestock production and milk marketing would be submitted to
the Bank for comment not later than the third quarter of the year prior to the
year of implementation of such plans (Loan Agreement Section 3.07(a)).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
34.      The proposed Project is the Bank's second dairying project in Turkey,
based on the experience of the Livestock I Project and designed to consolidate
and extend its achievements. It was prepared by staff of IDPD with help from
a mission of the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program which visited Turkey in July/
August 1975. The project was appraised in October/ November 1975. Negotia-
tions were held in Washington in April, 1976. The Turkish delegation was
headed by Mr. Muammer Akinci, Chief Economic and Financial Counselor of the
Turkish Embassy.
Project Description and Features
35.      The major objectives of the proposed Project are:     (i) further de-
velopment of dairying infrastructure begun under Livestock I, with particular
emphasis on increasing the nucleus herd of genetically superior dairy animals,
to produce heifers and breeding bulls for upgrading local herds, and on intro-
duction of modern dairy management techniques, strengthening the dairy exten-
sion services through further recruitment and training, and financing studies
for dairy production and marketing; (ii) introduction of a pilot sub-lending
and technical assistance program to assist very small dairy farmers; (iii)
expansion of milk production in the increasingly milk-deficient major metro-
politan regions of Istanbul, Izmir, Ankara, Adana and Konya, which were also
assisted under Livestock I; and (iv) limited geographic extension of the dairy
modernization program to the provinces of Balikesir and Denizli in the Izmir



- 13 -
region and eastward to the provinces of Kayseri, Malatya, and Adiyaman which
have high potential for dairy development and face major milk deficits in
their rapidly growing capital cities.
36.      The proposed Project consists essentially of:    (i) financing by TCZB
over a 5 year period, of about 750 dairy farm development plans prepared by
IDPD; (ii) training of IDPD technicians in modern dairying both in Turkey and
in countries with well-developed dairy industries; (iii) training of farmers
through study tours and extension activities; and (iv) provision of technical
assistance, studies in dairy production and marketing and studies for prepara-
tion of a future intensive dairy development project in additional provinces.
The project's features are amplified in the succeeding paragraphs, and other
details are provided in the Loan and Project Summary in Annex III. A report
entitled "Appraisal of the Third Livestock Development Project" (1027-TU)
dated May 10, 1976, is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
37.       The first objective described in para 35 above--to strengthen the
dairy production infrastructure and especially the genetic merit of the
national dairy herd--would be pursued through lending to farmers with small
and medium-sized dairy enterprises having six to ten cows before development.
The medium-sized enterprises are represented by two basic dairy farm models:
(a) 200 farmers, whose herds would increase from 6 indigenous milking cows to
12 genetically superior cows over a four-year period; and (b) 250 farmers,
whose herds would increase from 10 indigenous milking cows to 40 genetically
superior cows over a development period of four years. These 450 farmers
would receive the bulk of the 10,000 pure-bred in-calf heifers and all of the
450 pure-bred bulls to be imported under the Project (during the first three
years). They would also be expected to supply each year after full develop-
ment (beginning with the seventh year for 40-cow farmers and the fifth year
for 12-cow farmers),- some 10,000 purebred genetically superior heifers and
breeding bulls for upgrading the low-yielding indigenous herds throughout
Turkey, on the assumption that none of these higher quality animals would be
slaughtered. The second objective stated in para 35, would be supported by
sub-lending to 300 very small farmers (per capita income from farming based
on an average family size of six is only $90, of which $50 is from dairying)
and whose herd would increase from 3 indigenous cows to a genetically superior
herd of 5 cows over a development period of three years.
38.      Sub-loan financing of farm investment plans would also cover the
construction of animal housing and purchase of tractors, farm machinery and
equipment, including milking machines. Most of the very small farmers have
the necessary barns for the animals and would, in most cases, not need addi-
tional barn space; where needed, these would be constructed at minimum cost
with family labor and consequently, sub-loans to them would normally not in-
clude such building investment. Farmers with initial herds of six cows would
generally need some additional barn space, which would be provided wherever
possible using family labor to the maximum. -All farmers with initial herds
of ten cows would need extra buildings, and they would be expected to provide
not less than 75 percent of construction costs, which would be their principal



- 14 -
contribution to the cost of such sub-projects. A key aspect of all sub-proj-
ects would be the on-farm production of forages, which would usually require
provision of farm machinery and other related inputs. Most of the ten-cow-
herd farmers would need tractor-mowers, and other farm machinery. Similarly,
those with six-cow herds would need a small (12 H.P.) tractor, mower and
trailer. For three-cow-herd farmers, only minor mechanization is anticipated.
39.       In respect of provision of breeding animals, farmers with initial
herds of ten and six cows would have a herd bull, which would be replaced
every second or third year. Some of the bulls would be imported and some
would be available from herds established under the Livestock I project. As
mentioned in para 47 below, the incomes of all participating farmers, in vary-
ing degrees, will increase substantially after full development. It is an-
ticipated that a significant portion of the dairy farmers' increased income,
will be reinvested in their farms.
Project Cost and Financing
40.       The estimated total cost of the proposed project, based on current
input prices and including price contingencies, is about $35 million, of which
$21.5 million, or 62 percent, is in foreign exchange. The proposed loan
will cover 100 percent of foreign exchange costs.
41.       Up to the equivalent in Turkish lira of $20.7 million of the pro-
ceeds of the proposed loan would be onlent to TCZB on the same terms as those
of the proposed loan, under a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to the
Bank. Its signing would be a condition of effectiveness. TCZB would provide
the equivalent of $6.9 million or 20 percent of Project costs from its own
resources, and sub-borrowers would finance the equivalent of $6.3 million or
18 percent of project costs. The Government would take the foreign exchange
risk. The remaining proceeds of the proposed loan would finance technical
specialists' services ($500,000) and training ($300,000).
Sub-Lending Terms and Conditions
42.       Sub-lending terms for the different types of dairy farmers would
include the following. Farmers would have to meet basic eligibility require-
ments of experience in dairying, a minimum herd of three dairy cows, and ac-
cess to 0.5 ha. of forage land per milking cow. They would normally finance
about 18 percent of their on-farm investment plan, including at least 75 per-
cent of the cost of buildings. Requirements for sub-loan security would
essentially follow the pattern established for the Corum and Cankiri Rural
Development Project (Loan 1130-TU) and the Agricultural Credit and Agroindus-
tries Project (Loan 1248-TU) in which TCZB agreed to liberalize in part its
traditional requirement of land title so as to encourage wider borrowing by
smaller farmers. Thus, sub-loans up to TL 100,000 would be secured by chattel
mortgage on livestock and machinery and the guarantee of creditworthy cosign-
ers. Sub-loans over TL 100,000 would also require a land title as partial



- 15 -
security. Sub-loans would be made for 10-12 years, including 2-4 years of
grace (depending on farm size and income generated) and at a rate of interest
(including all charges) not less than TCZB's current maximum rate (fixed by
Government decree) of 11 percent for loans for livestock development. Sub-
loans over the equivalent of $80,000 would be submitted to the Bank for
approval. TCZB would place 0.5 percent of the interest received from sub-
borrowers into the Special Operational Fund created under Livesock I for
financing certain incentive payments, side benefits and special needs of the
LDP (farm demonstrations, field days, local training costs, etc.).
Project Implementation
43.       LDP, through IDPD, would have overall responsibility for the proposed
Project. IDPD would carry out the technical functions, and the Encouragement
and Development Loans Division (EDLD) of TCZB would handle credit aspects. A
farmer's application for a sub-loan would be submitted to a locaL branch of-
fice of IDPD or TCZB. After determination of the farmer's creditworthiness
and credit limit by TCZB, a dairy development plan would be prepared by an IDPD
technician and reviewed by the IDPD regional consultant. Sub-loan proposals
under TL 150,000 would be approved by the IDPD regional manager and the TCZB
branch manager;- proposals of TL 150,000 or more would be approved by the IDPD
project manager in Ankara and forwarded through EDLD to the Board of Directors
of TCZB for credit approval. These procedures were successfully followed in
Livestock I. The project manager would submit quarterly progress reports to
the Bank through TCZB.
Procurement and Disbursement
44.       Dairy cattle would be procured in 12-15 shipments, averaging about
800 head made up of selected lots of pure bred animals purchased on the basis
of not less than three quotations from at least two countries, a procedure
followed satisfactorily in Livestock I. Suppliers would insure the animals
and be responsible for their safe delivery to project farmers. During nego-
tiations, an assurance was given that the border entry of animals to be im-
ported would be expedited (Loan Agreement Section 4.04). Tractors, sowing
and harvesting equipment and milking machines would be procured under inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. In bid com-
parisons, domestic manufacturers would receive a margin of preference equal
to 15 percent or the actual level of import duty, whichever is less.
45.       The proposed loan would be disbursed over   5 years against 100 per-
cent of foreign expenditures for livestock, technical specialists, and train-
ing, and 100 percent of-foreign expenditures or 100 percent of ex-factory cost
of domestic manufacture, for tractors, sowing and harvesting equipment and
milking machines, the orders for which local manufacturers might win on the
basis of international competitive bidding.



- 16 -
Economic Justification
46.       The economic rate of return is estimated at 22 percent.     Direct
economic benefits of the proposed Project at full development would arise
from the incremental production of 45 million liters of milk valued at some
$10 million per year and around 10,000 quality cattle for dairying and breed-
ing worth $3.3 million per year. However, the greatest benefits to the econ-
omy would be long-term and indirect and difficult to quantify. These include
improvement in the milking quality of the national herd, improved land utili-
zation and animal productivity, improved institutional infrastructure for
future dairy development, pilot lending to very small dairy farmers, and
greater utilization and increased operating efficiency of Government milk
plants.
47.       The direct beneficiaries would be 750 farm families (about 4,500
persons), who would receive increased and more evenly distributed income, and
whose financial rate of return is estimated to range from 17 to 41 percent,
with the latter return accruing to the very small farms. Farmers with ini-
tial herds of three cows would not be expected to maintain a bull, and provi-
sion of facilities for natural service or artificial insemination would be
arranged by project technicians. At full development, and as a result of the
inputs provided through the sub-loans, the herds of the very small farmers
would increase to herds of five genetically superior cows each. The farm
family (6 persons) income from milking is expected to increase on average from
$300 to $2,940, i.e. an increase in per capita income from milking from about
$50 to about $490 per year. The small farmers whose herds would increase from
six to twelve genetically superior cows, would have a farm family income from
milking of about $4,555, i.e. a per capita income from milking of $760 at full
development, compared to their present family income from milking of $900 or
$150 per capita. Those whose herds would increase from ten to forty geneti-
cally superior animals, and whose present farm family income from milking is
about $1,013, would have at full development an income of $20,331, i.e. a per
capita income from milking of about $3,400 compared to their present per
capita income from milking of $170. A thousand workers and 200 skilled
workers would benefit from permanent employment. Indirect beneficiaries would
include about 400,000 additional consumers of milk.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
48.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Turkey and the Bank,
the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and the TCZB, the report of the
Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of
Agreement, and the text of a Resolution approving the proposed loan are being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors. The draft agreements con-
form to the normal pattern for loans for livestock dairy development. A special



- 17 -
condition of effectiveness is: the submission to the Bank of a satisfactory
interagency protocol defining the agreed division of responsibilities between
TCZB and LDP for implementing the project (Section 6.01(c)) of the Loan Agree-
ment).
49.       Features of the draft Loan Agreement of special interest are referred
to in paragraphs 25, 32, 33, 35-38, 42, and 44.
50.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Arti-
cles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
51.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President






ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6 Pages
TABLE 3A
TURKEY              - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KN2)                 --------------------------------------------
--------------                     rTURKEY                             REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1910)
TOTAL      780.6                                      MOST RECENT
AORIC.      51L3.3                     1960      1910   ESTIMATE          COLONBIA       IRAN           ITALY
GNP PER CAP ITA (US$)                    250.0      450.0      600.0              330.0       600.0     1980.0
POPULATI4N AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (M10-YR. HILLION),           21.5       35.2       3r.9               21.6        29.1       53.6
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        35.0       45.0       49.0               19.0        18.0      1r8.0
PER SQUARE KM. AGRIC. LAND              ..                   70.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE PER THOUSAND         45.0.b     38.0       39.0               45.0        45.0       16.8
CRUDE OEATH RATE PER THOUSAND         18.0 73 13.0          t 1.0              11.0        17.0        9.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)       181.0     C145.0          ..               70.0       140.0       29.6
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       55.0 as     55-0/      58.0               59.0        50.0       71.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               2.9         2.6         ..                3.2         3.4        1.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE 12)
TOTAL                                 3.0         2.5        2.5                3.2         3.2        0.8
URBAN                                  5.5        4.5        5.5                5.5j        5.0         0.8
URBAN POPULATION (t OF TOTAL)           32.0       39.0        39.0              60.o        41.0        1.5
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                        41.3       41.8         ..               41.0        46.0       24.4
1i TO 64,TEARS                       55.2        53.9         ..               50.0        50.0/a     65.2
65 YEARS AND OVER                     3.5         4.3         ..                3.0         4.o7?     10.4
AGE DEPENOENCY RATIO                     0.8        0.9         ..                I 0         1.0/a       0.5
ECONOMIC OEPE NDENCY RATIO               1.0       1b.          ..               1.7 j       1. 97       0.9
FAMILY PLANNING-
ACCEPTORS (CU9JLArIVE, THOU)          0.0       484.0          ..             306.9       662.4     
USERS (Z OF MARRIEO WOMEN)            5.3/e       8.2         *-                 *-        10.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS).      13000.0f    14500.0,   15000. 0            6200.0      8100.0    19600.0
LAB4R FORCE IN AGRICULTURE CZ)          71.        61.0       60.0               39.0        43.0       19.D
UNEIPLOYED CZ OF LABOR FORCE)            2. 0       4.0/f        *-               7.0         2.0         3.1
MICOME DISTRIBUTION
X OF PRIVAT- INCHME REC*D BY-
HIGHEST, 5Z,OF HOUSEHMLDS            33.0/a h    32.8/g       .3 31.9 d                      .29./*
HIGHEST 20x OF ROlUSEIML             61.0        60.6i         .               60.1 d      54.4.
LOWESt 2?i OF HDUSEBLDS               4.0   i     2.9          *-               3.5         4.0h
LOWEST  40x OF H0USEOLDS             11.0 e h     9. 4        *.               10.l.i      12. 7.
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
x JWNEO aT ToP 101 OF OW#NEAS             ..       53.0         ..                 .....
t OWNED BY SMALLEST 101 OWNERS           ..         0.9         ..                 ..
HEALTH ANO NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             3220.0dg    2220.0     2130.0             2160.0      3300.0      550.0
POPJl ATION PER NJRSING PERSON        1260.0 I.  1880.0/h    12b0.0 /b         1040.0Oe    3230.0      40.0 A
POPJLATION PER HOSPITAL BED           650.0       490.0-     490.0              450.0       7s0.0       90.0 o
PEq CAPITA SUPP-Y OF -
CALORIES tr OF REOUIPEMENTS)         10.0       110.0      129.0               91.0        e6.0      126.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              18.0        78.0       91.0               51.0        53.0      100.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           ..        22.0 /        ..              29.0,       14.0/     4*2.0
OEATH RATE I/THOU) AGES 1-4             16.0e      15.,0&        ..                ..          ..         1.0
EDUCAT ION
ADJ,STED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        r5.o      111.0       105.0             102.0        83.0      107.0
SECON4ARY -SCHOOL                    14.0        28.0        32.0              23.0        26.0       59.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND. SECDND LEVEL)            i1.0        11.0       11.0               11.0        12.0       13.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(1 OF SEC3NDARY)                     18.0        14.0       14.0               2s.0,&       3.0       28.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE Cl)                 40.0       55.o/         ..              73.0          ..       97.0
HOUS ING
PERSONS PER ROOM (AVERAGE)               2.0        1.9         ..                  ..          2a *d
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER                          81.0        64.0         ..                 ..        a1.0 .a.
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(X OF ALL DWELLINGS)                 29.0        41.0         ..                 ..        25.0/a
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
T1 ELECTRICITY (%)                    2.0        18.0         ..                 ..         4.0/a
CONSU4PTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          49.0       89.0       106.0             105.0        93.0      218.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            2.0        4.0         6.0              L1.0        10. 0     190.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           102.0      244.0       304.0             414.0       246.0     2266.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                0.8       o0.          1.                2 .8        0.4         5.3
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6 Pages
Raleasa other-wiSe noted, dataL for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 end 13-61, for 13970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Most Recent Eatinate between
1971 and 1973.
ow The long-term strategy of Turkish Planning currently gLves the 1970 level of Italy as itsa ObJective.
TU__K__                 1960    /_  1955-60;    A    Derived free asmpic aurvey estimates (9,700 households);    /.  Might be sndereatisatsd;     /d  Sources
TOMIT          1960    '~~~~~ acd methods are~ dfferent f or 1955-60 and 1965-67;  I4  1963,   If  15 years and over;    La   1962;    /h  Disposable
inrone of households;    /i  Includintg assiatent nurees end midwive-s;  /4   Person saix years and over who tell the
ceneu takcere that they can read and write.
1970    /a   Excludes 17 eastern provincee;   A4  1965-67;   /4  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 years and over to labor force
15 ywasr  and Over;  Zd 196,-june 1974,, 86 percent being 109e;    /e  15 years and over, excludes unemployed;
Regletered only;   /4  Mapossabi   incoms of householdBs;  A   Including aseistant nursees and midwives;   A4  196L-66;
Persona aix yeiars and over who tail the census takers that they can read and writs.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE, /a 15 years and over, excludes unamployedj /b Incloding aasiotant nurses aod nidwivee.
IDIONRIA                1970    /a  Rate based  on burial pormits;    /b 1964-70;      /4  Ratio of populatio n cder 15 and 65 years end over to total labor
force;    /d  BEconocally active population;      fe  Hoopital personnel;    If  196h-66;    I4  Including t-eocher
training at the third lea-l.
ItSAN                   1970    /a 1966;     /b 'Households (urban);    le  196h.-6;     /d  Excludes nomadic tribes;    /e  Isoide only.
ITALY                   1970    /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 years and over to total Labor force;     /b  Hospital personnel;     /o  Including rural
hospitals and medical centers.
R9, MaY 3, 1976
DRPINTIONS O? SOCIAL fTICMATERS
IadArpihus                                                                         Pputation- Por nri4gsro          Population divided by aoumber or practicing
surflCly  ace   rare  comPrising Land area and inland waters.                  maead fanal     grdut nus,ttrainedfl or         certified" nuroso, and
Acic. -Moot recant estimate of Wgicaltural area used temporarily or par-              Auxiliary Peso-nonel with training or experience.
eanently for crops, pastures, market & kitchen gardens or to lie fallow,            a   MO        hog htl bed - Population divided by number of hospital baed
availbli public and prijvate general and speciaiLloed hospital and
01  rc  ta ($) - GO per capita estimates at market prices, calco-               rehabilitation centers; exclude   nursing hocsraend establishmento for
2%tid by seesm conversion method as World Rank Atlas (1972-74 heats)-                custodial and preventive cars.
Parcaitaeuoplyof calories (9o      euronant)-Ouue           rmee
omltoand vital statistics                                                        pualtofmt food sopplies availbl           incutry per capita per day;
M M  amid-  .miflimn   - As of July first; if not available, average             available supplies comprise doneotic production, imipotst less exports,
of-two end-yeiYritates.                                                              and changes in stock; net supplies exclude aniovl feed, seeds, quanti-
ties used in food p'ccoseiog and lesson In distribution; requirements
Popuatio  desity-pr ksuaemn - Mid-year pcpulation per square kilo-              were estimated by FAO hosed on pbyoiological needs for normal activity
mater (10hetres f         uetearea                                                   and health considering environmental tenperature, budy weights, age and
PopuMlato  density - Per bouare be of sapic. land - Coemputed as above for             sex distributions Of population, and of1owing 10% for waste at household
aiutural land only.                                                              lea-st
per_ capita sup   of M;1entin(coo   pr    ay    Protein content of per
Vital statistics                                                                      caiantspl           ffo     e   a;mtsupply of food in defined as
Crumde birth rate our thoMusand - Annual lives births per thousand of mid-            above; requfreuwots for all countries established IV USDA Economic
yea populaton      sul   r ive-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and                Reeearob Services provide for a miimium allowance of 601 grooms of total
1975 for developing countries,                                                      protein per day, and 20 grass~ of aainal and pulse protein, of idaich 10
Crude death rate pertosn      - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-year                gram   should he animal protein; these standards arellower than these of
populatton;  sal    five-yea averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1915                  75 gra ef total w~.tni and 235 ga-ai Of -ntea protein as an average
for de-lopiog cautrieo.                                                              for the weld, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Infant mortailty rate (/tlwu) - Ann'ual deaths of Infants under one yea             Per capita estin     uplfpsanimal and masne - Protein supply of food
Of age per thousand llve births,                                                    derHiveS rmaiasadple             in grams per day.
Lieeosjac  stUbirth     )   Averge number of yeare of life remain- Dthr.                     th    aeI         ncual. deaths per thousand in age group 1-4
1 ijaEurtjustfljfve-year averages ending ink 1960, 1970 cand                  joasaito childrenIn3Kthle age group; suggested as an indicator ef -al-
1975 for developing countries                                                        nutrition.
Grozrarducionrate - Average number of live daughters a woean awill
thiT    raVnorulYreproductite Period if she experiences pranent ag-                Education
opecific fertility rates; usually five-year averages mading in 1960,              Adjusted   nrolmet ratio - piary school - P,s-oll,ont of all ages as
1970 and 1975 for developing countries,                                             pecnaeo         rnr     cool-age population; inluldee children aged
Population growth rate,(6) - total - Compound annual growth rates of mid-             6-il years but adjusted for different lengths of Primary educatio.;
year population for 1150-60, 1960-70, and 1960 in oust recent year.                  for countries with universal education, enro2lment may exceed 100%
Poplaiongotf        oe 9f      ra  - Compted Like growth rate of total                since saoe pupils arc below me above the official school age.
Pop.  to;dffrn          eiitions of urban areas nay affect compare-               Adjusted enrollment ratio - sGCOodacyschool - Computed -as above; second-
bility ofodata acang c ountri.o.                                                     sry educoation requires at least foryears of approved primary instruc -
Uhan pop-ultion (%of total) - Ratio of urban in total Population; dif-                tion; Provides, general, vocational or teacher training instructions for
feret dfintim.Of rb  cress say affect comparability of data                  Pupile of 12 to 17 years of ago; correspondence courses are generally
among cntriev.                                                                    excluded.
(vmn)- Children (0-11, years), isirking-age (15-61, yearn),      Yaofshligprovdd(isanseodles)-Ttlyrsf
t5years and over) as percentages of aid-year population,              scolig     at secodar level vocationa      levelatru Ti ot.naybearpofia
Age  epedeny rtio- Ratio of population under 15 and 65 mid over to               or campletely excluded.
those of ages 15 tlm-ough 64,.                                                    Vocational ezuollcnt( of secondary) - Vocational institutirns include
Bcm  emndncy   atio- Ratio of population under 15 end 65 and over               teknna,ids ra         o   te programs which operate independently Or
atW9ilbor1romeinWage group of 15-64, years.                                        as. deatet of seodary institutions...t              adad-t)          pr
Pa]l panning -;acceptor(cmltv         thou) -Cumuslative number of               Adul Iterr      ae()-Ltrt            dls(bet         edadiaio        spr
acceptors of brhcnoldevices under auspices of national faxily                        centage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
planning progran since inception 
FaMidy planng - users (9 of married seumen) - Percentages of carriedHosn
women of child-barng agk15-Wi years) saho use birth-control de-                    Pros       r ree  aver e)-Average number of persons per roes in occpied
vie  oall married women to saers age goaup,                                     coneniitidiiaIldwoitigsiin urban areas; dwellings exclude nov-permanent
structures and unoccupied parts.
&oOOlclsnent  ~ ~ ~        ~         ~        ~        ~        ss4~~sfl40ed ssx1wthoutpImdnS         (r) - Occupied conventiomal dwell-
17tlTabor forc  (thousand) - Ecoomically active Persono, including                  ".ignTiirbEaniPriIabii             (Yul1smide or suicide piped water
a'; forces ad unemployed hut excluding houmsewives, students, sin,                facilities as percentage of all ocuied dwellings.
definitions in various comntries are not comparable.                              Access toeetii15        9o    l dweligs) - Conventional dwellings with
lbrforce ink a  culture  %) - Agricultural Labor force (in farming,'                electricitynliigq-uaRrters as percent of total dwellings in urban
fordestry,himting7andWfishing) as percetage of total labsr force,                   and rural areas.
Lb   ,   %of labor force) - Uoemployed are usually defioed as per            -Rural "ulig     connected to electricity (     C)-Cmputed as above for rural
son      areZ able and w  taig to take a job, out of a job on a given               dwellings only.
day, remined out of a job, end seeking werk for a specified mainimnu
period not exceeding one week; nay not be coasparable between couo-                Cnmto
tries due to different definition- of unemployed and source of data,              R_a*re_eivers        thou    ) - All types of receivero for radio broad-
e.g. employment office statistics, sample suveys, compulsory unan-                                          pet og  pbi   r thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
ploymsent Insurance,                                                                 receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio seats woe
in affect; data for recet years may not be comparable since most coun-
i-ncoe dietrihution - Percentg   of private iscos   (both in cash and                 tries abolished icenscing.
kind) receiv-ed by richest 5, richest 20%, poorest 20%, and poorest               PR         cars Ver thou po)- Passenger cars compr-ise outer care seating
4o0% of households,                                                                             in persons; excludes anhulacica, hearses and military
vehicle.
Distribution of land oweship     Percentages of land owned by  aoalthient           -lcticAnnual conounption of industrial, conner-
10% end poorest 10  of land swer.                                                    ialTIuBfllE1n6'5pjffiiidWrL alectrlits  In kilowatt hours per capita; gen-
orally hosed on production data, idthoumt allowance for losses in grids
Health-and Nutrition                                                                   but allowing for iWmpots and e0xpR-ts of electricIt;y.
Po  ati PR:j  sician - Populati on divided by number of practicing               iNnt Drfr         ioer cng) - Per copita annual consumption in kilcgrams
pysWizano qualulfed from a medical school at university level.                       estimated from dmestlic production plus net Imports of newsprint.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
Growth Rates          1973
Actual                 Est.           Projected           1965-    1973-   1975-   Share
1965     1970    1972     1973     1974    1975    176       1980    1973     1975     1980   of GDP
A. NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
(TL billions at 1968 prices)
GDP (m.p.)                         87.4    123.8    144.7    151.3   163.2    175.3    188.9   261.6      7.1     7.7      8.3    100.0
Gains from Terms of Trade          -0.1     -0.7    -14.2      2.1    -2.4      ..      ..
Gross Domestic Income               87.3   123.1    130.5    153.4   160.8      ..      ..
Exports (g + nfs)                    4.8     6.7      8.7      9.6     6.7      8.1     8.8     12.1      9.0       -      8.5      6.3
Imports (g + nfs)                   5.4      9.6     12.9    14.3     16.8     18.1    19.3     25.1     12.9    11.9      8.8      9.5
Resource Balance                    -o.6    -2.9     -4.2     -4.7   -10.1    -10.0    -10.5   -13-0                                3.1
Consumption                        73.6    101.2    121.4    125.9   139.1    143.9    153.8   204.1      7.0     4.6      7.3     95.1
Investment                         14.4     25.5    27.5     30.0     34.8     40.7    45.6     71.8      9.6    16.5     12.0     19.8
Domestic Savings                    13.8    22.6     23.3    25.4     24.1     31.6    35.1     57.5      7.9     7.6     12.7     16.8
National Savings                    14.1    24.0     27.7    31.4     30.1     37.6    41.1     63.5     10.5      9.5    11.0     20.8
GDP (at current m.p.)               74.2   144.6    228.9    293-5   411.3      ..      ..       ..      18.8
B. SECTOR OUTPUT                      Share of GDP (fc) at 1968 prices (M)
Agriculture                         34.1    29.1     28 .2    24.5    24.3      ..      ..       ..       2.4
Industry                           17.8     20.6     21.8    23.5     23.6     ..       ..       ..      10.5
Services                           48.1     50.3     50.0    52.0     52.1      ..      ..       ..       7.7
C. PRICES (1968 = 100.0)
Export Price Index                 100.0   137.3    169.0   234.3    397.0      ..      ..
Import Price Index                109.3    140.6    194.6   216.4    323.6     ..       ..
Terms of Trade Index                91.5    97.6     86.8    108.3   122.7      ..      ..
GDP (m.p.) Deflator                 84.9   116.9    158.2    194.0   252.0      ..      ..
Average Exchange Rate ($1.00 = TL)  9.00   15.00    14.00    14.00   14.00      ..      ..       ..
D. SELECTED INDICATORS                        1965-73  1973-75  1975-80            E. LABOR FORCE            1965    1970     1975
Incremental Capital/output ratio             3.1      3.2     3.2                 Labor Force (mln)     -137     14.7
Import Elasticity                            1.8      1.5     1.1                  Unemployment (mln)     0.4     o.6
Average National Savings Rate               18.4     20.4     24.3                 (% of TL)              3.1      4.5
Marginal National Savings Rate              24.8     32.3     29.6                 Employment (mln)      13.2     14.1
Imports/GDP                                  7.8      9.7    10.5                   (% share)
Investment/GDP                              19.4     21.9    25.2                   Agriculture         70.5     62.1
Resource Gap/GDP                             2.3      4.5     3-9                    Indystry             8.0      9.8
Services            21.5     28.1
F. PUBLIC FINANCE
(as t of GDP at current m.p.)      1965     1970     1972    1973     1974
Current revenue                     12.9    28.1     20.6    19.4     18.8
Tax revenue                         14.3    16.5     17.4     17.5    16.4
Current expenditure                 10.0    10.2     10.6    10.1      9.9
Defense expenditure                 4.5      3.3      3.5     3-8      3-3
Government savings                   2.9    10.8     10.0      9.3     8.9
Capital expenditures                 4.7     4.8      3.8     3.5      4.7
Public sector fixed capital formation 8.8   10.0      8.8     8.5      8.8
February 17, 1976



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
IMPORT DETAIL
1969     1970     1971      1972     1973     1974     1975     1976     1977      1980
A.  Constant 1968 Prices (Million $)
Food                                  39.6     82.8     70.8     26.8     39.7     192.8    197.0    202.0    206.0    221.0
Other goods                           36.8    165.2    196.0    231.6    163.9     172.2    187.0    204.0    223.0    288.o
Petroleum and products                60.8     66.7    121.1    114.7    131.9    205.3     203.0    203.0    210.0    232.0
Other intermediate goods            311.6     261.3    406.3    576.0    707.3     967.0   1072.0   1171.0   1256.0   1552.0
Capital goods                        315.6    342.9    392.5    564.6    614.0    717.6    769.0     825.0    886.0   1094.0
Total goods (c.i.f.)                764.4     918.9   1186.7   1513.7   1656.8   2255.9    2428.0   2605.0   2781.0   3387.0
Non-factor services                  150.0    -43.3    242.6    178.4     77.5     76.5      80.0     80.0     90.0    100.0
Total goods and NFS                  914.4    873.7   1400.6   1669.6   1655.3   2332.4    2508.0   2685.0   2871.0   3487.0
B.  Prices Index (1968 = 100)
Food                                 103.0    106.0     95.0     94.0    116.0     166.0    178.0    158.0    150.0    158.0
Other goods                          103.0     92.0     89.0     91.0    134.0     126.0    151.0    164.0    177.0    219.0
Petroleum and products               100.0    100.0    103.0    135.0    168.0     419.0    448.0    487.0    528.0    652.0
Other intermediate goods             108.0    101.0     84.0     77.0     95.0     120.0    133.0    145.0    156.0    193.0
Capital goods                        103.0    110.0    118.0    129.0    151.0     170.0    190.0    206.0    222.0    275.0
Total goods (c.i.f.)                 105.0    103.0     99.0    103.0    126.0     167.4    182.4    193.5    206.4    250.9
Non-factor services                  103.0    110.0    118.0    129.0    151.0     170.0    201-3    220.0    236.7    294.0
Total goods and NFS                  105.0    103.0    104.0    107.0    133-0     167.8    183.0    194.3    207.3    252.1
C.  Current Values (Million $)
Food                                  40.8     87.8     67-3     25.2     46.1     320.0    351.0    319.0    309.0    350.0
Other goods                           37.9    152.0    174.4    210.8    219.6     217.0    282.0    335.0    395.0    631.0
Petroleum and products                60.8     66.7    124.7    154.9    221.6    860.0     908.0    989.0   1109.0   1512.0
Other intermediate goods             336.5    263.9    341.3    443.5    671.9    1160.0   1426.0   1698.0   1959.0   2995.0
Capital goods                        325.1    377.2    463.1    728-3    927.1    1220.0   1461.0   1700.0   1967.0   3009.0
Total goods (c.i.f.)                 801.1    947.6   1170.8   1562.7   2086.3   3777.0    4428.0   5040.0   5739.0   8497.0
Non-factor services                  154.5    -47.6    286.3    230.2    117.0     144.0    161.0    176.0    213.0    294.0
Total goods and NFS                  955.6    900.0   1457.1   1792.9   2203.3    3914.0   4589.0   5216.0   5952.0   8791.0
February 17, 1976



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
EXPORT DETArL
1969     1970     1971      1972     1973     1974     1975     1976      1977     1980
A.  Constant 1968 Prices (Million $)
Cotton                               123.3    165.4    123.8    107.4    151.3     77.3     100.0    125.0    150.0     180.0
Tobacco                               77.8     73.7     65.7     90.9     81.3      83.7     85.0     88.0     90.0     100.0
Hazelnuts                             99.9     63.0     56.0     78.1     72.0     104.7    110.0    120.0    130.0     160.0
Raisins                               25.1     21.6     28.9     36.9     60.5      30.9     60.0     63.0     67.0      85.0
Mining and quarry products            33.3     32.4     22.5     19.7     20.7      21.7     22.0     23.0     24.0      30.0
Manufactured goods                    96.5     96.3    126.7    188.4    301.4     272.0    300.0    320.0    350.0     440.0
All other goods                       79.2     79.8     92.8    114.0     159.6     54.1    120.0    150.0    170.0     230.0
Total goods (f.o.b.)                 535.1    532.2    516.4    635.4    846.8     644.4    797.0    889.0    981.0    1225.0
Non-factor services                  140.4     23.8    151.3    131.1    198.1     229.9    253.0    261.0    279.0     355.0
Total goods and NFS                  675.5    556.0    667.7    766.5   1044.9     874.3   1050.0   1150.0   1260.0    1580.0
B. Price Index (1968 = 100)
Cotton                                92.1    104.7    156.0    178.2    202.1     461.6    377.7    447.6    489.6     587.5
Tobacco                              104.8    106.7    130.7    144.0     163.3    243.6    256.0    277.0    299.0     397.0
Hazelnuts                            107.7    138.1    150.4    149.1    169.1     186.6    208.4    228.8    248.2     308.4
Raisins                               91.0     96.2     75.2     82.6     93.7     187.1    209.0    229.5    249.0     309.3
Mining products                      104.8    140.2    178.4    177.8    201.6     230.2    232.0    253.0    258.0     328.0
Manufactured goods                   100.4    104.2    114.6    125.9     142.8    213.2    235.0    256.0    276.0     341.0
All other goods                      100.4    104.2    114.6    125.9     142.8    163.1    181.0    196.2    212.0     262.0
Total goods (f.o.b.)                 100.3    110.6    131.0    139.3     155.5    225.0    241.3    269.3    293.7     360.2
Non-factor services                  100.4    104.2    114.6    125.9     142.8    167.0    202.0    220.0    237.0     294.0
Total goods and NFS                  100.3    110.3    127.3    137.0    153.1     219.1    231.8    258.1    281.2     345.3
C.  Current Values (Million $)
Cotton                               113.6    173.2    193.1    191.3    305.8     356.8    378.0    560.0    734.0    1058.0
Tobacco                               81.5     78.6     85.9    130.9     132.9    203.8    217.6    243.8    269.1     397.0
Hazelnuts                            107.6     87.0     84.2    116.5     121.7    195.3    229.2    274.6    322.7     493.4
Raisins                               22.8    220.8     21.7     30.5     56.7     57.9     125.4    144.6    166.8     262.7
Mining and quarry products            34.9     45.4     40.1     35.1     41.7      50.0     51.0     58.2     61.9      98.4
Manufactured goods                    96.9    100.3    145.2    237.2    430.4     580.0    70.5.0   819.2    966.0    1500.4
All other goods                       79.5     83.2    106.4    143.5    227.9      88.3    217.2    294.0    360.4     602.6
Total goods (f.o.b.)                 536.8    588.5    676.6    885.0   1317.1    1532.0   1923.2   2393.8   2881.3    4412.0
Non-factor services                  141.0     24.8    173.4    165.0    282.9     384.0    511.1    574.2    661.2    1043.7
Total goods and NFS                  677.8    613.3    850.0   1050.0   1600.0    1916.0   2434.3   2968.0   3542.5   5455.7
February 17, 1976



ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(In US$ Millions)
Actual                     Est.                 -         Projected
1970      1971      1972      1973      1974      1975      1976     1977      1978      1979       1980
SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (goods)                               588       677       885     1,317     1,532     1,923     2,394     2,881     3,312     3,826     4,412
Imports (goods)                              -948    -1,171    -1,563    -2,086    -3,777    -4,428    -5,040    -5,739    -6,549    -7,484    -8,497
Non-factor services, net                       -4        -3        27       165       246       350       398       448       541       641       750
Resource balance (1+2+3)                     -364      -497      -651      -604    -1,999    -2,155    -2,248    -2,410    -2,696    -3,017    -3,335
Interest, net                                 -47       -60       -62       -59       -75      -106      -133      -163      -196      -239      -281
Workers' remittances                          273       471       740     1,183     1,425     1,600     1,792     2,007     2,248     2,518     2,820
Profit transfers                              -33       -36       -35       -35       -55       -50       -50       -60       -60       -70       -70
Net factor income (5+6+7)                     193       375       643     1,089     1,295     1,444     1,609     1,784     1,992     2,209     2,469
Balance on current account (4+8)             -171      -122        -8       485      -704      -711      -638      -626      -705      -808      -866
Private direct investment                      58        45        43        27        25        30        30        30        40        40        40
TL Grain imports and grants                    83        55        16        -         -         -         -         -         -         -         -
Commercial credits (net)                       -         -         -         52        75       213        50       253       349       378       382
Direct imports (with waivers)                  34        27        39        50        65        80        90       100       110       120       130
Public M+LT loans:
Disbursements                                 271       293       294       376       306       382       373       406       426       470       479
Amortization                                 -197      -125      -127      -107       -85      -144      -155      -174      -189      -201      -205
Net disbursements                              74       168       167       269       221       237       218       232       237       270       274
Debt relief                                    16        13        10        35        -         -         -         -         -         -         -
EMA refinancing                                50        37             -         -         -         -         -         -         -              -
Overall balance                                144      223       267       918      -318      -150      -250       -10        30        -        -40
Short-term capital                             18        61       332      -244       -88      -100       -50             -         -              -
Change in reserves (- - increase)            -138      -344      -627      -728       362       250       300        10       -30        -         40
Errors and omissions                          -24        60        28        54       -44             -         -         -         -              -
End of period:
Gross international reserves                  431        761    1,401     2,120     1,758     1,510     1,210     1,200     1,230     1,230     1,190
Net international reserves                      11      414       556     1,006       430       180      -120      -130      -100      -100      -160
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS
Official grant                                 -         -         -         -         -
Total public M+LT loans                      271.1     336.7    441.7     319.6     578.0
IBRD                                       40.0      54.5     177.0     105.0     228.0
IDA                                           -       19.5     36.3      30.0        A                                          Outatandinz 12/31/74
Other multilateral (EIB)                    15.7     13.0       1.7      49.8      90.0     EXTERNAL DEBT (DISBURSED ONLY)        Amount    Percent
Governments                                168.2    219.4      194.7    114.9     170.0                                            (US$ Millions)
of wbich:  Eastern Bloc                 (113.7)   ( 2.8)    (  - )   (   - )   (   - )    IBRD                                   208.1      4.8
Suppliers                                   27.2     20.8      29.2      19.9      75.0     Bank group                             334.8      7.7
Financial institutions                      20.0      9.5       2.8        -       15.0     Other multilateral (EIB)               245.7      5.7
Bonds                                              -        -         -              -      Governments                          2,299.8     53.0
Public loans-                                          -         -         -         -        of which: centrally planned
economies                 (267.0)    (6.2)
Other M+-LI loans-                                       -         -         -         -      Suppliers                              114.0      2.6
Financial institutions                  73.7      1.7
MEMORANDUM ITEMS                                                                              Bonds                                   17.5      0.4
% Grant element (Pub. M+LT)                   47.0     47.0      45.0      41.0      30.6     Public debt NEI                          6.0
Average interest (%)                           3.1       3.9       3.8      4.4       6.0     Total public M+LT debt               3,091.5
Average maturity (years)                      19.1      25.3     21.6      23.5      23.7     other public M+LT debt
Other M+LT debt
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE                                                                         Total public debt (incl. undisb.)
Medium and Long-term debt (disbursed only)                                                    Total M+LT debt (incl. undiab.)      4,341.7    100.0
Total debt outstanding (DOD; end period)   1,841     2,235     2,454    2,803     3,091
Including undisbursed                     2,684     3,041     3,387     3,778     4,342     DEBT PROFILE
Public debt service                          171      162       208       183       211     Total debt service 1974-78/total
+ interest                                  42        51       61        77        87       DOD end of 1973                       42.7
Other M+LT debt service
Total debt service
Debt Burden (percentage)
Debt service ratio (goods and NFS)          26.3     21.3      21.0      14.9      11.7
Debt service ratio (goods and services)     18.6      13.2     12.0       8.6       6.4
Debt service/GDP                             1.8       1.2      1.3       0.9       1.7
Public debt service/Government revenues      9.0      5.7       6.4       4.7       3.9
Terms
Interest on total DOD/Total DOD             2.3       2.3       2.5       2.7       2.8
Total debt service/Total DOD                 9.3       7.2      8.5       6.5       6.8
Dependency Ratios for M+LT Debt
Gross disburaements/imports (incl. NYS)     35.7      38.0      19.6     15.7       8.8
Net transfer/imports (incl. NFS)            16.7      16.9      7.9       7.4        -
Net transfer/gross disbursement             46.8     60.3      40.6      46.9        -
Exposure
IBRD disb./gross total disbursement         5.5       5.6       7.2      16.6      21.8
Bank group disb./gross total disb.           7.7      6.8       8.2      17.5      25.8
IBRD DOD/total/DOD                          2.9       3.2       3.7       5.0       6.7
Bank group DOD/total DOD                     7.4      7.2       7.8       9.1      10.8
IBRD debt service/total debt service         3.3      5.0       5.5       9.8      10.5
Bank group debt service/total debt service  3.6       5.4       6.0      10.6      11.2
January 16, 1976



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1976)
Loan or                                                                    Amount
Credit                                                            (Less Cancellations US$m)
Number     Year   Borrower                Purpose                 Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
Ten loans and eight credits fully disbursed                       139.2   92.7
587-TU    1969   Republic of Turkey      Seyhan Irrigation
STAGE II                12.0             1.8
713-TU    1970   TSKB                    Industry                 40.0             0.1
236-TU    1971   Republic of Turkey      Livestock I                      4.5      2.1
748-TU    1971   Republic of Turkey      Education                13.5             8.3
762-TU    1971   Republic of Turkey      Fruit and Vegetable      10.0            10.1
257-TU    1971   Republic of Turkey      Fruit and Vegetable             15.0      6.6
763-TU    1971   TEK                     Power Transmission       24.0             1.0
281-TU    1972   Republic of Turkey      Irrigation Rehabili-
tation                       18.0      8.1
817-TU    1972   Republic of Turkey      Steel Mill Expansion     76.0            24.1
844-TU    1972   Republic of Turkey      Istanbul Water Supply    37.0            29.1
324-TU    1972   Republic of Turkey      Istanbul Urban Dev.              2.3      1.0
845-TUt/c  1972  IGSAS                   Fertilizer Industry      42.0            12.3
330-TU    1972   Republic of Turkey      Livestock II                    16.0     12.0
873-TU    1972   TSKB                    Industry                 40.0             2.1
883-TU    1973   Republic of Turkey      Ceyhan Aslantas          44.0            44.0
360-TU    1973   Republic of Turkey      Ceyhan Aslantas                 30.0     19.1
892-TU    1973   Republic of Turkey      Istanbul Power Dist.     14.0            13.5
893-TU    1973   Turkish State Railway   Railway Project          47.0            18.3
957-TU/a  1974   Republic of Turkey      Antalya Forestry         40.0            40.0
1023-TU/a  1974   TEK/TKI                 Elbistan Power          148.0           148.0
1024-TU    1974   DYB                     Industry                 40.0            30.4
1078-TU    1975   TSKB                    Industry                 65.0            52.2
1130-TU    1975   Republic of Turkey      Rural Development        75.0            75.0
Total /d                               906.7  178.5    559.1
of which has been repaid              82.7    1.7
Total now outstanding                  824.0  176.8
Amount Sold                   3.6
of which has-been repaid   1.2         2.4
Total now held by Bank and
IDA /b                              821.6   176.8
Total undisbursed                      510.2   48.9    559.1
/a Not yet effective.
/b Prior to exchange adjustments.
/c The increase of $18.0 million was approved on April 15, 1975.
/d A loan of $56.0 million to TEK was approved November 18, 1975 but has not yet
been signed. A loan (No. 1248-TU) of $63.0 million to the Agricultural Bank of
Turkey (TCZB) was signed May 5, 1976.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TURKEY
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1976)
Amount in US$ Million
Year      Obligor        Tpe of Business          Loan      Equity     Total
1963      TSKB           DFC                       -         0.92       0.92
1966      SIFAS I        Nylon Yarn               0.90       0.47       1.37
1967      TSKB II        DFC                       -         0.34       0.34
1969      TSKB III       DFC                       -         0.41       0.41
1969      SIFAS II       Nylon Yarn                1.50      0.43       1.93
1969      Viking I       Pulp and Paper           2.50       0.62       3.12
1970      ACS            Glass                   10.00       1.58      11.58
1970      NASAS          Aluminum                  7.00      1.37       8.37
1970      SIFAS III      Nylon Yarn               0.75        -         0.75
1971      Viking II      Pulp and Paper            -         0.05       0.05
1971      SIFAS IV       Nylon Yarn                -         0.52       0.52
1972      TSKB IV        DFC                       -         0.43       0.43
1973      TSKB V         DFC                     10.00        -        10.00
1973      Akdeniz        Tourism                   0.33      0.27       0.60
1974      Borusan        Steel Pipes               3.60      0.44       4.04
1974      AKSA           Textiles                10.00        -        10.00
1974      Kartaltepe     Textiles                 1.30        -         1.30
1975      Sasa           Nylon Yarn              15.00        -        15.00
1975      Aslan          Cement                  10.60        -        10.60
1975      DOKTAS         Steel                     7.50     1.26        8.76
1975      TSKB           DFC                     25.00      1.39       26.39
1975      NASAS                                   1.58        -         1.58
Total Gross Commitments               107.56     10.50      118.06
Less Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales                 45.99       1.23     47.22
Total Commitments now held byIFC       61.57      9.27       70.84
Total Undisbursed                      10.20      2.31       12.51



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
A.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 587/143 Second Seyhan Irrigation Project: US$12 million
Loan and US$12 million Credit of February 20, 1969. Effective Date: June 17,
1969. Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Work on Stage II of the Seyhan Irrigation Project is being perform-
ed in a satisfactory manner, and the project is expected to be completed by
the end of 1977. As regards the training component, an integrated training
program for TOPRAKSU, the Agriculture Extension Service and DSI has been
prepared and is in the process of being implemented by the Government. The
Government is also preparing recommendations for implementation of proposals
contained in the water charges study.
Cr. No. 236 First Livestock Project: US$4.5 million credit of February 22,
1971. Effective Date: December 23, 1971. Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
Project funds are now fully committed, and 152 subborrowers will
benefit under the Credit. This falls short of the 250-300 estimated at
appraisal due mainly to price increases. Imported cattle have performed up
to or in excess of appraisal estimates. Overall, the project has been suc-
cessful in establishing a valuable nucleus of over 3,500 high-quality dairy
animals in Turkey, setting up demonstration farms, building infrastructure,
and in promoting dairy modernization through provision of credit and support-
ing technical services to dairymen.
Ln. No. 748 Education Project: US$13.5 million loan of June 9, 1971. Effec-
tive Date: September 29, 1971. Closing Date: September 30, 1976.
The project is about two years behind schedule, due to the initial
reluctance of the Ministry of Education to provide the project unit with ade-
quate qualified staff and authority commensurate with responsibilities, that
this unit had to undertake. However, these problems have been resolved and
implementation is now proceeding well, including procurement of equipment
(the major component of the project). The procurement of equipment (the major
component of the project) is proceeding satisfactorily. Although more limited
progress has been made in achieving the overall educational objectives of the
project, these are now receiving increased attention including progress in
expanding local advisory committees, curriculum development and training of
teachers for project schools. Similarly, interim actions have been taken
regarding operation and staffing of the Management Training Institute, pending
passage of legislation formally establishing the Institute. About $5.0 million
has been disbursed since the beginning of FY76 and disbursements are expected
to continue at a high level.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 762/257 Fruit and Vegetable Export Project: US$10 million
Loan and US$15 million Credit of June 22, 1971. Effective Date: May 19, 1972.
Closing Date: June 30, 1976.
The project was initially delayed by difficulties in making the
loan/credit effective by the due date. Progress with 3 of the 5 major proj-
ect components is satisfactory (refrigerated trucks, ferry boats, marketing
facilities). Of 2 ferry boats proposed for purchase, the financing of one
will be provided under Ln No. 1248 Agricultural Credit and Agroindustries
Project. A new extension approach has been initiated to increase the citrus
production, the fourth component. The fifth, the agricultural credit survey,
did not produce meaningful results, and other arrangements have been made to
prepare an agricultural credit project for Bank financing.
Ln. No. 763 TEK Power Transmission Project: US$24 million loan of June 22,
1971. Effective Date: October 4, 1971. Closing Date: June 30, 1976.
The implementation pace of this project has been slower than origi-
nally anticipated due to staff shortages experienced in the initial years.
First contracts were awarded early in 1972 and work is now progressing accord-
ing to the revised schedule. Problems in meeting the financial covenants
are maintained in connection with the Elbistan loan.
Cr. No. 281 Irrigation Rehabilitation Project: US$18 million credit of
January 25, 1972. Effective Date: April 27, 1972. Closing Date: June 30,
1977.
Project construction schedules were revised in 1973 and reviewed
in 1975, with the new completion dates for Silifke, Koprucay and Tokat sub-
projects being about two years behind the original schedule. Progress on con-
struction of irrigation and drainage channels and on-farm works at Silifke
and Tokat is now proceeding well, but on-farm works are still behind schedule
at Koprucay because of the extremely short annual work season. The training
program has been developed and is in the process of being implemented. After
considerable discussions with the Bank, action has also been recently ini-
tiated to locate and appoint individual experts required under the project.
Ln. No. 817 Steel Mill Expansion Project: US$76 million loan of April 28,
1972. Effective Date: August 4, 1972. Closing Date: December 31,1977.
The project is over a year and a half behind schedule, due to de-
lays in beginning procurement, stemming largely from inefficient management.
Following continuing discussions between the Government, the company and the
Bank on these problems, a well qualified senior executive was appointed as
the president of the company, a new project manager has been appointed and
management problems have essentially been overcome. The company is however
experiencing difficulties in finding adequate financing for the substantial
cost overruns for the project. However, Erdemir's cash shortfall for 1975



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
has been covered and the Government is actively exploring ways to cover the
expected 1976 shortfall, including steps to find a long term solution to
this problem.
Ln. No. 844 Istanbul Water Supply Project: US$37 million loan of June 30,
1972. Effective Date: January 4, 1973. Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
The supply of water for Istanbul has increased by 69 percent since
1971, and water supply to the Asian side has doubled in the past year, but
shortages persist, particularly for municipalities adjacent to Istanbul.
Project progress is about one year behind appraisal estimates, but reasonable
progress is now being made. Draft reports of the management consultants were
completed in fall 1975 and their recommendations are now to be studied by
ISI's management.
Cr. No. 324 Istanbul Urban Development Project: US$2.3 million credit of
June 30, 1972. Effective Date: January 4, 1973. Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
Four consultant groups started work between November 1973 and
February 1974. Work on the Wastewater and the Bus/Traffic Engineering and
Control Projects is nearing completion. Phase I of the Urban and Transport
studies are completed, and are presently under review by the Government and
Bank prior to finalizing plans for carrying out Phase II.
Ln. No. 845 IGSAS (Istanbul Fertilizer Company) Project: US$42 million loan
of June 30, 1972 as amended April 18, 1975. Effective Date: October 6, 1972.
Closing Date: October 31, 1977.
The project is expected to be completed by December 1976, represent-
ing a 3-4 month delay compared to the original schedule. The estimated cost
to complete shows an increase from $130 million to $147.3 million of which
$2.8 million is in foreign exchange. The cost overrun will be covered by the
Government, the State Investment Bank and the shareholders.
Cr. No. 330 Second Livestock Project: US$16 million Credit of September 28,
1972. Effective Date: January 5, 1973. Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
The Village Livestock Development (VSD) subproject of the project
is behind schedule, due mainly to difficulties encountered heretofore in
recruiting both local and expatriate specialist staff because of the low
salaries and side benefits offered by the executing agency, the Directorate of
Livestock Development Projects (LDP) of the MIinistry of Food and Agriculture
(MFA). However, as a result of the increased use of incentive payments and an
intensified recruitment effort in late 1975 and early 1976, the local technical
staffing of this subproject has now been increased to 40 professionals and
subprofessionals out of a current overall requirement of about 45. One of
three posts for individual experts is vacant, although a potential candidate
has been selected, subject to review by the Bank. As a result of the slow
staff build-up in the past, the VSD subproject has thus far proceeded slowly.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8
Less than 200 subloans of the 5,430 envisaged at appraisal are operational.
Partly due to credit eligibility requirements, servicing of larger farmers
(or groups), and increased costs, the average size of the 200 VSD sub-
loans approved is higher than anticipated, and represent a commitment level
of 30% of the funds available for VSD. As a result of the recent recruit-
ments, and additional staff being recruited, a substantial acceleration
of VSD sub-lending is anticipated this year. Virtually all of the funds for
subloans under the Livestock Fattening subproject (FSD) are committed, and
this subproject is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 873 TSKB (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$40 million
loan of December 28, 1972. Effective Date: March 21, 1973. Closing Date:
December 31, 1976.
Since the first Bank loan was made in 1950, a satisfactory rela-
tionship has been developed with TSKB whose standard of performance is con-
sistently high. This loan to TSKB has been almost fully committed.
Ln. and Cr. Nos. 883/360, Ceyhan Aslantas Multipurpose Project: US$44
million loan and US$30 million credit of March 22, 1973. Effective Date:
March 20, 1974. Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
After initial delays due to difficulties in engaging a suitable
engineering consulting firm, good progress is now being made. Contracts for
on-farm development equipment and for main dam construction have been awarded.
The dam contractor was expected to start work by the end of November 1975.
Although Topraksu and the Ministry of Agriculture have not yet employed ex-
perts for on-farm development and extension, agreement has been reached with
the Government on steps to resolve this issue and employ the experts as quick-
ly as possible. In view of a substantial increase in project costs, a re-
vised financing plan is now under preparation by the Ministry of Finance; how-
ever, the Government has indicated that it intends to fully cover increased
project costs.
Ln. No. 892 Istanbul Power Distribution Project: US$14.0 million loan of
May 25, 1973. Effective Date: September 28, 1973. Closing Date: December 31,
1976.
Progress on this project has been delayed by about three years by
lack of aggressive administration and costs have increased by nearly 130 per-
cent over appraisal estimates. Consultant studies of the Istanbul power mar-
ket and proposed company reorganization have been completed and the consultant
to study the gas supply system has now been appointed. The Government is
preparing proposals on how it will cover the increased project costs and
revitalize the company's finances.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
Ln. No. 893 Turkish State Railways: US$47 million loan of May 25, 1973.
Effective Date: August 28, 1973. Closing Date: September 30, 1976.
After initial delays, procurement of track material and other Bank-
financed items is now progressing satisfactorily. TCDD's locomotive produc-
tion, which is being financed by another external lending institution, and
the pace of track renewal have both been accelerated. However, the project
remains about a year behind schedule. Although tariffs have been raised
twice since the loan was made, other provisions of the Loan and Guarantee
Agreements have not been carried out as scheduled, but agreement has been
reached with the Bank about revising some of the original targets which TCDD
should achieve.
Ln. No. 957 Antalya Forestry Project: US$40 million loan of January 28,
1974. Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The date for effectiveness for this loan has been extended to June
15, 1976, to allow time for finalizing amendments arising from a site reloca-
tion. A study of the effects of relocation has now been completed by consult-
ants acceptable to the Bank, which confirms the viability of the new project
site. A President's Memorandum covering the needed changes in the agreements
was circulated to the Executive Directors on April 27, 1976. Construction
has begun at the new site and the project is expected to be completed by the
end of 1978, about 2 years behind the original schedule. The cost overruns
are being met by the Government and the State Investment Bank.
Ln. No. 1023 Elbistan Lignite Mine and Power Project: US$148 million loan
of June 28, 1974. Closing Date: July 30, 1982.
This loan to the Turkish Electricity Authority (TEK) and the
Turkish Coal Authority (TKI) is to help finance the development of an open-
cast lignite mine in east central Turkey and the construction of an adjacent
lignite-burning 1200 megawatt power station and associated transmission lines.
Date for effectiveness of this loan, originally November 1, 1974, has been
postponed to June 1, 1976. Arrangements for the establishment of new elec-
tricity tariffs have been agreed upon between the Government and the Bank,
but have not been implemented, thus holding up the effectiveness of the
loan and disbursements under the EIB and KfW loans, which are linked to the
Bank loan by cross-effectiveness conditions. Meanwhile engineering and
contracting are proceeding, with minor delays.
Ln. No. 1024 DYB (State Investment Bank of Turkey): US$40 million loan of
June 28, 1974. Effective Date: September 30, 1974. Closing Date: Decem-
ber 31, 1978.
Submission of subprojects has been slower than anticipated. How-
ever, five projects totaling about $22.5 million have been approved and
disbursements are expected to increase more rapidly in the first half of
1976.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
Ln. No. 1078 TSKB (Industrial Development Bank of Turkey): US$65 million
loan of January 22, 1974. Effective Date: April 24, 1975. Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
The loan, which brings Bank lending to TSKB to $233 million, was
declared effective by April 24, 1975. Since then, TSKB has taken significant
steps to mobilize additional domestic and foreign resources and is channelling
the bulk of its lending to Turkey's underdeveloped regions. As of mid-April,
1976, about $44 million of the loan had been committed.
Ln. No. 1130 Corum-Cankuri Rural Development: US$75 million loan of June 23,
1975. Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The loan was declared effective on January 22, 1976, following
establishment of the project extension service with appointment of a project
director and two deputies. Recruitment of extension staff and some construc-
tion work have commenced.
Ln. No. 1248 Agricultural Credit and Agroindustries: US$63 million loan of
May 5, 1976. Effective Date: September 1, 1976. Closing Date: September
30, 1981.
Technical Assistance Project - Turkish Electricity Authority (TEK): US$1.9
million grant of August 20, 1967.
Technical assistance contracts covering the second phase of the
work were terminated in November-December 1972. Achievement, though short
of target in some respects, is generally satisfactory and TEK now has a much
improved accounting, budgeting and financial reporting system. Contracts for
the last phase of the work have been signed and final training program has
gotten underway, with one group of accountants having already completed train-
ing and further training groups being planned.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
TURKEY
THIRD LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Republic of Turkey.
Beneficiary:        Agricultural Bank of Turkey (TCZB).
Amount:              US$21.5 million equivalent in various currencies.
Terms:               17 years including 5 years grace, with interest at
8-1/2 percent per annum.
Relending Terms:    The Borrower will on-lend to TCZB in Turkish lira, the
equivalent of up to US$20.7 million, for 17 years includ-
ing 5 years' grace, at not less than 8-1/2 percent interest
per annum. TCZB, in turn, would sub-lend these funds
directly to dairy farmers through its existing supervised
Credit Program on terms of 10-12 years, including 2-4
years' grace, at a minimum interest rate of 11 percent;
of this 11 percent, TCZB would place 0.5 percent in a
Special Operational Fund created under the Livestock I
Project, to finance per diem supplements and other special
needs of the Intensive Dairy Production Division (IDPD) of
the Directorate of Livestock Development Projects (LDP) of
the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Livestock.
Project             The project provides for a five-year lending program by
Description:       TCZB for on-farm dairy investments benefitting 750 farm-
ers. About 10,500 pure bred cattle would be imported to
serve as a nucleus of genetically superior stock for up-
grading the national herd. The project would also pro-
vide project farmers with varied farm machinery (tractors,
sowing and harvesting equipment, milking machines, pumps
and tools) associated with dairy farming.   Three indivi-
dual technical specialists would provide technical as-
sistance in planning, extension, and supervision services
which would be provided by IDPD. Training of local tech-
nicians would be provided both locally and abroad. The
project includes production and marketing studies for sub-
sequent development of the dairy industry, and those for
the preparation of a future intensive dairy development
project in additional provinces.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
Estimated Cost:                                      ------ US$ Million
Local    Foreign     Total
Livestock                         1.3       11.2      12.5
Buildings                        4.8         0.8       5.6
Equipment                        3.4         4.2       7.6
Technical Services               0.2         0.4       0.6
Studies/Training                 0.1         0.2       0.3
Sub-total                      9.8        16.8      26.6
Price Contingencies (29.9%)      3.4         4.7       8.1
Total                         13.2        21.5      34.7
Financing Plan:                                         -- US$ Millions --
Local       Foreign
IBRD                                -            21.5
TCZB                                 6.9          -
Project Farmers                      6.3          -
Total                             13.2         21.5
Estimated
Disbursements:        1977       1978        1979       1980        1981
3.1        4.0         4.3        5.3         4.8
Procurement          Dairy cattle would be procured in 12-15 shipments aver-
Arrangements:       aging about 800 head each.   Purchase would be on the basis
of not less than three quotations from at least two coun-
tries, which is the same procedure as was followed in the
First Livestock Development Project (Credit 236-TU).
Farm machinery would be procured under international com-
petitive bidding in accordance with current Bank guide-
lines, with a domestic preference allowed to local bidders
of 15 percent or the actual level of import duty, which-
ever is less.



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
Consulting           The proposed loan would finance three individual tech-
Services:           nical specialists for the LDP, and provide technical
assistance and training. The technical specialists would
play a leading role in the design and supervision of the
technical studies. Cost of such technical specialists is
estimated at US$40,000 per man year at current prices,
exclusive of contingencies, of which US$28,000 is for
basic salary and US$12,000 for allowances and miscel-
laneous expenses.
Rate of Return:      22 percent.
Appraisal:           Report No. 1027-TU, dated May 10, 1976.






25'.                           300-                          35                            40                             45-
BULGARIA      RELI                        61 / a C k             S e o      .                        A      U. S. SRER.
f-                                                                                               U. S, S. R. AMASYA~~M'   A C
R~~~~~ CUN X/                                                     -   rvcaldudrs
KILOMETERDU International KARS _
~ CANAKKALETOKAT I EGUM                                                                N E                           40m 
l             ERZURUMC 
"TUNCEL ~1(7  N
-         -            ALATYA   '*~~~~~~-A RBAIl 'RANk.
iI JSPARTA                                m
ANTALYA  pq                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~MARDI N>J~~
ANTALY  ~ ~ ~ ~~~~              GZIAN rEP                                 IA
Rogronal Projoot Off.-e
Prorect Are
Projeot  Reg-1a  B-scdar-
... Prooof Are  Under Ceesff  23A-fI
APPRAISAL OF THIRD LIVESTOCK                                  S Y R I A                 0  Nsf ora Capwl Pojo.Al
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                       o ~,~,f P-r  --A,
CYPRU                                         - --  PR,--crl B-od-rre
0   10     2OO    3,00                          -i                                     cr
OL    ~~~~KILOMETERS                                                                   IrtrrfOl  onare
~~O           -1  ~MEDIrERRANEAN SEA        .Cc                                                   ocr-c,
I30.                              35'                               40*             cSse.aofcc



