CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1265 TU
PROJECT AGREEMENT
(Third Livestock Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
TURKIYE CUMHURIYETI ZIRAAT BANKASI
Dated May 26, 1976


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 26, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and TURKIYE CUMHURIYETI ZIRAAT BANKASI (hereinafter called TCZB).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith be-
tween the Republic of Turkey (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower
an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-one million
five hundred thousand dollars ($21,500,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that TCZB agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as
hereinafter set forth;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower and
TCZB, part of the aggregate proceeds of the loan provided for un-
der the Loan Agreement will be made available to TCZB on the terms
and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS TCZB, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the
Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the ob-
ligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the General Conditions (as so defined) and
in the Preamble hereof have the respective meanings therein set
forth.


﻿ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) TCZB shall (i) carry out Part A of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate admin-
istrative, financial, economic and agricultural practices, and
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose,
and (ii) acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges
and franchises as shall be, from time to time, necessary or useful
in the conduct of its business and the carrying out of Part A of the
Project.
(b) In the carrying out of Part A of the Project, TCZB under-
takes that it shall at all times follow lending and operating poli-
cies and procedures satisfactory to the Bank including those
set forth in the Schedule to this Agreement, as such Schedule may
be modified from time to time by agreement among the Borrower, the
Bank and TCZB.
(c) TCZB undertakes that it shall not finance any investments
in dairy farm development proposed by an investor eligible for a
Sub-loan, on terms more favorable than the terms and conditions
applicable to Sub-loans.


﻿-4-
(d) TCZB shall enter into arrangements, satisfactory to the
Bank, with IDPD to define in detail the responsibilities, functions
and administrative procedures of TCZB and IDPD for the carrying
out of Part A of the Project.
Section 2.02. TCZB shall: (i) review its annual lending pro-
gram under the Project for each of the Project Areas with the man-
ager of IDPD; and (ii) assist IDPD in the preparation of the prog-
ress and evaluation reports referred to in Section 3.05 (c) of
the Loan Agreement regarding such lending program.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, con-
tracts for the purchase of goods required for the Project to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, TCZB
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
any Sub-loan to be used exclusively in carrying out the Dairy-farm
Development Plan for thich such Sub-loan was made.
Section 2.05. TCZB undertakes to insure or cause to be insured
the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of any Sub-
loan against marine, transit and other hazards incident to the ac-
quisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use
or installation.


﻿Section 2.06. TCZB: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of Part A of the Project (including the cost
thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan relent to it by the Borrower, and to disclose
the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's re-
presentatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included
in the Project and see the goods financed out of such proceeds and
any relevant records end documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning Part A of the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Loan so relent to it and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
Section 2.07. TCZB shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall other-
wise agree, TCZB shall not take or concur in any action which would
have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.08. (a) TCZB shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of Part
A of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other mat-
ters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b) TCZB shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by TCZB of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of TCZB
Section 3.01. TCZB shall, with respect to Part A of the Proj-
eat, at all times manage its affairs, maintain its financial posi-
tion, plan its future expansion and carry on its operations, all
in accordance with appropriate business, financial and agricultural
practices and under the supervision of qualified and experienced
management assisted by qualified and experienced staff in adequate
numbers.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. TCZB shall: (a) establish and maintain separate
accounts on its records to be used exclusively for Part A of the
Project;
(b) register in such accounts all its receipts and payments
for or in connection with its lending operations under Part A of
the Project, in accordance with appropriate accounting principles
consistently applied, including the following: (i) amounts received
from and payments made to the Borrower under the Subsidiary Loan;
(ii) amounts disbursed to and received from each farmer under a
Sub-loan; and (iii) amounts provided by the Borrower or TCZB from
their own resources to finance Sub-loans.
(c) (i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a) hereof
and related statements for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by in-
dependent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank,
in the English language, as soon as available, but in any case not
later than seven months after the end of TCZB's fiscal year, (A)
certified copies of such accounts and related statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information
concerning such accounts and related statements of TCZB and the
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿-8-
Section 4.02. TCZB shall set aside, out of each payment to
TCZB of interest on Sub-loans under Part A of the Project, and
promptly credit to the Special Operational Fund amounts calculated
in the same manner and on the same principal amount as such inter-
est, but at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum.


﻿AMICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of TCZB thereunder shall terminate on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall con-
tinue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or
suspension under the General Conditions or the Loan Agreement.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have desig-
nated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such re-
quest. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
Washington,, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)
For TCZB:
T.C. Ziraat Bankasi
Genel Mudurlugu
Bankalar Caddesi
Ankara, Turkey
Cable address:                Telex:
ZERBANK                       43 333
Ankara


﻿- 11 -
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of TCZB or by TCZB on behalf of the Borrower
under Section 2.09 of the Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by
the Secretary General or such other person or persons as TCZB shall
designate in writing.
Section 6.03. TCZB shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the
person or persons who will, on behalf of TCZB, take any action or
execute any documents required or permitted to be taken or executed
by TCZB pursuant to any of the provisions of this Agreement or
Section 2.09 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ W. A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
TURKIYE CUMKURIYETI ZIRAAT BANKASI
By Is/ Muammer Akinci
Authorized Representative


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE
Lending and Operating Policies and Procedures
for Part A of the Project
Request for and approvals of Sub-loans
1.1 TCZB will make Sub-loans only to Beneficiaries making the
eligibility tests specified hereunder in the Project Areas and
only following the procedures and approvals stipulated below.
1.2 Sub-loan applications will be submitted to the nearest branch
of either TCZB or IDPD, after which an initial credit evaluation
of the applicant will be made by TCZB.
1.3 If the applicant's creditworthiness is found to be satisfactory
by TCZB, the local technician of IDPD will prepare a Dairy-farm
Development Plan with the applicant, which plan will include de-
tailed technical and financial projections and the amount of the
proposed Sub-loan, and will form the basis for any Sub-loan by
TCZB financed out of the proceeds of the Loan. The Dairy-farm
Development Plan will be prepared in such format and include such
information as may be required by the Project Manager, who will
have given due consideration to any advice given by the technical
specialists referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of the Loan Agreement.
1.4 Copies of the Dairy-farm Development Plan as approved by the
local technician of IDPD will be submitted to the local TCZB branch
and to the Project Manager.


﻿-14-
1.5 Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, each Dairy-farm
Development Plan will, in order to qualify for a Sub-loan, have
endorsed thereon the recommendation for approval of the local tech-
nician who has prepared the plan, and of the Project Manager, or
his authrrized representative. The staff of IDPD will be assisted
in the appraisal and review of Dairy-farm Deve,Lopment Plans by a
technical specialist appointed pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of the
Loan Agreement. Final approval of Sub-loans will be in accordance
with normal procedures of TCZB.
1.6 The approval or rejection of a Sub-loan by TCZB, will be
based solely on the creditworthiness of the applicant.
1.7 It is intended that as the local staff of the IDPD and TCZB
gains experience, the Bank will agree that final approval of Dairy-
farm Development Plans for Sub-loans may be made at the provincial
office of IDPD, and that final approval of Sub-loans may be made
by TCZB at the provincial or branch level.
Eligibility of Beneficiaries
2.1  In order to qualify for the granting of a Sub-loan, each
applicant will:
(i) have previous experience in dairying;
(ii) have use of tillable land suitable for forage
production (approximately 0.5 ha/milking cow); and
(iii) meet all creditworthiness criteria as will be
reasonably established from time to time by TCZB.
(1


﻿- 15 -
2.2 TCZB will accept as security, from Beneficiaries for Sub-
loans up to LT100,000, chattel mortgages on livestock and machinery
plus the guarantee of acceptable third parties in cases where a
land title is not available. Sub-loans over LTl00,000 would be
secured partially by land title and partially by a chattel mort-
gage on livestock and machinery and/or a guarantee of third parties.
In evaluating the adequacy of collateral offered to it, TCZB will
take into account the estimated increase in real estate values
from any developments to be financed from the proceeds of its
Sub-loans.
Procedures
3.1 TCZB will make at least 66% of all Sub-loans to farmers who
own ten cows or less before development and who will own twenty
cows or less at full development.
3.2 Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, TCZB will not make
to any single Beneficiary any Sub-loan which by itself or aggregated
with any other Sub-loan to any such Beneficiary, exceeds the equi-
valent of $80,000.
3.3 TCZB will not make Sub-loans to cover incremental costs of
labor and forage cropping unless specifically recommended in writ-
ing by the local technician who prepared the Dairy-farm Develop-
ment Plan and with the written approval of the Project Manager.


﻿- 16 -
Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
4.1 Sub-loan Contracts will include, inter alia, the following
terms and conditions; at such time as the Borrower, the Bank or
TCZB may request, the terms and conditions to be applied to fu-
ture Sub-loan contracts under the Project will be reviewed by
TCZB with the Borrower and the Bank in the light of prevailing
conditions at the time of such review:
(i) Sub-loans will be made and be repayable in liras;
(ii) interest on the outstanding principal of each Sub-
loan will be payable at the rate of not less than
11% per annum inclusive of all commissions, taxes
and any other charges, or at such other rates as
shall be agreed among the Borrower, the Bank and
TCZB, provided, however, that TCZB should be allowed
a spread of not less than 2-1/4% (inclusive of
1/2% to be paid by TCZB to LDP for the Special
Operational Fund and Section 4.02 of this Agreement);
(iii) the repayment periods and repayment schedules will
reflect the capacity of the Beneficiary to repay
and the cash flow position of the Dairy-farm Devel-
opment Plan and will be between ten to twelve years,
including two to four years of grace;


﻿- 17 -
iv) the amount of an individual Sub-loan will not ex-
ceed the equivalent of approximately 80% of the
total cost of the Dairy-farm Development Plan,
excluding incremental costs of labor and forage
cropping (with the exception provided for in para-
graph 3.3 of this Schedule), and will include no
more than 25% of the cost of farm buildings except
that, in special cases, Sub-loans in excess of
25% of the estimated cost of farm buildings
may be made to farmers who own twenty cows or less
at full development on specific written recommenda-
tion of the local technician who prepared the
Dairy-farm Development Plan and on the written
approval of the Project Manager;
(v) the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Sub-loan will be used exclusively for the
purposes approved by TCZB;
(vi) the Bank and TCZB will have the right to see the
premises, the improvement of which is financed by
the Sub-loan, any equipment, materials or inputs
financed by the Sub-loan, the business of the Bene-
ficiary, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents;
(vii) the Bank and TCZB will have the right to obtain all
such information as they may reasonably request re-
lating to the foregoing and to the operations and
financial condition of the Beneficiary;


﻿- 18 -
(viii) TCZB will have the right to deny the use of the pro-
ceeds of the Sub-loan for goods produced in, or
services supplied from, any country which is not a
member of the Bank (other than Switzerland);
(ix) the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Sub-loan will be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement;
(x) the Beneficiary will carry out his Dairy-farm
Development Plan, as approved, and will carry on his
business, with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with appropriate technical, agricultural,
commercial and financial practices and standards,
and vill maintain adequate records; and
(xi) TCZB will have the right to suspend or terminate
access by the Beneficiary to the use of the proceeds
of the Sub-loan upon failure by him to perform his
obligations under the Sub-loan Contract and, in
appropriate cases, to premature the Sub-loan.
Disbursements and Records
5.1 TCZB will promptly inform the Beneficiaries of the amounts
charged to their respective Sub-loan accouuts on account of goods
procured, and financed under Sub-loans, such information to be
supported with copies of the receipts for such goods in the amounts
so charged.


﻿- 19 -
5.2 TCZB will furnish semi-annual statements to each Beneficiary
showing the amounts drawn on the Beneficiary's Sub-loan account,
including interest, payments made and the outstanding balance of the
respective Sub-loan.
Supervision
6.1 TCZB will ensure that amounts drawn on Sub-loan accounts are
applied exclusively to expenditures on the Dairy-farm Development
Plan for which such Sub-loan was granted.
6.2 IDPD's and/or TCZB's staff will regularly visit the farms
where Dairy-farm Development Plans financed with Sub-loans are
being carried out, to ensure that Beneficiaries are effectively
and punctually carrying out such plans and complying with the
provisions of their respective Sub-loan Contracts with TCZB.


