CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1265 TU
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Third Livestock Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
A  DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 26, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 26, 1976, between REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) By an agreement of even date herewith between the Bank
and the Turkiye Cumhuriyeti Ziraat Bankasi (hereinafter referred
to as TCZB), certain obligations in respect of the carrying out
of Part A of the Project have been undertaken by TCZB;
(C) The Borrower is willing to make part of the proceeds of
the Loan available to TCZB for the carrying out of Part A of the
Project, as hereinafter set forth; and
(D) The Bank is willing to make the Loan available upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agree-
ment of even date herewith between the Bank and TCZB;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following ad-
ditional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Bank and TCZB, as such agreement may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes the Schedules
to the Project Agreement;
(b) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and TCZB pursuant to Section
3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all agreements supplemental to,
and all schedules to, such agreement;
(c) "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan made by the Borrower
to TCZB under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;


﻿(d) "LDP" means the General Directorate for Livestock Develop-
ment Projects of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Livestock
of the Borrower;
(e) "IDPD" means the Intensive Dairy Production Division of
LDP;
(f) "DVS" means the General Directorate for Veterinary Ser-
vices of the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Livestock of the
Borrower;
(g) "Project Areas" means:
(i) Istanbul region comprising Istanbul, Bolu, Bursa,
Edirne, Kirklareli, Kocaeli, Sakarya and Tekirdag;
(ii) Izmir region comprising Izmir, Aydin, Balikesir,
Denizli and Manisa;
(iii) Adana region comprising Adana, Hatay and Icel;
(iv) Ankara region comprising Ankara, Cankiri, Corum,
Eskisehir, Kastsmonu, Kirsehir and Zonguldak;
(v) Konya region comprising Konya and Afyon;
(vi) Kayseri region comprising Kayseri and Yozgat;
(vii) Malatya region comprising Malatya and Adiyaman and
such other provinces as may be agreed upon hereafter
between the Borrower and the Bank;


﻿-4-
(h) "Sub-loan" means a loan made by TCZB in accordance with
the procedures and the lending and operating policies provided for
in the Schedule to the Project Agreement and utilizing funds pro-
vided to TCZB under the 6ubsidiary Loan Agreement;
(i) "Sub-loan Contract" means the contract for any Sub-loan;
(j) "Dairy-farm Development Plan" means a specific development
plan for investment in forage production, farm buildings, livestock,
farm machinery and equipment, tractors and other related items,
or any combination thereof, requiring foreign exchange, of an
investor qualifying for a 6ub-loan;
(k) "Beneficiary" means the recipient of a Sub-loan;
(1) "liras" and the letters "LT" mean the currency of the
borrower;
(m) "Project Manager" means the person employed as head of
IDPD; and
(n) "Special Operational Fund" means the fund established
pursuant to the provisions of the subsidiary loan agreement of
May 16, 1971 between the Borrower and TCZB entered into under the
Development Credit Agreement of February 22, 1971 between the
borrower and the International Development Association.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01 The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-
one million five-hundred thousand dollars ($21,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, con-
tracts for the purchase of goods required for the Project to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1982 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿-6-
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. The Borrower hereby designates TCZB for the
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken in
respect of Part A of the Project under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out, substantially
in accordance with an implementation schedule satisfactory to the
Bank, Parts B and C of the Project and cause TCZB to carry out
Part A of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with sound administrative, financial, economic and agri-
cultural practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other re-
sources required for the purpose.
(b) For the purpose of carrying out the Project, the Borrower
shall employ on a full-time basis: (i) a qualified and experienced
Project Manager; and (ii) not less than three internationally
recruited technical specialists, whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Bank, to assist the Project Manager; it being understood that
all the contracts for the employment of such technical specialists
shall be entered into on or before November 30, 1976 and that
such technical specialists shall effectively begin to assume all
their duties and responsibilities not later than January 1., 1977.
(c) For the purpose of carrying out the Project, the Borrower
shall employ within IDPD on a full-time basis in the Borrower's
fiscal year 1976, about eighteen additional professional and middle-
level technicians recruited locally and, in the Borrower's fiscal
year 1977, about sixteen additional personnel of the same quali-
fications.


﻿-8-
(d) For the purpose of carrying out the Project, the Borrower
shall cause LDP to maintain, in each of the Project Areas, a
regional or branch office and to establish, as and when needed,
additional such offices in the Project Areas.
(e) The Borrower shall cause DVS to provide promptly the vet-
erinary assistance required for the carrying out of the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall relend the equivalent
of the proceeds of the Loan withdrawn on account of expenditures
under Part A of the Project to TCZB under a Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment to be entered into between the Borrower and TCZB, under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights and fulfill its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as
to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to ac-
complish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrover shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(c) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Borrower shall:
(i) cause TCZB to perform in accordance with the provi-
sions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth;


﻿-9-
(ii) take and cause all its agencies to take all action
which shall be necessary or appropriate on their part
to enable TCZB to perform all such obligations
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such perform-
ance; and
(iii) cause TCZB promptly to make available from its own
resources, on a basis acceptable to the Bank, in
addition to the equivalent of the proceeds of the
Loan relent to it under Section 3.02 (a), all such
funds in liras, as shall be necessary to enable
TCZB to disburse the full amounts of Sub-loans;
it being understood that the aggregate amount of
such funds shall not be less than $6,900,000
equivalent.
Section 3.03. The lending and operating policies and pro-
cedures for carrying out Part A of the Project shall be as set
forth in the Schedule to the Project Agreement, as the same may
be amended from time to time by agreement among the Borrower,
the Bank and TCZB.
Section 3.04. Except as the Borrower and the bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall maintain in LDP the Special
Operational Fund to be utilized for the purpose of supplementing
the funds otherwise available for the Project. Such Fund shall be
credited with the amounts made available by TCZB to LDP in accor-
dance with Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement. Expenditures
out of such Fund shall be authorized only by the General Director
of LDP, or any other person duly designated by him for such purpose.


﻿- 10 -
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall insure or cause to be
insured, or make or cause to be made adequate provision for the
insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition, transpor-
tation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation.
(b) Except as the ±6ank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall, with respect to the
Project, furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, programs and reports of LDP,
IDPD and TCZB, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit
the faciliti'i and construction sites included in the Project and
to see the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿- 11 -
(c) vithout limiting the generality of the provisions in
paragraph (b) above and in order to monitor and evaluate the
progress of the Project including comparing such progress vis-
a-vis the implementation schedule of the Project referred to in
Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement, and for evaluating the ef-
fects of the Project, the Borrower shall cause IDPD to: (i) pre-
pare each quarter, with the assistance of TCZB, progress and
evaluation reports, including in the fourth quarter report a
summary of the progress and evaluation for each year; and (ii)
submit, within two months after the end of each quarter, the
reports in (i) hereof to the Bank.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall cause IDPD to: (i)
prepare annual plans for the carrying out of Part C (technical
studies) of the Project; and (ii) submit each annual plan to
the Bank for comments not later than the third quarter of the
year prior to that of its implementation.
(b) For the carrying out of Part C (training) of the Proj-
ect, the Borrower shall cause IDPD to prepare and submit to the
Bank for comments, within six months from the Effective Date, or
such later date as shall be agreed with the Bank, a proposed
training program.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of for-
eign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or per-
mitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or admini-
strative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfac-
tory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;


﻿- 13 -
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including assets held by the T.C. Merkes Bankasi or
any other institution performing the functions of a central bank
or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the Bor-
rover.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carry-
ing out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. Without limitation upon its obligations con-
tained in Section 4.02 above, the Borrower shall:
(a) cause LDP to establish and maintain separate accounts
on its records to be used exclusively for Parts B and C of the
Project and for the Special Operational Fund and to register in
such accounts all its receipts and payments for or in connection
with such Parts of the Project and such fund, in accordance with
appropriate accounting principles consistently applied; and


﻿(b) cause LDP to: (i) have the accounts referred to in (a)
hereof and related statements for each fiscal year audited, in ac-
cordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank, in the English language, as soon as available, but in any case
not later than seven months after the end of LDP's fiscal year, (A)
certified copies of such accounts and related statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said audi-
tors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have rea-
sonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other infor-
mation concerning such accounts and related statements of such
agency and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall ensure that the entry into
the Borrower's territory of such livestock is handled expeditiously
at the border stations.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall issue, as and when needed,
any import and other licevaes including, without limitation, any
foreign exchange authorizations required for the timely importa-
tion and procurement of goods or the supply of services to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Loan or for the replacement or
the repair of such goods, as the case may be.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) TCZB shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement or under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that TCZB will be able to perform any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement or under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(c) any legal provision governing or applicable to the or-
ganization or operations of TCZB shall have been amended, suspended
or abrogated so as to threaten the ability of TCZB to carry out
any of its obligations under the Project Agreement or the effi-
ciency of its operations;
(d) TCZB shall be unable to pay its debts as they mature or
any action or proceeding shall have been taken by TCZB or by others
whereby any of the property of TCZB shall or may be distributed
among its creditors; and
(e) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of TCZB or for the suspension of TCZB's operations.


﻿- 16 -
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, any of the events specified in
paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and
shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower or any event specified
in paragraphs (c), (d) or (e) of such Section shall occur.


﻿- 17 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement with-
in the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on
behalf of TCZB have been duly authorized or ratified by all neces-
sary administrative and governmental action;
(b) the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment on behalf of the Borrower and TCZB, respectively, have been
duly authorized or ratified by all necessary administrative and
governmental action; and
(c) the arrangements referred to in Section 2.01 (d) of
the Project Agreement have been entered into to the satisfaction
of the Bank.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional mat-
ters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Con-
ditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished
to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, TCZB, and
is legally binding upon TCZB in accordance with its terms;


﻿- 18 -
(b) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly au-
thorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of, the Borrower and TCZB, respectively, and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and TCZB in accordance with its terms; and
(c) that the arrangements referred to in Section 2.01 (d)
of the Project Agreement have been duly entered into on behalf
of TCZB and IDPD, respectively, and are legally binding upon
TCZB and IDPD as entered into between same parties.
Section 6.03. The date September 27, 1976, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 19 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Maliye Bakanligi
Hazine Genel Mudurlugu ve
Milletlerarasi Iktisadi
Isbirligi Teskilati Genel
Seketerligi
Ankara, Turkey
Cable address:                Telex:
MALIYE                        821-42285 (MLYE-TR) or
Hazine                        821-42689 (MLYE-TR)
Ankara
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     h40098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
6414 5 (WUI)


﻿- 20 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
By /s/ Muazmer Akinci
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / W. A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed, in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Livestock                 13,800,000         100% of foreign
expenditures
(2) Farm Machinery             4,700,000         100% of foreign
and Equipment                               expenditures or
(including                                  100% of the ex-
tractors)                                    factory cost of
domestically
manufactured
goods
(3) Technical                    500,000         100% of foreign
Specialists'                                 expenditures
Services
(4) Training                     300,000         100% of foreign
expenditures
(5) Unallocated                2,200,000
TOTAL      21,500,000


﻿- 22 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other than
the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the territory
of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, If the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other


﻿- 23 -
expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
ditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or lim-
iting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of a program of the Borrower in the
Project Areas to upgrade the milking quality of dairy herds by
importation of improved milk animals; increase the production
of feed-stuffs, dairy livestock, and milk; and encourage related
on-farm development, by means of a combination of credit faci-
lities and technical services.
The Project also includes a pilot effort to introduce the
above-mentioned benefits to very small farmers.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:   Lending Program
The provision through TCZB of Sub-loans to an estimated
750 farmers for the financing of Dairy-farm Development Plans
in the Project Areas, prepared and implemented with assistance
as provided for under Part B hereof.
Part B:   Technical Services
The provision, through LDP with the assistance of IDPD
and DVS, of technical services to farmers benefiting from
Part A of the Project, including assistance to farmers and
cooperation with TCZB in:


﻿-25 -
(1) promotion of the Project among farmers;
initial selection of farmers applying for Sub-loans;
(3) preparation and approval of Dairy-farm Development
Plans;
(4) procurement of goods and services required to carry
out such Plans;
(5) supervision and execution of such Plans; and
(6) maintenance of records for the Project.
Part C:   Training and Studies
(1) Training of farmers benefiting from Part A of the
Project;
(2) Training on the job and abroad of staff engaged in
services related to the carrying out of the Project;
(3) Studies on dairy production and marketing in the
Borrower's territory, the list and scope of such
studies to be determined by agreement between the
Borrower and the Bank; and
(4) Studies for preparation of a future intensive
dairy development project in additional provinces


﻿- 26 -
to be selected following preliminary review of the
following provinces: Amasya, Antalya, Bilecik, Bingol,
Bitlis, Burdur, Canakkale, Diyarbakir, Erzincan, Isparta,
Kutahya, Mugla, Mus, Nevsehir, Nigde, Siirt, Sivas,
Tokat, Tunceli, Urfa and Usak.


﻿SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
November 15, 1981                                   530,000
May 15, 1982                                        555,000
November 15, 1982                                   580,000
May 15, 1983                                       605,000
November 15, 1983                                  630,000
May 15, 1984                                       655,000
November 15, 1984                                  680,000
May 15, 1985                                        715,000
November 15, 1985                                   740,000
May 15, 1986                                        775,000
November 15, 1986                                   810,000
May 15, 1987                                        840,000
November 15, 1987                                   880,000
May 15, 1988                                        915,000
November 15, 1988                                   955,000
May 15, 1989                                        995,000
November 15, 1989                                 1,040,000
May 15, 1990                                      1,080,000
November 15, 1990                                1,125,000
May 15, 1991                                      1,175,000
November 15, 1991                                 1,225,000
May 15, 1992                                      1,275,000
November 15, 1992                                 1,330,000
May 15, 1993                                      1,390,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿-28-
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years                    1-1/2%
before maturity
Mbre than three years but not                2-3/4%
more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but not                  5-3/4%
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                   7%
more than fifteen years
befbre maturity
More than fifteen years                      8-1/2%
befbre maturity


﻿- 29 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   Procurement Procedures
1.   Livestock
Purchases by farmers of livestock required to carry out Dairy-
farm Development Plans and to be financed by Sub-loans will be
handled by the Project Manager in a manner satisfactory to the Bank
on the basis of: (i) individual orders collected from such farmers
by the regional managers of IDPD; (ii) not less than three price
quotations based on invitations from at least two different coun-
tries; (iii) the recommendations of the technical specialists
referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement as regards qual-
ity and source; and (iv) the recommendations of the Director Gen-
eral of DVS, as regards animal health standards.
(a) Cattle imported for the Project will be:
(i) of Holstein or Brown Swiss breeds in a ratio of
approximately 70:30;
(ii)  in good general health;
(iii) free of tuberculosis, brucellosis, leptospirosis,
trichomoniasis and vibriosis; and
(iv) vaccinated against foot and mouth disease (Types A
and C).


﻿- 30
(b) Imported Holstein and Brown Swiss heifers for the Project
will be:
(i) registered in the national pedigree herd book of
the country of origin;
(ii) out of dams with a certified average milk produc-
tion record of at least 5,000 kg/year for Holstein
or 4,000 kg/year for Brown Swiss;
(iii) mated to registered sire3 (or sons of registered
sires) of the same breed whose progeny have a
positive rating (above average) in the milk produc-
tion testing programe of the country of origin;
and
(iv) certified in-calf.
(c) Imported Holstein and Brown Swiss bulls for the Project
will be:
(i) registered in the national pedigree herd book of
the country of origin;
(ii) out of dams which have a certified average milk
production record of at least 6,000 kg/year for
Holstein or 5,000 kg/year for Brown Swiss;
(iii) aged 12 - 24 months; and


﻿- 31 -
(iv) sired by bulls whose progeny have a positive
rating (above average) in the milk production
testing programme of the country of origin.
Contracts with suppliers for the purchase of livestock will
contain provisions regarding the reception and delivery of live-
stock satisfactory to the Project Manager and will provide that
title to such livestock will pass to the farmer only upon de-
livery at his farm.
The Borrower will take all necessary action to expedite live-
stock purchases and veterinary clearances and to assure prompt and
adequate deliveries of such livestock to purchasers thereof.
2.   Farm Equipment and Machinery (including tractors)
The procurement of farm equipment and machinery (including
tractors) required for the carrying out by farmers of Dairy-farm
Development Plans and to be financed by Sub-loans will be handled
by LDP, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, on the basis of (i)
individual orders collected from such farmers by the regional
managers of IDPD and (ii) international competitive bidding in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part
A of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines).
Invitations to bid will specify that suppliers will be required
to provide in each of the Project Areas efficient servicing facil-
ities and sufficient spare parts.


﻿- 32 -
Farm equipment and machinery (including tractors) will be
purchased oy the Beneficiaries on the terms and conditions of the
awarded contract.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the ex-
factory price for domestically-manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and sim-
ilar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and
(iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expen-
ditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their
use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in the Borrower's territory may be granted
a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:


﻿- 33 -
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in the
Borrower's territory if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Bank that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in the Borrower's
territory equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory
bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in the Borrower's territory.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer


﻿would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such furth4er comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
1. With respect to all contracts included in Part A.2 of this
Schedule:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report prepared by or in consultation with
the technical specialists referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received,


﻿- 35 -
together with the recommendations for award, and such other infor-
mation as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if
it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execu-
tion and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first appli-
cation for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect
of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with any information that the Bank may reasonably request. The
Bank shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly in-
form the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


