Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18765
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
STATES' ROAD PROJECT
(Loan 2994-IN/Credit 1959-TN)
December 28, 1998
Infrastructure Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      Indian Rupee (Rs.)
US$1.00          Rupee 13  (Appraisal 1988)
US$1.00    =    Rupee 42.5 (As of December 28, 1998)
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADT         -    Average Daily Traffic
ARAN        -    Automated Road Analyzer
BOT          -    Build-Operate-Transfer
BRCD         -    Bihar Road Construction Department
ERR          -    Economic Rate of Return
GOB         -    Government of Bihar
GOI         -    Government of India
GOM         -    Government of Maharashtra
HDM          -    Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model III
ICB         -    International Competitive Bidding
ICR          -    Implementation Completion Report
IRI         -    International Roughness Index
MBIU         -    Mobile Bridge Inspection Unit
MDR          -    Major District Roads
MOST        -    Ministry of Surface Transport
NlH          -   National Highways
NPV          -   Net Present Value
PIU         -    Project Implementation Unit
PMS         -    Pavement Management System
PWD(s)      -    Public Works Department(s)
R&R          -    Resettlement and Rehabilitation
Rs           -    Indian Rupee
SAR         -    Staff Appraisal Report
SH          -    State Highways
SRP         -    States' Road Project
UP          -    State of Uttar Pradesh
VR          -    Village Roads
Vice President      Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director      Edwin R. Lim
Sector Manager       Frannie Humplick
Task Leader       Yoneo Oka



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
STATES' ROAD PROJECT
(Loan 2994-IN/Credit 1959-IN)
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface ....................................................i
Evaluation Summary ...................................................                                               ii
Introduction and Project Objectives ...................................................                         ii
Implementation Experience and Results ...................................................                       iii
Summary of Findings, Future Operation, and Key Lessons Learned ...............................................v
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Statement /Evaluation of Objectives .
B. Achievement of Objectives                                               .2
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project                                         .6
D. Project Sustainability                                              .7
E. Bank Performance ..................8
F. Borrower Performance ......8..8
G. Assessment of Outcome                                                 .9
H. Future Operations .10
I. Key Lessons Learned .10
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1 Summnary of Assessment .13
Table 2 Related Bank Loan/Credits .14
Table 3 Project Timetable .14
Table 4  Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative and Actual .15
Table 5  Key Indicators for Project Implementation .16
Table 6 Key Indicators for Project Operation .18
Table 7 Studies Included in Project .18
Table 8A   Project Cost ..........................................                                              19
Table 8B   Project Financing ..........................................                                         19
Table 9    Economic Costs and Benefits ..........................................                               20
Table 10   Status of Legal Covenants ..........................................                                 21
Table 11   Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ..........................................             22
Table 12   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ..........................................                              22
Table 13   Bank Resources: Mission ..........................................                                   23
APPENDICES
Appendix A    The ICR Mission's Aide Memoire ..........................................                         24
Appendix B       Borrower's Contribution to the ICR ......................................                      36
Appendix C    Economic Re-Evaluation ......................................                                     62
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization



i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
STATES' ROAD PROJECT
(Loan 2994-IN/Credit 1959-IN)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the States' Road Project in India,
Loan No. 2994-IN in the amount of US$170 million and Credit No. 1959-IN in the amount of SDR
62.2 million (US$80 million equivalent). The project was approved on October 20, 1988 and made
effective on March 2, 1989.
The loan and credit were closed on June 30, 1998, after four extensions to the original closing
date of June 30, 1995. With the exception of some of the Bihar sub-components - the Bhagalpur
bridge, approach roads and supporting consultant services - all other project components were closed
on June 30, 1996, after two extensions (October 31, 1995 and June 30, 1996). The Bihar components
were granted two further extensions (June 30, 1997 and June 30, 1998). Disbursements were
completed on December 28, 1998 and July 12, 1994, for the loan and credit respectively. The credit
was fully disbursed, and the total amount disbursed under the loan and credit was US$188,665,924.
Three cancellations of the loan balance took place during the project totaling US$66,624,998. The
first two cancellations were for the purpose of reducing the scope of the project and occurred on May
1, 1993 (US$55,000,000) and November 20, 1996 (US$6,409,545). The third cancellation,
representing the remaining balance, took place on December 28, 1998 (US$5,215,453).
The ICR was prepared by Yoneo Oka (ICR Task Leader, SASIN), Fabio Galli (Financial
Analyst, SASIN), and Rodrigo Archondo (Highway Engineer, Consultant). The ICR was reviewed
by all required reviewers, and Peter Long (Highway Engineer, Consultant) served as the peer
reviewer.
Preparation of this ICR started during the Bank's final supervision/ICR mission in June 1998.
It is based on documents in the project files, and material submitted by the Borrower. The
Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by providing information to the ICR mission in
the field. In addition, the Borrower (the implementing agencies) provided comments on the report,
which are given in Appendix B of this ICR.



ii
IMPLEMENTAION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
STATES' ROAD PROJECT
(Loan 2994-IN/Credit 1959-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.   The total length of the Indian road network (based on 1996 figures) is approximately
3,321,000 km; of which National Highways (NHs) represent 35,000 kmi, State Highways (SH)
135,000 km, other Public Works Department (PWD) Roads including Major District Roads
(MDRs) 764,000 km, and the remaining 2,387,000 km are classified as other roads'. Over the last
30 years, the road network has become the dominant mode of transportation in India for both freight
and passengers. In addition, road traffic in the last decade has grown at a rate of nearly 10 percent
per year, and at present, the road network carries 60 percent of all freight traffic (ton/km) and 80
percent of all passenger traffic (passenger/km).
2.   In March 1987, the Government of India (GOI) expressed its interest in obtaining Bank
assistance for the improvement of the core state road network (SHs and MDRs). The core state
road network is used to classify an intermediate category of roads that falls between national
highways and rural roads, based on traffic volume and function. The States' Road Project was the
Bank's first lending operation to focus on the improvement of India's core state road network.
Project Objectives
3.   The principal objectives of the project were to:
(i)   improve the quality of investment planning for India's highways and to rationalize the
financing, planning, and implementation of road maintenance/improvement; and
(ii)   assist in rectifying the extensive and long-standing deficiencies in the condition,
structure, and capacity of the road networks of the selected states.
1 Other roads: 1,022,000 km of Panchayat Raj Roads; 211,000 km of Urban Roads; 916,000 km of Rural Roads; and,
238,000 km of Project Roads (those built and maintained by the forestry, irrigation, electric power and other
departments of the govermnent).



Hii
4.   At appraisal, the project included the following components:
(i)    civil works for the widening, strengthening, and improvement of road networks in the
four States2;
(ii)   procurement of specialized equipment;
(iii)  staff training and technical assistance; and
(iv)   consultant services for studies and supervision of civil works.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.   Civil works, including the improvement (widening and strengthening) of state roads to 7
meters (width of carriage-way) as well as the construction of the Bhagalpur Bridge and its approach
roads, represented 86 percent of the total cost of the project. The nnajor factors affecting the timely
implementation of civil works were:
(i)   the PWDs implementing the project were unfamiliar with the Bank's procurement
practices and were not fully equipped to follow the Bank's procurement guidelines;
(ii)   ownership of the project by the PWDs was weak due to the multi-state nature of the
project; and
(iii)  the contractors' poor physical and financial performance delayed contract
implementation.
These and other factors resulted in major delays in the implementation of project components.
6.   The performance ratings reflect the poor implementation results of the physical components
of the project. The implementation ratings by state are: satisfactory in Maharashtra, marginally
satisfactory in Rajasthan, unsatisfactory in Uttar Pradesh, and highly unsatisfactory in Bihar. Of the
1,508 km of roads that were to be completed under the reduced roads improvement scope of the
project, only about 1,293 km were actually completed. Additionally, the construction of the
Bhagalpur Bridge and its approach roads were not completed during the life of the project and are
not expected to be completed until June 2000 at the earliest.
7.   Implementation performance of the other project components was mixed. By component,
they are as follows: (i) procurement of specialized equipment was deemed highly unsatisfactory.
After long delays, only three out of the seventeen categories of equipment were actually procured;
(ii) the training component was fully implemented; a total of 40 staff from the four State PWDs
participated in six major training courses; (iii) the supervision consultancy services component was
rated marginally satisfactory. The international consultants generally provided satisfactory results in
their performance, however the impact of their managerial and technical skills transfer to domestic
2In Bihar civil works included the construction of a new bridge across the river Ganges, and approximately 100 km of
State Road improvements. In Maharashtra, Rajasthan, and Uttar Pradesh, civil works included approximately
670 km, 870 km and 600 km respectively, of State Road improvements.



iv
contractors and PWDs was lower than expected; (iv) the implementation of a Pavement
Management System (PMS) study was judged marginally satisfactory. By project closure, about
30,000 km of SHs and MDRs had been surveyed and inventoried under the study, but the PMS's
operationalization has not taken place as planned; and (v) the Maharashtra PWD Organization Study
was viewed as marginally satisfactory. The study focused on the changing role of the PWD and the
growing participation of the private sector in the transport sector. In implementing one of the
study's recommendations, the Government of Maharashtra established the Maharashtra State Road
Development Corporation, which is in charge of Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT) projects in the
State.
8.   The economic analysis for the improvement of roads undertaken at appraisal included 23
individual roads. These 23 roads (excluding the Bhagalpur bridge), represented 75 percent of the
original estimated total project cost and their estimated combined ERR was 30.4 percent. At the
conclusion of the project, 16 of the 23 roads were completed. In order to more accurately reflect
the ex-post results, the final economic analysis re-evaluated appraisal estimates to focus specifically
on the 16 roads completed with project financing as well as on two roads that were completed in
Maharashtra with the State's own resources. The ex-post traffic, construction costs, and
construction times were measured on these 18 roads. The staff appraisal report (SAR) estimates
that ADT is 3,000 for 1997, while the ICR estimates ADT for the same year at 4,800 (60 percent
higher than the SAR estimate). The re-evaluated appraisal estimates average construction costs per
kilometer in 1988 at Rs. 1.8 million, while the ICR estimates the average at Rs. 2.5 million (40
percent higher) for the same year. The re-evaluated appraisal estimates the average construction
period as four years, while the ICR estimates 6 years. The project also experienced a two to three
year delay in implementation. Consequently, for an operation period of 10 years, the re-evaluated
appraisal estimate gives an ERR and net present value (NPV) in 1988 values of 32 percent and Rs.
6,000 million, and the ICR gives an ERR and NPV in 1988 values of 64 percent and Rs. 9,000
million. Despite road improvement costs that were nearly 40 percent higher and an overall
implementation delay of four to five years, the 60 percent higher traffic volume in 1997 resulted in
higher ERR and NPV (which reflect the economic benefits generated by the project's road
components) than originally estimated by the SAR.
9.   The construction of the Bhagalpur Bridge and its approach roads have not been completed,
therefore, the ICR evaluation of this component is only for reference purposes. The economic
evaluation method employed in the ICR replicates the method used in the SAR. The SAR estimates
ADT at 3,000 for the year 2000, while the ICR estimate for ADT is 6,400 (110 percent higher) for
the same year. A traffic growth rate of 4.5 percent after the year 2000 is assumed in the ICR
analysis. The SAR estimates the total cost of the Bhagalpur Bridge component in 1988 prices at Rs.
689 million, while the ICR estimates the total cost at Rs. 864 million (25 percent higher), also in
1988 prices. The SAR estimates the construction period of the Bhagalpur Bridge component at
four years, while the ICR estimate is 10 years (projected). As a result, for an operating period of 20
years, the SAR estimates the ERR and NPV as 20 percent and Rs. 400 million, while the ICR
estimates the ERR and NPV as 19 percent and Rs. 260 million respectively. This difference is due
to the 25 percent higher construction costs and much longer construction period, which more than
offsets the economic benefits regardless of the higher than projected growth in traffic volumes.
10.  The Bank's performance during the project preparation and implementation phases was
marginally satisfactory. The rating takes into consideration the multi-state nature of the project and
that the budgetary resources allocated for project supervision were most probably inadequate.



v
However, during the project preparation phase, the Bank team did not accurately assess the
implementation and financial capacity of the implementing agencies (PWDs), and more importantly,
the capacity of the domestic construction industry. Both of these oversights led to substantial delays
during the project implementation phase.
11.  Overall, the performance of the PWDs during project implementation was weak. Major
factors that hampered their performance were: (i) the frequent turnover of key PWD staff, (ii) the
lack of familiarity with Bank procedures at the state level; (iii) poor institutional mechanisms that
resulted in slow decision-making; and (iv) inadequate attention to project design. Furthermore,
weak inter-agency coordination and inadequate communication with the Bank also adversely
affected project implementation. The cumulative effect of this was an average delay in completion
of the state roads improvement component of four to five years.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
12.  Implementation of the physical components can be considered satisfactory in Maharashtra,
marginally satisfactory in Rajasthan, unsatisfactory in Uttar Pradesh, and highly unsatisfactory in
Bihar. The state roads that were improved under the project serve as major intra and inter state
trunk roads. The purpose of these trunk roads is to carry heavy inter state traffic loads, and the
project succeeded in reducing traffic congestion to a certain degree. However, in some cases, roads
that were improved under the project have already begun to deteriorate due to inadequate funding
for road maintenance and poor construction quality.
13.  The enhanced traffic carrying capability of the roads improved under the project should
continue to reduce traffic congestion for the foreseeable future. In the State of Maharashtra,
funding has been secured and operational plans have been designed to address the maintenance of
the state road network based on the experience gained during implementation and by utilizing
organizational units that were established under the project.
14.  Project ownership and quality at entry are essential factors in ensuring the successful
implementation of a complex multi-state project. With this in mind, all project preparation activities
such as: (i) techno-economic feasibility studies; (ii) detailed engineering designs; (iii) resettlement
and rehabilitation plans; (iv) environmental studies; and (v) site readiness, including land acquisition
and utility removal, need to be completed well before the civil works contracts are initiated on the
ground.
15.  The preparation and implementation of a multi-state project like the SRP has proven to be
ineffective as a result of a reduced sense of ownership by the participating states and the inadequate
supervision resources provided by the Bank.
16.  The inefficient organizational structure and weak implementation capabilities of some of the
PWDs was a major reason for poor quality at entry and directly contributed to the partial
achievement of the development objectives. The early formation of an exclusive and empowered
project implementation unit (PIU) with strong institutional capacity should help to ensure quality at
entry. Furthermore, up-front policy and institutional strengthening of state PWDs as well as
intensive training in contracting and project management skills is critical.



vi
17.  The use of internationally experienced supervision consultants was introduced on a pilot basis
under the project. Their performance was mixed due to some resistance by the PVVDs in accepting
the concept of independent supervision consultants, and the consultants' lack of familiarity with
operating in India. Internationally experienced supervision consultants can be effective only if
implementing agencies are fully committed to using them effectively.
18.  Adequate maintenance funding in conjunction with improved maintenance planning is
absolutely essential in order to ensure the sustainability of project outcomes. Effective road
maintenance management, including planning and budgeting for the roads, is the key to the
sustainability of project roads and the entire road network.
19.  Without adequate arrangements for the repair and part replacement of equipment and
machinery, the sustainability of the procurement component for specialized equipment in any project
will be uncertain. In future, the implementation of such a component should be considered from a
broader perspective, including perhaps, the development and promotion of the private sector, which
would help to ensure the sustainability of this type of component.



I
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
STATES' ROAD PROJECT
(Loan 2994-IN/Credit 1959-IN)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIES
1.    After a break of nearly 20 years in lending to the roads sub-sector, the GOI finally agreed to
use International Competitive Bidding (ICB) for Bank-funded roads projects. As a result, lending
resumed with the Bihar Rural Road Project (Credit 1072-IN, 1980), the National Highway Project
(Loan 2534-IN, 1985), and the Gujarat Rural Roads Project (Credit 1757-IN, 1987)3. The Board
approved the States' Road Project (SRP) in 1988, initiating the first multi-state road project in India.
To ensure that a wide geographic dissemination of social and economic equity was generated by
activities under the project, the states of Bihar, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, and Uttar Pradesh (UP) were
selected to participate.
Objectives
2.    The project's development objectives were to extend policy and institutional improvements to
the State level for the road sub-sector. In particular, the project aimed to:
(i)   improve the quality of investment planning in highways and to rationalize the
financing, planning, and implementation of road maintenance/improvement through
the application of a systematic maintenance management program; and
(ii)   assist in rectifying the extensive and long-standing deficiencies in the condition,
structure, and capacity of the road networks of the selected states by the introduction
of larger construction contracts of sufficient individual size to encourage local firms to
mechanize, but which, when grouped, would attract international interest.
3.    To achieve the project development objectives, the project included the following main
components:
(i)   civil works (road improvements) to improve and widen to two lanes of about 2,300
km of mostly single-lane roads in the four States. (In Bihar, a major bridge across the
river Ganga and about 100 km of State roads; in Maharashtra, about 670 km of State
roads; in Rajasthan, about 870 km of State roads; and, in UP, 600 km of State roads);
(ii)   procurement of specialized equipment to assist the four States in monitoring the
condition and usage of their road networks;
3The National Highway Project was rated unsatisfactory while the Gujarat Rural Roads Project was rated satisfactory.



2
(iii)  staff training and technical assistance which would emphasize the planning, design,
and implementation of projects as well as developing the skills of road maintenance
field staff; and
(iv)   consultant services for the introduction of the Pavement Management Systems (PMS)
in each state, for supervision of one of the project contracts in each. State, and in
Maharashtra, for an organizational study of the State PWD.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
4.    The development objectives of the project were only partially achieved due to a combination
of delays, the partial attainment of the physical components, and the weak design and implementation
of the non-physical components of the project. The physical components of the project (state road
improvements) were largely successful in introducing large-scale mechanized construction
techniques, the input of supervision consultants, and larger contract packages at the State level.
However, due to the weak performance of the PWDs and various contractors, only about 1,293 km
of state roads were improved (with substantial delays) against a stated staff appraisal report (SAR)
target of 2,353 km. Furthermore, the construction quality and design specifications of some of the
roads were not adequate to meet the growing traffic volume needs that were to be carried by these
roads. The attainment of the non-physical objectives of the project did not meet project expectations
for a variety of reasons. First, the design of thp actual project components did not fully support the
attainment of the stated non-physical objectives of the project. There was a clear contradiction
between the stated objectives in the SAR and the design of the project components, which did not
enable such objectives to be obtained. Second, the implementation of the non-physical components
of the project (including the introduction of PMS, procurement of e quipment, and limited training of
PWD staff) experienced delays and was deemed only partially successful by end of project.
5.    Improvement of State Roads. The implementation of the civil works component, which
represented 86 percent of the original value of the project, was rated satisfactory in Maharashtra,
marginally satisfactory in Rajasthan, unsatisfactory in Uttar Pradesh, and highly unsatisfactory in
Bihar. The civil works component included the widening and strengthening of roads (road
improvements) from a single and/or intermediate lane to a width of 7 meters. (Some stretches of
road also included hard shoulders.) As a result of the project, 1,293 km4 of roads have been widened
and strengthened, out of the 2,253 km5 targeted in the SAR. Financially, with respect to road
improvements, 99 percent6 of the reduced scope of work value was disbursed. Details of the
implementation of the physical component in each State are described in the following paragraphs.
6.    Road Improvements and Bridge Constructions in Bihar. Implementation was determined
to be highly unsatisfactory, since none of the components in Bihar vvere completed by June 1998.
Due to a wide variety of reasons, including poor planning and problems associated with land
41293 km of the roads were substantially completed by June 30, 1996. Some other roads that were dropped were
funded and completed by PWDs. See table 5.
5 See table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation.
6 With regard to total disbursement of civil works, IDA: $81,322,775 out of $81,322,775 and IBRD: $96,742,092 out
of $96,857,721.



3
acquisition and the removal of utilities, the road improvement sub-component never began, and it
was officially dropped from the project in June 1996. Construction of the Bhagalpur bridge and its
approach roads commenced in earnest only in 1993, and were far from completion by the time the
project was finally closed on June 30, 19987.
7.    Road Improvements in Maharashtra. Implementation was determined to be satisfactory.
Of the planned 648 km of State Roads slated for improvement, 453 km, including an additional 8.7
km for the Jalna Bypass were substantially completed by June 1996. A further 204.4 km, which were
dropped from the project, due to a shortage of bituminous materials and poor performance of the
contractors, were completed by the PVVD using its own resources by June 1997. All civil works
components were therefore fully completed. By June 1996 when the Maharashtra component of the
project was closed, the overall disbursement for civil works was 122 percent (in US$) of the original
allocation.
8.    Road Improvements in Rajasthan. Implementation was determined to be marginally
satisfactory. Of the planned 868 km of State Roads slated for widening, 641 km were substantially
completed by June 1996. During the procurement process, the high price of bids and evidence of
two instances of bid tampering forced the contracts to be re-packaged. Consequently, the number of
contracts was reduced from eight to six. Of the six remaining contracts, one road component was
cancelled and another contract was dropped from the project, due to poor contractor performance,
leaving the construction of these roads incomplete. The overall disbursement for civil works was 138
percent (in US$) of the original allocation.
9.    Road Improvements in Uttar Pradesh. Implementation was determined to be
unsatisfactory. Of the planned 600 km of State Roads slated for widening, only 198 km were
substantially completed by June 1996. During the procurement process, the contracts were re-
packaged and reduced from nine to seven, due to the high price of bids. Of the seven remaining bids,
three contracts were not awarded and were cancelled from the project, due to the high price of the
bids. In one instance, poor contractor performance resulted in the expulsion of the contractor by the
PW7D and the work was never completed. The overall disbursement for civil works was 46 percent
(in US$) of the original allocation.
10.   Procurement of Specialized Equipment. The implementation of the equipment
procurement component was determined to be highly unsatisfactory. Seventeen categories of
equipment were initially identified to be procured in order to enhance the PWDs' institutional
capacity for road construction, monitoring and maintenance work. After substantial delays, only
three categories of equipment were procured. One of the three categories of equipment (four sets of
Mobile Bridge Inspection Units (MBU)), was procured only after June 1996, which was after the
closing date of the component. The total disbursement for this component was only 11 percent (in
US$) of the original allocation.
11.   Training. The training component of the project was fully implemented and determined to
be satisfactory. A total of 40 staff, ranging from assistant executives to superintendent engineers
7The Bhagalpur bridge (4,367 m concrete viaduct, crossing the Ganges River) and its approach roads (11 kin) are
expected to be completed by June 2000. As of June 30, 1998, physical and financial progress were rated 87
percent an 83 percent respectively.



4
from the four State PWDs, participated in six training courses. However, the impact-of this
component was less than expected due to the frequent turnover among involved staff.
12.   Supervision Consultant Services. The supervision consultant services component of the
project was determined to be marginally satisfactory. As part of the project each State procured an
international supervision consultant to supervise one road construction contract. This approach was
used in order to facilitate the introduction of international standards for quality control 'and contract
management of large road contracts. In Bihar, proof consultants were procured to review the design
of the Bhagalpur Bridge. In general, the supervision consultants provided satisfactory services.
However, their impact, in terms of the transfer of international standards to the PVVDs and
contractors, was limited due to the lack of acceptance of the concept of independent project
supervision consultants by some of the concerned PWDs.
13.   Maintenance Network Management System Study. The implementation of this study was
determined to be marginally satisfactory. The Maharashtra PWD took the initiative to manage the
contract, while the Ministry of Surface Transport (MOST) chaired the steering committee. The main
objective of the study was to establish a maintenance network management system in each state,
based on road inventories and conditions including traffic and the maintenance costs. For this study,
an ARAN vehicle mounted system was procured and approximately 30,000 km. of State roads in the
four States were surveyed. The PMS hardware and software packages were installed in each PWD.
After the road inventory survey, the Rajasthan PWD established a working cell to manage the PMS
and has conducted some surveys with the ARAN vehicle to update the database. The Maharashtra
PWD also used the PMS to maintain and update their database. HIowever, the PWDs in Uttar
Pradesh and Bihar have yet to fully utilize all aspects of the PMS. The study was considered
successful, but it has only achieved its partial impact in Rajasthan' and Maharashtra.
14.   Maharashtra PWD Organization Study. The implementation of the study was determined
to be marginally satisfactory. The Maharashtra PWD Organization study focused on the changing
role of the PWD and the increasing participation of the private sector, including consultants and
contractors, in the implementation of road infrastructure projects. The Government of Maharashtra
implemented one of the study's recommendations and established the Maharashtra State Road
Development Corporation to oversee Build-Operate-Transfer (BOT) projects in the State. The
corporation has recently undertaken the BOT based Bombay-Nasik Expressway project.
15.   The Economic Re-evaluation of the Road Improvement Sub-components.9 The
economic analysis in the SAR covered 23 individual roads (excluding the Bhagalpur Bridge) that
accounted for 75 percent of the original total project cost. The economic analysis conducted in the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) covers only 18 roads10 including two roads that were
completed by the Maharashtra PWD using its own resources. In order to reflect ex-post results, the
18 roads were also re-evaluated under ex-condition (re-evaluated SAR). In the analysis, all costs and
benefits were converted into Indian Rupees (Rs) at 1988 prices. The operational period of the roads
was assumed to be 10 years in the case of both the re-evaluated SAR and the ICR.
8The Rajasthan PWD is suffering from ARAN's continual breakdown and lack of spare parts.
9See Appendix C. Economic Re-Evaluation.
10 See table 5: Key indicators for Project Implementation.



5
16.    The results of the analysis are summarized in the table below. The values for the average
ERR and net present value (NPV) in the ICR are 63.6 percent and Rs. 9,142 million respectively, and
in the re-evaluated SAR they are 32.4 percent and Rs. 6,150 million respectively. These results
indicate that the economic benefits of the roads completed are much higher than what was originally
estimated by the SAR. In relation to SAR estimates, the growth in actual traffic levels (1.6 times
above SAR estimates) more than offset the increased construction costs (1.4 times.above SAR
estimates). In addition, construction initiation delays of two to three years and completion delays of
two years (an actual total of six years as opposed to four years as estimated in the SAR), produced a
higher than expected ERR/NPV. Although the ICR shows a higher than estimated ERRINPV for the
project when compared to the SAR, the construction costs in Rs. terms are substantially higher than
estimated. These higher costs were due to: (i) actual bid prices that were higher than PWD
estimates; (ii) poor designs that resulted in major re-designs, quantity changes, and adjustments to
variation orders; and (iii) delays in the implementation of project components resulting from many
factors including changes in variation orders.
Economic Re-evaluation for the Roads Completed
Average ADT  Average cost/km   Average cost/km    ERR        NPV
|   (1997)      (M 1988 Rs.)      (1988 US$)     (percent)  (M 1988 Rs.
SAR               3,055 (1.00)    1.86 (1.00)       140,000         30.4    NA
Re-evaluated SAR   3,055 (1.00)   1.86 (1.00)    140,000 (1.00)    32.4 (1.00)  6,150 (1.00)
ICR               4,794 (1.63*)    2.45 (1.37*)    190,000 (1.37*)   63.6 (1.96)  9,142 (1.49)
the average of ratio of individual road.
17.    Economic Re-evaluation for the Bhagalpur bridge Sub-component The results for the
Bhagalpur Bridge are shown in the table below. Since the bridge and its approach roads have not
been completed, the values are for reference purposes only. In the table, the ICR scenario is
considered as the most realistic scenario. The project cost was listed in the SAR as Rs. 689 rnillion
and Rs. 864 million (both in 1988 prices) was assumed as the projected completion cost in the ICR.
In the re-evaluated SAR scenario, which assumes a six year delay in implementation and the same
construction cost, the ERR increased to 23.8 percent from 19.6 percent and the NPV decreased to
Rs. 257 million from Rs. 396 million (1988 prices). In the ICR scenario, the ERR dropped to 18.6
percent from 23.8 percent while the NPV was Rs. 256 million (1988 prices), which was nearly the
same as the re-evaluated SAR figures.
Economic Re-evaluation for the Bhagalpur Brid e
Average       Cost         Cost         ERR          NPV
ADT (2000)   (M 1988   (M 1988 US$)   (percent)  (M 1988 Rs)
_ _ _ _ _ _   ~Rs)
SAR                          2,982 (1.00)  689 (1.00)    53.1 (1.00)   20.2 (19.6*)  NA (396*)
Re-evaluated SAR**           2,982 (1.00)  689 (1.00)    53.1 (1.00)    23.8        257
ICR (4.5 percent traffic growth  6,353 (2.13)  864 (1.37)    66.6 (1.37)  18.6      256
rate, year 2000 onward***)
recalculated with minor corrections to SAR.
: construction cost, period, and traffic are the same as that of SAR, but 6 years delay in implementation.
traffic growth rate is the same as that of SAR until 1999.



6
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors not Generally Subject to Government Control
18.   For several months, the petroleum, oil, lubricant (POL) product shortages and price increases
caused by the Gulf War negatively affected the progress of the civi]l works component in several
States and in particular in Maharashtra. Beginning in October 1990, and as a consequence of the
Gulf War, the Bank decided to increase the percentage of civil works expenditures financed under the
project from 60 to 90 percent.
19.   Exceptional rains during the 1996 Monsoon season damaged two partially completed well
foundations (P3 and P4) that were being constructed for the Bhagalpur Bridge and its approach
roads. As a result of this, and other factors such as the law and order situation in the Bhagalpur area
(it was alleged that a contractor was threatened by local gangs making it difficult for him to work),
the Bhagalpur Bridge and its approach roads will not be completed until June 2000 at the earliest.
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
20.   The procurement of specialized equipment was considerably delayed and in one case
(procurement of 4 MBIU's) was further delayed due to a major procurement dispute between two of
the bidders. Of the 17 categories of equipment to be procured under the project, only three were
procured five to six years behind schedule. Under the procurement arrangements, MOST acted on
behalf of the four States and due to this cumbersome procurement arrangement, much time was
wasted on inter-agency communication and extended decision-making. For example, nearly two
years were spent preparing the specialized equipment specifications for use in Indian conditions.
21.   Cash flow problems at the state level had an intermittent affect on the payment flow to
contractors, which in turn affected project implementation. In the case of Bihar, payments to the
contractor working on the Bhagalpur bridge were delayed by several months during the 1996 state
election period. In addition, GOI did not release in a timely fashion to the States the stipulated
advance for externally aided projects. This situation farther exacerbated the financial strain on the
State governments, especially during the crucial April-June period of each year.
Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control
22.   The average length of the procurement sequence (from pre-.qualification to notification of
award) was two to three years. This time period was considered excessive in comparison to the 10
months originally estimated for these activities. The excessive delays were the result of: (i) the
PWDs lack of familiarity with ICB; (ii) some resistance in accepting ICB; (iii) a long decision-making
process/chain within State governments; (iv) long delays in finalizing the pre-qualification documents;
(v) frequent turnover of key PWD staff, (vi) poor communication with the Bank; and (vii) a weak
sense of ownership by the PWDs.
23.   The average implementation period for the 16 civil works contracts that were completed
under the project by June 1996 was approximately six years compared to a contractually stipulated
period of three to four years. This delay can be largely attributed to poor project preparation,
including: (i) poor topographical surveys and engineering designs; (ii) insufficient site readiness
regarding land acquisition; and (iii) the removal of trees and utilities from the right of way. Most of



7
the engineering designs were prepared in-house by the PWDs. These were of poor quality, often
inaccurate, and resulted in extensive re-surveying and re-design. In some cases, the contractors were
forced to re-design after the contracts were awarded.
24.   The contract size did not appear to be large enough to attract both internationally experienced
and large domestic contractors. Although the tenders were designed to target not only local but also
internationally experienced contractors, all civil works contracts funded under the project were
awarded to small to medium sized domestic contractors. At the time the contracts were awarded, the
small to medium sized local contractors were inexperienced as well as technically, financially, and
managerially weak. Although the contracts encouraged local contractors to mechanize and improve
construction methods, their inexperience and lack of preparedness caused delays in civil works
implementation.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
25.   The sustainability of the approximately 1,293 km of State roads improved under the project is
dependent upon: (i) adequate monitoring of road conditions by the PWDs to address the priority
maintenance needs of the road network; (ii) the availability of adequate maintenance funding; and (iii)
the efficient use of the scarce resources available for maintenance. Although all four PWDs involved
in the project are fully aware of the importance of road maintenance in order to preserve the value of
road assets, institutional and financial capabilities are generally inadequate to sustain the maintenance
effort required to preserve both the roads improved under the project and the core state road
network. However, in the case of Maharashtra, the State government is trying to improve
maintenance funding as mentioned in its operational plan." Additionally, in the case of Rajasthan, as
part of the conditions to prepare a follow-up state road project, the State government has pledged to
eliminate the existing maintenance funding gap within the next five years which is an ambitious target
to achieve.
26.   The sustainability of the equipment and machinery procured is unlikely to be satisfactory.
Under the project, the MBIU, Dipstick Road Profilers, and Bitumen Distributors were procured for
the four States. Likewise the ARAN vehicle as well as the dTIMS and dROAD software packages,
were procured under the PMS study. All of these items, except for the MBIU12, are being used by
the respective PWDs. However, in the long run, since most of the equipment procured under the
project is not mass-produced and after-sales service is fairly limited, it will be extremely difficult to
keep the equipment running. For example, the ARAN vehicle is made in Canada and there is no
authorized dealer or after-sales support in India.
" See Appendix A. The ICR Mission Aide Memoire.
12 Maharashtra PWD received MBIU and uses it. Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, and Bihar did not receive MBIUs as of
June 1998.



8
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
27.   The Bank's performance was generally satisfactory in identifying the project, and
unsatisfactory in project preparation and appraisal. Considering the fact that it was a multi-state
project and budgetary resources provided for supervision were inadequate, the supervision effort was
rated as marginally satisfactory. Project preparation did not adequately take into account the actual
implementation and financial capacity of the implementing agencies (PWDs) and the local contracting
industry, both of which made the project very difficult to implement and supervise. This over-
estimation of the local capacity to implement a complex multi-state road project in India also
plagued, to an even greater extent, the implementation of the National Highway Project (Loan 2534-
IN) which closed on December 31, 1993. In retrospect, a more thorough and realistic assessment of
the implementing agencies' institutional capacity to implement a complex multi-state project should
have been conducted. This would have helped to ensure better quality at entry, and consequently,
greater success during project implementation.
28.   Two preparation missions and one appraisal mission were carried out by the Bank, which
focused mainly on project design and involved the discussion of basic procurement issues, contract
size, supervision method, proposed studies, and training. In the project design phase, the civil works
components were selected on the basis of their techno-economic viability, which took into
consideration the need to minimize land acquisition, resettlement, and encroachment in the right-of-
way. In addition, taking into account the multi-state nature of the project, the Bank team made an
adequate effort to ensure the necessary commitment and cooperation from both the GOI and the four
States involved.
29.   Even though a total of 24 supervision missions were fielded by the Bank, the supervision
effort was probably inadequate considering that the multi-state nature of the project made it difficult
to visit all four states during each supervision mission. Furthermore, due to the poor performance of
the Bihar components, a disproportionate amount of the supervision resources had to be allocated to
supervise these components at the expense of the other project components. Clearly, the Bank
grossly over-estimated the budget savings that could be generated by implementing a multi-state road
project in India.
30.   Due to the continued implementation problems of the Bihar components, Bank management
took an active role in trying to resolve, at the highest level of both the GOB and the GOI, the issues
affecting the implementation of these particular sub-components. As a direct result of Bank
management involvement it was decided to extend only some of the Bihar sub-components of the
project for an additional two years, after the bulk of the project components were closed on
June 30, 1996.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
31.   Borrower performance has been generally weak during project implementation. Other factors
like the frequent turnover of key PWD staff, lack of familiarity with Bank procurement procedures at
the state level, slow decision-making processes, and inadequate attention to project design
contributed to the relatively weak implementation performance by the Borrower.



9
32.   During the early stages of project implementation, the lack of familiarity with ICB and other
Bank procedures by the implementing States and MOST (also Director General of Supply and
Disposal) delayed the procurement of contractors, supervision consultants, and equipment. As a
result, in most cases an average of at least two years elapsed before the procurement and award of
civil works contracts were finalized.
33.   After the civil works contracts were awarded, poorly detailed engineering designs, inadequate
site readiness, and weak pre-qualification criteria often led to very slow initial construction progress.
Supervision of most of the civil works was done internally by PWDs engineering staff with mixed
results. These mixed results were due to the inadequate experience of the PWD staff in supervising
large civil works contracts and in quality control management, both of which negatively affected the
speed and implementation of the civil works contracts. Furthermore, weak oversight by MOST in
coordinating the procurement of equipment and in implementing the PMS resulted in major delays in
the implementation of these two components.
34.   The inexperience and inadequate implementation capacity of the PWDs, the long chain of
command and cumbersome decision-making process, and the high turnover of key staff hampered the
Borrower's ability to successfully implement the project. Furthermore, weak inter-agency
coordination and inadequate communication with the Bank also adversely affected project
implementation.
35.   Finally, the implementing agencies did not consistently meet the reporting requirements of the
project in a timely fashion. In addition to the poor reporting formats used, there were also delays in
the submission of audit reports and quarterly progress reports to the Bank by all States and particular
by the State of Bihar.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
36.   The implementation outcome of the physical components of the project can be considered
satisfactory in Maharashtra, marginally satisfactory in Rajasthan, unsatisfactory in Uttar Pradesh, and
highly unsatisfactory in Bihar. With a one year Loan/Credit extension, the majority of civil works
contracts were substantially completed in the states of Maharashtra, Rajasthan, and Uttar Pradesh.
However, there were considerable delays in the procurement and the full execution of some of the
civil works contracts. The roads improved under the project serve as major trunk roads carrying
heavy intra/inter-state traffic loads and have contributed to the reduction to a certain degree to traffic
congestion. However, in some cases, the physical deterioration of the roads has already occurred,
which underscores the importance of construction quality and adequate maintenance to ensure their
sustainability. In the State of Bihar, none of the civil works components were completed. The two
roads slated for improvement in Bihar were dropped from the project. The only remaining civil
works sub-component, the construction of the Bhagalpur Bridge and its approach roads, were
commenced, but will not be completed until June 2000 at the earliest.
37.   The implementation of the other project components was deemed unsatisfactory. After long
delays especially in conducting the field surveys, the PMS was installed in all four states, although its
full utilization was not covered under the project. The procurement of equipment was delayed
substantially and most of the items had not been procured when this component was closed on
June 30, 1996.



10
38.   The project provided PWD staff with relevant training, which contributed t6 improving the
PWDs' institutional capacity to implement similar projects. However., some of the value of the
training programs was lost due to frequent changes in the postings of the staff trained. Finally,
through the project, the local construction industry improved its mechanization and quality control
capacity, and internationally experienced supervision consultants were introduced on a pilot basis at
the state level.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
39.   All widened and strengthened road segments under the project should continue to operate
successfully with enhanced traffic carrying capabilities and ability to reduce congestion. In the State
of Maharashtra, concrete funding and operational plans have been drawn up to address the
maintenance of the state road network, based on the experience gained and by using organizational
units established under the project.
40.   In the States of Maharashtra, Rajasthan, and Uttar Pradesh, follow-up state road projects are
currently in various stages of preparation. One of the key objectives for this new generation of road
projects, is to ensure improved maintenance funding as well as maintenance management for the
entire road network. This is envisioned through the use of up-front actions, such as commitment
from the highest levels in the forn of State Policy Letters, that would substantially increase
maintenance funding. Furthermore, institutional strengthening of the iimplementing agencies will be
handled up-front and in a much more systematic manner.
41.   In the State of Bihar, the Bhagalpur Bridge and Approach Roads components are still under
implementation. All necessary arrangements, including funding and compliance with the contracts,
still need to be made in order to ensure the completion of work.
L. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
42.   Quality at entry is essential to ensure the successful preparation and implementation of a
complex multi-state project. In this regard, all project preparation activities including techno-
economic feasibility studies, detailed engineering designs, resettlement and rehabilitation (R &
R)plans, and environmental studies need to be completed well before civil works contracts can begin
on the ground. In light of the experience gained from the implementation of the SRP, full site
readiness (which includes R&R and environmental mitigation measures) is a sine qua non condition
for loan effectiveness for the next generation of state road projects currently being
prepared/implemented in India.
43.   The weak organizational and implementation capacity of the implementing agencies combined
with a low sense of project ownership (caused by the multi-state nature of the project) were two of
the major reasons for the poor implementation record of the project. This was compounded by the
high turnover of project related staff which made it very difficult for staff from both the Bank and the
PWDs to develop a high degree of project ownership. The early forLation of an exclusive,
empowered project implementation unit (PIU) with strong implementation capabilities is important to
ensure higher quality at entry and effective project implementation. The effective use of a PIJ can
also enhance the sense of ownership since the staff is working on a full-time basis for the project.



11
Furthermore, the development of up-front policy/institutional strengthening action plans for the
implementing agencies, together with intensive implementation training in contract and project
management during the early stages of project preparation is necessary to enhance implementation
capabilities.
44.   The preparation and implementation of a multi-state project like the SRP have proven to be
ineffective due to a reduced sense of ownership by the participating states and inadequate supervision
resources provided by the Bank. More specifically, supervision resources provided by the Bank did
not fully take into account the logistical difficulties of adequately supervising a multi-state project.
To properly supervise the project (considering that it was actually four individual state road projects
rolled into one), supervision resources should have been at least double the actual allocation. In
order to increase the sense of ownership and provide adequate resources for project preparation and
implementation, the next generation of state road projects are all single-state projects.
45.   Adequate maintenance funding together with improved maintenance planning is essential to
ensure the sustainability of project outcomes. Some of the roads improved under the project have
already started to deteriorate due to inadequate maintenance, higher than expected traffic volumes,
poor construction quality and poor hydrology. Effective road maintenance management, including
planning and budgeting for the roads, is the key to the sustainability of project roads and the entire
road network. For the next generation of state road projects, all participating States have committed
themselves to mobilize additional and/or alternative maintenance funding to meet the increasing needs
of the road sector.
46.   Without appropriate arrangements for the operation and maintenance of equipment and
machinery procured under the project, the sustainability of this component will probably be
unsatisfactory. Furthermore, the equipment procured should have been more suitable for Indian
conditions. For example, one of the reasons why the ARAN survey vehicle did not perform well was
because the width of the roads surveyed was inadequate and their riding quality was very low. In
other words, less sophisticated equipment should have been procured to more effectively deal with
local conditions. The implementation of such components should be reconsidered from a broader
perspective, including perhaps, the development and promotion of the private sector, which would be
responsible for carrying out works such as inventory surveys.
47.   The pre-qualification of financially and technically weak contractors had a negative effect in
the implementation of the civil works component of the project. This factor was compounded by the
lack of an adequate number of suitably qualified contractors seeking pre-qualification and by the
almost total lack of internationally experienced contractors interested in bidding for the contracts.
Since financially and technically weak contractors were pre-qualified, several civil works contracts
were dropped from the project during the mid-term review and the completion of most civil works
contracts took much longer than originally expected. Unless these two issues (pre-qualification of
weak contractors and an inadequate number of interested internationally experienced contractors) are
resolved, the implementation of road projects in India will continue to be plagued by construction
delays, cost overruns, and low construction quality. In order to encourage the participation of
international contractors in future projects, both the PWDs and the Bank have taken measures to
reduce the risks involved in recent road projects. These measures include: (i) higher quality detailed
engineering; (ii) more realistic bid estimates; and (iii) larger-sized contracts.



12
48.   The primary focus of the project was on the physical improvement of the core state road
network. Not enough emphasis was placed on the design of project components, which were
intended to support the stated development objective of the institutional improvement to the
implementing agencies. With the exception of the introduction of improved maintenance
management practices through the establishment of a PMS, procurement of some equipment, and
limited training of PWD staff, there was insufficient emphasis (backed by project components) on
institutional modernization and strengthening. With the next generation of State road projects, there
will be a much greater emphasis on facilitating the transformation of the PWDs from service
providers to the managers of state road networks. This will mean that the institutional modernization
and strengthening of the PWDs will not only be a stated key project development objective, but it
will also be supported by up-front actions on reform, and by project components that will enable the
attainment of this critical objective.



13
PART n: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives     Substantial        Partial        Negligible     Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies             0                0               0                U
Sector policies                                                      3 *  O          O
Financial objectives               O                *                               D
Institutional development          O3               *               l
Physical objectives                3               *                        
Poverty reduction                  O3                              0                P
Gender concerns                    E13              0               0                P
Other social objectives            O                O               O                U
Environmental objectives          EO                a3              o           .
Public sector management           O                O               O                P
Private sector development         E                O       0                        P
B. Project Sustainability          Likely                Unlikely               Uncertain
C. Bank Performance              Highly satisfactory      Satisfactory            Deficient
Identification                        E                                           E l
Preparation assistance                E                     E                      U
Appraisal                             El                    El                     U
Supervision                           E                     E                      U
D. Borrower Performance          Highly satisfactory      Satisfactory            Deficient
Preparation                           E                     O3                     K
Implementation                        E                     E                      U
Covenant compliance                   El                    E 
E. Assessment of Outcome        Highly      Satisfactory     Unsatisfactory        Highly
Satisfactory                                     Unsatisfactory
E              l                *                 E



14
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOAN/CREDITS
Loan/Credit Title                       Purpose                       Year of      Status
Approval
IN PE-10566 Gujarat   Widening & Strengthening of priority roads,          -      Negotiated
State Highway Project  maintenance of State roads, and reform and
streng nof the Stateroadage
IN PE-35159 Haryana  Widening & Strengthening of priority roads,           -      Negotiated
State Highway Project  maintenance of State roads, and reform and
strenghening of the State road age_y_
Ln.4192-lN           Widening & Strengthening of priority roads,       1997       Ongoing
Andhra Pradesh State   maintenance of State roads, and reform and
... ..w....jqct      sten gthe nng of the State road ag .
Cr.23651Ln. 3470-IN    Modernize key sectors of national highways in six  1992    Ongoing
Second National      different States including Punjab, Haryana, Orissa, West
TMj og  Pctdes.! a.  Ma.i_shatraPrad.sh.ad                                           ............Ma..ras.tra.
Cr. 1757-IN Gujarat    Construction, reconstruction, and improvement of about   1987  Closed
Rural Road Project   6,300km of village roads, procurement of equipment and       December 31,
vehicles, construction of houses, offices, warehouses and   1995
workshops, engineering and consultant services, and
technical assistance....__    ____.
Ln.2534-IN           To construct/rehabilitate national highways in 6 states    1985  Closed
National Highway     and foster institutional development by strengthening the    December 31,
Project              use of economic evaluation techniques for selectilng and     1993
-             Lranking road investment proposal.    _
Cr.1072-lN           To provide all weather road comnmunication between  1980     Closed
Bihar Rural Roads    farms and markets.                                           June 30,
Project                                                                           1988
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle                            Date Planed            Actual Date
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                                 June 1987
Preparation                                                                1987/1988
Appraisal                                                                   Feb. 1988
Negotiation                                                           Sept.13-20, 1988
Board Presentation                                                       Oct. 20, 1988
Signing                                                                 Nov. 17, 1988
Effectiveness                                                           March 2, 1989
Project Completion                                                      June 30, 1998
Loan/Credit Closing                               June 30, 1995         June 30, 1998a
La : Bilhar components (Bhagalpur Bridge, Approach road, and consultancy service) closed on June, 30, 1998.
All other components were closed on 30 June, 1996.



15
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ millions)
FY89  FY90  FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98  FY99
Appraisal Estimate     7.50   10.00  37.50   50.00   60.00   47.50   37.50       -       -        -       -
Appraisal Cumulative    7.50   17.50  55.00   105.00  165.00  212.50  250.00     -       -        -       -
Actual                17.98   0.00   6.99    14.15   33.19   33.23   35.76   28.88    13.75    4.69   0.05
Actual Cumulative     17.98   17.98  24.97   39.12   72,31  105.54   141.30  170.18  183.93  188.62  188.67
Actual as % of estimate   240    0      19      28       55      70       95     -       -        -       -
(for each year)
Date of final disbursement                                                                 December 28, 1998



16
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Initial Inipl-
Key Impleinentation Indicator in SAR  Estimnated    mentation Plan   Revised Scope  Actual
Parti A:.Road Widening and Strengthening    km            km             kmn            km
Bihar ________________________________
BhMgaIprBidjge       ____4                              4.4            4.4       Inoplt 
_Approach Roads             ___10                      10.6           10.6       Incom  p~e
Haji..Mu. ...      i~Road  ___51                          51             51         Dropped
Sonp - ChpaRoad                           50            50             50          Dropped
Total                        ____        115          116             lOt              0
Maharashtra____ ________________________
Pune -Auran~gaba Rad                     219          113,06k        113.6          113.6
Ahmnedn ~ Aragb-                                        92          Drppd          Dropd
_,ura4!jbad - Jalna Road                  124         112.4          Dopped        Drped
Nagpur-Kanp ~a4Ra                     69            69             69             69
Akola- ingoliRoad                      96            96             96             96
Wada - Biwadi Road                        23          69.4 Lb         69.4           69.4
Palgah 7-Wada Road                        47   - ~-                     -              -
-Ahinendnag~ar - Kopargaon Road            95            96 l            96             9
Jalna Bypass                              -               -       Added 8.7           8.7
Total                                    673            648.4         452.7         452.7
Bhiwadi -Alwar Road          ___90                     235 1          235            219
Alwar - Karauli Road                     145              -             -              -
Udaipur -Dabok Road        ___16                       113T-       -  113            114.8
Dabok - Chittorgarh Road                  97              -             -               -
Airn~: CittogarkRoad                 186           186           221.5           221.5
Sirohi -Abu Road                          63          85.5 b          85.5            85.5
Abu - Mount Abu Road                      23              -             -              -
FqtehpKr- Churu Road                      36      - 115             Cancelled __Cancelled
Churu - Haryana Boarder                   79---
Sikar - Haryanan Boader                  133            133         Dropped       Drpe
Total                                    868          867.5            655  __      640.8
Uttar Pradesh                    ___           _____
Sonauli_-93                                       48             48             48
_____      ~     ~~- 45.2 La           45.2           46.2
Gorakl~~pur - Ballia Road  ~~153              45a4                         45
-            47 "'       Cancelled     Cancelled_
-          59.2 La       Cancelled     Cancelled
Faizabad - Allahabad Road      ___        143          47a            47.4          47.4
-          12.6 Ia         12.6          12.6
-                  86.4 I   64        Icmlt
All ahaba - Dohri~ALt Roqad              208           208.7        Cancelled     Cancelled
Total  ___597                                         599.5           284.6         199.2
Grand total                    ~~~~~~~~~2253  2231.4         1508.3 Lc     1292_7_



17
Part B: Consultancyervices / Studies
Proof Consultant: Bhagalpur Bridge          Bihar         Bihar              -            Bihar
and Approach Road
Supervison (A1unedna~g~d)    Maharashtra   Maharash_tra                     -         Maharashtra
SPimer -                   ga            Raiasthan      Rajasthan                       Raja han
S-upervision (Allahabad - Faizabad)         UP             UP                              UP
Feasibihty Study for Bom    - Nasik Road                               Maharashtra    Maharashtra
PWD Organization Study       _Maharashtra   Maharashtra    Maharashtra    Maharashtra
Road Maintenance M ana           ty       4 States       4 States        4 States        4 States
Part C:   ient__________  __ ______________.
Brid  Insection Euipment                     4              4               -              4 'g
Dynamic Vehicle Weighing Equipment_          8              8               -               0
Automatic Traffic Counters                  80             80                               0
Nuclear Den   Measuring Equipment           24             24               -               0
Dvpai icLoe Penetrometers                    12             12              -0
TRRL BumI    grators                         9              9 -
Dpsfflick Road Profilers                     4              4               -               2
Bitmen Distributors                          8              8               -               8
Ch Spreaders                         __O ___
SurvEqument Sets                             8              8               -               0
,.b _a  . yqupme __n    _       ____ _       1              1                -0
TrminigAids                                  1              1               -               0     .....
Drive Simulators                             4              4                -              0
Color/Ni g-Blindness Equient                24             24                               0
Breahaysers_   ______    40                                 40              -               0
Brake Testi    uipment                       24            24               -               0
Con  uter Software                           1              1               -               0
Part D: Traing           ____
Pavement Rehabilitation and Modem         14 weeks       14 weeks        15 weeks        15 weeks
Maintenance Management.                               __ __
Bridge inspection, Rehabilitation, and   14 weeks        14 weeks        15 weeks        15 weeks
MaintenanceManagemSystemfo Brides.                    __ ___
Contrac      t      of Big Projects       14 weeks       14 weeks        17 weeks        17 weeks
Design Construction and Operation of      14 weeks       14 weeks        14 weeks        14 weeks
...ress..                                     ___________            ___s.
E~qMi~ent procurement Management             -__            -            4 weeks         4 weeks
Works Procurement Management                 -          .  -             4 weeks         4 weeks
la Road section was split into two or three sections.  -: Road sections were combined into one section.
LI 429.9 km of roads were cancelled in May 1993 and further 337.4 km were dro4pd as per the request of the
Department of Economics in August 1993; the 8.7 kni-Jalna Bypass (Maharashtra), and 35.5 km and minor 1.8 km
(Rajasthan) were added to the project. The 337.4 km and 101 km road component were officially dropped on
June 30, 1996 from the project, and 86.4 km are incomplete. All components, except Bhagalpur Bridge and its
approach roads, were closed in June 1996 after one-year extension from the original closing date of June 30, 1995.
/d: includes some components substantially completed under the project and fully completed by June 1997 with PWDs'
own resources.
/e Program changed from Planning, design, and Construction of Interchanges to Contract management of Big Projects.
-: These programs were added.
Only one unit was received to Maharashtra. Other three unit were procured by MOST but were not delivered to other
states yet.



18
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
Estimated/             Actual: Cumulated road length (km)'/
Revised (km)
Road Widening
and Strengthening                  1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998
Bihar               115/116        0       0        0       0       0       0       0
Maharashtra         668/452.7    155    265      348      445    452.7     -       -
Rajasthan La        868/655       51      179    306      502    640.8     -
Uttar Pradesh La    597/284.6     34      76      121     159    199.2     -       -
Total             2248/1508.3    240     520     775    1106   1292.7  1292.7  1292.7
/ The road length widening and strengthening completed was calculated based on the physical progress of each contract.
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study            Purpose as defined at           Status           Impact of Study
AppraisaVRedefined
1. Pavement           To determine desirable     The study was completed  In Maharashtra
Management Study       annual outlays to repair/  in September 1996 with   and Rajasthan,
(PMS)                 rehabilitate priority sections  four participating states    PMS is utilized in
in a net work and assess  PMS cells under the     a limited fashion
requirement of fund       Steering Committee      in their
allocations. It provides a  chaired by MOST. About  maintenance
rapid and systematic      30,000km of road        planing and
measure for management to  inventory data over the    budgeting.
assess and compare different  four state was stored in    In Uttar Pradesh
operational strategies.   PMS. The Rajasthan      and Bihar, it has
PWD established a PMS   not been utilized
cell for the system and  and its impact is
utilizes it including   negligible.
Automated Road
Analyzer.
2. Organization Study    Define objectives and   The study was completed   The Government
of PWD of Maharashtra  organization, recommend   and final report was    of Maharashtra
how best it should be staffed  submitted by the   established the
to meet its commitments and  Consultant to the    Maharashtra State
how its resources should be   Government.         Road
structured and deployed                           Development
throughout the state in order                      Corporation.
to achieve optimum
efficiency. It ascertains the
budgetary needs of the
recommended organisation.
3. Feasibility Study for   Feasibility Study for  Study was completed in    The expressway
Bombay - Nasik Road    proposed 150 km of express,  June 1996.           initiated as BOT
Tahane to Nasik via                               basis by PWD.
Bhiwandi.



19
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
(USD million)
Appraisal estimate                Actual/ latest estimate L
Item           Local costs  Foreign costs    Total   Local costs  Foreign costs   Total
Civil Works                  277.3         109.5    386.8         213.4           0.3   213.7
Land Acquisition               6.8             -      6.8             -             -        -
Supervision of civil works    36.3            -      36.3           3.6           3.2     6.8
Equipment                      0.7           5.0      5.7           0.5           0.1      0.6
Training                       1.0           1.0      2.0           0.9             0      0.9
Studies                        0.7          11.9     12.6           2.5           1.1     3.6
Total                        322.8         127.4    450.2         218.5           4.7   225.6
La: Some figures are estimated.
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
(IJSD million)
Appraisal Estimates                      Actual La
Component         World Bank  Government  Total       World Bank   Government  Total
Group       of India                Group        of India
Bihar State Roads              56.6        42.4    99.0             28.1         12.1   40.2
- & Bhagalpur Bridge
Maharashtra State Roads        49.7        38.1    87.8             53.5          7.4   60.9
Rajasthan State Roads          58.0        45.6   103.6             70.9         11.5   82.4
Uttar Pradesh State Roads      85.7        74.1   159.8             36.2          5.9   42.1
Total Disbursement            250.0       200.2   450.2            188.7         36.9  225.6
/a: Some figures are estimated.



20
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND B]ENEfITS
(1988 USD million)
Net Present
Cost         Benefits la    Value @12% Lb      ERR (%)
Bihar State Roads
SAR                            22             48               6                16
ICR                             -              -                -                -
Bhagalpur Bridge Le
SAR                            39            297               31               20
ICR                            67            269               20               19
Maharashtra State Roads
SAR                            44            330              111               45
ICR (Roads completed)                                         396               83
Rajasthan State Roads
SAR                            53            344               99               33
ICR (Roads completed)                                         240               64
Uttar Pradesh State Roads
SAR                            82            216               38               19
ICR (Roads completed)                                          68               31
In ICR an analysis period is a 14-year including a 10-year operation period. In the case of Bhagalpur bridge,
a 25-year including a 20-year of operation period.
La :NPV includes 25 % of salvage value.
1k:Net present values (NPV) for SAR are re-calculated.
ICR values for Bhagalpur are projected values.



21
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Original     Revised
Agreement       Section    Covena    Presen   fIuflunFe    hlfilhment             Description of covenant                   Comments
nt type   t status   nt date      date
Project       2.01(a)      5       CD                                Each State shall carryout its respective part of the   After delay complied with.
Agreement                                                              Project with due diligence and efficiently and m
conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices.
2.01(bXi)    2        C      03/31/1990                Each State to carry out its part of the Project in  Complied with.
accordance with Inplementation Program
contained in Schedule 2 of Project Agreement.
2.01(b)(ii)   5       C       03/31/1990               Each State to design, construct, strengthen and  Complied with.
maintain roads under the Project m accordance
with design standards and specifications specified
by India Roads Congress in their issue numbers 3,
37 and 73.
3.01(a)     9        C                                Each State shall maintain records and accounts in   Complied with.
accordance with sound accounting practices, their
operations and financial conditions in respect of
the Project.
3.01(b)     1       CP                                Audit - each State (due within mine months of FY   SOE audit report for approach
end).                                      road contract in Bihar is overdue
and is expected by 06/30/98.
Schedule     5        C                                Each State to establish a supervisory unit to assist
2, A1                                               in the coordination of implementation of its
respective part of the Project.
Schedule     5       CP      12/31/1992   06/30/1995   Each State to complete a study to introduce a  Study started in November 1992
2, A.3(i)                                              Road Maintenance Management System (RMS).   and completed June 1995.
Schedule     5       CP                                States to progressively introduce RMS.
2, A.3(ii)
Schedule     5       CP                                Each State to submit next year's construction
2, A.4                                                program.
Schedule     5       NC                                Each State shall furmish involuntary resettlement   In Bihar there was issue in Road
2, A5(i)                                                                                          components, but these were
abandoned.
Schedule     5       NC                                Each State takes steps for resettlement and  In Bihar there was issue in Road
2, A5(ii)                                             rehabilitation of individuals adversely affected by   components, but these were
the project                                 abandoned
Schedule     9       NC      06/30/1989   01/30/1993   Bihar to furnish to the Bank action plan for  New deadline set in folow-up
2, B.6(i)                                              Bhagalpur Bypass.                          letter.
Schedule     5        C      12/31/1990   06/30/1994   Maharashtrato complete PWD reorganization   Study started July 1993 and
2, C.7(i)                                              study.                                      completed in September 1994.
Development     2.02(b)      3        C      12/31/1989                GOI to maintain a Special Account in dollars.  Complied with.
Credit Agreement
3.01(b)     3        C                                GOI to make proceeds of loan available to each  Complied with.
State in accordance with GO's standard
arangements for development assistance to the
States of India.
4.01(a)     1        C                                For expenditures made on basis of SOE, records    Complied with.
and accounts reflecting these expenditures shall
be maintained in accordance with sound
accounting practices.
4.01(b)     1        CP     12/31/1993                Audit of SOE (due within nine months of FY  Audit report for approach road
end).                                       contract in Bihar is expected by
06/30/98.
4.02       1       NC      09/30/1993                Audit - Special Account (due within six months of  Not complied with.
FY end).
4.03       5       CP      09/30/1989                GO, through MOST, shall (i) assist the States in   Several items of equipment were
procurement of goods, works and consultants'  not procured by June 30, 1996,
services required for project; and (ii) coordinate    and component was closed at that
arrangements for the provision of tramiing under   time.
Part F(b) ofthe Project.
Covenant Types:   1= Accounts/audits                      7 = Involuntary resettlement                                   13=Other.
2 = Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries    8 = Indigenous people.                                Present Status:
3 = Flow and utilization of project fbnds.                9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting.                          C = covenant complied with.
4 = Counterpart funding.                                 10 = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9.    CD = complied with after delay.
5 = Management aspects of the project or executing agency.  11 =Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other reources allocation.  CP = complied with partially.
6 = Enviromnental covenants.                             12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action.  NC = not complied with.



22
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
There was no significant lack of compliance with an applicable Bank Operational Manual Statement
(OD or OP/BP).
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of project                            Planned                             Actual
Weeks            US$                Weeks             US$
Preparation to appraisal                         n.a.            n.a.                     45.3         106,600
Appraisal                                        n.a.            n.a.                     35.2          70,100
Negociations through Boad approval               n.a.            n.a.                     17.3          38,900
Supervision'@                                    n.a              n.a                   259.4          623,500
Completion                                       n.a.            n.a.                     19.9          56,400
Total                                            n.a.            n.a.                   377.0          895,500
Staff Week
FY              87      88     89      90     91     92     93      94     95     96     97      98     99  Total
Preparation to appraisal  4.1   41.1                                                                                    45.2
Appraisal                      23.0   12.2                                                                              35.2
Negociation through                    17.3                                                                             17.3
Boad approval
Supervision'/                   0.1   12.5   20.8   34.5   45.2   47.3   34.5   23.1   19.9   12.1    9.4              259.4
Completion                                                                                               9.4   10.5    19.9
Total                    4.1   64.2   42.0   20.8   34.5   45.2   47.3   34.5   23.1   19.9   12.1   18.8   10.5   377.0
USS(1,000)
FY             87      88     89      90     91      92       93     94     95     96     97      98     99  Total
Preparation to appraisal    7.4   99.2                                                                                 106.6
Appraisal                     50.2   19.9                                                                               70.1
Negociation through                   38.9                                                                              38.9
Boad approval
Supervision-/                         27.8   41.7   75.3   106.8   117.6   74.4   74.8   49.6   29.0   26.5            623.5
Completion                                                                                               26.4    30    56.4
Total                  7.4   149.4   86.4   41.7   75.3   106.8   117.6  74.4   74.8   49.6   29.0   52.9    30   895.5
La: This was multi-state project therefore the supervision costs need to be looked at in the context of a multi-state
project. Also the supervision missions were often combined with other project such as the National Highway
Project.



23
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Stage of Project    Month/    Number of  Days in    Specialized staff       Performance Rating Lb     Types of
Year        persons     field   skills represented/a                            problems __
Implemen-   Developmen
tation status   t objectives
Through appraisal         6/87      2          19                      E
Oct-Nov/87      4          18              E, EC, DC
Appraisal               Feb/88      6          22              E, EC, DC
Supervision        Feb-Mar/89       2          30                     E
Oct-Nov/89      3          23                  E, EC       2             1
Jan-Feb/90      4         19                   E,EC        2             1
May/90       6          19                  E,EC        2             1
Nov-Dec/90       2         18                      E        2             1
Mar/91       4         19                      E        2             1
Sep-OctJ91      5         17                   E,EC        2             1
Feb-Mar/92       3         25                      E        2            2
Jul/92      2         21                  E, EC        3            2        M, P
Sep-Oct/92      3         19                      E        3             2       M,P
Restructure Jan/93   Feb-Mar/93     6          37                      E       3             2        M, P
Jul/93      5         26                  E, O, I      3            2        M, P
Oct-Nov/93      3          21                   E, O       3             3        M, P
Mar/94       3         25                      E        3            3        M, P
Jul/94      3         17                   E, O       U             U        M, P
Feb/95      4          -                 FA, E, I      U             U        M, P
Jul-Aug/95      4          1                  FA, E        U            U        M,P
Nov-Dec/95       3          1                  FA, E       U             U        M, P
Jul/96      2          7                  FA, E       U             U        M, LC, En
Mar/97       1          1                     FA        -             -       M, En
May/97       3          6                   FA,E        S             S       Fi,M,LC, En
Dec/97       2         4                       E        -            -        M,LC, En
Jan/98      1          1                     FA        -             -       M, LC, En
Supervision/Completion   Jun/98     3          5                   FA, E       U             S       M
Nov/98       1          5                      E        -
a: E = Engineer, EC = Economist; FA = Financial Analyst; 0= Operation Officer
: HS or I = Highly satisfactory; S or 2 = Satisfactory; U or 3 = unsatisfactory; HU or 4 =Highly Unsatisfactory
Fu = Funding; Fi = Finance; T = Training; P = Procurement M = Project Management; LC = Legal Covenant;
En  Engineering



24                           Appendix A
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
STATES' ROAD PROJECT
(Loan 2994-IN/Credit 1959-uN)
INITIATION OF IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT AISSION
AIDE MEMOIRE
(August 4, 1998)
1.    A World Bank mission visited India during June 8 to 26, 1998 to initiate work on the
preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the States' Road Project (Ln.
2994/Cr. 1959-IN). The full mission comprising Messrs. Fabio Galli (Financial Analyst, SASIN),
Yoneo Oka (Highway Engineer, SASIN), and Moncef Chaabouni (Consultant) visited Patna and
Bihar during June 8 - 12, while Mr. Yoneo Oka visited Mumbai, Maharashtra during June 15 and 16
and Messrs. Fabio Galli and Yoneo Oka visited Jaipur, Rajasthan during June 18 and 19. Also
Messrs. Yoneo Oka and A. K. Swaminathan (Highway Engineer, SASIN) met in N. Delhi with
officials of Ministry of Surface Transport (MOST) on June 23 and with officials of Government of
Uttar Pradesh on June 25. The mission wishes to thank officials of the Bihar Road Construction
Department (BRCD), the PWDs of Maharashtra, Rajasthan, and UP, and MOST for the cooperation
and patient assistance extended to the Bank mission.
Introduction
2.    A loan in the amount of $170 million and a credit in the amount of SDR 62.2 million ($80
million equivalent) for the States' Road Project were approved on October 20, 1988 and became
effective on March 2, 1989. The expected project completion date was June 30, 1995. The project
covered four states, namely, Bihar, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, and Uttar Pradesh. The project
components included; (a) the widening and/or strengthening of about 2300 km of state roads; (b)
construction of a bridge over the Ganga river at Bhagalpur; (c) procurement of specialised equipment
to assist the management of the road system including procurement of a pavement management
system (PMS) and; (d) staff training, technical assistance, and consultant services.
3.    Lack of familiarity with Bank procurement procedures for the Governments, poor
engineering, weak project quality of contractors, cash flow problerns, and removal of utilities etc.,
caused major delays in project implementation. As a result, the project was initially extended to
October 31, 1995, and subsequently to June 30, 1996. By this date, with the exception of the Bihar
components, most of the project components had been completed, even though some civil works
contracts equivalent to US$62 million had been cancelled.
4.    On June 30, 1996, selective components of the project were extended by a further one year to
June 30, 1997, namely; (a) Bhagalpur Bridge contract in Bihar; (b) Approach Roads to Bhagalpur
Bridge contract and; (c) remaining consultant services contracts for Bhagalpur Bridge and Approach
Roads contracts. However, the completion of the bridge contract had been set back because of the
need to reconstruct two partially completed well foundations washed away by exceptional scouring



25                           Appendix A
action during 1996 monsoon. Because of this, a further one year extension was granted by the Bank
to June 30, 1998 for the same components. Although the construction of the Bhagalpur bridge and
approach roads was not completed by June 1998, only approximately US$5.3 million remained
undisbursed under the project.
The Project
5.    The project's main objectives were to extend the policy/ institutional improvements, which
were begun under the National Highway Project (Loan 2534-IN), to the State level, in particular by;
(a) promoting the use of modem maintenance management systems, which each of the four states
would put in place along the lines of what was being instituted by MOST for national highway
network; (b) introducing improved construction methods through larger contract packages of a
sufficient size to encourage local firms to mechanise, but which, when grouped together, would also
attract international interest and; (c) introducing supervision by internationally experienced
consultants on selected civil works contracts in all four states.
6.    The project comprised components; (a) civil works; (b) procurement of specialised equipment
to assist the participating four states in monitoring the condition and usage of their road networks
and promoting road safety; (c) staff training, technical assistance (studies) and; (d) supervision
consultant services. The civil works component included about 2,300 km of road widening and/or
strengthening in four states. The procurement of specialized equipment included a device for
measuring roughness of roads which was decided to be used in determining road condition, modern
traffic counters, and mobile bridge inspection platforms, etc.. Training and technical assistance
included a variety of training, the installation of a pavement management system study, and road
inventory surveys pertaining to the study for establishing in each state a network maintenance
management system.
Mission's Findings
7.    Achievement of project objectives. As of June 1996, all civil works components were
substantially completed in Maharashtra, Rajasthan, and Uttar Pradesh. As regards to the Bihar
components none of the project components were completed as of June 1998 the revised closing date
of the project. Out of 2300 km of state roads scheduled to be improved under the project, about
1500 km have completed while the remaining were cancelled and withdrawn from the project. The
status of physical completion of all of the project components is attached to the AM.
8.    Procurement of most of the equipment, staff training, studies, and consultant services were
substantially completed as of June 1996. However, there were major delays in the procurement of
the equipment and the installation of the PMS was also delayed.
9.    The State of Bihar Components. The Bihar components of the project comprised four civil
works contracts and a proof consultant service. Two of the civil works components (Hajipur-
Muzzaffarpur (51 km) and Sonepur-Chhapra (50 km) roads) were not started due to lack of
familiarity with Bank procurement procedure, land acquisition, and resettlement and rehabilitation
issues. These two components were formally closed on June 30, 1996. The remaining components
of the project; the Bhagalpur Bridge, Approach Roads to the bridge, and Proof Consultant Services
were on the other hand extended four times to June 30, 1998.



26                           Appendix A
10.   Work on the Bhagalpur bridge contract, which includes a 5 km concrete bridge across the
Ganga River, started in April 1991, two years after the project became effective. This was caused by
procurement delays due to a lack of familiarity with Bank procurement rules. Furthermore during
1996 monsoon season, two partially completed well foundations (P3 & P4) in the navigational
portion of the bridge were washed away by floods. By the end of June 1998, physical and financial
progress was respectively 87% and 83%. This component is expected to be completed by June 2000
at the earliest. The reconstruction of the two well foundations is currently under arbitration and
could further delay the completion of the bridge works. The Approach Road contract started on the
ground only in December 1996 because of a variety of reasons including the reluctance of contractors
to work in the Bhagalpur area. By the end of June 1998, the works of embankment and subgrade
were substantially finished and financial progress was about 58%. This component is expected to be
completed by June 1999, though there are currently law and order problems on site which could
delay the completion of the works. The proof consultant contract for the bridge component was
expected to be extended to at least June 30, 1998.
11.   The mission also visited the Hajipur-Muzzaffarpur road section. High traffic volume was
observed on this section where the pavement was still distressed even though periodic pavement
maintenance works had been executed. The other road section Sonepur-Chapra was reclassified by
MOST in 1997 as a National Highway (NH19) and will be maintained as part of the NH network.
12.   The State of Maharashtra Components. The Maharashtra components of the project
originally comprised seven civil works contracts, a supervision consujltant service, the PWD
organisational study, and part of the PMS. Seven civil works contracts were procured from July 1990
to January 1992. Due to slow implementation progress, two contracts were withdrawn from the
project during mid-term review. A supervision consultant contract, which was for one of the
withdrawn civil works contracts, was also terminated at the same time. In conjunction with the mid-
term review, the construction of the Jalna Bypass and the feasibility study of Bombay-Nasik Road
components were added to the Maharashtra components of the project. All Maharashtra components
with the exception of the two cancelled civil works contracts, were substantially completed by June
30, 1996. The two cancelled civil works contracts were fully completed by the PWD using their own
funds in 1997.
13.   The PWD organisational study was also completed on time even though most of the
recommendations of the study have only been partially implemented by GOM. However, as a result
of the PWD organisational study, GOM has established the Maharashtra State Road Development
Corporation which is in charge of BOT projects in the state. The Corporation has taken up
construction of Mumbai-Pune expressway on BOT basis.
14.   The mission visited Pune - Ahmadnagar road section which was completed in 1995. The
mission observed high volumes of traffic on the road section and the pavement was in good condition
thanks to regular road maintenance works. The road roughness is surveyed regularly and utilised for
the annual maintenance work program.
15.   The State of Rajasthan Components. The Rajasthan components of the project comprised
six civil works contracts, a supervision consultant contract and a portion of the PMS. Out of these
components, one civil work was cancelled from the project during the midterm review due to poor
implementation progress, and one civil work was not commenced and technically closed June 1996.



27                           Appendix A
The other four civil works contracts and the supervision contract were substantially "completed by
June 30, 1996.
16.   The mission visited the Mahaura - Bhiwani road section which was fully completed by
mid-1997. The mission observed that long streches of the improved road section have already
deteriorated with cracks, pot holes particularly in middle of the road which were maintained by
patching. Possible reasons for this premature deterioration are; (a) hydrology of the road was not
adequately taken into account during detailed engineering; (b) improper pavement execution for the
center part of the road due inadequate diversion of traffic flow and; (c) much higher than expected
axle loads.
17.  -The State of Uttar Pradesh Components. The Uttar Pradesh components of the project
comprised nine civil works contracts, a supervision consultant contract and part of the PMS. Of the
nine civil works contracts, three were fully completed by 1995, while three were cancelled during the
mid-term review. The final three civil works contracts started late and progressed slowly, and out of
these three, two had been fully completed by 1997 with the state's own resources while the third has
still not been completed.
18.   Pavement Management Study. The contract included procurement of a software package
including dTIIMS and dROAD and etc., to establish a PMS, inclusive of an automated road analyser
(ARAN) to enable systematic road condition surveys in the four states. Surveys of about 30,000 km
of road inventory were carried out over the four states and this was stored in the PMS. A steering
committee chaired by MOST was established to manage the surveys and the establishment of the
PMS in the four states covered by the project. Also training programs including operator and system
training for the ARAN vehicle were carried out. The Rajasthan PWD, after completing the road
inventory survey, established a working cell to manage the PMS and has conducted some surveys
with the ARAN vehicle to update the road condition inventory database. The Maharashtra PWD
also uses the PMS to maintain an updated database of the condition of the core road network and
conducts regular surveys using the ARAN vehicle. However, in the case of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar
the PMS is currently not being utilized.
19.   Procurement of Equipment. The procurement of equipment under the project was done by
MOST on be half of the four states. However, due to the lack of familiarity with Bank procurement
procedures and weak coordination between MOST and the four states, not all of the equipment was
procured by June 30, 1996 when this component was closed. As a matter of fact, the procurement of
four mobile bridge inspection units under the project has still not been completed due to litigation
proceedings.
Key Lessons Learned
20.   Quality at entry is essential for the successful implementation of a complex multi-state
project. Detailed engineering design and site readiness for civil works including land acquisition,
resettlement and rehabilitation, and removal of utility are major government responsibilities to ensure
quality at entry. Weak organisational and implementation capabilities of implementing agencies was
a major reason for poor quality at entry and hence partially achieved development objectives. In
future projects, site readiness should be a sine qua non condition for project readiness for appraisal
together with full awareness by the implementing agency of its responsibilities to implement the
project.



28                           Appendix A
21.   The State Governments' familiarity with procurement and other Bank procedures is crucial to
expedite project implementation. This project was the first attempt to introduce ICB at State level.
Lack of familiarity with ICB caused major delays in procuring civil works under the project.
Furthermore, policy/institutional improvement of state PWD's together with intensive training in
contract management skills are important to enhance implementation capabilities.
22.   Internationally experienced supervision consultants are effective in transferring knowledge
and technology of contract management and quality control to PWI) and contractors. However if
implementing agencies are not committed and do not feel full ownership of the project, the use of
internationally experienced supervision consultants can even cause delays and increase costs in the
execution of the civil works contracts. Governments should take fuill responsibility for the
coordination of all parties involved in the project, particularly the supervision consultants.
23.   A multi-states project can weaken the sense of ownership of the project by individual states.
This can cause implementation delays and difficulties in supervising the project. More effective
institutional arrangements including single state projects are needed to enhance project ownership
and project implementation.
24.   Periodic maintenance after the completion of widening and strengthening of roads is
important for sustainability of outcomes. Some parts of the roads improved in the project have
already started deteriorating due to heavy freight traffic and poor hydrology. Effective road
maintenance management including planning and budgeting for the roads is the key for the
sustainability of project roads and the network.
25.   Large size of the procurement works introduced in the project were effective to encourage
local contractors to mechanize and to introduce improved construction methods although
achievements were not fully satisfactory. Further mechanisation is required to improve both the
quality and durability of the roads improved.
ICR Preparation
26.   The mission discussed the ICR preparation and requested PWWDs and BRCD of the four states
and MOST to prepare and provide the Bank with information required for ICR tables as follows:
a) Key Indicators for Project Implementation;
b) Key Indicators for Project Operation;
c) Studies, Training, equipment procurement included in Project;
d) Project Costs and;
e) Project Financing.
27.   The mission requested PWDs and BRCD to provide the Bank traffic data for each road
required for comparison with the predicted data in Staff Appraisal Report.
28.   It was agreed that PWDs, BRCD, and MOST will prepare the above data and will forward it
to the Bank by August 12, 1998 and the Bank will review all the information received and send
comments by August 31, 1998. It was also agreed that PWDs, BRCD, and MOST will forward to
the Bank revised and additional data based on the Bank's comments before September 30, 1998.



29                          Appendix A
29.   The mission requested PWDs and BRCD to provide the Bank fully prepared7 operational plans
by August 12, 1998, which include future maintenance, operational, and budgeting plans for road
sections improved and other studies procured under the project.
30.   Borrower's contribution to ICR. The mission requested PWDs, BRCD, and MOST to
prepare their own project evaluation reports. It should cover: (a) the project's execution and the
initial operation characteristics of its key components; (b) the costs and benefit of the project; (c) the
performance of the borrower, executing agencies, and the Bank with regard to their respective
obligations under the Loan and Credit agreements; and (d) the extent to which the development
objectives of the loan/credit were achieved. This information is annexed to the ICR as a borrower's
report. Advice for preparing borrower's contribution to ICR is given in Attachment.
31.  It was agreed that PWDs, BRCD, and MOST will forward their own project evaluation
reports to the Bank by September 30, 1998.



30                                    Appendix A
Attachment: Status of Completion of Project Components
Appraisal                     Initial Implementation            Restructured Implementation       Implementation
Completion
Bihar                                                            _ .                           _
km                               ckm                                km
1   Bhagalpur Bridge            4  Bhagalpur Bridge (1/1)       4.4  Bhagalpur Bridge             4.4  Incomplete
2    Bridge Approach Road      10  Bridge Approach Road (2/1)    10.6  Bridge Approach Road      10.6  Incomplete
3    Hazipur-Muzzaffarpur      51  Hazipur-Muzzaffarpur road     51  Closed (6196)
Road                          (2/3)
4    Sonepur-Chhapra Road      50  Sonepur-Chhapra Road(2/2)     50  Closed (6/96)
5    Supervision                   Supervision for Bhagalpur         Proof consultant for
Bridge                            Bhagalpur Bridge
6    Equipment                     By MOST                           By MOST                           Partially completed
7    Training                      By MOST                            By MOST through NMITE             Completed
8    Maintenance                   By Maharashtra PWD                By Maharashtra PWD                Completed
Management Study
Maharashtra
km                                km                                km
1    Pune - Aurangabad Road   219  Pune - Ahmednagar Road     113.6  Pune - Ahmednagar Road     113.6  Completed (7/90-
(2)                                                                 11/95)
_-                   Ahmednagar-Aurangabad         92  Cancelled (8/93)                  Completed (6/90-
Road (3)                                                            6/97 by PWD)
2    Aurangabad - Jalna Road   124  Aurangabad - Jalna (Jalna)    112.4  Cancelled (8/93)               Completed (6/90-
Road (4)                                                            6/97 by PWD)
3    Nagpur - Kanpa Road       69  Nagpur - Kanpa Road (6)       69  Nagpur - Kampa Road           69  Completed (1/92-
6/95)
4    Akola - Hingoli Road      96  Akola - Hingoli (Hingoli)     96  Akola - Hingoli (Hingoli)     96  Completed (6/90-
Road (5)                          Road                              3/95)
5    Wada-Biwadi Road          23  Wada-Bhiwadi, Palghar-      69.4  Wada-Bhiwvandi, Palghar-    69.4  Completed (12/90-
Wada Road (1)                     Wada Roacl                        5/97 by PWD)
6    Palgarh-Wada Road         47              _
7    Ahimendnagar-             95  Ahmendnagar-Kopargaon         96  Ahmendnagar-Kopargaon         96  Completed (8/90-
Kopargaon Road                Road (7)                          Road                               12/94)
8    Supervision                   Supervision for               92  Closed (6/96)                            __
Ahmednagar-Aurangabad
Road
9    Equipment                     By MOST                           By MOST                           Partially completed
10   Training                      By MOST                           By MOST through N1THE
II   Maintenance                   Maintenance Management            Maintenance Management            Completed (11192-
Management Study              Study                             Study                             9/96)
12   Organisation Study of         Organisation Study of PWD         Organisation Study of PWD         Completed (7/93-
PWD                                                                                                9/94)
Jalna Bypass (8)            8.7  Completed (4/94-
1/97 by PWD)
Feasibility Study of              Completed (3/94-
Bombay-Nasik Road                6/96)
R*ajsthan
km                                km                                km
1   Bhiwadi - Alwar- Road      90  Bhiwadi-Alwar-Karauli        235  Bhiwadi-Alwar-Karauli        235  Completed
Road (1/1,2/lA)                   Road
2    Alwar-Karauli Road       145             _                                                         Completed
3    Udaipur-Dabok Road        16  Udaipur-Dabok-Chittorgarh    113  Udaipur-Dabok-Chittorgarh    113  Completed
Road (1/2)                        Road
4    Dabok-Chittorgarh Road    97             __                                __
5   Ajimer-Chittorgarh Road   186  Ajimer-Chittorgarh Road      186  Ajimer-Chittorgarh Road      186  Completed
(113,2/3A)
6    Sirolii-Abu               63  Sirohi-Abu-Mount Road       85.5  Sirohi-Abu-Mount Road       85.5  Completed
(2/8)
7   Abu-Mount Road             23              _ 



31                                    Appendix A
Appraisal                    Initial Implementation            Restructured Implementation       Implementation
Completion
8    Fatehour-Churu           36  Fatehpur-Churu-Haryana       115  Cancelled (5/93)
Border (2/6)
9    Chulu-Haryana Border     79                                               _
10   Sikar-Haryana Border    133  Sikar Haryana Border (1/4)   133  Cancelled (8193)                   Work closed and
left incomplete
11   Supervision                   Supervision for Ajimer-          Supervision for Ajimer-           Completed
Chittorgarh Road                 Chittorgarh Road
12   Training                      By MOST                          By MOST through NiTrE             Completed
13  Equipment                      By MOST                          By MOST                           Partially completed
14   Maintenance                   By Maharashtra PWD               By Maharashtra PWD                Completed
Management Study
Uttar Pradesh
km                               km                                km
1    Sonauli-Gorakhpur Road    93  Sonauli-Farenda Road (1/1)   48  Sonauli-Farenda Road         48  Completed
Farenda-Gorakhpur          45.2  Farenda-Gorakhpur Road      45.2  Completed
Road(1/2)
2    Gorakhpur-Ballia Road   153  Gorakhpur-Ballia Road         45  Gorakhpur-Ballia Road        45  Completed
(1/3)
Gorakupur-Ballia Road        47  Cancelled (5/93)
(1/4)
Gorakupur-Ballia Road      59.2  Cancelled (5/93)
(1/5)
3   Faizabad-Allahabad       143  Allahabad-Faizabad           47.4  Allahabad-Faizabad Road    47.4  Completed
Road                          Road(2/7)
Allahabad-Faizabad          12.6  Allahabad-Faizabad Road    12.6  Completed
Bypass(2/8)
Allahabad-Faizabad (2/9)   86.4  Allahabad-Faizabad Road     86.4  Incomplete
4    Allahabad-Dohrigat      208  Allahabad-Dohrigat (2/6)    208.7  Cancelled (5/93)
Road
5    Supervision                   Supervision for Allahabad-    146.4  Supervision for Allahabad-   146.4  Completed
Faizabad                         Faizabad
6    Training                      By MOST                           By MOST through N1THE            Completed
7    Equipment                     By MOST                           By MOST                          Partially completed
8    Maintenance                   By Maharashtra PWD                By Maharashtra PWD               Completed
Management Study



32                           Appendix A
ATTACHMENT: GUIDANCE ON GOVERNMENTS' CONTRIBURTION TO THE ICR
1.    Governments' (Ministry of Surface Transport, State of Bihiar, State of Maharashtra, State of
Rajasthan, and State of Uttar Pradesh) own project evaluation reports are an important part of an
ICR. It is attached, unedited, to the ICR sent to the World Bank Board. It should cover, from
borrower's perspective: (a) the project's execution and the initial operation characteristics of its key
components; (b) the costs and benefit of the project; (c) the performance of the borrower, executing
agencies, and the Bank with regard to their respective obligations ulnder the Loan and Credit
agreements; and (d) the extent to which the development objectives of the loan/credit were achieved.
The topics to be covered and addressed in the report are project design, appraisal, implementation,
and project results.
2.    For project design, the contribution could address such questions as the appropriateness of
the project's objectives, the size of the project and scope of the inviestments proposed, aspects of
design leading to easy (or difficult) implementation and the effect on government institutions.
3.    For project appraisal, comments should concentrate on any significant changes in the
objectives, size, and scope of the project and whether these were appropriate.
4.    For project implementation, comments and experience should cover the introduction and
procurement of maintenance management study, larger construction contracts, international
supervision consultant, and encouragement of local firms to mechanize.
5.    For project result, comments should include an assessment of the direct physical benefits
arising from the project. Since economic re-analysis will be included in ICR, it is suggested, if
government so wishes, that contribution could most usefully comment on the effects of the project
from the government's perspective. Such an analysis would be a most useful contribution to the
ICR.
6.    Based on the foregoing sections, contribution should list the main lessons learned from the
implementation experience and arising from the above analysis.
7.    The World Bank will be happy to provide any further elaboration or clarification needed to
assist in the preparation of the contribution.



33                           Appendix A
ATTACHMENT: OPERATIONAL PLAN
State of Bihar        (Received Sept. 28, 1998)
Since Ganga Bridge at Bhagalpur along with its approaches is a part of State Highway, this is
to ensure uniform State level maintenance standards and funding levels to meet in prioritized manner
the maintenance requirement of the whole bridge and road net work.
State of Maharashtra      (Received Sept. 31, 1998)
1.    The Government of Maharashtra (GOM) ensured Completion of works under the
contracts awarded for the projects. Except for Contract No. 1 all other contracts are closed
financially. Final account will be closed for this contract during 1998-99 financial year.
2.    Roads improved under this projects are looked after by the same executing Divisions. Special
funds are made available by the GOM for these up-keep and further improvement necessity caused
due to increased traffic viz. widening of bridges and small culverts, geometrical improvements to
avoid accidents and to make each stretch of improved road, free of accident spots. Monitoring of
this activity is done by a officer of the rank of Superintending Engineer.
3.    Three studies were carried out under this project viz. Organization Study of PWD,
Pavement System and Feasibility Study of Mumbai (Bombay) - Nasik Expressway.
i) Recommendations acceptable to GOM are underway for implementation.
ii) GOM gives high priority for training of more officers to PMS installed and extend the
system to other important roads in the GOM's network.
iii) GOM is keen to execute the work of Expressway for which land acquisition is in
progress. Clearance from Environmental Department is at advance stage. GOM is
likely to take up this work through BOT in the near future after obtaining
land in possession and getting Environment clearance. Consultant have been
appointed to carry out detailed engineering for this project.
4.    Recently Improved road sections under State Roads World Bank Aided Projects are valued
addition to the State Road Network in the State. Government Of Maharashtra gives special attention
for the upkeep of these road stretches. Special repair funds are reserved for the upkeep of these road
sections. The re-newal strategy is based on every years roughness measurement observations. Road
sections where the roughness gone above the level of 2000 mm per km are necessarily tackled for.
Roughness Observations are take normally prior to on set of Mansoon which normally by middle of
June every year. Re-newal programs are chalked out & finalize up by October & execution is carried
out during November to next May. Re-newal treatment is normally 40 mm thick A.C.



34                           Appendix A
5.    On some road sections if traffic demands widening by providing 1.5 metre hard shoulders is
also taken up through repair programs. Traffic Count data is observed during third week of May &
Dec. every year on these road sections.
6.    For other State roads the rate of fund is assumed as Rs.31,500/ 25,575/ 25,475/ 19,708 per
km. for State Highway/Major District Road/Other District Road & Village Roads. All the
Maintenance Offices submit their Statistical data to Government of Maharashtra in the first quarter of
new financial year, which is from 1st April to the next Calendar Year 31st March. Repair funds are
distributed on the basis of the length within the jurisdiction of that maintenance office. Additional
grants for special works are allotted by Government Of Maharashtra on its merits e.g. Maintenance
to repair to major bridges, heavy repairs to road stretches under repairs, improving & strengthening
program (RISP),Ghat Roads, Caution boards etc. At the end of financial year work done during the
year is reported to the Government of Maharashtra for monitoring & planning of grants for the new
year.
State of Rajasthan        (Received Nov. 2, 1998)
1.    Maintenance of roads developed under State Road Project is done through non-plan budget
of the State Govt. The state has a total no. of 78493kms. of all kinds of roads of various categories
as under:-
1.     National Highways(NHWs)          2964kms.
2.     State Highways(SHIWs)            10039kms.
3.     Major District Roads(MDRs)        5760kms.
4.     Other District roads(ODRs)       12792kms.
5.     Village Roads(VRs)              46938kms.
2.    Although there are norms evolved by the XFinance Commission to determine the budget
allotment in the maintenance of these roads on a per km. basis, the funds exactly required as per
these norms are not available on account of the non-availability of resources. However funds
allotted for maintenance are increased every year as per availability of resources.
3.    National Highways are maintained against the funds provided by the MOST, Govt. of India.
The state funds as allotted are spent as per requirement of State Highways, MDRs, ODRs and
Village Roads in the year. State Highways carry highest volume of traffic amongst the roads other
than National Highways and the requirement of maintenance is therefore is maximum on the State
Highways, next in the order of priority are MDRs, ODRs and then Village roads. The development
of 641kms. of these four roads in the State Road Project has saved some money from the amount
which were spent on these roads before this development and these savings are now diverted to
other roads for better maintenance. This way development of these roads has helped in the
maintenance of the MDRs and ODRs. The maintenance expenditure is also categorized into four
categories of roads as above and at the end of the each financial year data of allotment /
expenditure is maintained.



35                           Appendix A
4.    On some of these roads, re-construction and upgradation is also to be taken up on account
of inadequacy of crust for the increased volume of traffic at a particular point of time. Such
upgradation are carried out either through maintenance budget or through the budget allotted at
modernization through the State Plan. The network of State Highways and MDRs as well as ODRs
is deficient in road crust as well as in bridging, rail crossing etc. and effort are being made to find
the additional funds for these requirements either through the State Plan or through Externally
Aided Projects. The Government of Rajasthan has committed to further increase the maintenance
allocation during the IXFive Year Plan extended up to 2003.
State of Uttar Pradesh      (Received Nov. 25, 1998)
Although the present maintenance & budget plan of the Department is not sufficient for
sustainable maintenance of such good quality roads but now as per Mew State Road Policy more
stress has been given on the management & budget provisions of roads. In this way proper
maintenance shall be carried out to meet out the basic objectives of the project.



36                            Appendix B
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
STATES' ROAD PROJECT
(Loan 2994-IN/Credit 1959-IN)
Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
The State of Bihar
A.   THE PROJECT EXECUTION
AND THE INITIAL OPERATION CHARACTERESTICS OF ITS KEY COMPONENTS
Implementation Experience
1.    The Department with the overall responsibility for the implementation of the project was
the Bihar Road Construction Department (RCD). Although, the project became effective on
March 2, 1989, it could not gather momentum till 1991, due to delays in finalizing the contract
for the works and for other reasons enumerated below.
2.    The construction of Ganga Bridge at Bhagalpur comprises of 4.3672 km of the Main
Bridge and 10.6 km of its approach roads (the southern approach road is 1.6 km and northern
approach road is 9.0 km). The work of Main Bridge was awarded for Rs.550 million, as per the
contract agreement; the work was scheduled to start on April 5, 1991, and to be completed on
April 4, 1996. Initially, there was a delay in transferring the Railway Yard at Bhagalpur to the
contractor. It was transferred in December 1991, which resulted iin the extension of the
contract completion date to December 31, 1996.
3.    As per the Loan Agreement, the project completion date vvas June 30, 1995. It was
extended till June 30, 1996, by the World Bank.
4.   In the second package of the World Bank, there was the wiork of construction of
approach roads of the Ganga Bridge at Bhagalpur. All the formalities etc, for the pre-
qualification tender & Notice Inviting Tender (NIT) for this work were prepared and tenders
were invited in 1993 as per the approval norms and criteria laid down by the World Bank. The
tenders were invited several times. First time, there was no tender. Second time, there was only
one tender which was too high to be approved. Third time, there were two tenders, but again
the rates were high. The RCD rejected the tenders and decided to do the work departmentally.
But the World Bank did not approve of this action, nor did they agreed to divide the works into
smaller groups. Finally, with the approval of the World Bank, the work was awarded for Rs.
421.934 million. As per the Contract Agreement, the work of approach roads was to start on
June 6, 1996, and to be completed on June 5, 1999.
5.    Considering all aspects, the World Bank Loan was again extended from June 30, 1996
to June 30, 1997.



37                           Appendix B
6.    The date of the completion of the contract Agreement for the construction of the Main
Bridge at Bhagalpur was further extended from December 31, 1996, to December 31, 1997, due
to a variation of soil parameters in the well foundations. In actual condition, the soil met with in
foundation in many wells were clayey in place of sandy one. Clayey strata takes more time in
sinking than sandy.
7.    The work was going on as per schedule, but there were setbacks due to the
unprecedented floods and a change in flow pattern of the river during the 1996 rainy season,
which resulted in the loss of two partially constructed well foundations in the navigational
portion of the bridge. Because of this, the Bank granted a one year further extension to the
project to June 30, 1998. The contractor submitted clams for the reconstruction of these two
wells which were rejected by GOB and as per the terms of the contract, the agency preferred to
go for arbitration. Due to the losses of these two wells and some other reasons, the contractor
agreement was also given an extension till June 30, 1999, to match the completion date of the
contract for the approach road works. Finally, the Bank didn't extend the loan agreement
beyond June 30, 1998; although the project had not yet been completed. By the end of June
1998, the physical and financial progress of Main bridge was 87 % and 83 % respectively and
the work in the embankment and subgrade in its approach roads were substantially completed
and its financial progress was about 58 %. The Ganga bridge and its approach roads at
Bhagalpur are expected to be completed by June, 2000 at the earliest. Now, GOB has to
complete the project using its own resources.
8.    There is every expectation of some problems coming in the way of such a huge gigantic
project like construction of Ganga Bridge at Bhagalpur and that also in such a large meandering
river like Ganges whose behavior can not be predicted at all. As such, the delay in completion
of such project cannot be ruled out.
9.    Supervision by Proof Consultants: The civil works were supervised by the Proof
Consultant. Mls COWI consultant of Denmark, a firm of International repute, was appointed as
Proof consultant for the construction of Ganga Bridge at Bhagalpur by GOB after obtaining
concurrence of the World Bank. M/s VPWI consultant was also appointed as proof consultant
for the construction of its approach roads by entering into a supplementary agreement for the
same. The scope of work for the Proof Consultant was to check and recommend the designs of
the bridge and to supervise the works on site including the quality control works and to suggest
and recommend steps required for early and efficient execution of the works.
10.   The project has succeeded in achieving now physical objectives too. Regarding the
procurement of construction and laboratory equipment: in all 7 items were to be procured for
Bihar as per the SAR, but finally only two items namely (i) Bitumen pressure distributor - 2
Nos. (ii) Mobile bridge Inspection Unit - 1 No. were procured. Procurement of the other five
items were dropped by MOST as per discussion with a World Bank mission in July/August
1995, as the cost of only three items exceeded the total provision made in the SAR for the Bihar
State. Regarding training of personnel, it was conducted by the National Institute for the
Training of Highway Engineers, New Delhi; under the supervision of MOST, personnel were
given training at New Delhi and abroad. Regarding Pavement Management Study, it was taken
up and done under the direct supervision of MOST by the Maharashtra PWD.



38                           Appendix B
Project Sustainability
11.   The civil works under this project were not completed by lune 30, 1998, the closing
date of the loan agreement. But 87 % of the works so far have been completed for the Main
Bridge and the 58 % (financial progress) of the works have been completed for the Approach
Roads through June 30, 1998. The quality of the works are very good. It is expected that after
completion, these works will meet with design life. The amount that will be allocated for
maintenance of the approach roads will be as per norms prescribed by the Government.
Economic Re-evaluation
12.   The work of Ganga Bridge at Bhagalpur has not been completed as yet. The actual
economic re-evaluation can only be done after the bridge is complete and open to traffic.
B.   BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
13.   The start of construction of the Ganga Bridge was delayed due to delays in the
finalization of the bidding and the contract by the RCD and GOB. The start of construction of
the approach roads to the Ganga Bridge was also delayed much as the finalization of its contract
and approval by the World Bank took time due to complications in different stages of the
tender. As such, the RCD could not receive World Bank assistance earlier than 1990 - 1991.
Moreover, the two project components of Hazipur - Muzaffarpur Road and Sonepur - Chhapra
Road as shown in SAR could not be taken up due to non-acquisition of land, removal of trees,
electric poles, public Health Engineering installations, and telephone poles etc. in time and
World Bank assistance for these projects were not extended beyond June 30, 1996. There were
further set backs due to the loss of two partially constructed foundation wells in constructing
the Ganga Bridge from unprecedented floods and a change in the flow pattern of the river
during the 1996 rains, and the settlement of claims associated with its reconstruction submitted
by the contractor which took time due to an arbitration process. As such, the actual completion
of the project was further delayed. Finally, World Bank assistance was not extended beyond
June 30, 1998, and the GOB could not utilize the full loan sanctioned for Bihar.
C.   PERFORMANCE OF WORLD BANK
14.   Performance of the World Bank during both the project processing and implementation
phases has been satisfactory except that while settling the contract for Approach Roads of
Ganga Bridge at Bhagalpur, the Bank didn't agree to some of the proposals of GOB resulting in
award of the contract at high rate. The Bank was very responsible for increasing the
disbursement percentage of Civil Works to 90 % from the original 60 % as enumerated in the
SAR. However, the borrower could not utilize much of the World Bank Loan till June 30,
1995, the original date of the completion of Loan Agreement due to various unavoidable
reasons explained in Borrower performance. However, the World Bank was kind enough to
extend the project four times and finally till June 30, 1998. The implementing agency considers
that the World Bank Supervision Missions gave valuable guidance and support.



39                           Appendix B
D.   THm  EXTENT TO WHICH THE DEVELOPEMENT OBJECTIVES
OF TH1E LOAN WERE ACHIEVED
15.   Under this project, only the major project component, the construction of a High Level
Bridge and its approach roads across the river Ganges at Bhagalpur has been taken up.
However, this has also not been completed despite the closure of the Loan Agreement. But
when completed, this will significantly improve access to the under developed northern part of
the state. There is at present no permanent crossing of the river for 280 kms from the bridge at
Mokameh to the Farakka Baridge at the West Bengal State border. The bridge which lies about
half way between these two structures, will substantially reduce the distance for many trips and
promote north south integration. Ultimately, the bridge will form part of a proposed National
Highway running from the industrial belt in southern Bihar to Jogbani near the Nepal border. It
will facilitate the exchange of agricultural and mineral resources available on the two sides of
the river and to reduce the distance of the prominent town/cities, such as, Katihar, Purnea,
Saharsa, Forbesganj, and Khagaria from Bhagalpur. However, to avoid adding the bridge traffic
to the already severely congested down town area, bypass of Bhagalpur is desirable.



40                            Appendix B
The State of Maharashtra
A.   INTRODUCTION
1.    Maharashtra State's Road Project is the first project of such a kind in the State to
improve the State's secondary network system falling in between the primary network of
National Highways and Territory network of other District Roads and Rural Roads. State
Highways are the main trunk roads within the State Territory which carry almost 60% of the
passenger and goods traffic. The Project was undertaken to remove the deficiencies such as
inadequate carriage way width, crust thickness and to improve the riding quality, etc.
B.   OBJECTIVES AND PROJECT DESCREPTION
2.    The project's main objectives were (i) to remove deficiencies in widths and the crust of
the pavement which were inadequate compared to the traffic volume plying on the road
sections, (ii) to improve the riding quality of the road surface, (iii) to promote use of modem
maintenance management system, on the similar lines, on which it has been instituted by the
Ministry of Surface Transport, GOI, for the National Highways ,(iv) to introduce improved
construction methods through larger contracts of a sufficiently individual size to encourage local
contracting firms to mechanize but which if grouped together would attract intemational
interest, and (v) to introduce supervision by a Consultant of Intemational repute on some
project.
3.    The project consisted of eight civil works contracts covering a length of 668 km of State
Highways to be improved to two lane carriage way. This was modified and clubbed in seven
civil contracts on FIDIC III form as per decisions taken during the visit of the World Bank
Mission from October 14 to November 15, 1989. The length to be covered was modified to
673.80 kmn. Out of these seven contracts, contract Nos. m & IV were deleted from the World
Bank Assistance in September 1993 and one civil works contract, No. VIII, the construction of
bypass outside Jalna city and second job of feasibility study of Mumbai (Bombay) -Nashik
Expressway, was included in November 1994.
4.    The objectives were to be met through (a) improvements of about 673 km of eight State
Highway links, (b) the procurement of specialized equipment to assist the State in monitoring
conditions of the State's road network, (c) staff training and technical assistance that would
emphasize the planning, design and implementation of project and develop skills of road
maintenance, and (d) consultancy services for the introduction of Pavement Management
System.
5.    As per SAR completion, the date for all the items of works in the project was December
21, 1994. For several reasons, this was extended up to June 30, 1996. The total cost of the
project, including physical & financial contingencies, was US$87.8 Million, out of which, the
Bank's share was to be US$49.7 Million. The balance, US$38.1 Million, was to be the
borrower's share. The US$49.7 Million had two components 1) an IBRD Loan of US$33.796
Million & 2) an IDA Credit of SDR 12.395 Million (US$15.904 Million equivalent).



41                            Appendix B
5.1.  The rate of upliftment of the loan amount was very slow in the initial period., The Gulf
war had it's effect on this issue. Bank agreed to enhance the rate of disbursements from 60% to
90% of the expenditure on civil contracts from September 1, 1990. This was continued till the
last date of the closure of the agreement, June 30, 1996. Full reimbursement was received from
the World Bank by this date.
6.    The Govermment of Maharashtra had no difficulty in arranging for allocating matching
grants in the annual budget estimate.
C.   IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
7.    The P.W.D. Government of Maharashtra was responsible for project implementation,
including the preparation and management of all civil contracts. Although the agreement was
signed on November 17, 1988, and the project became effective on March 2, 1989, the
agreements for six civil works costing Rs. 1034.047 Million were signed between June 1990 to
December 1990. One civil works contract, C-VI, costing Rs. 131.804 Million, for
improvements to Nagpur - Umred - Kanpa Roads had to be resigned due to non-cooperation
from the contractor to pay initial securities. Bids were re invited for this contract and the work
order for C-VI was issued in January 1992. As per agreement with the Bank one of the civil
contracts was to be supervised by a Supervision Consultant. A separate contract was signed for
the appointment of a Supervision Consultant to look after works in C-III. According to the
SAR, the supervision consultant was to be on the ground by June 1, 1989, however this was
delayed due to late approval of the short-list. The Supervision Consultant arrived on the ground
on April 10, 1991. The contract with the Supervision Consultant was terminated on the date of
closure of the agreement with the Consultant. Works in C-I,C-II,C-V,C-VI & C-VII were
completed between December 31, 1994 to May 28, 1997.
7.1.  Out of seven contracts signed, works in C-III, improvements to the Ahmednagar-
Aurangabad road & in C-IV, and improvements to the Aurangabad-Jalna-Mantha road could
not progress well. After a review taken by the visiting World Bank Mission in June 1993, these
works were withdrawn from the World Bank assistance in September 1993. The Government
Of Maharashtra decided to execute these works from its own funds.
7.2.  The Government Of Maharashtra proposed to include two additional works to be added
in this project in lieu of two works deleted in September 1993. The World Bank agreed to this
and accordingly the civil works construction of the Jalna Bypass and the second work of
Feasibility Study of Mumbai-(Bombay) Nashik Expressway were added in this project in
November 1994. The construction work of the Jalna Bypass, C-VIII, was started in April 1994
& the construction work was completed in January 1997. The easibility Study of the Mumbai-
(Bombay) Nashik Expressway commenced on January 17, 1994 & the final report was
submitted by the Consultant in June 1996.
8.    Though two civil works in Contract No III and Contract No. IV were deleted from the
World Bank Assistance, these two jobs were successfully completed by PWD through
Government of Maharashtra' s funds in June 1997.



42                            Appendix B
9.    The implementation record of the project is good. All the civil works have been
completed, including those two which were deleted from World Bank Assistance. Detailed
information in this respect is given in table under para 18 (II) titled "Implementation of the
project". Feasibility study of Mumbai (Bombay) - Nashik Expressway has been completed.
Pavement Management System has been installed. Twelve officers were sent for Training
through NITHE (National Institute for the Training of Highway Engineers) in New Delhi.
Detailed information in this respect is given in a note (A) on Training.
9.1.  As per SAR, 17 Nos. of Items of Equipment were to be purchased. This was planned to
be centrally purchased by the MOST for all the four participating States. The MOST could
purchase one unit of Mobile Bridge Inspection Unit, one unit of Dipstick Road Profiler & two
units of Pressure Bitumin Distributors before the closure of the World Bank Assistance.
Information in respect of this is given in note (B) on Equipment.
10.   Organizational Study of the State PWD was one of the items of the agreement. TATA
Consultancy Services from India completed the Study and the acceptable recommendations of
the Study are planned to be implemented.
D.   PROJECT RESULTS
11.   The physical objectives for the civil works are achieved to the extent of satisfactory
levels. Items which were in balance as on June 30, 1996, have been subsequently completed.
As per SAR, the average cost of improvement works was expected to be Rs. 1.597 Million per
km. On completion, it is revealed that the actual average cost per krn for the improvement
works, works out to Rs.3.188 Millions per km.
12.   The cost of the project as per SAR was to be Rs. 1265.30 Million or US$87.1 Million.
At the time of signing of the agreement, conversion rate was Rs. 13.65 per US Dollar. During
the entire period of the project implementation it kept on changing and at the time of the
closure it went up to Rs.35.03 per US Dollar. On the closure day i.e. June 30, 1996, the
expenditure was to the tune of Rs.1674.48 Millions i.e. 132.34 % of the total cost of the
project, as per SAR. After completing all the balance items it was observed that the total cost
of this project on all the items including contingencies was Rs.2510.35 Million i.e. 198.99% of
the cost of the sanctioned project as per SAR. The large increase in the project cost was
mainly due to an increase in the conversion rate and due to additional Civil works and the
feasibility study of the Mumbai (Bombay)-Nashik Expressway Project. The additional cost is
also attributed to some extent to the additional works executed on some of the improvement
works.
13.  In the past, the hot mix plants, vibratory rollers, pavers etc. were available in and around
a few big cities (ie. Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur). Use of such machinery was restricted on the
Primary Network i.e. National Highways or city streets only. With the implementation of
State Road projects, sophisticated equipment like computerized Controlled Hot Mix Plants,
vibratory rollers, and electronically controlled Sensor Pavers are now a common feature of the
tender conditions, not only for big size projects but also for works of'routine maintenance such
as renewal works. In almost all Districts 4-5 hot mix plants, vibratoty rollers, integrated
crushing units and couple of sensor pavers are available.



43                             Appendix B
14.   The Pavement Management System has been installed. At present only two trained
Engineers are available. The Govt. of Maharashtra has planned to develop a training program,
along with other three participating states: Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, and Bihar, so that every
year, 10-12 Engineering officers will get trained on this system.
15.   The works completed under this project are being maintained under regular maintenance
program. Operational plan of PWD to ensure sustainability is appended separately.
E.    FiNDINGS AND LESSONS LERANED
16.   Very important lessons have been learned by the Officers of the Government of
Maharashtra while implementing this projects, which will help in improving the performance of
such large size projects in future. Some of these are listed below.
(a) Actions necessary at the time of project preparation:
(i) Detailed Engineering and advance preparation is necessary to avoid additional items
and increase in quantities during execution which leads to cost overrun.
(ii) Proper rate analysis matching with the specification for the items expected to be
executed by the Contractor in order to avoid higher quotation by the intending bidders.
(iii) Identification of quarry for the materials to be used in construction is necessary to
ensure that realistic lead charges are included in the estimate. This also helps in giving
proper rates in the bids by the intending bidders.
(b)     Action prior to call for Bids:
(i)   If the quarries are acquired by the employer well in advance, time overruns due
to extra time taken by the Contractor for execution work can be avoided.
(ii)   Physical shifting of utility services prior to invitation of bids can avoids problem
of time overrun in execution.
(iii)  Pre-qualification on the basis of similar works & of similar magnitude helps in
keeping the progress of works at desired level.
(c)     Action during Implementation:
(i)    Work needs to be supervised by an experienced Engineer, to avoid delays in
preparation of Planning Schedules & giving necessary decisions at appropriate time,
thereby reducing the time over run.
(ii)   Trained Foremen on a works reduces chances of improper action on the work,
requiring corrections.



44                                   Appendix B
(iii)   Positive participation of all concerned Government agencies is necessary to
avoid undue delays in giving necessary permits.
F.   PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
17.1.  Project Design and Organization. Preparation of initial project report, investigation,
detailed engineering designs, bid documents etc. were done by the PWD's Engineering officers
in house. A committee of three Superintending Engineers was formed under the chairmanship
of Chief Engineer, P.W. region, Mumbai. The main task was subdivided in to sub tasks:
Survey, Preparation of Plans & Estimates, Feasibility reports, detailed engineering, Designs of
structures etc.; these tasks were assigned to different divisions working in the state PWD.
Project preparation was done by the road project wings and designs were done by the Design
Organisation of PWD. Bid documents and pre-qualification documents were prepared by the
committee members. During executions, modifications in respect of pavement structures, C. D.
structures, grades etc. were redesigned. Preparation of working drawings etc. were done by the
staff of PWD in charge of the implementation of a particular work.
17.2. Implementation of the Project. There were seven packages consisting of 8 works as
per the Table given below. The packages were of very large size when compared to the
normally then used in the Government jobs. Banks guidelines were followed for pre
qualification. Although the size of the package was large for the domestic contractors, this
could not attract foreign contractors.
17.3. The project completion date was December 21, 1994, as per SAR. This date was
extended by the bank up to June 30, 1996. The table given below indicates delays in completing
works in almost all contracts. Scheduled dates could not be adhered to for reasons such as,
short supply of bitumen & diesel, non-availability of spare parts & piece works / Labour firms.
There were some difficulties which led to delayed completion ie. difficulties in obtaining Quarry
Permits, Electrical Connection, Foreign Exchange, Clearance from Pollution Control
Authorities, Shifting of Utility Services. External events like Gulf war also delayed completion
mainly due to sudden & steep rise of prices of Petroleum products, vvhich had adverse effects on
Contractor cash flow.
Contract Name Of Roads.                     Project  Start Date  % Achievement on   Date on which
Nos.                                        Length  of work    30.6.96 (date on  100% work
(kmn)             which W.B.        was completed.
assistance was closed)
I      Wada- Bhiwandi Road & Palghar-Wada    69.410   12.01.90   90              05.28.97
iRoad                                       I_                 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
II     Pune-Ahmednagar Road                 113.600  07.24.90   100              11.30.95
III    Ahmednagar-Aurangabad Road.          92.000   06.17.90   53               06.20.97
IV     Aurangabad-Jalna Road                112.400  06.17.90   62               06.20.97
V      Akola-Hingoli Road.                  96.000   06.10.90   100              03.31.95
VI    -Nagpur-Umred- Kanpa Road.            69.000   01.29.92   100              06.29.95
VII    Ahmednagar-Kopargaon Road            96.000   08.02.90   100              12.31.94
VIII   Jalna Bypass                         8.660    04.28.94   91               01.11.97
Feasibility Study Of Mumbai (Bombay)-  _    January,   100               June 1996
Nasik Expressway.                            1994
Pavement Management System Study    -        11.24.92   100              IJune 1996
_____I State Average:                                         87



45                            Appendix B
18.   Pavement Management System Study. The Pavement Management System has been
developed for an identified network of heavy density corridors, consisting of 8,000 km of road
lengths. A PMS cell is established at Aurangabad, where this program has been loaded. For
updating the data loaded in this system, all field officers send updated data to the cell every year
in the month of April or May. Two technical officers have received training for operating this
system. Government of Maharashtra has planned a training program so that every .year about
10 to 12 officers will receive training to make them capable of operating this system.
19.   Training. Under this item, 12 Nos of officers of the rank of Executive Engineer,
Superintending Engineer & Chief Engineer were sent for training abroad. This was centrally
arranged by NITHE (National Institute for the Training for Highway Engineers), New Delhi.
Table on page 56 under note (A) Training, gives information about the names of the Officers
with designations, titles of the training, period of the training & Countries where this training
was imparted. This table also indicates that 21 Man-months of Executive Engineers, 5 Man-
months of Superintending Engineers & 2 Man-months of Chief Engineers were used for
receiving this training programs.
20.   Organization Study. Organizational Study of PWD for Government of Maharashtra
was another item for which Banks assistance was received. Tata Consulting Services, Mumbai
carried out this study and submitted their report on 19.09.94. Some of the Recommendations
made by the TCS are under consideration at the Government level.
21.   Feasibility Study of Mumbai (Bombay) -Nasik Expressway. M/S. Wilbur Smith &
Associates of USA were appointed as Consultants to carry out this feasibility study. The
Consultant carried out feasibility study from April 1994 to April 1996 and submitted their report
in June 1996. This report has been used for taking up this project under BOT. Government Of
Maharashtra is very keen on taking up construction work of Mumbai (Bombay)- Nashik
Expressway project. Actions of obtaining clearances from the Environmental Departments, land
Acquisition proceedings & preparing Detailed Engineering are at advance stage. All these
activities are monitored periodically by a special Officer of the rank of Secretary at the
government level.
22.1. Performance by Borrower. The performance of borrowers is considered to be very
satisfactory in achieving above mentioned objectives. The average achievement as on 30th
June 1996, the date on which the World Bank assistance was closed, as can be seen from the
table given in para 18 was approximately 87%. All the balance improvement works have been
completed physically in the subsequent period and the improved road stretches are serving very
well to the road users. As of today wide roads, bridges and improved riding quality led to
attract large traffic volume on these road sections. For long distance travelers the travel time
has been reduced by 16 to 18%. Substantial saving in the Vehicle Operating Cost has resulted
in increase of ERR. This project helped immensely in bringing modern techniques in the
highway construction industry, and introduction of modern machinery and equipment. PWD
Engineers and Engineers working in the road construction Industry with the contractor have
been benefited by this project. Recently GOM has taken up a very ambitious program of
improvement of State Roads ( Specially in the relatively backward area) of the state through
state funds. Techniques learned during implementation of this World Bank Projects are being
used on these new road projects. The size of the packages are large and intending contractors
are required to possess fleet of modern machinery.



46                            Appendix B
22.2. Pavement Management System has been installed. At present this system ineludes data
for 8000 km lengths of some of State Highways. Extending this system for all state highways
and Major District Road is yet to be completed. There is need to train many more officers.
GOM is launching a regular feature of imparting training to 10 to 12 officers every year.
22.3. There were some problems due to which the benefits of use of supervision of a project
by a independent consultant could not yield desired results. The supervision consultant
appointed for supervising the works in contract No. III was well familiar with the FIDIC
conditions of the contract. He was impartial and was willing to guide the contractor in
programming the project. The consultant introduced the modem method of time-distance
programming to monitor the road project. With the consultants Association with an
international consultants the departmental staff and the Indian counterpart of the consultant's
team learn new methods and techniques of supervision, management of the large package
contracts. Unfortunately, the contractor could not accelerate or complete the work and
supervision consultant had to be discontinued after expiry of his original contract period. The
supervision consultant being a foreign national had some problems in communication with the
contractors lower level staff as well with outside agencies indirectly concerned with the project.
The supervision consultant was not familiar with the qualities and nature of Indian materials.
Therefore he insisted on full testing even for stone like good black basalt. The proved
conventional methods of construction in vogue created problems to the consultant who was
more familiar with mechanised construction methods and this led to frustration at times.
23.   Bank Performance. Visits of the World Bank Mission proved to be very helpful in
understanding problems and issues pertaining to the works executed and studies carried out. In
the course of execution, some modifications were felt necessary to achieve desired results.
During Mission's visits suggestions made by PWD Officers of GOM were considered
favourably by the Mission. When requested by PWD, GOM for adding two works in lieu of
two works dropped, the request was considered favourably by the Mission.
24.   Relationship with Bank Officers of State PWD, Government of Maharashtra. would
like to keep on record their appreciation of the valued support, substantial guidance and
professional advice received by them from the members of the visiting mission during the course
of implementation of this project. GOM looks forward for such co-operation from the bank in
the forthcoming new projects.
NOTES ON TRAINING AND EQUIPMENT
A.   TRAINING
1.    As per SAR the training in the four States was to focus on the planning, design and
management of Highway works with particular emphasis in the fields of construction,
maintenance, and composition and management of the equipment holdings. The courses were
arranged through the National Institute for the Training of Highway Engineers (NITHE) New
Delhi.



47                                          Appendix B
2.       From  Maharashtra in all 12 officers right from  the rank of the Chief Engineer to the level
of Executive Engineers had undergone different courses. These 12 officers consisted of one
Chief Engineer, three Superintending Engineers and eight Executive Engineers.
3 .      Following table gives the title of the course, duration and the country where training was
arranged and the names of the officers who undergone this course.
Sr.                   Title                      Duration        Country   Number and level of Officer who
No  _                                                                       undergone the course
I    Pavement Rehabilitation & Modem        Feb.1993 to April    Australia   Three Executive Engineers.
Maintenance Management                 1993
2    Bridge hispection and Rehabilitation,   Feb.1993 to April    U.K       One Superintending Engineer and
Maintenance and Management             1993                           one Executive Engineer.
3    Contract Management of big Projects.    Sept.1993 to       U.K.        One Chief Engineer & one
I  L_  _         Oct 1993.                      Superintending Engineer.
4    Design Construction and operation of    Sept 1993 to       Canada      Three Executive Engineers.
Expressway.                            Dec.1993.
5    Equipment procurement Management.       2.5.94 to 27.5.94  Italy       One Executive Engineer.
6    Works Procuremnent Management           2.5.95 to 26.5.95.    Italy    One Superintendin- Engineer.
B.   EQUIPMENT
4.    As per SAR, some Modem Equipment were to be procured under this contract. MOST
was to act as Coordinating agency and ordered for these items centrally. List of items as per
SAR, Annexed 4.1 and actual receipt is as indicated in the following table.
Sr.    Items                                         Nos. per state   Nos. of units of
No.                                                  as per SAR      equipment received by
GOM actually
1.     Mobile Bridge Inspection Unit.                1               I
2.      Dynamic Vehicle Weighing Equipment           2               Nil
3.     Automatic Traffic Counters                    20              Nil
4.      Nuclear Density Measuring Equipment          6               Nil
5.     Dynamic Cone Penetrometers                    3               Nil
6.      TRRI, Bump Integrator                        2               Nil
7.      Dipstick Road Profilers                      I
S.     Bitumen Distributors                          2               2
9.      Chip Spreaders                               2               Nil
10.    Survey Equipment Sets                        Not specified   Nil
11.    Laboratory Equipment                         Not specified   Nil
12.    Training Aids                                Not specified   Nil
13.    Drivers Simulators                            I              Nil
14.    Colour/Night Blindness Equipment             6               Nil
15.    Breathalysers                                 10             Nil
16.    Break Testing Equipment                       6              Nil
17.    Computer Software                            Not specified   Nil
Out of these items Bridge Inspection Unit could not be put in use. There04&re somre problemns
with the machine requiring repairs. Training to the operators and some legal issues are to be sorted outi.
after sorting of these issues the unit can be put on use. Other items are already put on use



48                            Appendix B
The State of Rajasthan
A.   PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
The World Bank had agreed for creditfloan assistance for the State Road Project for
Rajasthan estimated to cost US$106 million (which is being revised) to provide (i)Widening,
Strengthening, Cross Drainage works and Bypasses to the heavy traffic density corridors for the
four State Road Projects, (ii)Construction with updated technology (iii)Improving the traffic
movement on important roads to provide cost benefits to the road users.
ICB was done for selection of contractors, as per prevailing procedure of World Bank.
The loan amount sanctioned under the project was US$58 millions. The agreement was
signed on Nov. 17, 1988.
The engineering investigation, design and cost estimates for project roads were done by
the regular divisions of state P.W.D. For construction & implementation, dedicated divisions
and circles were created for the project. The requirement of consultant for designing road was
considered only for one road i.e. Ajmer to Chittorgarh. It is now felt that consultants should
have been engaged for complete project preparation as well as supervision, and the Engineers of
the department should have been associated closely with them during preparation and
supervision to acquire more experience of large projects. It could be done in two Phases. (i)
Project preparation consultant to conduct feasibility study and economic evaluation for selection
of roads. (ii) Construction Supervision consultant who could act as an advisor to Chief Engineer
and can also be entrusted with the job of project finance management and preparation of ICR
etc.
It is suggested that frequent training, workshops and seminars are arranged by the
department during project preparation and execution, in which World Bank officials,
Consultants, Engineers of the state and other states are invited to share the knowledge of FIDIC
conditions and technology. It is also suggested that for survey and design, equipments of the
latest technology should be used and on the completion of the project such equipments
including hardwares and softwares which are procured through consultants should become the
property of the department for further use in the department.
B.   IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT
For implementation of the project, contracts for each project road were awarded to the
contractors. The road wise contract amounts are as under:
(i)   Ajmer Chittorgarh Road       Rs 442.13 million
(ii)  Udaipur Dabok Chittor Road   Rs 261.00 million
(iii)  Sirohi Mount Abu Road.      Rs 219.37 million
(iv)  Alwar Bhiwadi Karauli Road   Rs 742.60 million
Eligible contractors were pre-qualified as per World Bank's / GOR guidelines.
Unfortunately participation of foreign contractors was very limited.



49                            Appendix B
Initially the project covered six roads are as under:-
(i)    Ajmer Chittorgarh Road
(ii)    Udaipur Dabok Chittor Road
(iii)   Sirohi Mount Abu Road.
(iv)   Alwar Karauli Bhiwadi Road
(v)    Fatehpur Churu Rajgarh Road.
(vi)   Sikar Pilani Road
The road at sl no. (v) was dropped altogether since the ceiling of credit / World Bank
loan reached with the five projects already sanctioned and the road at sl. no. (vi) was dropped
on account of failure of the contractor M/s Gammon India Ltd. The work on the four roads sl.
no. (i) to (iv) commenced in Oct. '90 and completed in June '96 The World Bank extended the
completion period by one year to June 30, 1996. The work on the Bhiwadi Karauli road could
not be completed mainly due to financial constraints.
There have been time and cost overruns on the project. Substantial time over run were
involved in land acquisition, shifting of utilities, liaison with Railways and for Rail Road
crossing, ROBs and finalisation of design of project roads. Since the initial surveys were done
by the regular divisions subsequently time was taken in confirmation and transfer of survey data,
modification and updating of design in the department. This time and consequently cost over
run could have been saved by the engagement of project supervision consultant as mentioned
above. In addition to the above, there was a general shortage of bitumen which contributed in
delays in execution of the project. The World Bank mnission in each of their visit has guided the
project implementation which immensely helped in accelerating the progress.
C.   PERFORMANCE BY BORROWERS
The objective of the project was to provide the required width and strength of the roads
for the traffic to save on the vehicle operating cost and the accidents etc. These objects have
been achieved satisfactorily. The execution of 26 nos., bypasses (of length about 68km.) at
various locations and the four lanning of the Udaipur - Dabok Chittorgarh road has considerably
improved the movement of the traffic together with the saving in travel time and cost on these
roads. The cost on recurring maintenance has also been saved as the crust is now properly
designed and provided on these roads.
The pavement management system which was taken up as a part of the project has
immensely helped the staff of the department, in learning the methodology to prepare and plan
the maintenance operation on the State roads in a more scientific and cost saving basis. The
local and overseas training has helped the Engineers to equip themselves with latest techniques
and practice in planning, design and construction of roads. At the time of start of this project
there were few local contractors capable for construction of quality road works. Presently
many other local contractors have come up who are capable to execute works of good quality.
The contractors have procured vibratory rollers, hot mix plant, paver finishers and other latest
machinery which has increased the out put of work as well as has improved the quality.
However still there is scope of improvement in site management and utilisation of machinery.



50                            Appendix B
Most of the deficiencies in pre-qualifications criteria identified during implementation of the
project are being taken care of for future externally aided projects.
For further projects, it is proposed that land acquisition and shifting of utilities, statutory
clearance construction of ROBs and rail crossing with railways should be taken up and
completed at least three months before the construction work is awarded to the contractor.
This could be done with Technical Assistance loan and specific budgetary provision by the
GOR. It would also help in providing unhindered stretches of road as desired by the contractor
to build on. The hindrances free sections to be handed over should be decided in such a way that
minimum inconvenience is caused to the traffic during constructiorn period. It is also felt that
simple land acquisition procedure enabling the department, to acquire the land at market rates in
a period of three to six months may be considered by the GOR through the amendments in the
Land Acquisition Act. It will immensely cut down the time over run on account of land
acquisition.
The road works completed under project have been transferred to the regular divisions
for maintenance as was stipulated in the SAR.
D.   BANK'S PERFORMANCE
The World Bank mission during each visit imparted valuable guidance and support by
suggesting corrective measures in the project implementation and in design of the project.
Interaction with Bank and its supervision mission were useful in initiating corrective measures
for speedy implementation of the project.
E.   RELATIONSHIP WITH THE BANK
The Govt. of Rajasthan would like to place on record its appreciation of the valuable
support, guidance and professional advise from successive Bank missions during the course of
the project which indeed went a long way in the successful completion of the project. The Govt.
of Rajasthan would look forward for such co-operation in the future for development activities
in the state.



51                            Appendix B
The State of Uttar Pradesh
World Bank Aided State Road Project was the first Externally Aided Project in the Road
Sector of State of U.P.. This project was planned for rehabilitation & Improvement of 604 km.
Roads Costing Rs. 231.26 crores which was divided in 9 packages. Three package works were
deleted by the World Bank due to exceptionally high tender rates. Later, due to very slow
progress on the work in contract package 9, the contractor was expelled & the State
Government decided to execute the balance work of CP-9 from its own resources. In this way
the project work was reduced to a length of 201 km, costing Rs. 177.51 crores on the following
roads:
(i)    Sonali Gorakhpur Road          -      95 Km.
(ii)    Gorakhpur-Ballia Road         -      45 Km.
(iii)   Faizabad Allahabad Road       -      61 Km.
A.   PROJECT EXECUTION AND THE INITIAL OPERATION CHARACTERESTICS OF ITS
KEY COMPONETNTS
The State Road Project was planned to be executed by UPPWD, which is well settled &
Technically equipped Department of the State. Although the Survey & Planning Work of
Project was started in the year 1987 but as it was the first externally Aided Project in which the
incorporation of FIDIC conditions, ICB & Evaluation of big contracts, and Planning &
Management of large contract Packages took considerable time & hence Project's execution
could start in the year 1991. The execution of works have been carried out satisfactorily
according to the Implementation Schedule & almost all the schedule works have been
completed in the Bank's loan period i.e. up to 30. 6. 96.
(i) idening & Strengthening of Sonali-Gorakhpur Road-95 km. completed by 30. 6. 96.
(ii) Widening & Strengthening of Gorakhpur-Ballia Road-45 km. completed by 30. 6. 96.
(iii) Widening & Strengthening of Faizabad-Allahabad Road-61 km. completed by 31. 3. 97.
The execution work of Contract Package - 9 of Faizabad - Allahabad Road (km. 141 to
226.1 i. e. 86 km.) was not be carried out by contractor as per schedule & as per mile stones of
the contract agreement despite all the efforts from the Consultant - Engineer & Employment
side, and ultimately the contractor was expelled in 1/95 & it was decided by the GOUP to
executed the Balance work of Package from its own resources.
The initial operation characteristics of its key components have been satisfactory which
are summarised below:
(i)    A Supervisory unit was established for execution of the Project headed by a
Senior officer named as



52                            Appendix B
Chief Engineer
World Bank Project (Road)
U.P.P.W.D., Lucknow
The unit was consisting of adequate number of suitably qualified & experienced staff.
This supervisory unit has executed the Project work in the schedule time as detailed
above. In accordance with World Bank Condition for One Road i.e. Faizabad -
Allahabad Road, an International Agency i.e. MIS N. D. Lea was engaged for
Consultancy & Supervision of the work.
(ii)    All necessary steps have been taken for training of staff of the P.W.D. at all the
levels. Even some technical staff was sent for training in abroad countries so as to & learn
advanced techniques and technology being adopted in the Road sector.
(iii)   The studies have been carried out to introduce a Road Maintenance management
system. An ARAN survey for about 8000 kms. important roads have been carried out and
sufficient dates have been collected for improvement in the Maintenance & Management
system of the State Roads. The Staff has also been trained in the above sector. A cell
named as Pavement Management System PMS has been established in the Department
which is well equipped & having sufficient data.
B.    THE COST & BENEFITS OF THE PROJECT
The project was designed to support two lines of action at state level i.e. (i) to upgrade
the roads from single lane to two lane and to increase their structural strength to levels
commensurate with current & expected traffic & (ii) to introduce network management
techniques which may result in better and more effective road maintenance & planning of road
investments. Now with the Project's execution 201 kms long important State Highway have
been upgraded from single lane to two lane & these roads have gained much structural strength
so as to accommodate current & expected traffic smoothly resulting Socio-economic
development of the state. The economic benefits arising out of saving in travel times &
operating costs were estimated as per RUCS recommendations. The average Economic Internal
Rate of Return was estimated in SAR to be 19 %. Now after Project execution the average
ERR is growing to increase substantially & thus the estimated benefits have been achieved.
C.    THE PERFORMANCE OF THE BORROWER, EXCECUTION AGENCC1ES
AND THE BANK WITH REGARDS TO THEIR RESPECTWE OBLIGATIONS
UNDER THE LOAN CREDIT AGREEMENT
The main objectives of the Project were to improve the planning design and execution of
construction and maintenance work of state as well as to identify appropriate means of
mobilizing resources needed to implement economically desirable increases in road outlays in
the state.
The performance of Borrower is considered to be satisfactory in achieving the above
objectives as important State highways of 201 kms. Length have been upgraded & strengthened



53                            Appendix B
so as to impart & accelerate the Socio-economic Developments of the Backward areas of State.
Almost all the project works have been completed in the schedule time of the Banks, Loan
Term. Projects' schedule monitoring, upkeep of all the accounts & their submission to the
appropriate offices have been carried out properly & in time. During the operation of Project
the Bank's guidance has been sought in all the sectors of Project i.e. Finance, Technical &
Management etc.
The World bank's performance during the execution of Project has been found
completely satisfactory. The Bank's mission during each visit imparted valuable guidance &
support by suggestion new methodology and corrective measures in Project implementation.
Flow of funds and reimbursement of claims of the Project have been done timely by the bank.
Relationship with Bank. GOUP and U.P.P.W.D., would like to place on record its
appreciation of the Valued support, guidance and professional advice from Bank mission during
the course of the Project which indeed went a long way in successful completion of the Project.
D.   THE EXTENT TO WHICH THE DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES
OF THE LOAN/CREDIT WERE ACIEVED
All the Development objectives of the Loan/Credit have been achieved by upgrading &
strengthening about 200 kms. Important State Highways of State as needed for Socio-economic
development of the State. The Project has also established a Pavement Management System
which will help the Department in Maintenance & Management of Road network of State
effectively.
E.   EXPERIENCE & SUGGESTIONS
The experience gathered from the execution of the Project & Suggestions for better &
speedy completion are as below:
(i)   Planning & Management of Works should be more comprehensive so that the works be
completed well in the schedule time. It requires that the Land Acquisition, Removal of Utilities
& Designs & Drawings of all works should be completed in advance so that the progress may
not suffer on these aspects. Proper co-ordination is required in all the concerned departments &
executing Agencies. World Bank may also suggest the Borrowers in this context.
(ii)   Contract Packages in such large volume are not desirable for the developing State like
Uttar Pradesh because the local contractors with such huge Financial & Technical Status are
rarely available. Hence size of Packages should be medium having work value ranging from 150
to 250 million Rupees.
(iii) International Supervision Consultancy is not desirable in the state like U.P. because
where there is sufficient Technical know how in the Department, then it becomes uneconomical.
In this project, two roads have been completed successfully by the State PWD in its own
supervision.



54                            Appendix B
(iv)  It is also desirable that when due to certain unforeseen complications in the execution of
work some extra time is needed for completion of work the Bank should pay cooperative
attitude by extending the loan term so that the basic objectives of the project be achieved
completely & all the beneficiaries be benefited.
(v)   It has been experienced that in the Department an organization with experienced &
willing personnel be established exclusively for Externally Aided Projects so that the problems
& inconveniences caused due to changes & shifting of unit & personnel be rectified & also the
project works be executed speedily & smoothly. It is also desirable that the World Bank may
also suggest strongly the GOUP in this aspect.



55                            Appendix B
The Ministry of Surface Transport
A.   TRAINING
(a)   Execution
As per the SAR the training of officers of the four beneficiary states was to focus on the
planning design and management of Highway works with particular emphasis in the field of
construction, maintenance and management of Highway projects.
Suitable training programs were prepared and co-ordinated by the 'National Institute for
Training of Highway Engineers" (NITHE) which is a principal institute for training of Highway
Engineers in the country established under the agencies of the Ministry of Surface Transport.
In all six training courses were conducted on the following subjects:
(i)    Course I: Pavement rehabilitation and maintenance management system by
Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT), Australia.
(ii)   Course II: Bridge inspection, rehabilitation and maintenance management
system at Transport Research Laboratory in U.K.
(iii)    Course III: Contract management of Big Projects at the British Council in U.K.
(iv)    Course IV: Design, Construction and Operation of Expressway including
interchanges at Ontario, Canada.
(v)     Course V: Equipment procurement management in Italy, and
(vi)    Course VI: Works procurement management in Italy.
In all, 42 officers from the four beneficiary states received training as detailed below:
Course   Bihar   Maharashtra  Rajasthan   Uttar Pradesh   Total
I       1         3          -2                   6
ff      2         2          -          2         6
III     3         2          2          2          9
IV      4         3          8          4         19
V-                I                                I
VI      -         1          -                     1
Total    10        12        10          10        42
(b)   The program provided a total of 148 person-months of training which comprised
academic in India and field module in Australia, U.K, Canada and Italy.
Total expenditure on training was about Rs. 24 million.
The training programmes have been very useful and beneficial in
(i)    upgrading the capacity of PVVD in execution of highway projects.
(ii)    providing exposure to the PWD officers to new technology in highways and
bridges.
(iii)    management of highways works including maintenance and management of the
equipment holding.



56                            Appendix B
(c)   Performance of Borrower/executive agencies and the Bank.
The performance of the borrower, the executive agencies and the Bank on this
component has been highly satisfactory in achieving the objectives.
(d)   Achievement of objectives
the main objectives of the training component of the loan vvas to assist the borrower
state in bringing up institutional development of beneficiary states, 42 officers have been trained
under this loan in various roads or highway design, construction and maintenance including
exposure to new technologies. Thus, the objectives of the loan have been met to a large extent.
However, further follow up actions are required to be taken by the borrower states so as to
bring about effective changes in the respective states. Since training is a continuous process, the
same should be continued to achieve the required institutional development.
B.   PROCUREMENT OF SPECIALIZED EQUIPMENT
(a)   Execution
17 categories of equipment totaling to 257 nos. were identified to be procured for the
State Road Project as per the Staff Appraisal Report for the loan. In Sept. 1991, it was decided
in consultation with beneficiary states and the World Bank that only 9 items of high priority
equipment, totaling to 157 nos. should be procured.
As agreed by the respective States and the World Bank, the Ministry of Surface
Transport acted as the modal Ministry on behalf of beneficiary states for procurement of
equipment.
The entire procurement of equipment was done by Director General of Supplies and
Disposals (DGS&D), being the central procuring agency on behalf of Govt. of India.
Specifications of equipment were finalized by the Ministry in consultation with the beneficiary
states and were concurred in by the World Bank.
After obtaining the details of the consignees from the beneficiary states, indents were
placed on DGS&D in August-November 1993. DGS&D however, could invite tenders under
ICB procedure for all the equipment in June 1994 after obtaining further details of the states.
After obtaining necessary clarifications from the International bidders and technical evaluation,
the requisite concurrence of the World Bank was sought, DGS&D was able to place the orders
for supply of 5 categories of equipment before the closing date of the loan, procurement of only
3 categories of following equipment totaling to 14 nos. could materialize.
1. Dip Stick Read Road Profilers (one each to U.P. & Maharashtra)  2 nos.
2. Bitumen Pressure Distributors
(two nos. each to Bihar, U.P., Maharashtra and Rajasthan)         8 nos.
3.Mobile Bridge Inspection Units (one each to all the four beneficiary states)   4 nos.
14 nos.



57                            Appendix B
The first two equipment have already been supplied to the consignees. Out of the four
MBIU's two nos. have already collected by the cosignees of Maharashtra and Bihar states and
the remaining two MBIUs are yet to be collected by the consignees. Beneficiary states are not
willing to take over the units as the loan had already expired on 30h June, 96. Ministry has made
a request to the World Bank for providing necessary funds under the Second National Highway
Project (Loan No. 3470/Cr-2365) as a special case to the state so that the units can be used by
them.
(b)   Cost and Benefits
Against the total budget provision of US$ 22.4 million for this component, the total
expenditure for procurement of 3 categories of equipment works out to US$ 2.596 million and
Rs. 40.15 rnillion (i.e., total expenditure of approximately US$ 3.6 million). In terms of
percentage, the total utilization against the budge provision is approximately 16%. However,
the expenditure amounting to US$ 2.446 million was not reimbursed from the loan, as the
closing date had already expired by the time the equipment had reached India.
Full benefits of procurement of specialized equipment could be achieved due to the
following issues which were encountered during procurement.
(i)    Preparation of specifications took almost 2 years as these were required to be
prepared on the basis of availability of equipment in international market and its use in
Indian conditions.
(ii)   World Bank took 5-6 months or sometimes more time for approval of the
specifications.
(iii)    States took 1-2 years to intimate the consignee details. This oculd be avided, if
the consignee details had been finalised at the time of Approval.
(iv)    In many cases the international firms did not submit tenders in accordance with
Ministry's instruction/specification and DGS&D requirements. This necessitated seeking
of clarifications from concerned parties, resulting in delay in evaluation.
(c)   Performance of Borrower/ Executive agency/ Bank
The performance of the borrower and the executive agency was not satisfactory.
Moreover, the performance of the Bank was also not up to the mark because of the delays in
certain approvals.
(d)   Achievement of Objectives
the equipment procured were required to enhance the road productivity and quality. In
this particular direction, the objective have not been fully achieved as all equipments envisaged
in the loan could not be procured within the time frame.



58                            Appendix B
C.   PAVEMENT MANAGEMENT ST1JDY
(a)   Excecution
Pavement Management Study was implemented in the states of Bihar, Maharashtra,
Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh with the objective of introducing a modem Pavement Management
Study (PMS) to ensure effective use of the road rehabilitation and mnaintenance funds.
The consultancy services for the study was awarded to M/s N.D. Lea International Ltd. &
Associates on 24.11.92. However, the consultant commenced the work in November, 1993.
The period of services was 2 years. A Pavement Maintenance Management System (PMMS)
Cell was created at Aurangabad in Maharashtra. The cousultant prepared the program for PMS.
Primary training for use of computer was given by the consultant to the Data collection
Engineer of the PWD's for collecting the road data and carry out pavement management study
(PMS). Mls N. D. Lea International Ltd. & Associates also procured one Automated Road
Analyser (ARAN). The vehicle was deployed in all the four states and field data for a total
length of 29,706 Kms (Bihar-5872 Kms, Maharashtra-8343 Kms, Rajasthan-7887 Kms and
U.P.-7604 Kms) were recorded.
The consultant had organised traffic count survey training at five locations i.e.
Aurangabad, Akeluji, Pune, Nanded and Nagpur with traffic count data at 36 locations. The
consultant carried out axle load survey of eight location in Maharashtra during January, 1995
and loadman survey for 1600 Kms. length was carried out in the month of April and May, 1995.
The consultant had also organised training on computer software on the following topics.
(i)    Pre-requisite computer training
(ii)   Data collection and auditing
(iii)    Data processing
(iv)    Maintenance program development and budgeting.
The PMS scope covered state highways and Major District Roads in the Project States
and was designed as computer aided system for utilising relational data base, and for Planning
programming and Budgeting of pavement works. Three modules, viz., Planning and
Programming Module (PPM), Design and Estimates Module (DEM) and Routine Maintenance
Module (RM14) were developed.
Data collection was done using automated equipment, ARAN for Road inventory and
visual survey along with Falling Weight Deflectometer (FWD) LOADMAN, ARAN AND
LOADMAN were calibrated using 'MERILYN' and benkelman beam.
The study has been completed and system installed in the four states. Detailed
documentation prepared which include final report, user manuals for DEM, RMM and PPM as
also the system manuals for DEM and RMM.
(b)   Cost and Benefits
The consultancy services for the PMS was awarded to M/s N. D. Lea & Associates at a
cost of Rs. 110 million (US$ 1.523 million + DKK 3.37 million + Rs. 18.97 million). Under this



59                            Appendix B
study, an ARAN was procured for road inventory and visual survey with Falling Weight
Deflectometer (FWD) and about 30,000 Kms of state and major roads in all the four states were
surveyed and inventoried. PMS hardware and software package was also installed in each
P.W.D.
(c)   Performance of borrower/ executive agency/ Bank
The performance of the borrower, executive agency and Bank for the component of this
loan was satisfactory.
(d)   Objectives
The requisite objectives under the pavement management study have been achieved in
full. The principal objective of the study was to establish in each state maintenance network,
management system based on (a) an inventory of their network, detailed road geometry,
pavement type and condition (b) a continuing record of traffic flows and (c) the local costs of
remedial treatments ranging from simple pothole repair to a full pavement reconstruction.
However, the Rajasthan PWD, after completing the road inventory survey, established a
working cell to manage the PMS and has conducted some survey with the ARAN vehicle to
update its road condition inventory data-base.
Maharashtra PWD also uses the PMS to maintain and update data base of the condition of
its core road network. In U.P. and Bihar, PMS is currently not being utilised. The study was
successful but its operationalisation has not fully occurred.
D.   BANK PERFOEMANCE
The Bank's performance in achieving the objectives has been generally satisfactory
except in procurement of specialized equipment.
E.   KEY LESSONS LEARNED
(i)   Project Preparation. Project preparation of all Highway Projects should be carried out
with the use of internationally experienced consultants so as to ensure good quality project.
(ii)   Pre Construction Activities. All project preparation activities like techno-economic
feasibility studies, detailed engineering design, environmental studies pre-construction activities
like land acquisition, shifting of utilities and award of work should be completed before civil
works contracts can start on the ground. Even the loan negotiations should commence only
when the pre-construction activities have been substantially completed and pre-qualifications of
contractors have been approve by the Bank.
(iii)  Evaluation of Tenders. Evaluation of tenders should be carried out expeditiously and
thoroughly. For this purpose tender documents should contain structured questions so that the
response of tenderers is unambiguous. It is advisable to have pre-award meetings with the



60                             Appendix B
successful tenderers to finalize any outstanding issues regarding details of deployment of
equipment, personnel and cash inputs.
Special attention should be paid about the participation of all joint ventures partners.
(iv)   Organization Set Up. Dedicated team of officers should be deployed by PWDs for
project implementation Policy/institutional strengthening of the State PWDs, together with
intensive training in contract and project management skills at initial stages of project is
important to enhance implementation capabilities.
(v)   Supervision of Work. External consultant should be engaged for supervision of works
as 'Engineer' for better contract operations. Certain powers should also be authorized to
'Engineer' for issue of variation orders.
(vi)  Familiarity with the Bank's Procedure. Lack of familiarity with ICB and other Bank
procedures caused major delays in implementing civil works and other components under the
project. Hence familiarity with Bank procedures and ICB is a must lto start the project.
(vii)  Contructor. Contractor's project management capabilities need to be strengthened.
Positions like Plant Engineer and Quality Surveyor are generally missing in the contractor's
organization. This should be filled in for proper management of equipment and preparation of
statement of account and claims. Presently, there is no monitoring of works by contractors.
Conditions of contract should specify that the contractor would furnish monitoring report along
with any remedial measures taken/proposed to be taken by them. Changes in contractor's
personnel should be avoided or at least minimized.
(viii) Changes during Execution. Changes in specification and design during execution
should be avoided, unless it is very essential.
(ix)   Contract management. Undue interference of Employer in contract management
should be avoided. Besides certain procedures should be streamlined to avoid delays. Payment
to contractors should be made at the earliest, after issue of Payment Certificate, but in no case
later than 30 days as envisaged in the contract. As per present practice, measurement books are
required to be fulfilled in by hand. Computer outputs duly signed should be accepted for
measurement purposes. Approval of Auditor General should be obtained for the same by GOI.
(x)   Montoring. A modem on-line monitoring system should be established at the
Employer's office.
Dedicated team for monitoring should be established in the Employer's office who
should be reporting the bottlenecks to the authorities regularly. Close monitoring should be
carried out, even on a weekly basis, right from commencement.
(xi)   Bank's involvement. Visits of Bank's missions are welcome. It has been noted that
sometimes the Mission renders advice on contractual matters to the employer and the
contractor. This has created some contractual problems in the past. As per the norms of the
Bank, complaints of contractors and consultants should be passed on to the executive agencies



61                             Appendix B
for consideration. It is advisable that Bank's Mission refrains from any direct advice on
contractual matters unless asked for by executing agencies.
(xii) Sustainability of Project. Some of the roads improved under the Project have already
started to deteriorate due to inadequate maintenance, higher traffic volumes, etc. Effective road
maintenance management, including planning and budgeting for the roads, is the key for
sustainability of project roads and entire road projects.
(xiii) Institutional modernization. With the new generation of state road projects there will
be much more emphasis on facilitating the transformation of the PWDs from providers to
managers of the state road networks. This will mean institutional modernization and
strengthening will be key project developments objective.
(xiv) Institutional procurement Arrangement. The complete procurement of machinery
etc. should be the direct responsibility of the beneficiary state to avoid cumbersome institutional
procurement arrangement. This will reduce the wastage of time in inter-agency communications
and decision making.



62                              Appendix C
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
STATES' ROAD PROJECT
(Loan 2994-IN/Credit 1959-IN)
ECONOMIC RE-EvALUATION
Preface
1.    This appendix presents the economic re-evaluation of the hIdia States' Road Project. It
summarizes: the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) economic evaluation methodology; the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) economic re-evaluation methodology and assumptions;
and, an ex-post comparison.
Economic Evaluation Methodology in SAR
2.    The SAR presents the economic evaluation of the road strengthening and widening
(improvements) works in Bihar, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, and Uttar Pradesh and the economic
evaluation of the Bhagalpur bridge in Bihar. The SAR quantified the benefits accruing from vehicle
operating costs savings, time savings of working passengers and goods in transit, and road
maintenance costs savings. In the case of road improvements, these benefits have been quantified
using the Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model III (HDM), and in the case of the
Bhagalpur bridge, benefits have been estimated by road user costs savings by the distance reductions
and from avoiding the present transshipment from vehicle to ferry then back to vehicle again.
3.    Road Improvements. To estimate the net benefits of the road improvement components, the
SAR used the 1HDM which simulates life cycle conditions, estimates road agency and user costs, and
provides economic decision criteria for alternative maintenance or improvements investments. The
analysis period was set to fourteen years to capture ten years of project net benefits after the
estimated four years construction period, and the salvage value at the end of the analysis period was
set to 25 % of the investment costs. The SAR presented the internal economic rates of return (ERR)
for each investment option as well as the average for each state and the overall project (see Table
A3), but it did not present the net present value (NPV) of project benefits. The estimated overall
ERR for the road works was 30.4 % and the ERR range was from 11.5 to 96.8 %.
4.    The SAR estimated that in 1988 the range of road roughness of the project roads was from
5.0 to 8.5 the international Roughness Index (IRI) and most roads were over twenty years old, in
need of strengthening and widening (improvements) to a two lane standard of 7.0 m with in some
cases hard shoulders. The daily traffic range in 1988 for the project roads was from 538 to 3144
ADT with an average of 1630 ADT, and the range of the expected traffic growth from 1988 to 2001
was from 6.3 to 7.5 % per annum.
5.    Bhagalpur bridge. To evaluate the Bhagalpur bridge, which included its approach road,
ERR was calculated by costs and benefits in the "with" and "without" scenarios. In the cost stream,
construction and maintenance costs (0.5% of construction cost) were considered. In the benefit
stream, vehicle operating cost saving, transshipment savings, and time savings were considered. These
were assessed by the diverting traffic from two road-cum-rail bridges and ferries, which cross the river



63                               Appendix C
Ganges, after applying a least distance matrix to the Origin Destination survey data. -The estimated
ERR was 20.2 %.
6.    Road Improvements. The ICR ex-post economic evaluation was done for 16 roads that
were completed under the project and 2 roads that were dropped but completed by the PWD own
resources. To perform the ICR ex-post economic evaluation, the HDM, 1988 prices, and 0.8
financial to economic conversion factor were used. These assumptions are the same as those used in
the SAR. A sample vehicle operating costs used in the ICR analysis, which is the most influential
factor in the HDM, are shown in the table below.
Vehicle Operating Costs (1988 Rs per vehicle-kin)
Roughness, IRI (rn/k)   Car        Bus      Medium Tnick
2               2.5        3.9           2.7
4               2.6        4.0           2.9
6               2.8        4.1          3.3
8               2.9        4.3           3.6
10              3.1         4.5          3.9
7.    In the ICR ex-post economic evaluation, following steps were taken. (i) the first step taken
was to replicate the SAR economic evaluation using the HDM based on the HDM inputs by provided
on the SAR for roads and vehicle fleet characteristics (vehicle operating costs) as well as investment
and maintenance costs. The SAR did not provide all the required inputs; therefore, the missing data
was estimated based on current experience on Indian roads and adjusted to replicate exactly the SAR
rates of return. The estimated data that was obtained this way was used consistently in the ex-post
economic evaluation. (ii) The second step was to re-evaluate the SAR rates of return, by increasing
the analysis period from 14 to 20 years. This was done because the SAR economic evaluation
computed 10 years of net benefits after the four years construction period but the actual works were
delayed on an average of three years with an average construction period of six years. Therefore, to
evaluate the consequences of the works completion delays and to compute at least ten years of
project benefits after the construction period, the analysis period was increased to 20 years (1988 to
2007) for both the re-evaluated SAR calculations and the new ICR calculations. (iii) The third step
was to perform the ICR ex-post evaluation taking into consideration updated traffic data,
construction costs, and construction period and timing, with an analysis period of 20 years and the
same unit vehicle operating costs as in the SAR. (iv) Finally, the fourth step was to compare the re-
evaluated SAR results with the ICR results.
8.    Bhagalpur bridge. To perform the ICR econonic evaluation for the Bhagalpur bridge, the
same methodology that was used in the SAR was applied assuming the completion of construction by
June 2000. The construction costs and the maintenance costs have been revised to reflect the actual
and projected construction costs. The benefits (vehicle operating cost saving, transshipment savings,
and time savings) have been revised to reflect the projected bridge traffic data in 2000 provided by
the GOB. These benefits were calculated by assuming the same ratios of diversion in the SAR. The
evaluation period is the same as the SAR, 1989 to 2013, but the operation period was 19 years
(1995-2013) in the SAR, while it was 14 years (2000-2013) in the ICR. For the analysis following
steps were taken. (i) The first step was to replicate the SAR. (ii) The second step was to re-evaluate
SAR rates of return in the condition of delay in construction but the same construction cost. (iii) The
third step was to re-evaluate the SAR, in the condition of re-estimated construction cost and period,
and traffics. (iv) The fourth step was to compare the re-evaluated SAR and the ICR results.



64                               Appendix C
9.    Table Cl presents the ADT for each road in 1997 of the SAR estimates and ICR actual
traffic. It also presents the SAR estimates for traffic growth for the 1988-1997 period and the actual
traffic growth for the same period. The actual traffic in 1997 is, for most roads, higher than the SAR
estimates by an average of 60 % for the roads that are completed. Consequently, the actual growth
rates are 1.8 times higher than the SAR estimates. For example, Maharashtra, the state with the most
dynamic economy, had an average actual growth rate of 12.3 % compared to an SAR estimate of 6.6
%, and the average actual 1997 traffic is 1.7 times higher than the SAR estimates.
10.   Figure C1 shows the histograms of the ICR/SAR ratios for the 1997 traffic and the 1988-
1997 average annual traffic growth rate. It is observed that only 23 % of the project roads had a
1997 traffic ICR/SAR ratio below 1.0, while 77 % had a ratio higher than 1.0, with 18 % having a
ratio higher than 2.0. This indicates that the SAR grossly underestimated the expected traffic growth
in these states, and this is corroborated by the 1988-1997 annual traffic growth ICR/SAR ratio
histogram.
11.   The estimated traffic for the Bhagalpur bridge in the SAR and the ICR are shown in the table
C 1. The ICR traffic estimation is far beyond the one in the SAR. For the year 2000, it was estimated
3226 ADT in the SAR while it is 6995 ADT in the ICR. This is 2.2 times higher than that of the
SAR. This is mainly due to the expectation for vivid traffic growth between south and north area of
the state including Nepal.
12.   Table C2 presents the project financial costs for the roads that were completed under the
project: (i) the project costs per km as estimated in the SAR; (ii) the actual costs per kin; (iii) the
ICR/SAR ratio for project costs per km; (iv) the completion year; and, (v) the construction period.
All project financial costs are expressed in 1988 mnillion Rs, the SARP currency. Hence, the costs were
converted to 1988 Rs based on the costs distribution over the years of each project adjusted to 1988
costs using India's wholesale price index. The average road improvements costs estimated in the
SAR for the roads that are completed was 1.9 million 1988 Rs per km ($140,000 in 1988 US$ per
kin) and the average actual costs is 2.5 million 1988 Rs per km ($190,000 in 1988 US$ per km),
which represents about 5.2 million 1998 Rs per km. The SAR assumed a four-year construction
period with a construction costs annual distribution of 12 %, 23 %, 43 %, and 22 %; while the
average actual construction period was six years with an average construction costs annual
distribution of 18 %, 22 %, 25 %, 18 %, 10 %, and 7 %. Table C2 also shows that project costs for
the roads that are completed are on average 1.4 times higher than the SAR estimates (in 1988 Rs),
with Rajasthan being the state with the highest cost increases (about 50 %). The reasons for higher
costs includes; (i) high bids by contractors (lower estimation by PWIDs); (ii) poor designs that
resulted in quantity changes and variation orders and; (iii) delays in implementation that involved
many factors and resulted in variation orders.
13.   The histogram of ICR/SAR ratios of the project financial costs per km for the roads are
shown in figure C2. From the figure, it is observed that only 11.1 % of the projects had an ICR/SAR
ratio below 1.0, and 61.1 % had a ratio between 1.0 and 1.5, and 28 % had a ratio higher than 1.5.
The histogram of actual construction period shows that 61 % of the roads had a construction period
between four and six years, and only 6 % had a construction period below four years. The average
construction period is 5.8 years.



65                                Appendix C
14.   The financial construction cost for the Bhagalpur bridge was 689 million 1988 Rs in the SAR
(construction period 1989-1994) and 864 million 1988 Rs is estimated in the ICR (construction period
1991-1999).
15.   Road Improvements. The economic analysis of the SAR covered 23 individual roads that
accounted for 75% of the original total project cost. The economic analysis of the ICR covers 18
roads"3 including 2 roads that were completed by the Maharashtra PWD's own resources. In order to
reflect ex-post results, the 18 roads were also re-evaluated under ex condition (re-evaluated SAR). In
the analysis, all costs and benefits were converted to Indian rupees of 1988 price. The roads
operational period is assumed 10 years in the cases of the re-evaluated SAR and ICR.
16.   The economic re-evaluation are summarized in table C3, C4 and the table below. The average
ERR and NPV in the ICR are 63.6% and 9,142 million Rs in 1988 price, and in the re-evaluated SAR
they are 32.4 % and 6,150 million Rs respectively. This indicates that economic benefits of the roads
completed are higher than that were estimated in the SAR. This implies also that, in relation to the
SAR estimates, the increased actual traffic (1.6 times) compensated economic results although in the
ICR there are devaluation by the increased construction costs (1.4 times) and the construction delays
(2 to 3 years delay in commencing the works and 6 years of actual construction period in the ICR
while 4 years construction period in the SAR). Although the ICR shows the higher ERR and NPV,
the costs are enormously higher than estimated and are explained; (a) high bids by contractors (lower
estimation by PWDs); (b) poor designs that resulted in quantity changes and variation orders; and (c)
delays in implementation that involved many factors and resulted in variation orders.
Economic Re-evaluation for the Roads Copleted
Average   Average cost/km  Average cost/km   ERR (%)    NPV
.__________   ADT (1997)   (M 1988 Rs)   (M 1988 US$)         4 (M1988 Rs)
SAR_    3,055 (1.00)    1.79 (1.00)          138,000       30.4    NA
Re-evaluated SAR  3,055 (1.00)    1.79 (1.00)   138,000 (1.00)   32.4 (1.00)  6,150 (1.00)
ICR             4,794 (1.57)    2.20 (1.23)   170,000 (1.23)   63.6 (1.96)  9,142 (1.49)
17.   Bhagalpur bridge. The result is shown in the table below. Since the bridge and its approach
road have not been completed, the values are only for reference. In the table, the case of the ICR,
which is with 4.5 % traffic growth rate in the year 2000 onward and six year delay in implementation,
is considered as a most realistic scenario. The project cost is 505 million 1988 Rs in the SAR, while
691 million 1988 Rs is assumed in the ICR as the projected project cost. In the re-evaluated SAR,
where a six-year delay in implementation and the same construction cost are assumed, ERR increases
to 23.8 % from 19.6 % and NPV devalues to 257 million from 396 million in 1988 Rs. I n the ICR,
ERR dropped to 18.6 % from 23.8 % while NPV is 256 million 1988 Rs, which is almost the same as
the re-evaluated SAR. Table CS shows the calculation of the case of the ICR.
13 See table 5: Key indicators for Project implementation.



66                                      Appendix C
Economic Re-evaluation for the Bh_______bridge_|
Average        Cost          Cost         ERR        NPV
ADT (2000)  (M 1988 Rs)  (M 1988 US$)    (%)    (M 1988 Rs)
SAR                            2,982 (1.00)   689 (1.00)    53.1 (1.00)    20.2    NA (396*)
_____ ____ ____ (19.6*)   _ _ _ _ _ _
Re-evaluated SAR**             2,982 (1.00)   689 (1.00)    53.1 (1.00)    23.8       257
ICR (4.5% traffic growth rate,    6,353 (2.13)   864 (1.25)    66.6 (1.25)  18.6      256
year 2000 onward***)
recalculated with minor corrections to SAR.
: construction cost, period, and traffic are the same as that of SAR, but 6 years delay in implementation.
traffic growth rate is the same as that of SAR until 1999.



,;7                              Appendix C
INDIA
STATES' ROAD PROJECT
Table Cl - Traffic Appraisal Estimates and Actual Values
1997 Average Daily Traffic  1988-1997 Annual Traffic Growth (%)
Estimated    Actual      ICR/ Estimated      Actual       ICRI
SAR       ICR      SAR       SAR         ICR         SAR
BIHAR
Hajipur - Muzzaffarpur *    4295        NA       NA        7.5         NA          NA
Sonepur - Chhapra *         3641        NA       NA        7.0         NA          NA
Bhagalpur Bridge **         3226      6995       2.2       NA          NA          NA
Average                     3721      6995        2.2      7.3         NA          NA
MAHARASHTRA
Pune - Aurangabad           4955      9484        1.9      6.4        14.3         2.2
Ahmednagar - Kopargaon      4513    10660         2.4      6.5        17.2         2.6
Ahmednagar - Aurangabad     4568      7774        1.7      7.9        14.3         1.8
Aurangabad - Jalna          3710      3144        0.8      6.4         4.5         0.7
Akola - Hingoli             1972      4099        2.1      6.3        15.3         2.4
Nagpur - Kanpa              3091      3069        1.0      6.4         6.3         1.0
Wada - Biwadi               2832      4426        1.6      6.5        11.9         1.8
Palgarh - Wada              3571      6712        1.9      6.5        14.2         2.2
Average                     3652      6171        1.7      6.6        12.3         1.9
RAJASTHAN
Bhiwadi - Alwar             1412      2459        1.7      7.0        13.8         2.0
Alwar- Karauli              1782      2667        1.5      7.0        11.9         1.7
Udaipu - Dabok              5780      6612        1.1      7.0         8.6         1.2
Dabok - Chittorgarh         1366      2733       2.0       7.0        15.6         2.2
Ajimer - Chittorgarh        4423      7600        1.7      7.0        13.6         1.9
Sirohi - Abu Road           3885      4187        1.1      7.0         7.9         1.1
Abu - Mount Abu Road         989      2648        2.7      7.0        19.4         2.8
Fatehpur - Churu *          1088      1029       0.9       7.0         6.3         0.9
Churu-HaryanaBdr.*          1090      1189        1.1      7.0         8.0         1.1
Sikar - Haryana Bdr. *      2664      1703       0.6       7.0         1.8         0.3
Average                     2448      3283        1.5      7.0        10.7         1.5
UTTAR PRADESH
Sonauli - Gorakhpur         1542      2954        1.9      7.5        15.6         2.1
Gorakhpur - Ballia          2590      2254        0.9      7.5         5.9         0.8
Faizabad - Allahabad        2013      2817        1.4      7.5        11.6         1.5
Allahabad - Dohrighat *     3856      3886        1.0      7.5         7.6         1.0
Average                     2500      2978        1.3      7.5        10.1         1.4
ROAD WORKS
Average ***                 3055      4794        1.6       6.9       12.3         1.8
Standard Deviation ***      1434      2650        0.5      0.4         4.1         0.6
* The roads that are dropped.
** SAR estimate for 2000 and currennt estimate for 2000.
The average and standard deviation are calculated for the roads that are completed (not dropped).



Appendix C
68
INDIA
STATES' ROAD PROJECT
Table C2 - Financial Project Costs Appraisal Estimates and Actual Values (1988 Million Rupees)
Estimated - SAR          Actual - ICR       Cost
Length   Total   Cost Length   Total   Cost per km  Completion Construction
in km    Cost per km   in km    Cost per km ICR/SAR       Year       Years
BIHAR
Hajipur - Muzzaffarpur*   51.0  204.5    4.0   Work dropped in 1996
Sonepur - Chhapra *       50.0  260.2    5.2   Work dropped in 1996
Bhagalpur Bridge*          4.4  688.5  156.5    4.4  691.0  157.0  1.00          2000
Average                    35.1  384.4   55.2    4.4  691.0  157.0
MAHARASHTRA
Pune - Aurangabad        113.6  142.8    1.3  113.6  145.0    1.3  1.02          1995        5.3
Ahmednagar- Kopargaon      95.0  123.1     1.3   95.0  174.6    1.8  1.42         1994       4.3
Ahmednagar - Aurangabad   105.4  142.8    1.4   92.0  171.4    1.9  1.38         1997        6.9
Aurangabad-Jalna          124.0  201.2    1.6  112.4  166.8    1.5  0.91          1997       6.9
Akola - Hingoli            96.0  123.7    1.3   96.0  125.5    1.3  1.01          1995       4.7
Nagpur- Kanpa             69.0  120.3    1.7   69.0  250.4    3.6  2.08          1995        3.4
Wada- Biwadi              47.0   68.4    1.5   47.0   93.2    2.0  1.36          1997        6.4
Palgarh - Wada            23.0   32.1    1.4   23.0   45.6    2.0  1.42          1997        6.4
Average                    84.1   119.3    1.4   81.0  146.6    1.9  1.33                    5.5
RAJASTHAN
Bhiwadi - Alwar           90.0  144.6    1.6   83.9  187.5    2.2  1.39          1997        6.0
Alwar- Karauli            145.0  186.0    1.3  135.1  301.9    2.2  1.74          1997       6.0
Udaipu - Dabok            16.0   85.7    5.4   16.3   98.6    6.1  1.13          1997        8.0
Dabok - Chittorgarh       97.0  128.3    1.3   98.5  147.5    1.5  1.13          1997        8.0
Ajimer - Chittorgarh      186.0  268.5    1.4  221.5  490.7    2.2  1.53         1996        6.0
Sirohi -Abu Road          63.0   69.0    1.1   62.5  135.6    2.2  1.98          1996        5.0
Abu - Mount Abu Road      23.0   29.4    1.3   23.0   49.9    2.2  1.70           1996       5.0
Fatehpur - Churu *        36.0   32.9    0.9   Work dropped in 1993
Churu - Haryana Bdr. *    79.0   68.7    0.9   Work dropped in 1993
Sikar - Haryana Bdr. *   133.0  136.9    1.0   Work dropped in 1996
Average                   86.8  115.0    1.6   91.5  201.7    2.7  1.52                      6.3
UTTAR PRADESH
Sonauli - Gorakhpur       93.0  270.1    2.9   94.2  310.1        3.3  1.13      1995        6.0
Gorakhpur- Ballia         153.0  454.5    3.0   45.0  124.3    2.8  0.93         1995        6.0
Faizabad - Allahabad     143.0  412.6    2.9   60.0  249.1        4.2  1.44      1997        5.0
Allahabad - Dohrighat *  208.0  628.0    3.0   Work dropped in 1993
Average                   149.3  441.3    2.9   66.4  227.8    3.4  1.17                     5.7
ROAD WORKS
Average*                   93.4  166.8   1.86    82.7  181.5   2.45       1.37               5.8
Standard Deviation*       47.5  118.2             48.5  107.9    1.2                         1.2
* The avarage and standard deviation are calculated for the roads that are completed (not dropped).



Figure C1 - Traffic ICRISAR Ratios
1997 Average Daily Traffic ICR/SAR Ratio                         1988-1997 Annual Traffic Growth ICRISAR Ratio
35                                                                  30
32                                                                  27
30   -                    27                                        25   -                                       23
25 -23
20 -18                    18
20-
15-
10 -                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10                                     9
5                                                     45
0                                                                    0   -   ,                                                -
0.0-0.5  0.5-1.0  1.0-1.5  1.5-2.0  2.0-2.5  2.5-3.0                 0.0-0.5  0.5-1.0  1.0-1.5  1.5-2.0  2.0-2.5  2.5-3.0
Range of 1997 Daily Traffic ICR/SAR Ratio                     Range of 1988-1997 Annual Traffic Growth ICR/SAR Ratio
Fibure C2 - Proiect Costs ICRISAR Ratios and Actual Construction Duration
Road Works Project Costs ICR/SAR Ratio                                     Actual Construction Duration (years)
70 -35-
61
60                                                                      30 -28
50 -125   -                                                                                                22
R40                                                                      20 
2                                                                       2
a'.30 -                               2a,15                                                                               
20 -10 
10                                                                       5
0                                                                    0
0.0-0.5  0.5-1.0  1.0-1.5  1.5-2.0  2.0-2.5  2.5-3.0                      3 -4     4 -5     5 -6      6 -7     7 -8     8 -9
Range of Road Works Project Costs ICRISAR Ratio                               Range of Actual Construction Duration



States' Road Project
Re-estimated Traffic Volume
Table C 5   Economic Re-Evaluation of Bhagalpur Bridge                4.5% Growth Rate after 2000
(Rs million)                            Actual construction economic cost
Case (c)
Year    Cost                                                           Benefits                                                   Net Benefits
Vehicle Operating Cost Savings    Transshipment Savings     Time Savings             Induced        Total
Cars  Buses  Trucks   Other   Total     Pass.  Goods   Total       Pass.  Goods   Total
2000-                                    2000-                     2000-
1989       0    4.5%    4.5%    4.5%    4.5%              4,5%    4.5%               4.5%    4.5%                                         0.0
1990     18.9                                                                                                                           -18.9
1991     4.3                                                                                                                             -4.3
1992    38.9                                                                                                                            -38.9
1993    71.5                                                                                                                            -71.5
1994    69.8                                                                                                                            -69.8
1995    73.0                                                                                                                            -73.0
1996   117.7                                                                                                                           -117.7
1997   104.8                                                                                                                           -104.8
1998   134.8                                                                                                                           -134.8
1999    57.3                                                                                                                            -57.3
2000      3.5    12.7   27.0   61.6    1.1  102.4          17.3   62.4   79.7         9.5    2.7   12.2        29.1       223.4         220.0
2001      3,5    13.3   28.2   64.4    1.1  107.0          18.1   65.2   83.3         9.9    2.8   12.7        30.5       233.5         230.0            C
2002      3.5    13.9   29.5   67.3    1.1  111.8          18.9   68.1   87.1        10.4    2.9   13.3        31.8       244.0         240.5
2003      3.5    14.5   30.8   70.3    1.2  116.8          19.8   71.2   91.0        10.8    3.1   13.9        33,3       255.0         251.5
2004      3.5    15.1   32.2   73.5    1.3  122.1          20.7   74.4   95.1        11.3    3.2   14.5        34.8        266.4        263.0
2005      3.5    15.8   33.7   76.8    1.3  127.6          21.6   77.7   99.3        11.8    3.3   15.2        36.3        278.4        275.0
2006      3.5    16.5   35.2   80.2    1.4  133.3          22.6   81.2  103.8        12.4    3.5   15.9        38.0       291.0         287.5
2007      3.5    17.3   36.8   83.8    1.4  139.3          23.6   84.9  108.5        12.9    3.6   16.6        39,7       304.1         300.6
2008      3.5    18.1   38.4   87.6    1.5  145.6          24.6   88.7  113.4        13.5    3.8   17.3        41.4       317.7         314.3
2009      3.5    18.9   40.2   91.6    1.6  152.2          25.8   92.7  118.5        14.1    4.0   18.1        43.3       332.0         328.6
2010      3.5    19.7   42.0   95.7    1.6  159.0          26.9   96.9  123.8        14.8    4.2   18.9        45.3        347.0        343.5
2011      3.5    20.6   43.9  100.0    1.7  166.2         28.1   101.2  129.4        15.4    4.3   19.8        47.3       362.6         359.1
2012      3.5    21.5   45.8  104.5    1.8  173.6          29.4  105.8  135.2        16.1    4.5   20.6        49.4       378.9 .       375.4
2013      3.5    22.5   47.9  109.2      1.9  181.5        30.7  110.6  141.3        16.8    4.7   21.6        51.6       396.0         392.5
Total Benefit =   3490.6
EIRR     =      18.58%
NPV(120k) =    $255.73
(1) Vehicle Operating Cost Savings: mutiplied by the ratio of ADT as of 2000, ICR/SAR. Cars = 1796/770, Buses = 1704/863, Trucks = 2853/1349, Motor cycle = 602/244.
(2) Transshipment Savings: the same as SAR until 2000. After 2000, 4.5% of growth rate is assumed.
(3) Time Savings: the same as SAR until 2000. After 2000, 4.5% of growth rate is assumed.



INDIA
STATES' ROAD PROJECT
Table C4 -ICR Economic Evaluation Net Benefits
Without   Wth    Net  Without    With        Net  Without    Wth           Net  Without    With       Net  Without    With       Net  Without     Wth       Net  Without      With      Net  Wthout      Wth       Net
IProject Proiect Beceltt   Project   Proleet  Benetits   Proieed   Proiect    Benefits  Proledt  Projedt  Benefits   Project  Project  Beneitts   Project  Project  Benefits   Project   Proect  Benefitt   Proied   Prolect  Benefits
Maharashtra             Mahrashtra                   MaharashtMra                Maharashtra                Maharashtra                Maharasitra                 Maharashtra                Maharastra
Pune - Ahmednagar     Ahmednagar - Kopargaon      Ahrnednagar - Aurangabad      Aujnngabad - Maotha         Akola - Kanhellon           NasPur - Kanetd              Pabgar - Wada              Wada - Ambadij
1      365    365       0      345      345        0      296      296          C      307      307         0      131      131        0      132      132        0       93       93         0       61       61        0
2      419    419       0      402      402        0      336      336          0      318      318         0      148      148        0      138      138        0      105       105        0       69       69        0
3      491    491       0      473      473        0      393      393          0      340      340         0      173      173        0      150      150        0      123       123        0       81       81        0
4      576    576       0      564      570       -6      461      461          0      363      363        0       203      203        0      162      162        0      144      144         0       95       98        0
5      675    689    -14       656      678      -22      540      540          0      387      387         0      238      250      -12      176      200      -24      168      168         0      112      112        0
6      793    820    -27       764      814      -50      634      634          0      412      412         0      278      301      -23      190      236      -46      196      196         0      131      131        0
7      934    984    -S0       889      911      -22      745      763         -19     438      456       -18      326      369      -43      205      291      -86      229      238        -9    10        155       -4
8     1104   1129    -26      1036      741      295      877      913         -35     467      S00       -34      383      405      -22      221      265      -44      267      283       -17      171      180       -8
9     1312    982    329      1207      869      338     1024     1090         -66     497      560       -63      450      365       85      239      202       37      307      338       -32      195      211      -16
10    1555   1125    429      1406      1019      387    1174      1208        -34      530      563      -32      530      421      109      258      215        43      349      365      -16      222      230        -8
11    1800   1289    511       1637     1195      442     1337      954        383      567      416      151      627      486      141      280      229       51       398      283      114      253      178       74
12    2048   1482    506       1904    1401       502     1521     1092        429      606      435      171      745      561      184      304      244        so      453      324      129      287      204        84
13    2327   1720    607    2218    1944          574     1731     1251        480      649      455      194      890      648      241      330      259        71      51e      371      145      327      233        94
14    2455   1857    598    2341        1748      598     1825     1330        496      697      483      214      961      692      269      359      275       84       545      393      151      345      248       97
15    2601   2020    581      2480      1858     624      1931     1427        504      739      513      226     1019      742      278      391      294       97       576      418      159      365      265       100
16    2756   2203    553    2628        1980     649    2042       1535        507      782      544      238     1079      798      280      427      316       110      610      445      164      368      285       101
17    2920   2415    50      2785    2127       659    2158       1661        497      828      581      247     1142      861      281      466      340       126      645      477      168      408      308       t00
16    3094   2660    434    2951       2288      664    2285       1801        484      877      624      253     1208      930      278      503      366       137      682      513      169      432      334        98
19    3279   2943    336      3127    2463       664    2422       1961        460      929      671      258     1279     1007      272      534      395       139      722      552      170      4568     363        94
20    3474   3243    231      3314    2620        694    2566      2105        461      983      685      298     1353     1096      286      586      377       189      763      578      186      483       386       96
NPV                   1,283                      1,540                          879                        370                        506                        118                         273                         172
ERR                  108.4%                     115.6%                        95.9%                      60.8%                       63.5%                      23.6%                      75.7%                       86.7%
tRajasthan              Rajasthan                    Rajasthan                   Rajasthan                  Rajasthan                   Rajasthen                  Rajasthan                 Uttar Pradesh
Bhjwadi - Alwar          Aiwar - Karamu             UdaiPur - Dabox     n      Dabok - Chittorparh         Ainter - CNttorgarh        Sirohi - Abu Road         Abu Roal - Mount Abu         Sonau i - GortPur
1       86     86       0      171      171        0       86       50          0       81       91        0      469       469        0      146      146        0       1 7       17        0       90       90        0
2       97     97       0      191      191        0       61       61          0      105      105         0      536      538        0      158      158        0       20        20        0      103      103        0
3      113    113       0      218      218        0       69       69          0      123      123         0      627      627        0      175      175        0       24        24        0      122      122        0
4      131    131       0      248      248        0       77       77          0      145       145        0      734      734        0      193      193        0       28        28        0      143      143        0
5      151    151       0      283      283        0       85       88          0      171      171        0       858      858        0      212      212        0       34        34        0      166      168        0
6      175    175       0      321      321        0       95      104          -9     201      214       -14     1004     1044      -39      233      246      -13       40        45       -S      197      226      -29
7      202    221    -19       366      397      -31      106      124         -18     236      262       -27     1177     1253      -76      257      282       -25      48        57       -9      231      288       -56
8      233    270    -37       416      476      -59      119      152        -33      277      327       -50     1385    1527      -141      283      330       -47      57        74      -17      272      377      -105
9      270    339    -69       474      865     -111      133       150       -17      326      352       -25     1637     1709      -72      311      336       -24       68       77       -9      320      373       -54
10     313    348    -35       541      598       -57      150      108         42      384      278      106     1946     1432      514      344      265        79       81       60       21      377      258        89
11     363    262    101       619      451       169      168      118         S0      453      322      131     2328     1632      696      381      286        95       97       72       25      448      333       112
12     417    298    119       710      505      205       184      128         86      528      373      155     2730     1860      870      423      309       114      115       86       29      528      386       143
13     474    339    135       813      565      248       200      140         60      609      431      178    3107    2146        961      470       334      137      137      103       34      628       446      182
14     502    360    142       871      600      271       211      1S0         61      644      458      186     3277    2330       947      508       354      154      145      109       36      676       474      202
15     531    382    149       922      637       285      223      161         62      682      486      196    3466    2538        928      541       378      163      153      116       38      715       504      212
16     563    405    167       977      677       300      236      175         62      722      518      204    36685    2792       873      572       405      167      182      123       40      758       539      218
17     596    430    166    1034        725       309      250      190         60      764      555      209     3874      3078     797      606       436      169      172      130       42      802       579      223
18     631    459    172       1095     780      315       264      206         58      809      596      213    4096    3411         688     641       470      171      182      138       44      849       624      226
19     668    492    177      1160      840      320      280       225         54      857      640      216     4340    3796       544      679       508      170      192      146       46      889      672       227
20     707    486    221       1228     841       396      296      227         68      907      660      246     4598    4157       441       718      522      186      203      145       58      981       665      287
NPV                    226                        427                            97                        358                       1,670                        272                         63                         303
ERR                   45.3%                      48.5%                        40.6%                      60,1%                       82.2%                      52.9%                       42.4%                      37.0%
Uttar Pradesh           Uttar Pradesh          Bihar State Bhagaltpur Bridge   Maharastra State            Rajasthan State           tJttar Pradesh State       Overae Road Works             Overall Project
_        Gorahpw - Ballia       Faizabad - AHahabad   Costs    Benefits  Net Benefits       Road Works                 Road Works                 Road Works          _
1      239    239       a      185      185        0        0        0          0     1731     1731         0     1037     1037        0      514      514        0     3282     3282         0                          0
2      252    252       0      206      206        0        0        a          0      1935     1935        0     1169     1169        0      5862     562        0      3665     3665        0                           0
3      272    272       0      235      235        0        -4       0          -4    2225      2225        0     1349     1349        0      629      629        0    4202       4202        0                          -4
4      293    293       0      266      266        0      -39        0         -39    2568     2574        -8    1596      1556        0      703      703        0     4826      4832       -6                         -45
5      316    316       0      302      302        0       -72       0         -72    2951     3023       -72     1794     1794        0      786      786        0     5531      5603      -72                        -144
6      339    380    -41       343      400      -57       -70       0         -70    3397     3543      -146     2070     2150      -81      879     1006      -127    6346      6699     -354                        -423
7      364    442    -78       389      498     -109      -73        0         -73    3916     4166      -250     2391     2598     -205      984     1228      -243    7291      7990     -699                        -772
8      391    536   -145       441      646     -205      -118       0        -118    4525    4416        109     2770     3156     -386     1104     1859      -455    8399      9130     -732                        -849
9      420    495    -74       501      606     -105     -105        0        -108    5230     4617       613     3220     3549     -328     1241     1474'   -233      9691      9639       52                         -53
10     452    348    104        570      424      146    -135         0       -135    6025    5146        878     3760     3090      669      1399     1060      338    11183     9297     1888                        1751
11     486    369    116        649      474      178      -57        0        -57    6698      5030     16 68    4409     3142      1266     1581     1176      405    12888    9349      3839                        3482
12     524    391    133        738      529      209       -3      223        220    7868      5744    2125      5107    3559       1548     1791     1306      485    14765    10608     4157                        4377
13     565    414    151        830      591      238       -3      237        233     8988    6582      2406     5810     4058      1752     2023     1452      571    16821    12092     4729                        4962
14     610    439    171        878      627      251       -3      251        248    9527      7024     2503     6158     4361      1796     2163     1541      623    17848    12928     4922                        5170
1s5    92    466    186         930      e66      264       -3      286        263   10102      7535     2567     6518    4698       1820    2297      1635      662    18917    13868     5049                        5312
1e6    61    494    196         985      708      277       -3      282        279    10709     8107     2602     6897     8095     1802      2433     1741      691    20038    14943     5095                        8374
17     731    525    207       1043      757      286       -3      299        296    11352     8769     2583     7296    8544       1751     2576     1861      715   21224    16174      5050                        5346
18     775    558    216       1104      811      293       -3      317        314    12033     9516     2517     7718     6060     1658     2728      1963      735   22479    17569      4910                        5223
19     820    597    224       1169      870      299       -3      336        333   12747    10355      2392     8174     6647      1527    2888      2139      749    23809    19141     4698                        5000
20     869    554    315       1237      816      422       -3      3586       353    13502    11080    2442      8657     7039      1618     3058     2034     1024    25217    20133     5083                        5436
21                                                          -3      377        374  .                                                                                                                                   374
22                                                          -3      400        397                                                                                                                                      397
23                                                          -3      424        421                                                                                                                                      421
24                                                          -3      450        446                                                                                                                                      446
25                                                           3      477        473                                                                                                                                      473
NPV                    237                        347                           321                      5,141                       3,114                        887                       9,142                       9463
ERR                   2s.8%                      29.6%                        20.3%                      83.3%                       63.5%                      31.3%                       63.6%                    _5.5%



Appendix C
72
INDIA
STATES' ROAD PROJECT
Table C3 - Economic Indicators SAR and ICR Estimates
SAR             SAR*                 ICR             ICR/SAR*
ERR        ERR       NPV       ERR       NPV       ERR      NPV
(N1        (%)   (M 1988 Rs)  (%)   (M 1988 Rs)   (
BIHAR
Hajipur- Muzzaffarpur      20.2                Work dropped in 1996
Sonepur - Chhapra           12.3               Work dropped in 1996
Bhagalpur Bridge           21.2          23.8    257         20.3    321       0.9      1.2
State                       18.9         23.8    257         20.3    321       0.9      1.2
MAHARASHTRA
Pune - Aurangabad           49.9         50.0    731        108.4   1283       2.2      1.8
Ahmednagar- Kopargaon       96.8         96.9    664        115.6   1540       1.2      2.3
Ahmednagar - Aurangabad     49.8         50.5    734         95.9    879       1.9      1.2
Aurangabad - Jalna          38.7         39.7    636         60.8    370       1.5      0.6
Akola - Hingoli             23.3         26.1    168         63.5    506       2.4      3.0
Nagpur- Kanpa               22.3         25.7    166         23.6    118       0.9      0.7
Wada - Biwadi               40.3         41.2    208         75.7    273        1.8     1.3
Palgarh - Wada              52.4         53.0    148         86.7    172       1.6      1.2
State                       43.6         47.3   3455         83.3   5141       1.8      1.5
RAJASTHAN
Bhiwadi - Aiwar             21.6         24.2    139         45.3    226       1.9      1.6
Alwar- Karauli              29.1         31.3    346         48.5    427        1.5     1.2
Udaipu - Dabok              23.9         25.5    88          40.6    97        1.6      1.1
Dabok - Chittorgarh         25.7         27.7    171         60.1    358       2.2      2.1
Ajimer- Chittorgarh         38.8         39.9    936         82.2   1670       2.1      1.8
Sirohi - Abu Road           45.3         46.5    324         52.9    272       1.1      0.8
Abu - Mount Abu Road        26.4         28.2    26          42.4    63        1.5      2.4
Fatehpur - Churu            30.1               Work dropped in 1993
Churu - Haryana Bdr.        28.2               Work dropped in 1993
Sikar - Haryana Bdr.        43.1               Work dropped in 1996
State                       32.2         32.7   2030         63.5   3114       1.9      1.5
UTTAR PRADESH
Sonauli - Gorakhpur         11.7         15.5    62          37.0    303       2.4      4.9
Gorakhpur- Ballia           19.2         22.0    351         28.8    237       1.3      0.7
Faizabad - Allahabad        17.9         20.0    252         29.6    347       1.5      1.4
Allahabad - Dohrighat       24.5               Work dropped in 1993
State                       19.6         19.7    665         31.3    887       1.6      1.3
ROAD WORKS **               30.4         32.4   6150         63.6   9142       1.96     1.49
PROJECT                     27.5         28.7   6407         55.5   9463       1.93     1.48
*2SAR is reevaluated SAR where ERR and NPV are calculated based on SAR data with a 20 years analysis period.
** The values for SAR* and ICRISAR* are calculated for the roads that are completed.
The values for SAR* and ICR/SAR* are for the roads completed and Bhagalpur Bridge.



