Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
1-Al2 zqqL  /AI
la             Report No. 7258-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
STATES' ROAD PROJECT
October 3, 1988
Transport and Energy Operations Division
Country Department IV
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by redpients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Rupee (Rs)
US$ 1.00        Rs 13.5
US$ 0.0741    - Rs 1.00
US$ 74,074    - Rs 1,000,000
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: METRIC
Metric                       British/US system
1 meter (m)                  3.281 feet
1 kilometer (km)            0.621 mile
1 square kilometer (km2)    0.386 square mile
1 ton-km                     0.621 ton-mile
1 passenger-km (pass-km)    0.621 pass-mile
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
DEA  - Department of Economic Affairs (Ministry of Finance)
ERR  - Economic Rate of Return
GDP  - Gross Domestic Product
GOB  - Government of Bihar
GOI  - Government of India
GOM  - Government of Maharashtra
GOR  - Government of Rajasthan
GOUP = Government of Uttar Pradesh
ICB  - International Competitive bidding
IR   = Indian Railways
MOST - Ministry of Surface Transport
MDR - Major District Road
NH   = National Highway
ODR  = Other District Road
SH   - State Highway
Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31



EL,   .  tILIALL   ' !pi LA
INDIA
STATES' ROAD PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page
Number
I.   INTRODUCTION  .........              .................................            1
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   Economik getting and Overview of Sector  ....                   .......     2
B.   Transport Planning and Coordination  ....                   ...........     3
C.   Transport Policy and Investment  .....                   ..............     4
D.   Bank Involvement in the Sector  .....                   ...............     6
III.   THE ROADS SUBSECTOR
A.   The Network  .........             ..............................           7
B.   Demand for Road Transport  .....                  ....................      9
C.   Road Administration and Planning  ....                   ..............    10
D.   Road Expenditures and Finance  .....                  ................     11
E.   Engineering  .........             ..............................          14
F.   Construction  .........              .............................         14
G.   Road Safety  .................    ...................                      15
IV. THE PROJECT
A.  Rationale for Bank Involvement  .....                    ...............    15
B.   Project Objectives  ................................                       16
C.   Project Description  ...............................                       16
(i)   Civil Works  .......             ...........................        17
(ii)   Equipment  .............  ......................                     19
(iii) Training, Technical Assistance and
Consulting Services  .....               ...................     19
D.   Engineering  .........             ..............................          21
E.   Cost Estimates  ........              ............................         21
F. Financing ...........                                      ;                 23
G.   Land Acquisition  .......               ...........................        25
H.   Procurement  .........             ..............................          25
I.   Project Execution ana Supervision  ....                   .............    27
J.   Disbursement  .........              .............................         28
K.   Accounts  ...........            ...............................           28
L.   Environmental  Impact  ..............................                      29
M.   Project Reporting  .................................                       29
N.   Risk Analysis  ........              .............................         29
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to India in
Febiuary, 1988 comprising Robert Mulligan (Highway Engineer), Messrs.
Philip Blackshaw, Renato Schulz (Transport Economists), and Nizar Jetha.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page
Number
V.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Introduction .30
B. Project Benefits .30
C.  Economic Evaluation of Road Improvements.3 1
D.  Economic Evaluation of Bhagalpur Bridge .32
E. Results .32
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS   .       .33
Annexes
Annex 1.1 - Bihar .34
Annex 1.2 - Maharashtra .50
Annex 1.3 - Rajasthan .73
Annex 1.4 - Uttar Pradesh .95
Annex 2.1  - Growth of Transport System, 1961-85 .110
Annex 2.2  - Experience with Recent Bank-Assisted
Transport Projects .112
Annex 3.1  - Registered Motor Vehicles: All India, 1951-87 .  116
Annex 4.1  - Equipment to be Procured .117
Annex 4.2  - Draft Terms of Reference for Road Maintenance
Management Study .118
Annex 4.3  - Draft Terms of Reference for Supervision by
Consultants of Road Contracts .128
Annex 4.4  - Personnel Training Program .134
Annex 4.5  - Selected Design Standards ....  ................   135
Annex 4.6  - Estimated Project Costs ......      .................  136
Annex 4.7  - Project Financing Plans ......      .................  137
Annex 4.8  - State Finances .........     .......................   138
Annex 4.9  - Project Implementation Schedule .....      ..........  154
Annex 4.10 - Schedule of Estimated Disbursements .155
Annex 5.1  - Vehicle Fleet Characteristics and Unit Costs        156
Annex 5.2  - Maintenance Unit Costs .157
Annex 5.3  - Results of Economic Evaluation .158
Annex 6.1  - Selected Documents and Data in the Project File   159



INDIA
STATES' ROAD PROJECT
Loan/Credit and Project Summarv
Borrower:       India, acting by its President
Beneficiaries:  The States of Bihar, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, and
Uttar Pradesh
Amount:         IBRD US$170 million equivalent
IDA SDR 62.2 million (US$80 million equivalent)
Terms:          IBRD:  20 years, including a five-year grace period,
at the standard variable interest rate.
IDA:   Standard, with 35 years' maturity.
Proiect DescriRtion:
The project's prime objectives are:
(a)  to improve the quality of investment planning in highways and
to rationalize the financing, planning, and implementation of
road maintenance/improvement through the application of a
systematic maintenance management program; and
(b)  to assist in rectifying the extensive and long-standing
deficiencies in the condition, structure, and capacity of the
road networks of the selected states by the introduction of
larger coastruction contracts of sufficient individual size
to encourage local firms to mechanize, but which, when
grouped, would attract international interest.
The project comprises:
(a)  the reconstruction and widening to two lanes of about
2,300 km of mostly single-lane roads in the four states;
(b)  the procurement of specialized equipment to assist those
states in monitoring the condition and usage of their
networks, and to promote road safety;
(c)  staff training and technical assistance which would emphasize
the planning, design, and implementation of projects and
developing the skills of road iiaintenance field staff; and
(d)  consultants' services for the introduction of pavement
management systems in each of the four states, and for
supervision of one or two of the project contracts in each
state, and in Maharashtra, an organizational study of the
State PWD.



-ii-
Estimated Cost: ]/
USS Million
Local        Foreign          Total
Civil Works                      216.4          89.8          306.2
Land Acquisition                   5.3            -             5.3
Supervision of Construction       28.3           -             28.3
Equipment                          0.6           4.1            4.7
Training                           0.8           0.8            1.6
Consultant Services              .0.6            9.8           10.4
Total Baseline Costs             251.9         104.5          356.4
Physical Contingencies            25.2          10.4           35.6
Price Contingencier              45.6           12.4           58.1
Total Project Cost               322.8         127.4          450.2
Financing Plan:          Government of India:  US$ 200.2 million
IBRD:                  US$ 170.0 million
.IDA,                  USS  80.0 million
Total:                 US$ 450.2 million
Estimated Disbursements:
USS Million
Bank FY             1989    1990    1991      1992    1993    1994
Annual               5.7    31.6    72.6      87.0    46.6      6.5
Cumulative           5.7    37.3   109.9    196.9   243.5   250.0
Economic Rate of Return:  27%
Staff AnRraisal Report:  No. 7258-IN
Mans: Nos. 20858, 20900, and 20921
/  Includes taxes and duties of about $53.3 million.



INDI
STATES' ROAD PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     After a virtual hiatus of nearly twenty-five years in lending
to the roads subsector, the Bank aad India reached agreement on the
principle of having contracts for Bank-funded highway projects bid
internationally. Lending resumed with the National Highway Project
(Loan 2534-IN, 1986, US$ 200 millio.v) and the Gujarat Rural Roads
Project (Credit 1757-IN, 1987, SDR 101 million). In March 1987, the
Government of India (GOI) indicated its interest in obtaining Bank
assistance at the state road level, an intermediate category between
national highways and rural roads. The proposed project, which would
be the Bank's first operation in state roads, is consistent with the
Bank's sector strategy (para 2.16) and provides the opportunity to
pursue at that level the improvements in planning, project execution
and network management being introduced for national highways and
rural roads under the two ongoing projects.
1.02     The following criteria were established for selecting states
to participate in the project:
(a) relative need, in terms of per capita income and per capita
road density;
(b) likely economic returns from road improvements in the state;
(c) need to strengthen the state road authority; and
(d) the desirability of demonstrating the efficacy of
institutional improvements and morc appropriate construction
methods in a variety of conditions, in order to promote
replication of the project results (and the results of
expected follow-up projects in the same states) in other
parts of the country.
1.03     After due consideration, the states of Bihar, Maharashtra,
Rajasthan, and Uttar Pradesh were selected. Bihar is the poorest
state in the union, and it also has the lowest road density in
relation to population. Maharashtra is a relatively wealthy state,
with per capita income about 30% higher than the national average, but
its maintenance effort is below that of other states and it has
expressed particular interest in improving its roads administration.
Moreover, its road network is especially heavily trafficked, so that
road improvements and better maintenance in that state will yield very
good economic returns. Rajasthan's per capita income is well below
the national average, but it has one of the more progressive and
responsive road administrations, and is representative of construction



-2-
conditions encountered in the more arid states. Uttar Pradesh (UP) is
the most populous, also amongst the poorest, and with one o. the
lowest road densities. Background material on each state is presented
in Annrexes 1.1-1.4.
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Economic Setting and Overview of Sector
2.01     India's 3.3 million square kilometers encompasses a wide
diversity of topography and climate, ranging from parts of the
Himalayan mountains, the Indo-Gangetic plain, to the Deccan plateau of
peninsular India. About a quarter of the country's 765 million
population live in urban areas with the remainder dispersed country-
wide in some one-half million small villages. Agriculture dominates
the economy, providing about 30% of GDP and employing more than two-
thirds of the labor force. But the country also has a significant
industrial sector, at present accounting for about 27% of GDP.
Economic growth since 1980 has averaged about 5% p.a., somewhat higher
than the long-term average of 3.6%. This higher growth rate is
expected to continue, reflecting macroeconomic policy changes
introduced over the past few years. Annual per capita GNP is $300.
2.02     India's sheer size and dispersed population has shaped an
extensive transportation system comprising about 62,000 route-km of
rail lines, 1.8 million km of roads, 10 major ports, 14 major airports
(six of which handle international flights), 6,500 km of pipelines, as
well as coastal shipping and to a limited extent inl.and water
transport. Road and rail are the predominant modes of domestic
transport, accounting for about 95% of freight and passenger-km. Rail
carries a high proportion of traffic on the high-density corridors
linking the four major cities of Bombay, Delhi, Calcutta, and Madras,
ais well as bulk traffic, especially coal, on other routes. However,
road transport accounts for an increasing sh1vre of transport in these
corridors, and dominates the market for medium and shorter haul
traffic and smaller loads. Total transport demand over the past 25
years has been growing at an average annual rate of about 6%, with
higher growth rates for road transport and civil aviation.
2.03     Although the transport system, and the output therefrom, has
recorded substantial growth over the past 25 years (Annex 2.1), major
deficiencies remain and most transport modes need to modernize. The
road subsector is discussed in Chapter III. In railways, about 17,500
track-km are overdue for renewal and a further 2,000 km become due for
renewal each year. A large proportion of the locomotive fleet is
obsolete and under-powered and the outmoded rolling stock restricts
speed, thereby contributing to inefficient use of track capacity.
Outmoded terminals and yards also contribute to poor utilization of
rolling stock. Ongoing Bank-assisted projects are addressing many of
these needs.



-3-
2.04     Ports are not adequately equipped to handle the envisaged
quantities of bulks (both dry and liquid) and containers, and deeper
drafts will be required at selected ports. Capacity constraints place
a premium on improving the efficiency of port operations, which has
been low in India due to labor relation problems, poor labor
productivity. stuffing/destuffing containers inside the port areas,
obsolete equipment, vehicular congestion and poor intermodal
facilities and practices.  Progress has been made on some of these
issues in recent years, especially with the belated introduction of a
combined transport document, establishment of some inland container
depots, and the decongestion and modernization of the country's
largest port, Bombay. However, much more needs to be done. The
Seventh Plan (1986-90) appropriately provides for modernization of
facilities and equipment, and the recent Port Reforms Committee Report
has identified desirable institutional improvements, including some
degree of privatization. The Bank intends to use this report as a
basis for dialogue with GOI on a possible future port project.
2.05     Thus, a substantial task lies ahead, in terms of b'th
investment and institutional/operational improvements, if the
transport sector is to cope efficiently with the demands that will be
placed upon it ir. the coming years. These demands will take the form
not only of increased level of transport activity, but also a
substantial change in the composition of that activity, reflecting
technological developments such as containerization and bulk handling.
B.  TransRort Planning and Coordination
2.06     Responsibility for transport matters is distributed between
the central and state governments. While railways, shipping, and
major ports are exclusively under the central government's (GOI's)
authority, the central and state goJernments share jurisdiction over
highways and road transport, minor ports, and inland water transport,
though their respective roles are clearly delineated. Central/state
activities are coordinated by a Transport Development Council. The
Indian Roads Congress, a body of highway professionals from all levels
of government as well as private enterprise, offers a popular forum
(through regular meetings) for exchanges of views and experience, and
its technical publications promote improved standards of practice in
road planning, design, and other aspects of road administration.
2.07     At the central level, the responsibility for ports, shipping,
and roads falls under the Ministry of Surface Transport; there are
separate Ministries of Railways and Civil Aviation, and pipelines are
administered by the Ministry of Petroleum. In September 1985, all
transport modes except pipelines were consolidated under one Ministry
of Transport, but this arrangement was abar-doned in October 1986.
Coordination is adequately effected by: (a) a Coordination Committee
comprising the Miniscers of Railways, surface Transport, and Civil
Aviation; (b) a Committee of Secretaries from these same ministries
plus the Planning Commission, serviced by a secretariat in the
Ministry of Railways; and (c) the work of the Planning Commission
itself.



-4-
2.08     All major investment programs are assessed by the Planning
Commission before inclusion in the five-year Development Plan, from
which are derived annual plans linked to budgetary allocations.
However, the Planning Conmission's review, especially of state
investments, is at a very aggregate level, and State Planning
Departments are responsible for reviewing individual projects in the
state plans. As noted in paras 2.10 and 3.10-11, planning at all
levels needs considerable strengthening.
C. AnsDort Policy and Investment
2.09     A major review of transport policy was completed in 1980 by
the National Transport Policy Committee. Its many recommendations,
almost all of which were accepted by the Government, centered on:
(a) the need to improve transport planning by developing a
systematic methodology for projecting transport demand and
its allocation on the basis of resource costs of the
different modes of transport and by developing long-term
perspective master plans for major areas of investment;
(b) promoting the appropriate inter-modal allocation of traffic
tbrough the markec mechanism (e.g., improved pricing) rather
than through regulation and physical control; and
(c) improving cost recovery and relatedly, project execution and
productivity.
2.10     In response to (a), the Planning Commission has established a
high level Steering Committee to systematize its work on long- trm
perspective planning in transport.  The Committee has commissioned
several major studies, including origin-destination surveys of present
tr2ffic flows, transport demand forecasts for major commodities on
major corridors, development of a national transport planning model,
and a long-term technological perspective study. Reports on these
studies are expected towards the end of 1988/early 1989, and should
serve to identify more accurately the linkages with other sectors and
the respective roles of the vArious transport modes in the major
corridors. However, little progress has been made in developing
master plans in specific investment areas, even at the central level,
and planning capacity at the state level continues to be weak (para
3.11).
2.11     In response to (b) and (c), the structure of rail tarif'fs has
been improved and road transport regulations liberalized; road user
taxation is being reviewed in a Bank-financed study (para 3.08), and
cost recovery has improved in railways and ports. Indian Railways has
largely corrected past under-provision for depreciation (annual
depreciation provisions have more than quadrupled since 1982) and now
finances about half of its investment from internal resources. The
ten major ports as a gronp now internally finance about 40 percent of
their investment expenditures, whereas they incurred a net operating
deficit iL. the early 1970's. To improve project execution and the



-5-
productivity of operations, modern work methods and equipment need to
be introduced in all modes where appropriate; the specific
improvements req'Aired in the road subsector are discussed in paras
3.08 and 3.18.
2.12     The major policy challenges at this point are thus to sustain
the momenttul of the above-mentioned initiatives and extend their
application. The Bank's sector strategy (para 2.16) has been designed
accordingly.
2.13     As indicated in the following table, transport's share of
total Development Plan expenditure has declined from around 23% in the
1950's and -.arly 1960's to 12% in the 1980's. In real terms, total
transport investment grew rapidly during the first three plans, but
languished thereafter and did not surpass Third Plan levels until the
Sixth Plan (1981-85). However, investment in the road subsector has
grown steadily throughout, although its percentage share has declined.
The ongoing Seventh Plan (1986-90) provides for a 50% increase in
transport investment (though whiether this actually occurs will depend
on how well the Plan allocations, which are expressed in 1985 prices,
are protected by subsequent increases to match inflation). The focus
of the transport investment plan is on modernizing rail facilities,
augmenting main read capacity, extending the network of lower class
roads and increasing the capacity of ports to handle bulks and
containers.
Public Investment in Transport (1952-90)
Annual Average Expenditures per Period (Rs billion. 1971 prices)
First  Second   Third   Annual  Fourth  Fifth   Sixthi  Seventh
Plan    Plan    Plan    Plans    Plan   Plan    Plan    Plan
1252-56 1257-61 1962-66 1967-69 1970-74 1975-79 1981-85 1986-90
Railways       0.95    2.70    4.11    1.98    1.67    2.21    4.13    7.18
Roads & Road
Transport    0.64    0.91    1.45    1.41    1.77    2.15    3.02    4.00
Ports          0.12    0.13    0.31    0.24    0.47    0.62    0.45    0.67
Shipping       0.08    0.20    0.12    0.12    0.28    0.52    0.34    0.55
Civil
Aviation     0.10    0.1J    0.16    0.26    0.32    0.3Q    0.55    QAQ
Total
Transport    1.89    4.13    6.15    4.01    4.51    5.81    8.49   12.80
Transport in
Total Plan
(%)         22.1    23.7    23.1    15.6    15.9    14.3    12.4    12.8
Source:  World Bank estimates on the basis of Development Plans.



-6-
D. Bank Involvement in the Sector
Past Involvement
2.14     The Bank's past involvement in the sector has been
predominantly in railways, due to the Indian authorities' preference
until recently to rely almost exclusively on local competitive bidding
in road and port projects. However, following GOI's recent decision
to entertain international competitive bidding in roads and ports, the
Bank after a long hiatu3 has recommenced lending operations in these
two subsectors, with the Nhava Sheva Port Project (Loan 2367-IN, 1984,
US$ 250 million), the National Highway Project (Loan 2534-IN, 1985,
US$ 200 million), and the Gujarat Rural Roads Project (Credit 1757-IN,
1987, SDR 101 million).
2.15     Experience with recent Bank-assisted projects in the sector
.s described in Annex 2.2.  Most of the experience with completed
projects relates to railways. However, the ongoir.g National Highway
Project has suffered substantial delays in agreeing bidding documents,
due to the implementing agencies' unfamiliarity with Bank
requirements. During the preparation of the proposed project, special
effort has been taken to familiarize the state road agencies with the
Bank requirements, and in fact, procurement arrangements for most of
the civil works are sufficiently advanced so that contracts may be
signed early in 1989.
Strategy for Future Involvement
2.16     A recent Bank sector strategy paper concluded t'iat the Bank's
efforts should focus on improving planning and project execution,
productivity, ard resource mobilization, deficiencies which tend to
apply throughout the sector. The Bank will pursue these issues in
railways, where it has a long-established relationship, and in ports.
However, the main tiirust of future Bank involvement in transport would
be to consolidate its re-entry into the road subsector, having regard
to the large and growing role of road transport (para 2.02) and the
need to improve planning processes (paras 3.10-11), the quality of
main roads (paras 3.03-04) and the efficiency with which construction
and maintenance works are executed (para 3.18). Initially, the effort
will focus on the heavily trafficked national highways and the main
road networks of the States, where the economic returns from road
improvements appear highest and where the benefits from introducing
international competitive bidding and more appropriate construction
technology appear to be greatest. The magnitude of improvements
required in the road networks themselves and in the road authorities
is such that several repeater projects are likely to be necessary at
both the national and state levels to have a sufficient impact. It is
envisaged, for example, that the four states selected for this project
would need to be the subject of follow-up operations, and that these
states would serve as mcdels for the other states. Experience gained
in improving planning and project execution would be transmitted to



-7-
other states via the Indian Roads Congress (para 2.06) and by the
experience which will be accumulated by (mostly local) consultants.
2.17     The Bank-assisted improvements will increase the utilization
of the road transport fleet, the productivity of which is likely to
further increase as it is gradually modernized in ways being
identified by an ongoing Bank-financed study (para 3.08). Resource
mobilization in the road subsector is being addressed in the same
Bank-financed study (para 3.15). The participating states would be
required to indicate within six months of the results being available
to them what actions they intend taking in response to the study's
recommendations, and to prepare an action plan to implement their
intentions.
III. THE ROADS SUBSECTOR
A. The Network
3.01     Roads in India are divided into three categories on a
functional basib: (a) the primary system consisting of national
highways; (b) the secondary system consisting of state highways and
major district roads, and (c) the tertiary system, or rural roads
consisting of other district roads and village roads. In addition,
there are 'project' roads, administered by various project agencies
(such as forestry, irrigation and electricity authorities), as well as
urban roads. National highways are under the jurisdiction of the
Central Government, which meets all expenditures on construction,
improvement and maintenance. The secondary (state highways and major
district roads) and tertiary (other district roads and village roads)
systems are the responsibility of state authorities, usually the
Public Works Departments (PWDs); however, the construction,
improvement and maintenance of tertiary roads are generally delegated
to local bodies and rural communities in the states.
3.02     The national highways are the main highways in the country
connecting major ports, adjoining countries, and linking. states'
capitals. The state highways are the main trunk roads of the states
(other than national highways), connecting important cities and
districts with national highways or highways of adjacent states.
District roads traverse each district, serve areas of production and
markets, and connect districts with highways or railways. Village
roads connect villages and groups of villages to the nearest district
road, main highway, or railway. The road length in India by
categories for 1985 is shown below.



-8-
Length in '000 kms
Category                     1985
National Highways              32
State Highways                105
Major District Roads          245
Rural Roads                 1,050
Urban Roads                   140
Project Roads                 200
Total Length                1,772
of which surfaced
roads I/                    833
Source:   Directorate of Transport Research, Ministry
of Surface Transport.
1/ "Surfaced" defined as having bituminous, water-bound
macadam or metal surface.
3.03     Over the past 25 years, the total length of roads has
increased from about 700,000 km to 1.8 million km, and the length of
surfaced (generally bitumen) road from 234,000 km to 833,000 km.
However, most of this growth has been lower-class roads, and in
relation to population India's density of main roads (national and
state highways) remains one of the lowest in the world. As a
consequence, the main road network is heavily trafficked.,I/ Moreover,
the quality of the main road network is inadequate. Even for the
limited national highway network of 32,000 km (2% of India's total
road length, but carrying one-third of total traffic), one-fourth
remains single-lane; nearly 22,500 km of present two-lane road need a
second two-lane carriageway; over 16,000 km need strengthening, and
over 1,700 bridges need to be rebuilt. In all, the program to bring
national rcads up-to-date would cost about Rs 105 billion (US$ 7.7 bn)
at 1988 prices. The Seventh Plan has allocated Rs 14 billion only, to
national highways; thus, the prospect of an adequate national highway
network lies far in the future.
3.04     The deficiencies of national highways are replicated in state
highways. However, even a global estimate of the cost of improving
that network to serviceable condition and capacity is unavailable,
st/ Anexes 1.1 - 1.4 provide details of the evolution of the road
networks and road traffic in the four project states.



-9-
largely because information systems covering road inventory, road
condition and traffic data are extremely weak in the state sector.
The broad magnitude of the problem is indicated by a recent Planning
Commission estimate that only 40% of state highways are in "good"
condition whilst 35% and 25% are "fair" and "poor" respectively. The
average condition of major district roads is even worse. This
situation is attributable not so much to inadequate maintenance, but
rather to initial construction standards which are inadequate for the
traffic which the road system is now carrying. Thus, a major program
of reconstruction and improvement is required to bring most of the
network to maintainable condition. At the same time, capacity
augmentation is re½.lired: most state highways and major district roads
are still single lane.
B. Demand for Road Transport
3.05     India does not have official comprehensive data on the total
volume of road traffic (e.g., expressed in vehicle-km, ton-km, or
passenger-km performed on various categories of roads). However,
unofficial estimates (Annex 6.1, Ref. 7), based on vehicle
registrations, fuel consumption, and utilization/occupancy rates,
suggest the following long-term growth rates.
Average Annual Growth Rate
1951-87
Passenger-km                         9.6
Bus                              (10.0)
Car                               (7.5)
two-wheelers and
three-wheelers                 (17.0)
Freight ton-km                        9.3
3.06     These estimates appear reasonable, viewed against some of the
official data such as vehicle registrations, fuel consumption, and
traffic counts at specific sites. Nationally, the vehicle fleet has
grown at an average annual rate of 10.8% since 1951, and 14.2% since
1975 (Annex 3.1). Two- and three-wheelers have shown the most rapid
growth (19% p.a. since 1975); trucks have increased at 9% p.a. since
1975, buses at 7% and cars at 8%. Broadly similar patterns of growth
have been experienced in the project states (Annex 1.1 - 1.4).
Consumption of automotive fuels has increased at an average annual
rate of 8% over the past decade. The most comprehensive traffic
census data is that for national highways, which have experienced
annual growth rates varying between 8% and 20% over the past decade.



-10-
3.07     Traffic on Indian roads comprises both fast- and slow-moving
vehicles with virtually no segregation of the two, except in isolated
cases. The presence of such a traffic mix increases vehicle operating
costs because it reduces traffic speeds, increases wear and tear on
vehicles, and causes higher consumption of fuel and lubricancs, as
well as higher accident rates. Mixed traffic also reduces road
capacity and thus necessitates earlier expansion works. Another
distinctive feature of traffic on Indian roads is the large proportion
(about 70%) of trucks in total motorized traffic. The present traffic
mix on Indian highways, the high proportion of trucks coupled with
significant volumes of slow-moving traffic, are the main factors
causing road congestion and early saturation of capacity, and a high
accident rate.
3.08     The truck fleet consists mostly of large two-axle vehicles
which are inefficient as load carriers and in fuel consumption, and in
most cases are owner-modified so that they can be heavily overloaded,
with consequent detriment not only to their own durability, but much
more seriously, to road pavement life. Under the ongoing Bank-
assisted National Highway Project, a Vehicle Fleet Modernization and
Road User Charges (VFM/RUC) Study is being carried out to identify a
structure of road user charges which will encourage the gradual
introduction of more efficient vehicle designs and ensure that charges
paid by different types of user more clearly reflect the costs that
their road use occasions. The study is being undertaken by a local
consulting firm with some expatriate assistance and progress is being
monitored regularly by a Planning and Implementation Group on which
the Bank is represented. A draft final report for discussion is
expected early in 1989, and will have implications for both central
and state-administered road-user charges (para 3.15).
C. Road Administration and Planning
3.09     The Roads Wing of the Ministry of Surface Transport (MOST) is
the principal road planning authority in India. It is directly
responsible for planning the development of the national highway
system, assists the Planning Commission in the preparation of the road
component of the Five-Year and Annual Plans, and in cooperation with
state road agencies prepares, from time to time, long-term perspective
plans, the latest of which is the Road Development Plan for India,
1981-2000 (Annex 6.1, Reference 3). The latter, however, is very much
an outline plan and state road authorities are responsible for
developing their own Five-Year and Annual Plans, in cooperation with
State Planning Departments. (The national Five-Year Plan, prepared by
the central government's Planning Commission, contains only aggregate
information on state road nlans.)
3.10     Road planning in India, although improving, is still at an
early stage due to: (a) lack of an adequate database; (b) inadequate
planning techniques; (c) slow introduction of modern equipment for
monitoring road conditions and usage; and (d) lack of staff adequately
trained in economic analysis. MOST is committed to imprc,ving national
highway planning and has already undertaken several important steps,
including: (a) computerization of traffic data; (b) introducing a



-11-
computerized management information system to facilitate
administration of the national highway system;2/ (c) commissioning the
Central Road Research Institute (CRRI) to carry out a condition
inventory of the national highway system using modern vehicle-mounted
instruments; (d) preparing a computer program to provide econiomic
evaluations of highway investments; (e) preparing a manual for highway
planning to be used in the field; and (f) retaining consultants to
prepare four regional transport modelling studies to be used in the
assessment of future transport demand on the trunk route system of
each region.
3.11     Planning cripacity at the state level (which accounts for much
higher volumes of expenditure, para 3.12) is much weaker. None of the
states included in the project, for example, has an adequate master
plan for its own networks, or systematic procedures for deciding
priorities. Most do not even assemble traffic census data on a
systematic basis. There is thus a need to replicate at the state
level, the improvements which MOST is pursuing for national highways.
Such far-reaching changes in current practice will take time to
implement. However, the proposed project will initiate the process
and establish intermediate benchmarks to be accomplished by the end of
the project.
D. Road Expenditures and Finance
3.12     As noted above, national highways are financed by the central
government. The states finance virtually all work on the state
highways and major district roads, and state and local authorities
finance other roads, although in recent years there has been a
substantial input from the central government through various schemes.
Indeed, the most striking feature of roads expenditures, summarized
below, is the rapid increase in "other central" and "joint
central/state" schemes, which now account for almost 30% of total
roads expenditure, compared with less than 5% through the 1970s. Most
of this expenditure is devoted to the tertiary system, as is some of
the expenditure under the "state" heading. The Planning Commission
estimates that 40% of total roads expenditure is now devoted to rural
roads, for which there is a major program (the Minimum Needs Program)
with the objective of providing by 1990 road links to all villages
with a population of 1,500 or more, and to 50% of the villages with a
population of 1,000 - 1,499. Recently, the Commission has been
expressing concern that the tertiary network is expanding beyond the
capacity of local authorities to maintain it, and that the emphasis on
constructing new tertiary roads is resulting in the neglect of the
much more heavily trafficked secondary system. The Bank agrees with
this assessmeint, and the proposed project will be its first effort in
attempting to redress this imbalance in four states at least.
2  While MOST plans and finances all construction and mainter nce work
on national highways, execution of this work (usually by contract)
is administered by the state road authorities on behalf of MOST.



-12-
Average Annual Road DeveloRment Expenditures. 1952-90
(Rs Million)
Central                  Joint
National                    Central/State
Plan Period          Hglhways  Other _/  State    Schemes bL    Total
Actual
First   (1952-56)         55         -       204        -           259
Second  (1957-61)        134        38       331        -           503
Third   (1962-66)        264        48       557        -           869
Annual  (1967-69)        150        75       371        -           596
Fourth  (1970-74)       427         74     1,176        -         1,677
Fifth   (1975-79)        513       155     2,577        -         3,245
Sixth   (1981-85)     1,262        652     6,402      1,071       9,387
Planne
Seventh (1986-90)     1,784      1,472     8,360      2,673      14,289
&/ Includes schemes such as Tribal Roads, Special Problem Area Roads,
Hill Area Roads, Special Border Area Roads, Strategic Roads, and
Command Area Roads.
k/ National Rural Employment Program and Rural Landless Employment
Guarantee ProGram.
Source: Annex 6.1, Reference 6.
3.13     In 1968, a technical group in MOST comprising six Chief
Engineers and the Director-General, Roads Wing, formulated a set of
norms according to which road maintenance funds should be allocated.
These norms took into account traffic volumes, rainfall intensity,
local costs of materials and some other parameters. Since that
initial determination, various Finance Commissions (the body which
advises the President on revenue-sharing and grants-in-aid to the
states), have updated the norms, and although they remain a crude
instrument for fund allocation, they nevertheless do provide an order
of magnitude guide to relative maintenance needs and effort.



-13-
State Road Maintenance Expenditure
as % of Norms. 1986
Bihar                            56
Maharashtra                      42
Rajasthan                        48
Uttar Pradesh                    66
All India                        55
Source: Annex 6.1, Reference 6.
3.14     However, the norms can be a misleading measure of maintenance
funding requirements because, amongst other things, they are based on
outmoded maintenance methods and take no account of individual road
section characteristics; in particular, they fail to reflect that many
road sections need to be reconstructed to maintainable condition
before increased maintenance outlays can be productively utilized.
MOST has recently invited proposals from consultants to develop a road
maintenance management system for national highways. This system,
using the recently compiled road condition inventory, will be able to
identify the most appropriate reconstruction/maintenance measures for
individual road sections, estimate funding requirements, and generate
alternative strategies for alternat...ve levels of funding. The
proposed project will support the introduction of similar systems for
state highways and major district roads (para 4.12).
3.15     In aggregate, road users pay considerably more in taxes and
charges (approximately Rs 35 billion in 1985) than all levels of
government spend on roads. Nevertheless, in view of the magnitude of
future road expenditure needs, it may be necessary to raise further
revenue from road users (other sources of revenue being limited).
There are also some doubts as to whether the present structure of road
user taxation is appropriate. The Vehicle Fleet Modernization and
Road User Charges Study (para 3.08) is addressing these issues. The
draft final report of the study is expected early in 1989, and it will
have implications for state-financed roads as well as the national
network. To the extent that the recommendations of the VFM/RUC Study
are within the competence of the states to implement, it was confirmed
at negotiations that GOI will assist the states to carry out such
recommendations as have been agreed between GOI, the states, and the
Bank. In this connection, each state agreed to furnish to the Bank by
December 31, 1990, a time-bound action plan for implementing such
recommendations and arrange to implement such action plan.



-14-
E. Engineering
3.16     In India, the states' PWDs are responsible for preparing the
engineering/economic studies and designs of road projects. In many
cases, the needed studies/designs are carried out in-house, but
consultants are now often retained for the purpose. Bank experience
on this and earlier projects is that the engineering and design works
have been competently carried out and on time. Geometric design
standards in use throughout India are those prepared by the Indian
Roads Congress in IRC publications 3, 37, and 73 and are satisfactory
(Annex 4.5). Pavement design is based on the number of repetitions of
a standard 18000 lb. (8,200 kg) axle load to be sustained over the
design life selected and is formulated in line with procedures similar
to those of the UK Transport and Road Research Laboratory's Road Note
31. Structures are designed in accordance with IRC:6-1966 "Standard
Specifications and Code of Practice for Road Bridges." Both the
foregoing design procedures and loading specifications are acceptable
and in line with procedures in common use elsewhere. During loan
negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government that the
foregoing design standards arnd specifications will be followed in
implementing the project.
F. Construction
3.17     Road and bridge works in India are normally execu.ted by
contract. India is a country which is intersected by large rivers
requiring major crossing structures. Accordingly, contractors who
have specialized in bridge construction are generally well-
experienced, and some can tackle works of $100m or more. Most are
private firms, but some are state enterprises and many have been
successful in bidding for major bridge works outside India. It is
normal practice to allow contractors bidding on bridge works to submit
their own alternative designs on which they can bid as well. Although
the evaluation of such alternative designs can prolong the bid review
period, the result is often a more economic project as tte design
usually accords with the contractor's construction technology.
3.18     Compared with bridge construction, there has not been the
same scale of contract size in road works, where India's practice has
been to parcel out the construction works in small lots. Indeed, as a
matter of policy and employment generation, GOI has encouraged the
growth of labor-intensive construction through small contracts for
rural roads and has contributed heavily to the funding of such schemes
(para 3.12). Whilst the social objectives of such a policy may have
been largely achieved, the results in terms of road construction have
often been less than satisfactory. The use of some equipment,
especially fcr compaction of embankments, is essential. Where this
has not been available, or its use poorly supervised, roads have
deformed even under light traffic and have been vulnerable to storm
damage, resulting in a heavy and continuing maintenance burden.
Unlike this rural network, the national and state systems carry high
volumes of traffic and vehicle overloading is prevalent. To attain a
reasonable pavement life, therefore, and achieve sustained reductions



-15-
in vehicle operating costs, construction standards must be more rigid.
Specifications, especially for quality of materials, compaction and
surface tolerances plus the constraints of time, dictate the use of a
more diversified spread of equipment than would be needed on the low-
grade village roads. However, the contractor, who is the final
arbiter of the technology choice, will carry out the works in what 'ie
sees as the most effective and economic way. It is reasonable to
expect that with a present unskilled labor rate of Rs 26/day and a
skilled rate of Rs 50/day, he would utilize labor, where available, in
those applications which do not impede his timely completion of the
works.
G. Road Safety
3.19     The standard of safety on Indian roads is poor, and with
increasing traffic volumes and deteriorating road conditions, is
becoming worse. By comparison, the accident rate per 10,000 vehicles
in the U.K., according to a 1986 paper, was about 150, with 4
fatalities, whilst in India the rate was nearly 400 with 59
fatalities. Nearly half of all accidents involve t:avy trucks and
buses, not surprising in view of the high proportion of these types
of vehi.:le in the overall traffic stream.
3.20     Part of the problem is the low level of enforcement of the
laws governing the operation of vehicles. The traffic police force is
under-staffed and they are seldom in evidence on the main highways,
let alone the heavily trafficked state roads. Moreover, the poor
condition of many of the heavy vehicles plying the roads is one of the
main factors contributing to accidents.  Defective steering, tires,
brakes and, at night, poor and mis-directed headlights are frequent
shortcomings. In an attempt to address this vehicle factor, the
current National Highway Project is providing equipment to enable
vehicle testing stations to be set up in some of the centers of the
six participant states.
3.21     The present project ensures that the road works undertaken
meet the engineering norms of road safety in terms of sight distance,
safe passing distances, appropriate road markings and adequate warning
and informative signs. Additionally, at the request of the four
states, the project provides for the purchase of driving simulators,
alcohol breathalysers, equipment for the testing of night- and color-
blindness of drivers, and brake-testing equipment for vehicles. A
second National Highway Project under the central Ministry of Surface
Transport, and presently being prepared, will broaden the approach to
road safety.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Rationale for Bank Involvement
4.01     As noted in para 2.16, the Bank's principal objectives in the
subsector are to:



-16-
(a) improve the planning, design and execution of construction
and maintenance work; and
(b) identify the means of mobilizing the resources needed to
implement economically desirable increases in road outlays.
4.02     The proposed project provides an opportunity 'or the Bank to
pursue these objectives at the state road level, with which it has not
been previously involved. The rationale for starting with the states
of Bihar, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, and Uttar Pradesh is explained in
paras 1.02-1.03. Follow-up projects in these states are likely to be
required to accomplish the necessary degree of improvement, especially
in planning. The strategy for replicating the project's
accomplishment in other states is explained in para 2.16.
B. Project Obiectives
4.03     The project would be the first in a series which would extend
the policy/institutional improvement begun under the National Highway
Pro-ject (Loan 2534-IN) to the State level, in particular by:
(a) promoting the use of modern maintenance management systems,
which each of the four states would put in place along the
lines of what is being instituted by MOST for national
highways; and
(b)  introducing impr>ved construction methods through larger
contracts of a sufficient individual size to encourage local
firms to mechanize, but which, when grouped, would also
attract international interest, and to introduce supervision
by consultants on se-ne of the project contracts.
The issue of mobilizing adequate resources to meet the needs of the
subsector is being addressed by a study of road-user charges presently
being implemented under the National Highway Project. Participating
states will be required to indicate by the end of 1989 what actions
they propose taking in response to the study's recommendations (para
3.15).
C. Project Description
4.04     The project comprises the following components:
(a) Civil Works (see Maps 20858, 209CO, and 20921).
(i) In Bihar, the construction of a major bridge across the
river Ganges at Bhagalpur, together with about 14 km of
approach roads, plus the strengthening and widening to
two lanes of two state roads totalling about 100 km
(Annex 1.1, paras 13-17);



-;7-
(ii)  In Maharashtra, the strengthening and widening to two
lanes of seven main roads totalling about 670 km;
(Annex 1.2, paras 23 and 27).
(iii) In Rajasthan, the strengthening and widening to two
lanes of eight state roads totalling about 850 km (Annex
1.3), and the widening to four lanes of one state road
of about 15 km; and
(iv) In Uttar Pradesh, the strengthening and widening to two
lanes of four state roads totalling about 600 km
(Annex 1.4, paras 13-17);
(b)  specialized equipment to assist the participating states in
monitoring the condition and usage of their road networks and
promoting road safety; and
(c)  staff training, technical assistance, and consultants
services which would introduce in all four states:
(i) a network management system based on soil type, pavement
condition, traffic, and other physical parameters in
order to prioritize work programs in accordance with
budget; and
(ii)  other improvements in states' highway administration.
Mi Civil Wor-ks
4.05     Road Strengthening and Widening.  In all four states, traffic
growth has outstripped the capacities of tne 2,300 km of mostly
single-lane roads selected for the civil works component of the
project, and on this ground alone their improvement would be
warranted. However, the volumes of heavy traffic, mostly overloaded,
have so distressed the pavements that their lives have been
prematurely shortened and their reconstruction is long overdue. There
are other roads in the four states in equally poor condition calling
for the same remedial measures. The selection of the package chosen
in each state, therefore, was based:
(a)  on current and forecast traffic patterns;
(b)  on the present condition of the road; and
(c)  on the development strategy, which has shaped each state's
road investment program.
4.06     In Bihar, the project includes the widening and strengthening
of two main roads, totalling abut 100 km in length, (Annex 1.1,
para 14-15). However, the major project component is the construction
of a bridge across the Ganges at Bhagalpur. This is a priority item
in Bihar's Seventh Development Plan and will significantly improve
access to the under-developed northern part of the state. There is at



-18-
present no permanent crossing of the river for 280 km from the bridge
at Mokameh to the Farakka Barrage at the West Bengal state border.
The bridge, which lies about half-way between these two structures,
will substantially reduce the distance for many trips and promote
north-south integration. Ultimately, the bridge will form part of a
proposed national highway running from the industrial belt in southern
Bihar to Jogbani near the Nepal border. Further details of the
rationale for this component are provided in Annex 1.1, especially
paras 22-23. The bridge will be about 4 km in length and have two
traffic lanes and footwalks. The river crossing itself is about
1,000m and the remainder of the structure will be in viaduct, mainly
to cross the flood plain on the northern bank. The decision to have a
lengthy viaduct on the north side was taken to avoid extensive river
training works to protect the approach embankment of a shorter bridge.
The solution adopted is the most economical of the bridge length/river
training works options studied and provides the best safety margin
against breaching through high flood.
4.07     The structure also needs to be linked to the main road
network, cal:ling for about 14 km of new two-lane road on the north
side of the river. On the south side, the 60 m wide reservation of a
disused railway provides adequate right-of-way, free from
encroachments, for the bridge approaches. However, to avoid adding
the bridge traffic to the already severely congested down-town area, a
bypass of Bhagalpur is desirable. The State Government has agreed
that, by the time the bridge is opened to traffic, it would have
completed the construction of such a bypass. During loan
negotiations, GOB agreed to furnish to the Bank by June 30, 1>89 a
time-based program for constructing the bypass, including, inter alia,
land acquisition.
4.08     In Mahazashtra; the project provides for the rehabilitation
and widening to two lanes of seven main roads, totalling about 670 km
(Annex 1.2, paras 23 and 27).
4.09     In Raiasthan, the state government has proposed the widening
and strengthening of eight state roads totalling about 850 km and the
widening to four lanes of a heavily trafficked section of 15 km of one
main road. The roads selected are not only some of the primary
transport routes of the state catering for through traffic, but they
also service areas of agricultural development where potential will be
enhanced by improved accessibility (Annex 1.3, para 27 and 31).
4.10     In Uttar Pradesh, four roads totalling about 600 km
(Annex 1.4, paras 14-18) will be upgraded in the less-developed
eastern portion of the state, as tneir present condition is seen as a
deterrent to development. Subgrade conditions are poor, with heavy
clay soils that require substantial pavement cover to carry the
forecast traffic loads. There are also many river and stream
crossings which will involve the widening of culverts and bridges.
Some land will need to be taken where a few alignment improvements
must be made, (however, there are no inhabitants to resettle), but in
general the present alignments are satisfactory.



-19-
(ii) Equipment
4.11     In line with MOST's strategy to rationalize budgetary
requests for road maintenance funds and then to apportion allocations
according to need, the four states require an objective but rapid
means of determining road condition. MOST has decided on the use of
road roughness as a surrogate for condition, and devices for measuring
roughness, or bump integrators, would provide a quick and satisfactory
method of classifying roads into different levels of budget
requirements, and the states will follow suit in using them.
Consequently, these machines are included for procurement. Other
items comprise modern traffic counting devices with inductton loops
which are permanently installed in roads, devices for weighing
vehicles in motion, mobile bridge inspeztion platforms, etc. The road
safety equipment to be procured focusses on ensuring drivers,
particularly of heavy trucks, are proficient and that vehicles' brakes
are in good condition. These items are listed in Annex 4.1.
(iii)  Training. Technical Assistance. and Consulting Services
4.12     The principal objective of this component is to establish in
each state a maintenance network management system based on: (a) an
inventory of their networks, detailing road geometry, pavement type
and condition; (b) a continuing record of traffic flows; and (c) the
local costs of remedial treatments ranging from simple pothole repair
to a full pavement reconstruction. By processing this data through a
suitable program, it is possible to determine the desirable annual
outlays to repair/rehabilitate priority sections of a network and
provide adequate maintenance, or, if implementation capacity and/or
budgetary constraints apply, to tailor the annual programs
accordingly. In short, it provides a rapid and systematic means for
management to assess and compare different operational strategies. By
the end of the project period, the inventories in the four states
should be well advanced, systematic collection of traffic data in
progress, and the first runs of the program being made. The project
provides for 80 man months of technical assistance and consulting
services for this purpose, as well as associated training (para 4.15).
During loan negotiations, assurances were obtained that each state
would undertake and complete by December 31, 1992, a Maintenance
Network Management Study by consultants and take steps to
progressively introduce a Maintenance Management System based on the
Study findings. Study Terms of Reference are at Annex 4.2.
4.13     Experience gained from the current National Highway Project
indicates that the standard PWD supervision practices, whilst probably
appropriate to the much smaller contracts customarily in use, are not
adequately responsive to the much greater demands, in terms of quality
control and contract management generally, of the large contracts for
road works now in use for the first time in India. The PWD's
supervisory zone is normally headed by a chief engineer with, below
him, a hierarchy of superintending engineers, executive engineers,
assistant engineers, technical staff, etc., and comprises a large body



-20-
of personnel, frequently changing, and with multiple points of contact
with the contractor. Close supervision of the project works is
essential if the standards and specifications agreed in their designs
are to be achieved. With this objective in view, the proje-* provides
for selected contracts (or a package of the larger contractz.r in each
state to be supervised by consultants. This work would be a logical
extension of the tasks that the Bank-financed road projects have seen
for the first time in India entrusted to consultants - those of
preparing the technical and economic studies for highway projects plus
the final engineering and bidding documents. Such an arrangement has
several advantages to commend it. Firstly, the selection process
would rely heavily on the quality and experience of the supervisory
staff the consultant would offer and their availability for the
duxition of the works.  By contrast, the Government group relies on
the qualities of the staff available at the time and their tenure is
uncertain. Secondly, the Engineer's duties and responsibilities are
clearly defined by his Terms of Reference, and the Engineer's
representative is given the authority to issue instructions to the
contractors. Given the increasing amounts of road work being offered
in large contracts, consultants in the private sector should be given
the opportunity to demonstrate its capabilities in supervising as well
as planning and designing road projects. During loan negotiations,
agreement was reached with each of the states on- (i) the principle
that one or two (or a package) of the project contracts in each state
should be supervised by consultants; (ii) the Terms of Reference for
the services needed, in which the consultant is designated as the
'Engineer' (Annex 4.3), and that the consultant will be appointed by
June 1, 1989.
4.14     In Maharashtra, the project includes a study to review the
State's PWD role, particularly in the road subsector, its defined
objectives and organization, recommend how best it should be staffed
to meet its commitments and how its resources should be structured and
deployed throughout the State in order to achieve optimal efficiency.
The study should also ascertain the budgetary needs of the recommended
organization. During loan negotiations, the Government agreed that by
December 31, 1990 it will have completed the Study, and that
thereafter it would implement those recommendations agreed with the
Bank in accordance with a time-based program.
4.15     The training needs envisaged by all four states focus on the
planning, design, and management of highway works with particular
emphasis on the fields of construction, maintenance and the
composition and management of the needed equipment holdings.
4.16     Many of the courses can be given in India at centres such as
the National Institute for the Training of Highway Engineers (NITHE),
New Delhi, the University of Roorkee, etc., but it would be of value
for some selected engineers to undertake courses of study overseas.
These individuals on their return would be expected to impart their
knowledge of modern practices in other countries to their colleagues
through the local courses. The UN's Department of Technical
Cooperation which is organizing training under the current National



-21-
Highway Project (Loan 2534-IN), has indicated its willingness to
provide the same services under this proposed project. An outline of
the proposed training program is at Annex 4.4.
4.17     Although the training needs of PWD's professionals can be met
by courses such as those proposed, there is an evident need for a
consistent approach to be taken to the training at the "grass roots"
level of the road labor supervisors. The capabilities exist in each
of the states' PWDs to organize and run appropriate courses on road
maintenance techniques and practices for road gangers and superv'_..rs,
and the project make provision for the purchase of the needed training
aids and other assistance needed to initiate such courses. During
loan negotiations, agreement was reached with each state that by
July 1, 1989 it would inform the Bank of the arrangements for training
the field staff of its PWD, the scope and frequency of the courses to
be offered, and the resources to be procured under the project to
facilitate such courses.
D.  Engineering
4.18     Final engineering of the project alternatives defined by the
feasibility studies was carried out in most cases by consultants
appointed by the State Government. In only one case was the work done
by the State PWD itself. However, all the designs and bidding
documents were competently prepared. The design standards to which
tha subprojects will be built are detailed in Annex 4.5 and are
satisfactory.
E. Cost Estimates
4.19     The estimated cost of the project is shown in Annex 4.6 and
is summarized below:
'RUPEES Million'   'US$ Millinn)
Loc3l Fvoeln Tctal   Local F2re:gn 'ctal
I. NESTMENT COTS
A. CONSTRUCTION
1. CIVIL WORKS            20921.3 1,212.8 49134.1  216.4  99.9 306.2
2. LAND ACOUISITION          70.9     -  70.9   5.3      -  5.3
3. SUPERVISION OF CONSTRUCTION    392.4  -  382.4  28.3  - 28.3
Sub-Total CONSTRUCTION       39374.6 1,212.9 4tS87.4  250.0  89.8 339.8
B. EGUIPNENT                    7.5  55.3  62.8   0.6   4.1  4.7
C. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1, TRAININ6                  10.7  10.7  21.4   0.8   0,9  1.6
2. CONSULTANTS SERVICES       8.4  132.0  140.4   0.6   9.8 10.4
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE  19.1  142.7  161.8   1.4  10.6 12.0
Total BASELINE COSTS            3,401.3 1I410.7 4,912.0  251,9  104.5 356.4
Ph%sical Continmncius          340.1  141.1  481.2  25.2  10.4 35.6
Price Cantinultus              951.4  297.0 1,248.5  4536  12.4 53.1
Total PROJECT COSTS            4Z692.9 1.948.8 6,541,7  322.9  127.4 50.2



-22-
4.20     The separate state components are detailed in Annexes 1.1 to
1.4 and summarized below.
States' Share of Proiect Costs
(US$ Million)
0MRtINT OF
WORLD BA    INDIA      Total
Aamnt Z   Amnt  I  ARount 2
,= = _=    ____ = -= 22 __, _  s:
A. RAJASTHAN STATE ROADS         58.0 56.0   45.6 44.0  103.6 23.0
B~. UTTAR PRADESH STATE ROADS    85.7 53.6   74.1 46.4  159.8 35.5
C. MAHARASHTRA STATE RAFOS       4?97 56.7  38.1 43,3  87.8 19.5
D. BIHAR STATE ROADS I 2HAGALiUf'k Ei!:    56.6 57.1   42,4 42.9  99.0 22.0
Total Disbursement               250.0 55.5  200.2 44.5  450.2 100,0
4.21     Unit costs of road works vary widely.  For example, in
Rajasthan, which has an arid climate and good subgrades, pavements can
be relatively thinner and there is less need for drainage structures.
In the northern states of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, where rainfall is
high, subgrade conditions poor and road-building materials scarce,
thicker pavements are needed and bridges and culverts more frequent.
The impact of these conditions can be almost a doubling, in some
situations, of Uttar Pradesh's costs over those of Rajasthan.
4.22     The total estimated cost of the project (excluding about
$53.3 m equivalent of taxes and duties) is about $397 m equivalent, of
which $127 m (32%) would represent the direct and indirect foreign
exchange costs. For all the civil works components, construction cost
estimates are based on quantities from the final engineering designs,
coupled with February 1988 unit rates derived from cost factor inputs
and from recently awarded construction contracts.
4.23     The costs of equipment are based on current manufacturers'
prices including insurance and freight charges. The estimates of
training courses are based on the costs of similar programs being
implemented under the current National Highway Project. Cost
estimates of technical assistance/consulting services are based on the
man-months needed and the rates applicable as of February 1988.
4.24     Price escalation of the foreign exchange and local components
has been calculated, based on Bank estimates, as follows:



-23-
Fiscal Year               1988      1989      1990       1991      12
Local Escalation %         8         8         7          6         6
Foreign Escalation %       3         3         3          4         4
A 10% physical contingency has been included to allow for unforeseen
increases in quantities.
4.25     The direct and indirect foreign exchange component of the
civil works components of the project has been estimated on the
assumption that India remains a net importer of cement, steel, bitumen
and other oil derivatives. For road works, the foreign component is
therefore 28%, and for Bhagalpur Bridge, 40%. Some participation by
foreign contractors is expected, but as in the case of the current
National Highway Project, this will most likely take the form of joint
venture arrangements with local firms. During loan negotiations, the
project cost estimates were discussed and agreed with the Government.
F. Financing
4.26     The Borrower would be India, which will pass on financing to
the four participating states, in accordance with standard
arrangements for the provision of development assistance. The
proposed financing plan is summarized as follows (for more detail, see
Annex 4.5):
Financing Plan
(US$ '000)
Government
World Bank      of India       lotal
Foreign                127.4             0.0        127.4
Local (excl. taxes)    122.6           146.9        269.5
Taxes                                   53.L         53a3
Total Project           250.0          200.2        450.2
The proposed loan and credit of US$250 million would finance about 63%
of total project costs net of taxes and would cover all the project's
foreign cost and about 45% of local costs. The participating states
would meet the balance of project costs (US$200 m equivalent).



-24-
4.27     During appraisal, a comprehensive review was made of the
financial position of each of the four states (Annex 4.8), the results
of which are summarized as follows:
Summary of Public Finances in Proiect States
(Rs Million)
Actual      Provisional      Budget
1985/86       1986/87        1987Z88
Bia
Current Revenue                    23,957      26,227           28,344
Current Expenditure                20,980      22,773           25,378
Current Surplus                     2,977        3,454            2,966
Capital Disbursements               6,396       8,397           10,232
(of which roads expenditure)        (760)      (1,008)          (1,059)
Maharashtra
Current Revenue                    41,742      47,917           53,838
Current Expenditure                44,908      49,281           53,519
Current Surplus/Deficit            -3,166       -1,364              319
Capital Disbursements              10,081      11,803           14,455
(of which roads expenditure)        (567)       (605)            (986)
Rai asthan
Current Revenue                    15,057      18,441           18,219
Current Expenditure                15,078      19,193           19,349
Current Deficit                       -21         -752           -1,130
Capital Disbursements               4,171        5,155           5,352
(of which roads expenditure)        (140)       (135)            (174)
Uttar Pradesh
Current Revenue                    38,768      42,860           46,025
Current Expenditure                37,022      42,840           49,245
Current Surplus/Deficit             1,746           10          -3,220
Capital Disbursements              13,059      15,587           12,140
(of which roads expenditure'       (1,752)     (2,012)          (2,133)
High growth in current expenditures generally has contributed to a
deterioration in state finances and the situation has been exacerbated
recently by the widespread drought in Maharashtra, Rajasthan, and
western Uttar Pradesh, and by floods in eastern Uttar Pradesh and in



-25-
Bihar. Bihar and Maharashtra have managed to control their current
budget situations, while the outlook remains more difficult in
Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. However, in all states project costs
will represent a small proportion of the states' total capital
receipts. The project should therefore not place a heavy burden on
state finances, provided restraint is exercised over the growth of
current expenditures and reasonable additional resource mobilization
is undertaken. During loan negotiations, the four participating
states agreed to furnish the local funding for the project promptly as
needed, and to report annually to the Bank details of each state's
road program for the coming year so that the Road Maintenance System
may be monitored.
G. Land Acquisition
4.28     There is little need to acquire new land for the project as
the works proposed mainly comprise the improvement of existing roads
within existing rights-of-way. However, the Ganges bridge at
Bhagalpur in Bihar will require links to the main road network on each
side of the river. On the north bank the new access road will cross a
flood plain that is seasonally inundated and on which there are no
improvements. It will then link with an existing major district road
which in turn joins a national highway. On the south bank, the
approaches to the bridge utilize the 60 m wide reservation of a
disused railroad, which is a sufficient right of way, and does not
involve the resettlement of any inhabitants.
4.29     GOI and the state governments have the power, defined the
Land Acquisition Act (revised in October 1984), to expropriate land
needed for roads. In the case of unimproved land, authority to enter
thereon can be obtained with little delay. However, where
improvements are involved, procedures can take longer, but, in
general, authority to enter on the land can be given even if the
compensation issue has not been settled. Land acquisition is not,
therefore, seen to be a factor which would delay project
implementation. Nevertheless, during loan negotiations, agreement was
reached with the states on the timing of land acquisition such that
the agreed program for project implementation would not be disrupted.
H. Procurement
4.30     Procurement arrangements for the project components are
summarized below.



-26-
Procurement Method (USS Million)
Prolect Element                     ICB      LCB      Other 1/  Total Cost
1. Civil Works                   366.0       20.8       0.8       387.6
(220.0)    (12.1)     (0.5)     (232.6)
Supervision of Construction                       36.4        36.4
Land Acquisition                                   6.3         6.3
2. Equipment                                            5.5          5.5
(4.8)       (4.8)
3. Training                                             2.0         2.0
(1.0)       (1.0)
4. Consultants' Services                               12.4         12.4
(11.6)      (11.6)
Total                          366.0      20.8      63.4       450.2
(220.0)    (12.1)    (17.9)     (250.0)
pOTE: Figures in parentheses are the -,mounts financed by the Bank.
1/ Includes force account, LIB, direct contracting, local shopping, and
consultants' selection procedures.
4.31     Civil works contracts will be awarded after international
competitive bidding among prequalified contractors in accordance with
the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement." As far as is practicable,
individual contracts will be in the order of US$10 million, and
minimum packages of three contiguous contracts will be tendered
simultaneously so that both local and foreign contractors may be
encouraged to compete. Contractors may bid on one or more contracts
up to the limit of their prequalification, and awards will be made
after an evaluation which determines the arrangement of contracts most
advantageous to Government. However to take account of some
contracts which cannot reasonably be grouped with others because of
their isolated locations, provision is made for their procurement on
the basis of local competitive bidding, advertised locally, and in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Such procurement
could amount to about 5-6% of the value of the civil works components
and would be limited to packages valued at $5 million or less, and in
aggregate to US$12 million. The procurement has been so scheduled
that most contracts will be ready for award about the time of loan
signature. To the extent that local shopping procedures are needed,
individual purchases up to a value of $10,000 equivalent will be
sanctioned, in aggregate not to exceed $150,000 equivalent. The
highly specialized equipment to the value of US$3.5 million needed to
monitor road condition and usage is available from a limited number of
suppliers or single sources only and purchases will be made by using
limited international bidding (LIB) or dircct contracting. In order



-27-
to coordinate procurement of these items and to centralize
arrangements for obtaining the necessary import clearances, the Roads
Wing of the Central Ministry of Surface Transport will be responsible
for this project component. Also during loan negotiations, the
project implementation schedule was discussed and agreed (Annex 4.9).
4.32     All contracts for civil works, consultants' services and
equipment (about 25 in all) financed by the Bank will be subject to
prior review by the Bank before award. The Bank's standard domestic
preference provisions for goods and services procured by ICB will
apply in bid evaluptions.
4.33     Retroactive Financing.  Up to US$ 0.5 million equivalent is
recommended to cover eligible expenditures after November 1, 1987, for
costs incurred in implementing appraised project activities.
I. Project Execution and Supervision
4.34     Each of the four participating states would be responsible
for implementing its own civil works program under the project. To
this end, each would arrange for the formation of a supervisory unit
under a chief engineer with a cadre of personnel-engineers technicians
and support staff as well as equipment, laboratory facilities,
vehicles, etc. The size and composition of the supervisory unit is
determined on a common basis throughout India in accordance with the
magnitude of the works. It is anticipated that the works will be
undertaken by major contractors with some foreign firms participating
either on their own account or in joint-venture. Experience on the
current National Highway Project has shown that such contractors are
capable of much greater outputs of work than the smaller firms which
states have customarily employed in the past. However, as discussed
earlier (para 4.13), the supervisory units set up by the states tend
to be large and not adequately responsive to the needs of a large
profit-oriented contractor. Therefore, to provide a proven method of
contract supervision, each state agreed to employ consultants to
supervise one or two, or a package of the project contracts, and have
such consultants in place by June 1, 1989.
4.35     During negotiations, arrangements made in each state
concerning organization, equipment, and staff for project supervision
were discussed and agreed.
4.36     The Organizational Study of the Maharashtra PWD would be
undertaken by consultants employed by the Government of Maharashtra in
conformity with terms of reference agreed between GOM and the Bank.
The Network Management System in each of the four states would also be
undertaken by consultants engaged by the states in accordance with
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank. MIOST would be
responsible for procurement of all equipment on behalf of the states.
During loan negotiations, the foregoing arrangements for project
implementation were discussed and agreed with GOI/states.



-28-
J. Disbursement
4.37     Disbursements from the loan would be made on the following
basis:
(a) 60% of total expenditures for civil works;
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures and 100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) for equipment and 65% of local expenditures
for other items procured locally;
(c) 100% of the total costs of consulting services; and
(d) 50% of the total costs of training.
In summary, it is as follows:
Fiscal Year:             1989     1990     1991      1992     1993     1994
Annual Disbursements      5.7     31.6     72.6      87.0     46.6      6.5
Cumulative Disburse-
ment (US$M)             5.7     37.3    109.9    196.9    243.5    250.0
To facilitate disbursements, a special account would be established
for the project with an authorized allocation of $18.0 million. It is
expected that all expenditures, fully documented, be reimbursed
through this special account. Although the average period of
disbursement for loans, generally, in India is about seven years,
there is no history of disbursements for highway projects, as the
Bank's first and last operation in this field was some twenty-five
years ago and there were no other comparable projects until
Loan 2534-IN of 1985. However, as most of the bids for civil works
will have been evaluated by the time this project is presented to the
Board, the major potential delays through procurement problems will
have been avoided. Unless there are serious mishaps during
implementation, the construction contracts should not overrun and the
project should finish in five years. The project is expected to be
completed by December 31, 1994 and disbursements by June 30, 1995.
K. Accounts
4.38     The Bank is familiar with India's long-estatjished procedures
for financial control. Project audit is carried out under the
supervision of India's Comptroller and Auditor-General who reports to
Parliament through the Public Accounts Committee for central
government, and the State Accountant-General for each state. During
loan negotiations, the participating states agreed to keep separate



-29-
accounts for the project and to submit financial reports to the Bank
not later than nine months after the close of each year of project
implementation.
L. Environmental ImRact
4.39     During the construction phase, the civil works proposed under
the project will undoubtedly impinge adversely on the environment -
noise, dust, disruption to traffic flows and congestion arn the likely
short-term inconveniences. However, the completed works will have a
positive impact in the medium term - smooth riding surfaccs, increased
capacity resulting in shorter journey times, less congestion, noise
and exhaust pollution will generally enhance the environment.
4.40     In those few situations where a narrow strip of land needs to
be acquired in order to accommodate the widening of the road, no
improvements to the land except, perhaps, crops are involved and no
inhabitants will be displaced.
M. Project Reporting
4.41     Each state will be responsible for collating and preparing
quarterly progress reports on the proposed project's components. Such
reports will indicate progress made, problems encountered, together
with the remedial steps proposed, and proposed future programs of
activities. About six months after the physical completion of the
project, each state should present to the Bank a Project Completion
Report including details of its cost, general characteristics of its
execution and the accomplishment of its objectives. During loan
negotiations, agreement was reached concerning the format and content
of the reports.
N. Risk Analsis
4.42     All of the project's civil works components involve proven
technology design and construction standards, with which the executing
agencies are well familiar; technical risks of poor
performance/substandard work are minimal. The risks of implementation
delay should be small as contracts will be ready for award about the
time of loan signature. The success of the pavement management
studies which are vital to the planning capabilities of the states'
PWD will depend on the selection of a consultant experienced in the
field, and the rapport he establishes with his state counterparts.
Similar caveats apply co the organizational study of the Maharashtra
PWD and to the supervision of some construction contracts by
consultants. However, with an agreed short-list of thoroughly
experienced firms from whom to solicit proposals, the risk of
inadequate studies and contract supervision should be small.



-30-
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Introduction
5.01     India's road network expanded rapidly to the present 1.8
million km, from the 0.4 million km of 1951 when the first Five-Year
Plan was introduced. However, most of this growth has been in the
tertiary system - the other district roads and village-access roads
rather than in the primary and secondary systems, the state and
national networks, which carry the bulk of the nation's traffic, but
which, for a variety of reasons, have grown only slowly. This project
is intended to help redress this situation by initiating at the state
level what was begun for the national network through the National
Highway Project (Loan 2534-IN, US$ 200 milion, April 1985).
5.02     The core sections of the national hirhways and state roads
networks were built some 15 to 20 years ago to standards which seemed
appropriate for traffic of that time, but which now have become
outmoded. A considerable proportion of those networks has still only
a one-lane carriageway and was designed for axle loads whirh took no
account of the overloading prevalent today. While these primary and
secondary networks have remained largely unimproved, the steady growth
performance of India has involved large increases in volumes of
traffic moving between cities, among rural areas and to/from ports and
rail heads. Not only have the numbers of vehicles increased, but also
their axle loads. Thus, although state and national highways sooner
or later carry practically all traffic generated in the country, their
physical capacity has not kept pace. Congestion has become common
place, speeds are low, accidents are frequent, and the costs of
maintaining the networks are mounting beyond the capacity of the
states to finance. To turn around this situation, it is necessary to
improve and upgrade the networks. However, the enormity of the task
and its costs are such that, at best, the country and the states can
afford only to: (a) improve a limited number of arteries at a time,
and (b) attempt to improve the methods and efficiency of their
maintenance activities to keep the existing network operating as best
as possible.
5.03     The project is designed to support these two lines of action
at the state level. It should help upgrade about 2,000 km of roads
from single-lane to two lanes and would increase their structural
strength to levels commensurate with current and expected traffic. At
the same. time, the project will introduce in the four states modern
network management techniques that should result in better and more
effective road maintenance and planning of road investments.
B. Project Benefits
5.04     Project benefits are expected to accrue principally from
reduced vehicle operating costs, passenger and goods travel time
savings, and road maintenance costs savings. In the case of road
improvements, these benefits have been quantified by means of the
Highway Design and Maintenance Model (HDM), a Bank-developed



-31-
analytical tool now in common use in many countries. Benefits from
the new Bhagalpur Pridge in Bihar have been quantified by a separate
methodology, summarized in para 5.10 and explained in more detail in
Annex 1.1, paras 26-35. In addition, the project is expected to yield
considerable benefits, which cannot be quantified, in terms of reduced
accidents, more effective maintenance activities and improved
institutional performance of the Public Works Departments of the
states involved in it.
5.05     The reductions in vehicle operating costs will initially
accrue to road transport operators, r-incipally truckers. Yet, the
competitiveness of the trucking inoustLy in India is expected to
ensure that these cost reductions are passed on to consumers at large.
Lower production and distribution costs are eventually expected to
manifest themselves in the market place. Institutional improvements
are expected to result in better management of limited public funds.
C. Economic Evaluation of Road Improvements
5.06     As in most applications of the HDM model, the existing road
conditions, the "base case," are known. Similarly, the pattern of
evolution of this base case, mostly an extension of the currently
observed situation, is also well mapped. For the states included in
the project, this involves a continuation of the standard routine
maintenance and some pothole patching every year, as is currently
done. The base case is modelled with the assistance of HDM to
estimate the resulting total operating cost of this situation. Total
operating costs are defined as the sum total of the cost of operating
the assumed volume of vehicles, their travel time costs, and the road
maintenance cost. The pattern of evolution of alternative
improvements and different maintenance strategies is modelled in turn
with the assistance of HDM. The construction costs of each
alternative are added to the resulting total operating costs, and
compared with the total cost of the base case. The difference between
the base case and that of the alternatives are the net benefits the
alternative would yield. The internal rate of return of the stream of
benefits is estimated and used to assess the relative advantage of
each alternative.
5.07     The definition of the base and project cases will vary from
one link to the next; for instance, the costs of improving width and
alignment of a road vary considerably depending on terrain, other
physical constraints and the condition of the existing road.
Construction costs have been, therefore, estimated exogenously as
explained in Chapter IV and in each of the State Annexes
(Annex 1.1-1.4). A total of 20% has been added to these construction
costs: 10% for construction supervision costs and another 10% for
physical contingencies. The parameters used to define each link
section are described in each State Annex. Maintenance unit costs
have been assumed common to all links. Similarly, the same vehicle
fleet characteristics and labor, crew, passenger and cargo delay costs
have been used in all states. Annexes 5.1 and 5.2 show the values
used.



-32-
5.08     For analysis purposes, links were broken down into somewhat
homogenous sections according to their phy3ical characteristics and
traffic volumes. Annual traffic volumes are shown as part of the
individual analysis of each State Annex. The traffic growth rates
have been differentiated by vehicle '.ype, and state-by-state, but they
all cluster around 7% per annum throughout the ten-year period the
investments are expected to last.
5.09     Financial costs have been converted to border prices by
applying uniformly a 0.8 conversion factor. In this process no
distinction was made between the domestic and foreign tradable
component of costs, although strictly this should be done.' This
procedure will yield slightly lower rates of return than otherwise
would be obtained because the tax component of imports (on average
about 25% of costs) is generally higher than 20%, and therefore, the
economic cost of imports has been slightly over-valued. Similarly, no
special distinction was made for the shadow price of non-tradables,
especially labor. While this may introduce some distortion in the
results, it is not expected to be significant since all works have
been designed to be carried out with specialized equipment, rather
than the more traditional labor intensive methods used in India.
D. Economic Evaluation of Bhagalpur Bridge
5.10     While the treatment of costs for the Bhagalpur Bridge is the
same as for the road improvements (paras 5.07 and 5.09), benefits have
been quantified by a separate methodology (Annex 1.1, paras 26-35),
because the principal benefits arise from distance reductions and from
avoiding the present transshipment from vehicle to ferry then back to
vehicle again. The bridge will reduce the distance of various origin
- destination trips by up to 252 km. The weighted average distance
reduction per trip is about 40 km for cars and buses, and 100 km for
trucks. The resulting savings in vehicle operating costs account for
about 30% of total estimated benefits in the opening year.
Transshipment savings account for just over half of total benefits in
the opening year, but become less significant later in the project
life. The improved access provided by the bridge is expected to
generate or induce new traffic, which accounts for only 5% of total
benefits initially, but gradually increases to 13%. Time savings,
quantified only for passenger work time and goods, account for the
remaining project benefits.
E. Results
5.11     The detailed results of the economic evaluations are
presented in Annexes 1.1-1.4 and summarized in Annex 5.3. The
project's overall weighted rate of return is 27%. Weighted rates of
return for the civil works in each state are 32% in Rajasthan, 43% in
Maharashtra, 20% in Uttar Pradesh, and 19% in Bihar. There are only
two road sections with rates of return below 15%, one in Uttar Pradesh
and one in Bihar; they represent 10% of total costs. There is also
one road section with a rate of return above 50%, it is in
Maharashtra; its cost is less than 1% of the total. The overwhelming
majority of subprojects have rates of return between 20% and 30%. On
the whole the project seems well-justified economically.



-33-
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01     During loan negotiations, assurances were obtained from GOI/States
on the following matters:
(a) that by June 30, 1989, Bihar will have furnished to the Bank
a time-bound action plan for the construction of a bypass of
Bhagalpur such that it would be compl-ted by the time that
the Bhagalpur Bridge is opened to traffic (para 4.07);
(b) each state to undertake and complete by December 31, 1992, a
Maintenance Management Study by consultants, and take the
necessary steps to progressively introduce a Maintenance
Management System based on the Study findings (para 4.12);
(c) that Maharashtra, by December 31, 1990, will have completed
the Organization Study of its PWD, and thereafter take the
necessary steps to implement the Study recommendations as
agreed between Maharashtra and the Bank (para 4.14); and
(d) that each state, on an annual basis, will report to the Bank
its program of works in the roads subsector for the coming
year so that the progressive introduction of the Road
Maintenance Management System may be monitored (para 4.27).
6.02     Also during loan negotiations, understandings were reached
with GOI/States that:
(a)  to the extent that the recommendations of the RUC/VFM Study
are within the competence of the States to implement, that
GOI will assist the States to carry out such recommendations
as have been agreed between GOI, the states and the Bank. In
this connection, each state undertook to furnish to the Bank
by December 31, 1990, a time-bound action plan for
implementing such recommendations and take the necessary
actions to do so (para 3.15);
(b) that the services of consultants will be utilised in each
state to supervise the execution of selected project
contract(s), or a package of contracts, as agreed with the
Bank, such consultants to be appointed by June 1, 1989 (para
4.13); and
(c) that each state, by July 1, 1989, will inform the Bank of its
programs for the training of its staff who are concerned
withroad works and who are at less than professional level,
and of the facilities such as equipment, training aids,
course curricula and infrastructure that may need to be
procured under the project for the successful implementation
of such programs (para 4.17).
6.03     On the basis of the foregoing assurances and understandings
the project constitutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$170
million and an IDA credit of SDR62.2 million (US$80 million
equivalent).



-34-
Annex 1. 1
INDIA
STATES' ROAD PROJECT
Bihar
A. Background
1.       Located in the northeastern part of India with a population
of 74 million, Bihar is India's second most populous state after Uttar
Pradesh; its population density of 426 per sq. km is twice the
national average. A high proportion of Bihar's population (13%)
belongs to scheduled tribes and castes. Almost 90% of the population
is rural, and approximately 80% of the workforce is engaged in
agriculture. However there is an industrial belt in the southern part
of the state, and manufacturing accounts for 13% of Bihar's net
domestic product at factor cost.
2.       Although Bihar is rich in natural resources (including rich
agricultural soils, mineralc, coal, lumber, uranium and iron), their
development has been slow.  Bihar is the poorest state in India, with
an annual per capita net domestic product of about US$120 million, 40%
below the national average. Other indicators confirm the low level of
development: hospital beds and doctors per 100,000 population are well
below the national average, as is the literacy rate (26% compared with
36%). Road density in relation to population is half the national
average. Extensive areas, mainly in north Bihar, are still isolated
due to lack of road access.
3.       Geographically, the principal features are hills in the
north, the alluvial plain of the river Ganges traversing the center of
the state, and the Chatanagpur plateau in the south.
B. TransRort System
4.       Bihar is served by road, rail, air and inland water services.
The state relies primarily on the road system, which is discussed in
the following paragraphs, for its internal transport requirements.
However, the main broad gauge electrified rail line between New Delhi
and Calcutta, the most heavily trafficked route in the country, passes
through the southern part of Bihar. This and other routes in the
south perform an important role in serving the predominately
interstate transport requirements of the mining and manufacturing
belt. However, the usefulness of the rail system for intrastate
transport is severely limited by the fact that it is broad gauge south
of the Ganges and mostly meter gauge north of the river. The state
capital Patna and Ranchi, an important industrial city in the south,
receive daily air services to New Delhi, Calcutta and other state
capitals. There is an international air service between Patna and
Katbmandu, the capital of Nepal. Bihar has several large rivers



-35-
Annex 1.1
Page 2 of 14
besides the Ganges; in total, there are 1262 kms of navigable inland
waterways, comprising 937 km of rivers and 325 km of canals. The
water-borne trade, comprising mainly grains, coal, and construction
materials, accounts for a relatively small proportion of the state's
total transport task, but seems to offer considerable scope for
expansion.
C. The Road Network
5.       As explained in greater detail in the main text, there are
three tiers of roads in India:
(a) national highways, planned and financed by the Central
Government, but constructed and maintained by the state road
authorities (generally known as Public Works Departments,
PWDs, but in Bihar's case known as the Road Construction
Department, RCD), on behalf of the Central Government, with
most construction and periodic maintenance executed by
contractors;
(b) RCD roads, comprising state highways and those district roads
for which the RCD accepts responsibility; and
(c) other roads, comprising other district roads, village roads,
urban roads and project roads, which are the responsibility
of various local administrations and project agencies.
As might be expected, data on the latter category is rather
fragmentary as it has not been centrally collected. However, as the
following figures illustrate, most of the growth in Bihar's network
has been in these lower class roads:
PrinciRal Road Network
Length in kms
Road Class             1951    1961      1971     1981      1985
National Highways         1,408    1,408    1,792    2,040    2,118
RCD - State Highways      3,270    3,549    4,160    4,175    4,192
RCD -District Roads         192    7,353    9,312   11,075   11,854
Other Roads                 -         -      6.,010   12.454   13.570
4,870   12,310   21,274   29,744   31,734
Indeed, the lower class network is even more extensive than conveyed
by these figures, which relate mostly to surfaced roads; Bihar's total



-36-
Annex 1.1
Page 3 of 14
road network is estiimated at over 80,000 kms. Despite the increase in
road length, Bihar's road density in relation to population is only
half the national average (for both surfaced and unsurfaced roads),
and the lowest of any state. While 95% of the RCD network is
surfaced, it is mostly single lane or intermediate width (lane and a
half); only 10% of the network is two-lane.
6.       Over the past seven years, the overall condition of the RCD
network has deteriorated. This is especially true of major district
roads; by contrast, the condition of other district roads has improved
despite a 16% increase in their length, suggesting that too high a
proportion of available resources may have been devoted to this
category:
Condition Rating of RCD Roads
(kms)
1981                         1987
State                        State
Highwavs    MDR    Others   Highways    MDR    Others
Good      2,875      3,260      950    2,667      1,890    2,000
Fair        950      3,536      904    1,000      6,000    1,000
Poor        350      1.550      875       525       811       153
4,175     8,346    2,729    4,192      8,701    3,153
7.       RCD does not have a satisfactorily comprehensive and regular
traffic count program, a deficiency which is being addressed under the
proposed project. Nevertheless, some appreciation of traffic growth
can be obtained from data on the vehicle fleet, which has been growing
at '.0% p.a.:
Number of Motor Vehicles Registered
(in thousands)
TyDe of Vehicle          1956    1961    1971      1981
Passenger car and jeep       7.9    10.9    25.6      44.7
Taxi                         0.5     0.7      3.0     11.8
Bus                          1.6     1.9      4.5      8.9
Truck                        5.3     8.1    16.2      26.6
Motorcycles and scooters    2.0       3.4    22.6     76.1
Others                       0.5     1.0      4.8     26.6
Total                       17.8    26.0    76.7    194.7



-37-
Annex 1.1
Page 4 of 14
D. Road Expenditures and Plans
8.       In real terms, total Central and State Government Development
Plan expenditure on roads in Bihar generally increased only slowly
over the 30 years to 1980, except for a sharp jump in national
highways expenditure 1961-66 and a similarly sharp jump in state
expenditure 1974-78. However, there was a large increase in
expenditures in the Sixth Plan, which has been largely sustained in
the Seventh Plan:
Annual DeveloRment Expenditure on Roads in Bihar. 1952-90
(Rs million, 1970 prices)
Central
National                        Joint
Plan Period      Highways  Other    State   Central/State   Total
Actual
First   (1952-56)      14.2    0.0      47.5          -           61.7
Second  (1957-61)      24.9    1.9      49.7          -           76.6
Third   (1962-66)    106.7    0.7       48.6          -          156.1
Annual  (1967-69)      40.6    1.1       34.2         -           85.3
Fourth  (1970-74)      34.2    3.6      61.6          -           99.5
Fifth   (1975-79)      27.0    1.0     119.0          -          147.0
Annual  (1980)         42.0    1.4      178.2         -          221.6
Sixth   (1981-85)      38.7    1.8     248.4       54.4          343.3
Planned
Seventh (1986-90)      28.3    1.1     209.2       87.7          326.3
Source:  Planning Commission (Annex 6.1, Ref. 6)
As the road lengths cited in para. 5 confirm, much of the expenditure
has been applied to extending the lower class network, especially in
recent years. Expenditure under "other" Central schemes has increased
markedly since 1980, reflecting the introduction of schemes such as
tribal roads, the National Rural Employment Program (NREP), and the
Rural Landless Employment Guarantee Program (RLEGP). For some of
these programs, the State Government is required to make matching
expenditures. Furthermore, the State Government has its own programs
for district and village roads. Overall, almost 60% of Central and
State Government roads expenditure since 1980 has been applied to



-38-
Annex 1.1
Page 5 of 14
rural roads. This thrust is -ontinuing in Bihar's Seventh State Plan,
bearing in mind that RCD roads include a substantial effort on other
district roads:
State Development Expenditure on Roads. 1986-90
(Rs million)
Seventh Plan
Allocation       Actual    ExRected   Proposed
(1985 Prices)   1986  1987    1988        1989
RCD Roads             1,570         376   500      510        520
MNP Rural Roads       1,960         327   417      448        483
Urban Roads           _170           57    91      100         80
Total                 3,700         760 1,008   1,058       1,083
9.       Under the Minim-m Needs Program (MNP) for rural roads, Bihar
aims to provide by 1990 a road to all villages with a population of
1,500 or more, and to 50% of the villages with a population between
1,000 and 1,500. This translates into the following targets:
Village Size     No.        No. linked     No. linked
1985           1990
1500 +           9310          6889           9310
1000-1500        6104          2783           3052
This will require the construction of some 4,200 km of village roads,
compared with 3,800 km under the previous Plan (1980-85).
10.      Other road objectives in Bihar's Seventh Plan are:
(a)  to complete major bridges over the Gandak river at Hajipur
and the Kosi river at Dumarighat, and four-laning of the
bridge over the Ganges at Patna (all these works have now
been completed);
(b)  to start work on a new major bridge across the Ganges at
Bhagalpur;



-39-
Annex 1. 1
Page 6 of 14
(c)  to increase the length of surfaced state highways by 123 km,
major district roads by 224 km and other district roads by
285 km; and
(d) to strengthen and/or widen 75 - 100 km of RCD roads per year.
11.      As discussed in greater detail in the main text, all states
in India are spending less on maintenance than the norms suggested by
the Eighth Finance Commission. In 1986 Bihar's maintenance
expenditures were 56% of the norms, just above the national average.
While this is hardly a satisfactory situation, the norms are an
imperfect guide to true maintenance funding requirements (though they
provide an order of magnitude guide), and bearing in mind that Bihar
is the poorest state, it can be considered to be making a reasonable
maintenance effort in relation to the other states, especially as it
increased maintenance expenditure by almost 60% in 1987:
Maintenance Expenditure on RCD Roads
Rs million
Road Class        1980      1985       1986      1987
State Highways      71.4      123.4      121.5     196.0
Major District
Roads             53.6       92.6      100.4     147.0
Other Roads         53.6       92.6       9G.4     147.0
Total             178.6     308.6      312.3     490.0
E. Organization of Road Construction DeRartment (RCD)
12.      The Bihar RCD is responsible for planning, construction, and
maintenance of all roads in the state, although administration of most
district and local roads is delegated to local authorities. RCD is
headed by a Secretary who is responsible for overall functioning of
the various agencies involved in road development and maintenance in
the state. Day-to-day functioning of RCD is vested in the Engineer-
in-Chief-cum-Special Secretary, who is supported by a number of Chief
Engineers responsible for planning, monitoring, plant and equipment,
designs and project implementation activities at zonal level. Chief
Engineers are, in turn, supported by a number of circles, each heAded
by a Superintending Engineer who coordinates the activities of four to
five divisions. Each Division is headed by an Executive Engineer
supported by a number of Assistant Engineers and Junior Engineers
responsible for planning, designs, actual execution and monitoring of
highway projects incliding maintenance.



-40-
Annex 1.1
Page 7 of 14
F. The Project
13.      The project component relating to Bihar comprises:
(a)  Civil Works (see Map 20900)
(i) Construction of a major bridge over the Ganges at
Bhagalpur, together with about 14 km of approach ruads;
and
(ii) strengthening and widening to two lanes, two state roads
totalling about 100 km;
(b)  specialized equipment to assist RCD in monitoring the
condition and usage of its road network; and
(c)  staff training, technical assistance, and consulting services
to introduce a pavement management system, to essist in
contract supervision and other improvements in highway
administration.
14.      Bhagalpur Bridge:  At present, there is no permanent crossing
of the Ganges River for 280 km between the bridge at Mokameh and the
Farakka Barrage on the West Bengal state border. The bridge, which
falls about mid-way between these two structures will be about 4 km in
length and have two traffic lanes. The river crossing itself is about
l,OOOm and the remainder of the structure will be in viaduct, mainly
to cross the flood plain on the northern bank. The decision to have a
lengthy viaduct on the north side was taken to avoid extensive river
training works which would have been required to protect the approach
embankment of a shorter bridge. This solution is the most economical
of the bridge length/river training options studied and provides the
best safety margin against breaching through high flood. The
structure also needs to be linked to the main road network, requiring
about 14 km of new works.
15.      Road strengthening and widening:  The two roads to be
strengthened and widened are Hajipur-Muzaffarpur (51 km) and Sonepur-
Chhapra (50 km) (Map 20900). These roads were selected by RCD and the
Bihar Planning Department from a longer list of needs on the basis of
traffic levels, present road condition, and prospective developments
in the area of influence of the respective roads. The Hajipur-
Muzaffarpur road is one of the most important north-south state
highways, linking two east-west National Highways, and serving north-
south traffic out of the state capital Patna. Traffic on this road
has been growing rapidly since 1982 when a bridge was completed
linking Patna on the south bank of the Ganges with Hajipur on the
north bank. The bridge had to be widened from 2 lanes to 4, which was
completed in 1986. However, the Hajipur-Muzaffarpur road, which is
now carrying 4,600 vehicles per day, is still only intermediate width
(5.5m one and a half lanes), with a structurally inadequate pavement,
substandard and narrow bridges and culverts, and sections totalling



-41-
Annex 1.1
Page 8 of 14
2 km, which are subject to submergence during the wet season. Under
the project, the pavement will be strengthened and widened to two
lanes (7m), and the other deficiencies rectified.
16.       The Sonepur-Chhapra road, like that between Hajipur and
Muzaffarpur, is experiencing strong traffic growth following the
opening of the Patna-Hajipur bridge. The section to Chhapra forms
part of several alternative links to north-western Bihar and the
north-eastern part of neighbouring Uttar Pradesh, one of which
.connects with a project road in that state (viz., Gorakhpur-Ballia).
Sonepur-Chhapra is now carrying over 3,000 vehicles per day, yet is
only one and a half .anes wide (5.5m), has poor pavement, and some 7
km subject to submergence. The project will remove these
deficiencies.
17.       The other project components (equipment, technical assistance
and training) are the same as for the other states, and are described
in paras. 4.11-.16 of the 'ain text.
18.       The project in Bihar is estimated to cost Rs 1,436 million
(US$ ^9.0 million), as detailed below.
(RUF-EES Million)                   (USS Million)
b Tctal                          ' 'o'a'
X Foreign Base                    I Foreign Base
Local Foreign Total  Exchanse  Costs  Lzcal Foreign total Exchante  Costs
A. ROAD SYSTEM
1. BHAGALP'JR BRID6E             276.2  814.1  460.3      40    43  20.5   13.6 34.1        40    43
2. BRIDGE APPROACHES      14KM   '51.1   19.9   71.0      28      ?   3.8    1.5  5.3       28      7
3. PROTECTION WORKS              15.1   5.9   21.0        28      2   1.1    0.4  1.6       28      2
4. LAND ACQUISITION               16.7     -   1S.7        -      2   1.2      -  1.2        -
5. HAJIPUR-MUIAFFARPUR ROAD   51KH  121.7   47.3  169.0   28    16   9.0   3.5 12.5         28    16
6. SONEPuR-CHHAPRA ROAD   50KM  154.8   60.2  21.,.0      28    20  1.15    4.5 15.9        28    20
7. SUPERVISION                   57,2      -   57.2        -      5   4,2      -  4.2        -      5
8. EQUIPMENT                      1.9   13.8  .5.7        88      1   0.1   1.0  1.2        88      1
9, TRAINING                       0.6   4.7    5.4        38      1   00    0.3  0.4      B       1
10. MAINTENANCE ANAGEMENT STUDY   0.6    9.4   10.0       94      1   0.0   0.7  0.7        94      1
11. CONTRACT SUPERVISION TA       1.4   21.'   22.6       94      2   0.1    1.6  1.1       94      2
Sub-Total ROAD SYSTEM              697.3  366.6 1,063.8      34   100  51.6   27.2 78.8        34   100
Total BASELINE COSTS                 697.3  366.6 lO6!3.8     34   100  51.6   27.2 78.8        34   100
Phssical Contingencies             69.7   36.7  106.4       34    10  5.2    2.7  7.9         34    10
Price Contingencies               189.5   76.3  265.8       29    25   9.1   3.2 12.3         26    16
Total PROJECT COSTS                  956.5  479.5 1,436.0     33   135  65.9   33.1 99*0        33    t26
G.  Economic Evaluation:  Roads
19.       The road components in Bihar were evaluated using the same
methodolorr applied in the other states, which is described in



-42-
Annex 1.1
Page 9 of 14
Chapter V of the main text. The results of these evaluations are
detailed in Tables 1 and 2 and summarized below:
Road                   Rate of Return
Hajipur-Muzaffarpur                 20%
Sonepur-Chhapra                     12%
H. Economic Evaluation: BhagalRur Bridge
20.      A separate methodology was required for the Bhagalpur Bridge,
and is described in the following paragraphs.
Background
21.      The Ganges River traverses Bihar for a distance of over 460
km, dividing the state into two distinct parts - predominately
agricultural North Bihar covering 98,000 sq. km and the more
indtmstrial South Bihar covering 75,000 sq. km. The economic
integration of the two parts has long been constrained by inadequate
river crossings. Until recently, the state had only two crossing
sites (apart from ferries): a road-cum-rail bridge constructed in 1959
at Mokameh, and the Farakka Barrage at the West Bengal border,
separated by a distance of 280 kms. Between 1978 and 1982, two more
bridges were constructed west of Mokameh at Buxar near the Uttar
Pradesh border and at Patna, the state capital. However, the
unbridged 280 km stretch between Mokameh and Farakka remains, and it
is proposed to construct a new bridge at Bhagalpur, approximately mid
way along this stretch. Obviously, this would substantially reduce
the distance for many trips in the eastern part of the state, and
promote north-south integration in that area. Ultimately, the bridge
would form part of a proposed national highway running from the
industrial belt in southern Bihar via Purnia to Jogbani near the Nepal
border. However, the economic rationale lies not so much in benefits
to long distance transit traffic as in immediate distance reductions
within the bridge's direct area of influence, which does not depend on
road improvements other than the limited links encompassed in the
proposed project.
Proiect Area
22.      The project area (Map 20900), extending between Mokameh and
Farakka, encompasses traffic routes linking Bihar with West Bengal and
Orissa in the south and Nepal, Assam and north-eastern states to the
north. Covering 20,300 sq. km in the north and 26,200 sq. km in the
south, it accounts for 27% of Bihar's total area. The population in
t-he northern part numbers 10.2 million, and that in the southern part



-43-
Annex 1.1
Page 10 of 14
8.9 million (1981 census). In both parts, the population is
predominately rural, although there are 68 towns with populations of
more than 10,000, the largest (all over 100,000) being Bhagalpur and
Monghyr in the south and Katihar and Purnia in the north. Agriculture
is the main livelihood in both parts, but particularly so in the
north, where 86% of the workforce is engaged in agriculture, 60% of
the total area is cropped (compared with 40% in the south), and
cropping intensity is higher. The principal crops are rice, wheat and
maize, plus jute in the north. Southern Bihar (extending beyond the
project area) is quite heavily industrialized (cement, steel, silk and
cigarettes) and thf southern portion of the project area has
considerable industrial potential. Industrial estates are being
developed at Bhagalpur, Deogarh, Dumka, and Monghyr. Thus the two
parts of the project area complement each other, as reflected in the
movement of agricultural goods from the north and industrial and
consumer goods from the soutt.
TransRort Network
23.      The transport network in the project area is poorly
developed, particularly in the north which has 0.26 km of surfaced
road per 1,000 persons, compared with a state average of 0.48 and a
national average of 1.07. The north is served by a meter gauge rail
system, but traffic with the south has to be transshipped because the
south is served by a broad gauge system. Rail volumes between the two
regions are therefore small. Ferry services (map) cater to a
considerable volume of north-south traffic, but this is a relatively
high cost operation as heavy vehicles can be carried at only one
crossing point (Sahibganj); ferries at other locations can carry a
maximum of two light vehicles; most goods and passengers are
transferred from vehicle to ferry and back to vehicle.
24.      Although the project area'F road network is inadequate, it is
sufficiently well-developed to take advantage of the improved access
which the bridge would provide. National highway 31 runs from west to
east along the northern bank of the Ganges then turns north through
Purnia towards the north-east states. State highways, many proposed
for upgrading to national highways under the 1981-2000 National Road
Plan (Map 20900, and Annex 6.1 Reference 3), traverse the area. Most
relevant are the highway running along the southern river bank, that
running from the south through Dumka to Bhagalpur, and the highway
running north from near the bridge site through Madhepura and Birpur
to the Nepal border. Only 14 km of road (2 km on the south bank and
12 km on the north) need to be constructed or upgraded to link the
bridge into this network.
Traffic Analysis
25.      To measure north-south traffic in the project area,
classified traffic volume and origin-destination surveys were
conducted at three road sites and the four major ferry crossing points
(map), and more limited surveys were conducted at the two less
important ferry crossings; Indian Railways provided data on rail



-44-
Annex 1.1
Page 11 of 14
traffic over the Mokameh and Farakka bridges with origins or
destinations in the project area. Approximately 4000 vehicles per
day cross both the Mokameh Bridge and the Farakka Barrage each day.
Rail traffic across the two bridges totalled 13.9 million passengers
and 2.3 million tons in 1987. After applying a least distance matrix
to the origin-destination data it was concluded that the following
existing vehicular traffic is likely to divert to the bridge (1988
traffic levels):
Vehicles per day diverting from
Vehicle J.)=           Road      Ferry      MU       TotlRail
Car                    119         10         4       133
Bus                    115         --        18       133
Truck                  120         50         4       174
Motorcycle/scooter       -        110        -        110
Total                  354        170        26       550
26.      In addition to this existing vehicular traffic, 10,350
passengers/day and 3,630 tons/day are transshipped from vehicles to
ferries for the river crossing, then back to vehicles.  When the Patna
bridge was opened, 90% of this type of ferry traffic diverted to the
bridge. Because some of the ferry services in the influence area of
the proposed bridge are more distant from the bridge than those from
which traffic diverted to the Patna bridge, a lower diversion rate of
60% has been assumed.
27.      All this "base" traffic (i.e., traffic which would exist in
the absence of the new bridge) is projected to grow at 7% p.a. for
cars, 10% for buses and 6% for trucks and motorcycles/scooters,
reflecting historical traffic growth rates in the project area. Over
and above this "base" traffic, the improved accessibility provided by
the bridge is likely to induce new trips; this reflects the
"developmental impact" of the bridge. Again, experience with the
Patna bridge provides some guide to the likely magnitude of this
effect. An impact study revealed that within 5 years of the bridge
opening the number of trucks arriving from north of the Ganges to
deliver produce at the Musallahpur market in Patna increased from
2,129 to 6,702 per year, much more than can be explained by the
diversion of traffic from ferries. A further indication is given by
the traffic volumes on the bridge itself, which increased 60% within
three years of the bridge opening. Normal traffic growth might
account for about half of this, the remaining reflecting induced or
generated traffic. For the proposed project, it has been assumed
conservatively that inducee traffic would be equivalent to 10% of the



-45-
Annex 1.1
Page 12 of 14
"base" traffic in the opening year of the bridge and that this would
increase gradually to 30% within 5 years of the bridge opening.
28.      In summary, bridge traffic in 1994 (the opening year) is
projected to comprise:
Proiected Bridge Traffic. 1994
(vehicles per day)
Vehicle Type           Diverted   Induced      Total
Car                         466       47         513
Bus                         443       44         487
Truck                       865       86         951
Motorcycle/scooter          156       16          172
Total                     1,930      193       2,123
Details of the sources of this traffic (an input for the calculation
of benefits) are provided in Table 3. To place this projected traffic
level in perspective, as already noted the Mokameh and Farakka bridges
each carry about 4,000 vehicles per day at present, which is likely to
reach 6,000 by 1994.
Cost/benefit analysis
29.      A standard conversion factor of 0.8 has been applied to
financial costs to convert them to economic costs at border prices.
(Strictly, the conversion factor should be applied to the domestic
component and the foreign component should be converted to c.i.f.
terms. However, for convenience the conversion factor has been
applied to all costs. As the tax component in imported items is
greater than 20%, this procedure tends to overstate economic costs and
thus understate the rate of return.) Annual maintenance costs are
estimated at 0.5% of initial construction costs, a common value for
structures. Benefits have been estimated directly in economic terms.
30.      Four categories of benefits have been quantified:
(a) cost savings for traffic diverted from road and rail and for
vehicular traffic diverted from ferries;
(b) cost savings for freight previously transshipped via ferries;
(d) travel time savings; and
I  N   1^ r  fit- , tnt  ir.ltid-x-t  t-r  ffir.



-46-
Annex 1.1
Page 13 of 14
31.      Savings in Vehicle Ooerating Costs   The bridge would reduce
the distance for various origin-destination trips by up to 252 kms
(Table 4). The weighted average distance reduction per trip (i.e.,
averaged over all origin-destination pairs) by vehicle category is:
Car            44.61 kms
Bus            42.24 kms
Truck          98.62 kms
These were multiplied by average vehicle operating costs per km for
representative roads in the project area (Table 5), which were derived
from the Road User Cost Study of 1982 (Annex 6.1, ref 2), suitably
updated. For simplicity, savings for traffic diverted from rail (a
very small part of the total - see Table 3) 'ere assumed to be the
same as those for diverted road traffic. For ferry traffic, savings
in the cost of ferry operations were added to the vehicle operating
costs resulting from distance reductions.
32.      TransshiRment Savings: It is estimated that by 1994 11,040
passengers/day and 3,090 tons/day of non-vehicular ferry traffic would
divert to the new bridge. In the absence of the bridge, this traffic
would be conveyed to the ferry crossing by 4 wheel drive vehicles
(needed to negotiate the extensive sandy foreshores of the river),
transshipped to ferry, then reloaded on 4 wheel drive vehicles on the
other side of the river. With the project, this journey will be
replaced by one along modern approach roads and across the bridge,
avoiding transshipment. The total saving in vehicle and ferry
operating costs is Rs 3.8 per passenger and Rs 39 per ton of freight.
33.      Time Savinys: Average journey time for the a passenger trip
diverted from road or rail will be reduced by an hour, and that for a
trip diverted from ferry will be reduced by half an hour. It is
estimated that 40% of the affected trips are work trips and 60%
leisure trips. Time savings for work trips have been valued at Rs
2.60 per hour, equivalent to half the national average wage rate of Rs
6.50 per hour after applying the standard conversion factor of 0.8.
Conservatively, no value was attributed to leisure time savings. The
total value of passenger time savings in 1994 is Rs 6.7 million. The
time value (inventory cost) of freight is estimated at Rs 0.7 per
ton/hour, and the average distance saving of 98.3 kms per truck trip
translates into a time saving of approximately 2 hours per trip. The
average truck load is 7.5 tons. Thus the value of truck freight time
savings in 1994 is 7.5 tons x Rs 0.7 x 2 hours x 176 trucks/day x 365
- Rs 674,520. The time saving for non-vehicular ferry freight is half
an hour per trip, so the annual value for this type of freight is
3,090 tons/day x Rs 0.7 x 0.5 x 365 - Rs 394,930.
34.      Benefits to Induced or Generated Traffic: As noted above, the
improved accessibility provided by the bridge can be expected to
induce new traffic equivalent to 10% of the base traffic. Following
the usual convention in transport evaluation, benefits to this traffic
are valued at half the unit rate applying to base traffic. Thus an
amount equivalent to 5% of the sum of the preceding benefits is added
for this item.



-47-
Annex -1.
Page 14 of 14
Results
35.      Taking a 20 year analysis period from the bridge's opening in
1994, the rate of return is 20.2% (Table 6). The following
sensitivity tests were conducted:
Test                           Rate of Return
Costs increased 10% (Table 7)                        18.9%
Completion delayed one year (Table 8)                19.6%
Traffic 10% less than forecast (Table 9)             18.8%
Thus the economic merit of the bridge is robust to the principal
risks.



-48-
HDN-123 REPORT                                                                                    ANNEX 1.1
RUN   HAJIPUR - NUZAFFARPUR   51 Km                                                               ------
TABLE I
TOTAL AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC (TOO-WAY)
CAR      BUS    TRUCK    TOTAL
1988     1163       531       546      2240
1989     1250       571       587      2408
1990     1344       614       631      2589
1991     1445       660       678      2783
1992     1553       709       729      2992
1993     1670       762       784      3216
1994     1795       820       843      3457
1995     1930       881       906      3716
1996     2074       947       974      3995
1997     2230      1018      1047      4295
1998     2397      1094      1125      4617
1999     2577      1177      1210      4963
2000     2770      1265      1301      5335
2001     2978      1360      1398      5735
ECONOMIC COSTS OF ALTERNATIVES
(1988 RUPEES MILLIONS)
ROAD     ROAD      VEHICLE  VEHICLE  TOTAL    ROAD        ROAD      VEHICLE  VEHICLE  TOTAL
CAPITAL  RECURR   OPRTG    TIME        ECONOMIC CAPITAL  RECURR   OPRTG    TIME         ECONOMIC
YEAR     COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS
ALTO                                                      ALTI
1988     0.00      1.33   118.87    20.37   140.57    19.63         2.57   118.87    20.37   161.44
1989     0.00      1.17   131.89    23.09   156.15    37.63         1.07   127.18    21.72   187.59
1990     0.00      1.27   147.90    26.51   175.68    70.35         1.43   144.64    25.62   242.04
1991     0.00      1.49   161.85    29.24   192.59    35.99         1.76   161.14    29.06   227.95
1992     0.00      1.76   173.18    31.23   206.16        0.00      0.42   142.34    22.09   164.86
1993     0.00      2.01   185.15    33.30   220.45        0.00      0.42   153.54    23.94   177.90
1994     0.00      2.23   198.04    35.54   235.80        0.00      0.42   165.49    25.89   191.80
1995     0.00      2.38   211.95    37.95   252.27        0.00      0.42   178.43    28.01   206.86
1996     0.00      2.48   227.17    40.62   270.27        0.00      0.42   192.46    30.33   223.21
1997     0.00      2.55   243.73    43.53   289.82        0.00      0.42   207.71    32.89   241.02
1998     0.00      2.61   261.64    46.70   310.95        0.00      0.42   224.34    35.71   260.47
1999     0.00      2.67   280.94    50.11   333.72        0.00      0.45   242.60    38.86   281.92
2000     0.00      2.72   301.70    53.79   358.21        0.00      0.50   262.72    42.41   305.63
2001     0.00      2.77   324.01    57.73   384.51   -40.90         0:59   284.96    46.41   291.06
COSTS SUMMARY AND COMPARISONS
CONST              TOTAL    VEHICLE              INTERNAL
RECON    ROUTINE  CONST &  OPRTG                 RATE OF
UPGRD    HAINT    MAINT    & TINE   TOTAL    RETURN
ALT      COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    (S)
--               -      -     -     -     -      -     -      -
ALTO          0.00    29.43    29.43  3497.70  3527.10
ALTI        122.70    11.34   134.04  3029.70  3163.70    20.20



-49-
HDM-123 REPORT                                                                                  ANNEX 1.1
RUN  SONEPUR - CHHAPRA  50 Km 
TABLE 2
TOTAL AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC (TWO-WAY)
CAR      BUS    TRUCK    TOTAL
1988     1110       277       512     1899
1989     1193       298       550     2041
1990     1283       320       592     2195
1991     1379       344       636     2359
1992     1482       370       684     2536
1993     1594       398       735     2726
1994     1713       428       790     2931
1995     1842       460      849      3151
1996     1980       494       913     3387
1997     2128       531       982     3641
1998     2288       571      1055     3914
1999     2459       614      1134     4207
2000     2644       660      1220     4523
2001     2842       709      1311     4862
ECONONIC COSTS OF ALTERNATIVES
(1988 RUPEES MILLIONS)
ROAD     ROAD      VEHICLE  VEHICLE  TOTAL    ROAD        ROAD     VEHICLE  VEHICLE  TOTAL
CAPITAL  RECURR   OPRTG    TIME       ECONOMIC CAPITAL  RECURR   OPRTG    TIME         ECONOMIC
YEAR     COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS
ALTO                                                      ALT1
1988     0.00      1.26   102.73    14.88   118.87    24.97        2.44   102.73    14.88   145.03
1989     0.00      1.07   113.35    16.68   131.10    47.86        0.96   108.97    15.64   173.43
1990     0.00      1.12   125.37    18.74   145.23    89.48        1.26   123.10    18.22   232.07
1991     0.00      1.29   135.62    20.32   157.23    45.78        1.54   135.70    20.34   203.36
1992     0.00      1.51   145.23    21.73   168.47       0.00      0.42   118.82    15.03   134.27
1993     0.00      1.71   155.39    23.20   180.29       0.00      0.42   128.13    1f.28   144.83
1994     0.00      1.89   166.31    24.77   192.98       0.00      0.42   138.07    11.60   156.08
1995     0.00      2.06   178.09    26.47   206.63       0.00      0.42   148.81    19.03   168.25
1996     0.00      2.24   190.75    28.30   221.29       0.00      0.42   160.43    20.60   181.44
1997     0.00      2.36   204.33    30.26   236.95       0.00      0.42   173.05    22.31   195.78
1998     0.00      2.44   219.11    32.40   253.95       0.00      C.42   186.78    24.20   211.39
1999     0.00      2.51   235.14    34.74   272.38       0.00      0.44   201.79    26.30   228.53
2000     0.00      2.56   252.45    37.27   292.28        0.00     0.48   218.27    28.66   247.41
2001     0.00      2.61   271.10    40.00   313.70   -52.03        0.52   236.35    31.28   216.13
COSTS SUMMARY AND COMPARISONS
CONST              TOTAL    VEHICLE             INTERNAL
RECON    ROUTINE  CONST &  OPRTG                RATE OF
UPGRD    NAINT    NAINT    & TIME   TOTAL    RETURN
ALT      COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    (S)
ALTO          0.00    26.62    26.62  2864.70  2891.30
ALTI        156.08    10.55   166.62  2471.40  2638.00    12.30



-50-
Annex 1.2
MAHARASHTRA
Background
1.       The State of Maharashtra is located in Midwestern India on
the Arabian Sea. It borders on the north with the State of Gujarat,
on the north and east with Madhya Pradesh, and on its south are Andra
Pradesh, Karnataka and Goa. It is the third largest State of the
Union after Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan. The State is mostly a high
plateau, except for the narrow coastal area between the Western Ghats
and the sea. Its 308,000 sq. km, about 10% of the surface of the
country as a whole, make it as large as Italy or Poland. However, with
a population of about 70 million (1985) it has about 1.2-times the
population of the former and almost twice the population of the
latter.
2.       Over 65% of the State's population live in rural areas and as
much as 20% in villages of less than one thousand inhabitants.
Nonetheless, Bombay, the State's capital, is the second biggest city
in the country (1985 population 8.2 million).
3.       Maharashtra is one of the more prosperous and richer states
of India; its 1985 per capita domestic product was almost 33% higher
than the national average (about US$260 vs. US$195) and it was
generated principally in the manufacturing sector, typically an urban
activity. The recent rapid industrialization of the State inevitably
created regional imbalances which have exacerbated linguistic
divisions within the State. When India was reorganized along
linguistic lines, the state of Maharashtra was left with four distinct
regions which are still recognized today: Marathwada (the western part
of the State which came from the former Hyderabad State), Vidarbha
(the northern section of the State which came from Madhya Pradesh),
Konkan (the coastal area between the Western Chats and the sea) and
Western Maharashtra (mostly the former Bombay Presidency). The
Government is now actively trying to remove these imbalances, by among
other actions, spreading the road construction and maintenance budget
(as well as the plan budgets of other activities) proportionately
among these regions.
The Transport System
4.       Maharashtra is served by air, rail, coastal shipping and road
transport. Air transport is used mostly by passengers and Bombay is
one of the busiest domestic and international airports of the country.
In addition to Bombay there are four main domestic airports and 13
smaller scheduled service airports in the State. The railways play an
important role in the State: there are 5,300 km of track of which over
60% are broad gauge and the rest meter and narrow gauge. The railway
is mostly used for moving bulk commodities and long distance freight.



-51-
Anne. 1.2
Page 2 of 10
Maharashtra has a long coastline and Bombay is one of the country's
main ports. In addition, however, there are 50 smaller ports strung
along the 720 km coast. Still, the State relies on its road network
for most of its transportation needs.
The Road Network
5.       There are about 154,000 km of roads in Maharashtra roughly
20% paved (either bituminous or cement) and 80% gravel (including
unpaved water bound macadam) and earth. This is only slightly below
the national average density of roads per sq.km of land surface, and
almost the average number of kilometers per inhabitant for india.
Thus, Maharashtra is about as well endowed with roads as any average
Indian state.
ROAD LENGTHS IN KAHARASHTRA
(1961-1986 in km)
1961     1971      1981       1986
National Highways        2,312    2,366     2,945      2,937
State Highways           9,804   14,282    18,949    19,260
Major District Rds.    11,058   17,684    25,233    26,157
Other District Rds.      6,954   10,731    25,404    28,478
Village Roads            9,114   20,301    28,105    76,839
TOTAL                   39,242   65,364   100,636   153,671
Paved                    6,843   14,703    23,891    30,014
Gravel                  19,009   21,150    42,725    65,542
Earth                   14,390   29,511    34,020    58,115
6.       However, as opposed to many other States, the proportion of
paved to unpaved roads is relatively low (20% vs. 80% of the total
network). This, coupled with the fact that traffic has increased
substantially due to fast industrialization and improvements in rural
areas, and the inadequacy of road improvements, strengthening and
maintenance has resulted in considerable congestion and a deteriorated
network. Therefore, an important proportion of the roads now need to
be reconstructed and improved.
Traffic Volumes
7.       Traffic has increased considerably on most main, arterial
roads. Table 1 shows traffic .-olumes on national highways and major
state roads since 1980. However, it is difficult to extrapolate a
rate of growth of traffic from the information in Table 1 because of
the lack of consistency in the data. Thus, although the Maharashtra
Public Works Department has a permanent traffic counting program, it



-52-
Annex 1.2
Page 3 of 10
appears that deficiencies in the system (as can be appreciated from
Table 1) render the results somewhat useless for planning purposes.
In any event, the traffic volumes shown would be enough to exceed the
capacity of poorly constructed and maintained roads, in particular if
vehicle load restrictions are not enforced.
The Vehicle Fleet
8.       The increase in traffic over the roads is partly explained by
the increase in the number of vehicles registered in the State.
Between 1971 and 1986 the number of cars increased from 137,000 to
356,000 an average increase of 6.6% per year, buses increased by 5.9%
p.a. and the number of trucks almost tripled from 53,000 to 153,000 an
increase of 7.3% per annum.
STATE OF MAHARASHTRA
Number of Registered Vehicles
1971       1976      1981       1986
Cars                 136,778   204,660   259,626   355,910
Buses                   8,039    10,954    16,369    19,098
Trucks                 53,403    76,360   108,124   153,406
Tractors                8,335    12,018    25,474    41,395
Trailers                7,376    10,650    24,651    41,083
Two Wheelers           86,749   183,586   363,624   894,715
Three Wheelers          3,888     9,295    31,895    77,488
Other                   2,462     3,336     4,536      7,856
Total Vehicles       307,030   510,859   834,299 1,590,951
9.       The increase in the number of vehicles was paralleled closely
by increases in fuel consumption particularly automotive gasoline,
which in the same period increased an average of 8.5% per year.
Consumption of diesel fuel, in contrast, did not grow at all between
!             1971 and 1981, but since then has also closely paralleled the increase
in the number of vehicles.  This is another reflection of the
explosion in road transport that has occurred in Maharashtra, as in
the rest of India, since the early 1980s.



-53-
Annex 1.2
Page 4 of 10
STATE OF MAHARASHTRA
Gasoline and Diesel Fuel Consumption
(millions of liters)
Gasoline    Diesel
1971        582.1      375.2
1976        996.3      324.3
1981      1,632.4      375.7
1984      1,781.8      490.4
1985      1,823.2      529.2
Highway Administration
10.      The State Public Works Department (PWD, Chart 1) is
responsible for all highway related activity in Maharashtra including
the construction and maintenance of national highways for which the
Department acts as an agent of the Central Government of India.  The
Department is headed by two Secretaries one in charge of national
highways and Government buildings, and one in charge of state roads,
airports and helipads.  The Secretary for State Roads (Secretary 2) is
assisted by a Chief Engineer and Joint Secretary and eight Chief
Engineers in charge of the four regions (Bombay, Pune, Aurangabad and
Nagpur), Special Programs (mainly the Bombay Metropolitan Area),
Design, Architecture and Electrical. The Chief Engineers are assisted
by Superintending Engineers who are in charge of Circles and in turn
oversee executive engineers, deputy engineers and junior engineers.
In all the Department employs about 4,700 civil engineers, 130
electrical engineers, and about 1,500 technical assistants like
draughtsmen, accountants and clerks. In addition the Department
employs a large force of laborers and temporary workers.
Highway Planning
11.      As in all Indian States highway planning in Maharashtra is
guided by the objectives of the Road Development Plans elaborated by
successive conferences of the Chief Engineers of the various States.
The *7irst of those conferences produced the Nagpur Plan which ran from
1951 to 1961, the second produced the Bombay Plan which ran from 1961
to 1981 and the third produced the current attempt a- an all India
Road Plan, the Trivandum Plan which extends from 1981 to 2001.
12.      The guiding principle of these Plans has been the
preservation of India's rural economy by facilitating the development
of villages and small towns. Accordingly, the Plans have attempted to
improve village accessibility. The goal of the latest Plan
(1981-2001) is to have all villages of 500 inhabitants or more served
by an all weather road by the year 2001. The Plan also envisions to



-54-
Annex 1. 2
Page 5 of 10
have a national highway grid no larger than a 100 km per side, to have
all major traffic corridors served by expressways, and to have all
district headquarters, sub-divisional headquarters, major industrial,
commercial and tourist centers served by state highways.
13.      In addition to these objectives the State of Maharashtra
intends to eliminate, by the year 2001, its own regional imbalances
(see para. 3) as they were defined by a High Level Fact Finding
Commission appointed by the State Government. The Commission
determined the development imbalanc.e of each District. In roads this
imbalance was measured as a backlog, or extent by which a District was
behind the average availability of main roads in the State (main roads
the Commission defined as all weather, paved roads that join district
headquarters to one another, taluka headquarters to district
headquarters and taluka headquarters to one another). The State atms
to eliminate this backlog and to ensure that the same percentage of
the population is provided with main roads in all Districts. A
substantial proportion of the State's Plan funds is being set aside
for the removal of this backlog.
14.      As a result of these successive Plans there has been a
considerable expansion of lower class roads in the State (see para. 5)
at the expense of higher class roads which carry much higher volumes
of traffic and have remained in comparatively poorer condition. The
village connectivity policy has derived into a situation in which a
significant proportion of the traffic that moves over Maharashtra's
roads does so at a much higher cost than necessary.
15.      To counterbalance the above effect, there has been a notable
improvement in village connectivity:
Villages Connected   Villages NOT Connected
1961                            8,691                  27,470
1981                           28.629                   7.443
1981 population >1500           6,126                      78
population <1500          22,503                   7,365
16.      The question that needs to be answered now is whether the
benefits of this high village connectivity outweigh the disbenefits of
higher transport costs. It might be concluded that the connectivity
criteria, which gui'ded highway and road investments in the past, can
now be profitably replaced by an efficiency criteria. The effect of
such a change would be a shift in the use of resources from lower
class roads to the reconstruction and improvement of higher class
roads which already carry high volumes of traffic.



-55-
Annex1.
Page 6 of 10
Highway Expenditures
17.      Over the years, under the successive Plans a considerable
amount of resources have been invested in building up and expanding
the State's road network. In constant 1980 rupees about 3,000 million
has been spent by the Central Government and 9,000 million by the
State Government between 1951 and 1985:
Plan Period
1951-56 1965-61 1961-66 1966-69 1969-74 1974-79 1979-80 1980-85
Central   266.9   136.0    401.1  204.7   652.8    415.4  159.1    671.7
State     890.0   779.3  1,106.9  698.9 1,073.2  1,852.5  340.7  2,370.0
This is 370 million 1980 US d.llars of Central Government funds and
almost 1,160 million of State Government funds. Thus, the accumulated
road assets of the State of Maharashtra amount to over 1,500 million
of 1980 US dollars.
18.      A closer look at the pattern of State Government expenditures
in the last few years (Table 2) shows that, as a result of the village
connectivity policy, the State has invested, on average, about twice
as much on district and village roads than on state roads. This
coincides with a distribution of capital to current expenditures of
about 50% to 50%, as opposed to that of many other states where the
distribution is weighted considerably more towards current, mainly
maintenance, expenditures (in Rajasthan for example, 75% of the
State's road budget is spent on maintenance).
19.      This particular distribution of the State's highway and roads
budget is partly responsible for the current condition of the network.
Also responsible are the comparatively low design and construction
standards used in the past, and, perhaps more importantly, the lack of
adequate mechanisms to make investment and maintenance decisions.
Investment decisions in Maharashtra appear to be mostly motivated by
political interests rather than need, and maintenance decisions are
mostly guided by vague physical targets and financial norms rather
than the requirements of the network as determined by means of, for
example, a condition inventory.
Highway Financing
20.      State highway activities are financed with motor vehicle fees
and taxes, aud taxes on freight and passengers. As shown below,
revenues collected by the State as user charges have, over the years,
been more than enough to cover all road expenditures incurred by the
State, including capital investments:



-56-
Annex 1.2
Page 7 of 10
Fiscal Year
(Current Rupees Million)
1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981
Motor Vehicle Fees          204.9  231.9  257.8  266.2  313.5  381.1  514.4
Freight & Pax Taxes (*)    248.9  303.7  290.2  310.4  365.1  418.3  178.9
Total State Revenues        453.8  535.6  548.0  576.6  678.6  799.4  693.3
Total State Expenditures   217.7  267.0  325.6  382.8  659.0  524.7  663.4
1982      1983     1984      1985     1986
Motor Vehicle Fees               572.4      667.8    746.1    789.0    963.9
Freight & Pax Taxes              223.7      954.2    759.9  _ 744.2    887.1
Total State Revenues             796.1   1,622.0  1,506.0  1,533.2  1,851.)
Total State Expenditures(**)      n.a.      n.a.     n.a.      n.a.   1,406.;
(*)  As of FY1981 the freight transport tax, what is known as the
"further tax", is included with the motor vehicle fees.
(**) While the yearly expenditure figures from FY1982 to FY1985 are
not known, the average expenditure during the Sixth Five-Year
Plan (1980-85) was Rs 575.4 million p.a.
Sources: Basic Road Transport Statistics, Maharashtra, 1986
Road & Bridge Statistics (1961-1981), Maharashtra PWD, April 1982
Maintenance of Roads, Planning Commission, New Delhi, February 1987
Highway Safety
21.      India has one of the worst traffic safety records in the
world, and the State of Maharashtra has by far the worst highway
safety record of India. While this is the result of many
collaborating factors, there is no doubt that poor driving habits,
lack of enforcement of vehicle safety regulations and of the traffic
code, and low highway design, construction and maintenance standards
significantly contribute to this iniquitous record. As the figures
below show, the situation has been deteriorating rather than improving
in the last few years. In as much as road traffic accidents are
related to the condition of the roads and their ability to carry the
volume of traffic they presently handle, the project should help to abate
the trend.



-57-
Annex 1.2
Page 8 of 10
Motor Vehicle Accidents
12.97      1979      1980       1981      1982      1983
Number         39,835      33,719    40,404    40,376    42,516  43,500
Fatalities      2,368       1,760     3,102     2,996      3,076   3,150
Injuries       17,873      16,053    19,839    15,792    16,003  16,350
1984      1985
Fatal accidents                       3,582     3,668
Serious accidents                     2,947     2,944
Minor accidents with injury          15,571    15,536
Minor accidents without injury       26,339    28,417
Total Number Accidents               48,439    51,635
The Project
(a) ComMonents
22.      The project has four components in Maharashtra (i) a road
improvement and reconstruction coLponent, (ii) an equipment
acquisition component, (iii) a limited road maintenance component, and
(iv) a technical assistance and training component.
23.      The first involves the reconstruction and improvement of
eight sections of State Roads, totalling 673 km (Table 3). All of
them are in generally fair to poor condition and, given their present
traffic volumes, need intensive maintenance to keep them operating
adequately.
24.      The second component involves the purchase of specialized
equipment for road construction quality control and to monitor road
behavior and usage once the construction is finished. The latter
should ultimately promote improved maintenance practices in the State.
25.      The third component involves the preparation of a road
maintenance management system that would promote a better ultilization
of road funds generally but particularly those earmarked for road
maintenance. The system would be based on a careful monitoring of the
condition and use of the roads and based on economic and engineering
variables determine the best maintenance strategy to minimize life-
cycle costs for the road, which includes road user as well as
maintenance costs.
26.      The fourth component includes the financing of specialized
technical assistance in the field of civil works quality control,
technical assistance to carry out a review and assessment of the



-58-
Annex 1. 2
Page 9 of 10
current organization of the State's Public Works Department, and
overseas and in-house training in contract management and project
planning for PWD engineers.
27.        The total cost of the project is expected to be about Rs
1,265 million (about US$87 million) as detailed below:
(RUPEES Hi'lion)                     'USS M:ln)
x Total                           % Total
Z Foreign 8ase                    x F^rci4n Base
Lot3l Foreign Total  Exchange  Costs  Local Foreign Total Ec:ange  Costs
A. ROAD SYSTEM
1. PUNE-AURANGABAD ROAD   219KH  170.0   66.1  2'36.1      ^9     25  12.6    4.9 17.5        29     25
2. AURAN6AAD-MANTHA ROAD    124KH  119.7   46.6  .16.3     29      18   B,9    3.4 12.3       29      19
3, NAPGUR-KAP"AD ROAD      69KH   71.6   27.8   99.4       28      11   5.3    2.1  7.4       28      1
4. AKOLAXKANKARGAON ROAD   96KK   73.6   28.6  102.2       29      11   5.5    2.1  7.6       28      ii
5. WADA-AMIADI ROAD        23KH   19.1    7.4   26.5       28      3   1.4    0.5  2.0        29      3
S. PALSARN-WADA ROAD       47KH   40.7   15.8   56.5       28      6   3.0    1.2  4.2        28      6
7. AHNEDNAGAR-KOPARGAON ROAD 90KH    73.2   28.5  101.7    28      11   '.4   2.1  7.5        28     11
9. SUPERVISION                    78.9      -   78.9        -      8   5.8       -  5.8        -      9
9. EQUIPMENT                       1.9   13.8   15.7       88      2   0.1    1.0  1.2        8e      2
10. TRAINING                       0.6    4.7    5.4       s8      1   0.0    0.3  0.4        88      1
11. MAINTENANCE HANAGEMENT STUDY   0.6    9.4   10.0       94      1   0.0    0.7  0.7        94      1
12. CONTRACT SUPERVISION TA        1.4   21.2   22.6       94      2   0.1    1.6  1.7        94      2
13. ORGANISATION STUDY OF PUD      0.6    9.4   10.0       94      1   0,0   0.7  0.7         94      1
Sub-Total ROAD SYSTEM               651.9  279.4  931.2       30    100  48,3   20.7 6.0         30    100
Total BASELINE COSTS                  651.8  279.4  931.2       30    100  48.3   20.7 69.0        30    100
Phlsical Contingencies              65.2   27.9   93.1       30     10   4.8    2.1  6.9        30     10
Price Contingencies                193.4   57.5  241.0       24     26   9.8    2.4 11.2        22     16
Total PROJECT COSTS                   900.4  364.9 1,265.3     29    136   1.9   25.2 87.1        29    126
(b) Obiectives
28.        Each of these components caters to a specific objective of
the State Government and has been assessed as justified by the Bank.
The first, for instance, is intended to correct inadequacies, and
improve the condition of the road network which would reduce
congestion and vehicle operating costs, make the road transport
industry more efficient and help to reduce traffic accidents by
improving road safety. The second would help with the design and
execution of road construction works and improve road maintenance
techniques. The road monitoring included in it would eventually allow
PWD to make more timely and better maintenance decisions. Similarly,
the road condition data base included in the project is intended to
help to improve maintenance decision making. It is an integral
component of any future attempt at introducing modern network
management techniques.



-59-
Annex 1.2
Page 10 of 10
29.      The technical assistance effort is intended to improve the
level of project planning, preparation and management to allow the
State PWD to carry out an acceptable and sustainable works program,
particularly of maintenance activities. The study of PND's
organization is intended to assess the changes, if any, that would be
necessary to facilitate activity planning and review, decision making,
and PWD's work execution ability. The supervision of one or two of
the project contracts by consultants (rather than PWD staff) is
intended to provide a useful standard of comparison with the normal
efforts of the PWD's supervisory unit, as it will be the first time
that major roadworks would be supervised in this way.
(c) Economic Analysis
30.      All eight roads in the project (Table 3) are in fair to poor
condition, their average roughness is 4500 mm/km and they are all over
20 years ole. All roads in the project have currently 5.5 m roadways
with shoulders; however, some of the roads edges are in such poor
shape, and shoulders have deteriorated to the point where, for
practical purposes, there are no shoulders.  All roads have traffic
volumes which would have justified their earlier improvement (Tables 4
to 11).
31.      The reconstruction designs have been standardized and all
sections will be built to the same prototype. The new pavements have
been calculated for a ten-year life, and depend'ng on the residual
life of the existing pavements the reconstruction cost of the roads
varied from one section to the next. Base costs as shown in paragraph
27, including a 10% for construction supervision and 10% civil work
contingencies, have been adjusted by means of the standard conversion
factor for India (0.8) to reflect economic costs.
32.      Benefits accruing from vehicle operating cost savings and
time savings have been quantified for purposes of assessing the
economic viability of the investment on each section. The latter
result from the reduced congestion and higher speeds that the new
roads will allow; however, only savings in working time for passengers
and goods in transit have been included; together time savings do not
amount to more than 10% to 15% of total benefits. On most sections
there will be also maintenance cost savings.
33.      The internal rates of economic return on each section are
shown on Tables 4 to 11. The average weighted rate of economic return
for all road sections in Maharashtra is 43.6%, on which basis the
overall project in the State is justified.



-60-
ANNEX 1.2
Table 1
INDIA
STATE'S ROAD PROJECT
Traffic Volumes in Maharashtra State
(Average Daily Traffic)
1980                  1983                  1987
Road       At         £rs  Buses  Trucks  Cars  Buses  Trucks  Cars  Buses  Trucks
National Highwa_s
NH-3  Kapur Bawadi  4,749    656  4,501  7,017  2,506  6,973  4,442  1,317  6,928
Igatpuri        590    266  1,944  1,043    369  2,313    -         -      -
Kasara Ghat     431    138  2,028    847    220  2,559  1,272    417  2,801
NH-4  Kalwa          2,149    549  2,965  4,605  1,291  4,364  2,047    640  1,640
Khandala        296  1,255  4,421  2,048    810  3,807  3,267  1,308  4,495
Kalyanfata    1,437    813  2,239  1,197    861  2,342    -         -      -
NH-6  Fagne            196    153  1,397    407    179  1,519  1,758    309  2,817
Jalamb Naka     296    199  1,391    479    132  1,544    349        87  1,105
Eolabad         456    164  1,164    182    105  1,399    -         -      -
NH-7  Ajani          2,196    857  1,383  4,207  1,113  9,048    416    156    783
Pander Kawda    195    140    522    168    116    606    -         -      -
Pimpal Khoti    -       -      -       -      -      -      40      52     668
NH-8  Shirsad          829    212  2,869  1,144    256  4,769  3,036    185  6,876
Talasari        746      59  2,152  1,153    199  4,499  1,323    189  3,819
Charohnaka      711      63  2,173  1,053   108   3,686  1,332    158  3,326
NH-9  Indapur          155     85    966    203    174    746    694    246  1,205
Naldurg         135    114  1,116    313    155  1,318  1,487    309  1,879
Omerga          190    150  1,106    558    161  1,308    -         -      -
NH-17 Falmafata        770    563    777  1,441    953  1,239    904    698  1,191
Kudal           470    190    331    468    172    267    475    282    275
Kankawali        559    495    465    466    307    381    -        -      -
State Highways
SH-1  Daultabad        403    141    493    381    176    435       -      -      -
Khultabad         -      -      -       -      -      -      674    184    349
Chalisgaon       52      50    266     86      82    279       -      -      -
Mehunbara          -      -      -       -      -      -    242    137    632



-61-
ANNEX 1. 2
Table 1
(Continued)
Traffic Volumes in Maharashtra State
(Average Daily Traffic)
1980                  1983                  1986
DM4       At          Cars  Buses  Trucks  Cars  Buseg  Trucks  Cr   Buses  Trucks
SH-3   Malegaon         31     85    156      43     94    309      98    115    410
Shirur         331    127    677    141    153    590        -      -      -
Ardhapur       113    250    553    167    195    676    172    168    667
Hadgaon         39    170    274      72    128    168    401    355    637
SH-7   Chandrapur   2,285    278  1,016  2,224    138  1,204  2,027    137  3,615
Mul             57      55    130    120      59    371    282      94    641
SH-8   Kaigaon         240    135    540    251    144    653    504   178       820
Ajantha        228    169    493    284    155    496    392    186    570
SH-20  Nagar Naka      873    479  1,619    766    290    947    643    162    780
Adgaon Naka    550    191    875    526       70  1,110    919    114  1,132
SH-176 Jalna           149    106    270    196    130    353       -      -
Wadigodri        -      -      -       -      -      -      165    115    624
SH-204 Warud Tanda    188    155    772    275    184    778    343    90        951
Source:  Maharashtra, Public Works flepartment
June 1988



-62-
ANNEX 1. 2
Table 2
INDIA
STATE'S ROAD PROJECT
State Highway ExRenditures
(Current Rupees million)
1985-86   1986-87   1987-88
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES
State Highway Construction          169.61    112.50    100.00
Railway Safety Works                  8.50      10.00     10.00
R & D and Monitoring                  1.62       2.00      2.00
Plant and Equipment                  12.67      14.50      5.00
Establishment for L.A.                0.75       1.00      2.00
Removal of Regional Backlog          87.10    110.00      90.00
Sub-Total State Highways            280.25    250.00    209.00
District Roads Construction         114.57    243.15    344.08
Roads to Harijan Bastis               4.18      11.60     12.86
Plant and Equipment for Districts    2.50        1.73      5.14
Construction of Footbridges           8.60      20.00     20.00
Removal of Regional Backlog         157.90    145.30    338.00
Sub-Total District Roads            287.75    421.78    720.08
Roads in Bombay Metro Area           50.00      82.50    125.00
Sub-Total Capital Expenditures      618.00    754.28  1,054.08
CURRENT EXPENDITURES
Periodic Maintenance                209.91    260.53
Black Topping Village Roads          16.21      23.92
Ordinary Maintenance                304.84    303.71
Special Repairs to Bridges           14.08      21.53
Roads            24.27      27.86
Repairs to Rds w/heavy traffic      159.29    159.76
Repairs to Drainage Systems          20.21      19.36
Flood Damage                         28.43      31.83
Road Safety                           9.90      18.97
Repairs to Footbridges                1.45       1.73
Sub-Total Current Expenditures      788.59    869.20
GRAND TOTAL                       1,406.59  1,623.48
Source: Maharashtra, Public Works Department
February 1988



-63-
ANNEX 1.2
INDIA                                          Table 3
STATE'S ROAD PROJECT
MAHARASHTRA
DEFINITION OF HIGHWAYS TO BE INPROVED
ROAD                          ROAD           TERRAIN                 PAVEMENT          CONDITION
No              Section           LENGTH   RISE+FALL CURVATURE    BASE  WRG CRS  LNS.   (ROUGHNESS)
km         Okm:    deg/km        mm     is       t        ms/km
SH- 60   Pune 'o Ahaednagar          113.6       20.0       120          500     20   1.5         4500
SH- 10   Ah.ediiagar to Kopargaon    95.0        20.0       120          330     20   1.5         4500
SH- 60   Ahiednagar to Aurangabad  105.4         20.0       120          325     20   1.5         4500
SH-  4   Aurangabad to Hantha        124.0       20.0       200          275     20   1.5         4500
SH-204   Akola to Kanhergaon          96.0       10.0       100          280     75   1.5         4500
SH-  9   Nagpur to Kampad             69.0       10.0       100          300     20   1.5         4500
SH- 34   Palghar to Wada              47.0       25.0       200          250    100   1.5         4500
SH- 35   Wada to Asbadi               23.0       25.0       200          275     50   1.5         4500
Source: Maharashtra PWD
Septeeber 1988



-64-
HDh-123 REPORT                                                                                  ANNEX 1.2
RUN  PUNE - AHHEDNAGAR   113.6 K                                                                ---------
TABLE 4
TOTAL AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC (TWO-WAY)
CAR      BUS    TRUCK    TOTAL
1988      907       472     1464      2843
1989      968       498      1558     3024
1990     1033       526      1657     3216
1991     1102       556      1764     3421
1992     1176       587      1876     3639
1993     1254       620      1996     3871
1994     1338       655     2124      4117
1995     1428       691     2260      4379
1996     1524       730     2405      4658
'997     1626       771     2559      4955
1998     1735       814     2722      5271
1999     1851       860     2897      5607
2000     1975       908      3082     5965
2001     2107       959      3279     6345
ECONOMIC COSTS OF ALTERNATIVES
(1988 RUPEES MILLION)
ROAD     ROAD      VEHICLE  VEHICLE  TOTAL    ROAD        ROAD     VEHICLE  VEHICLE  TOTAL
CAPITAL  RECURR   OPRTG    TIME       ECONOMIC CAPITAL  RECURR   OPRTG    TIME         ECONOMIC
YEAR     COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS
ALTO                                                      ALT1
1988     0.00      3.84   351.21    50.95   406.00    13.72        7.49   351.21    50.95   423.36
1989     0.00      4.47   393.55    58.84   456.85    26.29        4.31   384.87    56.78   472.25
1990     0.00      5.56   425.33    64.00   494.89    49.15        5.57   427.02    64.39   546.12
1991     0.00      6.44   448.80    67.06   522.30    25.15        5.69   450.01    67.34   548.19
1992     0.00      7.12   474.41    70.46   551.99       0.00      0.94   400.79    52.84   454.57
1993     0.00      7.70   502.21    74.19   584.09       0.00      0.94   428.36    56.58   485.88
1994     0.00      8.09   532.07    78.22   618.37       0.00      0.94   457.51    60.50   518.95
1995     0.00      8.28   564.47    82.64   655.39       0.00      0.94   488.90    64.76   554.61
1996     0.00      8.38   599.65    87.50   695.53       0.00      0.94   522.84    69.41   593.20
1997     0.00      8.43   637.46    92.74   738.63       0.00      0.94   559.63    74.51   635.09
1998     0.00      8.45   677.88    98.36   784.69       0.00      1.05   599.92    80.21   681.18
1999     0.00      8.46   721.00   104.34   833.80       0.00      1.40   644.67    86.70   732.78
2000     0.00      8.47   766.92   110.71   886.10       0.00      1.67   693.61    93.91   789.19
2001     0.00      8.47   815.82   117.47   941.76   -28.58        2.00   747.57   101.99   822.98
COSTS SUMMARY AND COMPARISONS
CONST              TOTAL    VEHICLE             INTERNAL
RECON    ROUTINE  CONST &  OPRTG                RATE OF
UPGRD    MAINT    MAINT    & TIME   TOTAL    RETURN
ALT      COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    (t)
ALTO         0.00   102.14   102.14  9068.20  9170.40
ALTI        85.73    34.84   120.56  8137.80  8258.30    49.90



-65-
HDH-123 REPORT                                                                                ANNEX 1.2
RUN  ANMEDNAGAR - KOPARGAON  95.0 Ks                                                          -
TABLE 5
TOTAL AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC (TWO-WAY)
CAR      BUS    TRUCK    TOTAL
1988     1483      296       785     2564
1989     1582      313       835     2730
1990     1688      330       889     2907
1991     1802      349       946     3096
1992     1922      368      1006     3296
1993     2051      389      1071     3510
1994     2188      411      1139     3738
1995     2335      434      1212     3980
1996     2492      458      1289     4239
1997     2658      483      1372     4514
1998     2837      510      1460     4807
1999     3027      539      1553     5119
2000     3229      569      1653     5451
2001     3446      601      1758     5805
ECONOMIC COSTS OF ALTERNATIVES
(1988 RUPEES MILLION)
ROAD     ROAD     VEHICLE  VEHICLE  TOTAL    ROAD       ROAD     VEHICLE  VEHICLE  TOTAL
CAPITAL  RECURR   OPRTG    TIME      ECONOMIC CAPITAL  RECURR   OPRTG    TIME       ECONOMIC
YEAR     COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS
ALTO                                           ALTI
1988     0.00     9.57   262.10    34.93   306.60    11.81    18.97   262.10    34.93   327.81
1989     0.00     7.74   276.59    36.53   320.86    22.63       3.53   244.51    28.45   299.11
1990     0.00     7.05   299.62    39.98   346.66    42.31       4.43   269.71    32.76   349.21
1991     0.00     6.69   322.67    43.29   372.65    21.65       4.43   299.27    37.84   363.18
1992     0.00     6.52   344.81    46.26   397.59       0.00     0.79   295.03    34.20   330.02
1993     0.00     6.47   367.80    49.29   423.56       0.00     0.79   315.23    36.62   352.64
1994     0.00     6.50   391.82    52.41   450.73       0.00     0.79   336.57    39.15   376.50
1995     0.00     6.52   417.09    55.65   479.26       0.00     0.79   359.45    41.87   402.10
1996     0.00     6.53   444.06    59.11   509.70       0.00     0.79   384.03    44.81   429.63
1997     0.00     6.53   472.82    62.80   542.15       0.00     0.79   410.50    48.02   459.31
1998     0.00     6.53   503.47    66.72   576.72       0.00     0.79   439.09    51.52   491.40
1999     0.00     6.54   536.12    70.89   613.54       0.00     O.bd   470.23    55.42   526.53
2000     0.00     6.54   570.90    75.33   652.76       0.00     1.03   504.24    59.77   565.05
2001     0.00     6.54   607.94    80.04   694.51   -24.60       1.28   541.56    64.65   582.89
COSTS SUMMARY AND COMPARISONS
CONST             TOTAL    VEHICLE             INTERNAL
RECON    ROUTINE  CONST &  OPRTG              RATE OF
UPGRD    MAINT    MAINT    & TIME   TOTAL    RETURN
ALT      COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    (S)
ALTO         0.00    96.26    96.26  6591.00  6687.30
ALTI        73.80    40.06   113.86  5741.50  5855.40    96.80



-66-
HDM-123 REPORT                                                                                   ANNEX 1.2
RUN AHMEDNAGAR - AURANGABAD  105.4 K                                                            ---------
TABLE 6
TOTAL AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC (TWO-WAY)
CAR      BUS    TRUCK    TOTAL
1988     1001       302      1025     2328
1989     1107       316      1079     2503
1990     1225       331      1137     2692
1991     1354       347      1197     2898
1992     1498       363      1260     3121
1993     1657       380      1327     3364
1994     1832       398      1397     3627
1995     2026       417      1471     3914
1996     2241       436      1549     4227
1997     2479       457      1632     4567
1998     2742       478      1718     4938
1999     3032       501      1809     5342
2000     3354       524      1905     5782
2001     3709       549      2006     6263
ECONOMIC COSTS OF ALTERNATIVES
(1988 RUPEES MILLION)
ROAD     ROAD      VEHICLE  VEHICLE  TOTAL    ROAD        ROAD     VEHICLE  VEHICLE  TOTAL
CAPITAL  RECURR   OPRTG    TIME       ECONOMIC CAPITAL  RECURR   OPRT6    TIME         ECONOMIC
YEAR     COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS
ALTO                                                      ALTI
1988     0.00      3.19   262.77    35.11   301.07    13.70        6.20   262.77    35.11   317.78
1989     0.00      3.64   297.54    40.95   342.13    26.27        3.67   285.39    38.19   353.51
1990     0.00      4.51   329.74    45.88   380.14    49.11        4.75   322.88    44.40   421.14
1991     0.00      5.21   351.53    48.36   405.10    25.12        4.91   351.89    48.43   430.36
1992     0.00      5.74   375.64    51.12   432.50        0.00     0.88   314.15    36.99   352.01
1993     0.00      6.18   402.29    54.21   462.67        0.00     0.88   339.44    39.79   380.10
1994     0.00      6.57   431.49    57.59   495.65        0.00     0.88   366.70    42.75   410.32
1995     0.00      6.91   463.29    61.27   531.46        0.00     0.88   396.51    46.00   443.39
1996     0.00      7.08   497.96    65.26   570.29       0.00      0.88   429.21    49.58   479.66
1997     0.00      7.17   536.37    69.72   613.25        0.00     0.88   465.17    53.53   519.58
1998     0.00      7.21   578.54    74.63   660.38       0.00      0.88   504.81    57.93   563.61
1999     0.00      7.23   624.66    79.99   711.88        0.00     1.05   549.03    62.94   613.02
2000     0.00      7.24   675.01    85.81   768.06        0.00     1.50   598.96    68.18   669.24
2001     0.00      7.25   729.94    92.14   829.32   -28.55        1.85   654.43    75.32   703.05
COSTS SUMMARY AND COMPARISONS
CONST              TOTAL    VEHICLE             INTERNAL
RECON    ROUTINE  CONST &  OPRTG                RATE OF
UPGRD    MAINT    MAINT    & TIME   TOTAL    RETURN
ALT      COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    (t)
ALTO          0.00    85.11    85.11  7418.80  7503.90
ALTI        85.65    30.05   115.70  6541.10  6656.80    49.80



-67-
HDM-123 REPORT                                                                                  ANNEX 1.2
RUN  AURANGABAD - MANTHA  124.0 K 
TABLE 7
TOTAL AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC (TWO-WAY)
CAR      BUS    TRUCK    TOTAL
1988      736       227      1156     2119
1989      785       240      1230     2255
1990      838       253      1309     2400
1991      894       267      1393     2554
1992      954       282      1482     2718
1993     1018       298      1576     2892
1994     1086       315      1677     3078
1995     1159       332      1785     3276
1996     1237       351      1899     3486
1997     1319       371      2020     3710
1998     1408       391     2150      3949
1999     1502       413      2287     4203
2000     1603       437      2434     4473
2001     1710       461      2589     4760
ECONOMIC COSTS OF ALTERNATIVES
(1988 RUPEES MILLION)
ROAD     ROAD      VEHICLE  VEHICLE  TOTAL    ROAD        ROAD     VEHICLE  VEHICLE  TOTAL
CAPI(AL  RECURR   OPERTG   TIME       ECONOMIC CAPITAL  RECURR   OPERTG   TIME         ECONOMIC
YEAR     COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS
ALTO                                            ALTI
1988     0.00      3.61   290.82    36.64   331.07    19.32        7.01   290.82    36.64   353.78
1989     0.00      3.89   326.83    42.61   373.32    37.03        3.79   313.53    39.78   394.12
1990     0.00      4.62   359.62    47.71   411.94    69.23        4.84   352.26    46.19   472.52
1991     0.00      5.38   380.51    50.22   436.12    35.42        5.36   381.06    50.34   472.18
1992     0.00      6.10   402.56    52.86   461.52        0.00      1.03   332.52    38.25   371.80
1993     0.00      6.66   426.07    55.66   488.39        0.00      1.03   356.43    41.20   398.66
1994     0.00      7.10   451.54    58.73   517.37        0.00      1.03   381.75    44.30   427.08
1995     0.00      7.47   478.99    62.06   548.52        0.00     1.03   409.26    47.71   458.00
1996     0.00      7.82   508.36    65.63   531.80        0.00     1.03   439.28    51.49   491.80
1997     0.00      8.15   539.67    69.43   617.25        0.00     1.03   472.19    55.72   528.94
1998     0.00      8.34   572.95    73.47   654.76        0.00      1.32   509.13    60.60   571.05
1999     0.00      8.44   608.92    77.87   695.23        0.00      1.73   550.62    66.25   618.60
2000     0.00      8.48   647.61    82.62   738.71        0.00      2.11   597.07    72.72   671.90
2001     0.00      8.51   688.98    87.72   785.21   -40.25         2.55   649.58    80.20   692.07
COSTS SUMMARY AND COMPARISONS
CONST              TOTAL    VEHICLE             INTERNAL
RECON    ROUTINE  CONST &  OPRTG                RATE OF
UPGRD    MAINT    MAINT    & TIME   TOTAL    RETURN
ALT      COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    (5)
ALTO          0.00    94.56    94.56  7546.60  7641.20
ALTI        120.75    34.87   155.62  6766.90  6922.50    38.70



-68-
HDM-123 REPORT                                                                                  ANNEX 1.2
RUN  AKOLA - KANHERGAON  96.0 Km 
TABLE 8
TOTAL AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC (TWO-WAY)
CAR      BUS    TRUCK    TOTAL
1988      311       252       573     1136
1989      332       266       610     1208
1990      354       281       649     1284
1991      378       297       690     1365
1992      403       313       734     1451
1993      430       331       781     1542
1994      459       349       831     1640
1995      490       369       885     1743
1996      523       390       941     1853
1997      558       412      1002     1970
1998      595       435      1066     2095
1999      635       459      1134     2227
2000      677       485      1206     2368
2001      723       512      1284     2518
ECONOMIC COSTS OF ALTERNATIVES
(1988 RUPEES MILLION)
ROAD     ROAD      VEHICLE  VEHICLE  TOTAL    ROAD        ROAD     VEHICLE  VEHICLE  TOTAL
CAPITAL  RECURR   OPRTG    TIME       ECONOMIC CAPITAL  RECURR   OPRTG    TIME         ECONOMIC
YEAR     COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS
ALTO                                            ALTI
1988     0.00      2.43   112.82    17.45   132.71    11.87        4.70   112.82    17.45   146.84
1989     0.00      2.17   122.46    19.15   143.78    22.75        1.95   118.88    18.22   161.80
1990     0.00      2.26   135.03    21.53   158.82    42.53        2.41   131.01    20.51   196.47
1991     0.00      2.44   148.26    23.99   174.69    21.76        2.66   145.19    23.23   192.84
1992     0.00      2.65   159.11    25.79   187.55        0.00     0.80   136.50    20.33   157.63
1993     0.00      2.85   168.84    27.26   198.95        0.00     0.80   145.93    21.77   168.49
1994     0.00      3.04   179.19    28.82   211.06        0.00     0.80   155.83    23.27   179.90
1995     0.00      3.24   190.19    30.48   223.91        0.00     0.80   166.49    24.89   192.18
1996     0.00      3.44   201.87    32.23   237.54        0.00     0.80   178.00    26.66   205.46
1997     0.00      3.65   214.26    34.08   251.99        0.00     0.80   190.48    28.59   219.87
1998     0.00      3.88   227.38    36.03   267.29        0.00     0.80   204.04    30.73   235.56
1999     0.00      4.13   241.28    38.09   283.50        0.00     0.95   219.02    33.13   253.11
2000     0.00      4.40   256.00    40.25   300.64        0.00      1.11   235.47    35.82   272.40
2001     0.00      4.68   271.57    42.53   318.78   -24.73         1.28   253.53    38.81   268.90
COSTS SUMMARY AND COMPARISONS
CONST              TOTAL    VEHICLE             INTERNAL
RECON    ROUTINE  CONST &  OPRTG                RATE OF
UPGRD    MAINT    MAINT    & TIME   TOTAL    RETURN
ALT      COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    (t)
ALTO          0.00    45.28    45.28  3045.90  3091.20
ALTI        74.17    20.64    94.82  2756.60  2851.40    23.30



-69-
HDN-123 REPORT                                                                                  TABLE 1.2
RUN  MAGPUR - KANPAD  69.0 K                                                                     -
TABLE 9
TOTAL AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC (TWO-WAY)
CAR      BUS    TRUCK    TOTAL
1988      503       162      1101     1766
1989      537       171      1172     1879
1990      573       181      1246     2000
1991      611       191     1326      2128
1992      652       202      1411     2265
1993      696       213      1501     2410
1994      742       225      1598     2564
1995      792       237      1700     2729
1996      845       251     1809      2904
1997      902       265      1924     3091
1998      962       279     2047      3289
1999     1027       295     2178      3500
2000     1095       312      2318     3725
2001     1169       329      2466     3964
ECONOMIC COSTS OF AlTERNATIVES
(1988 RUPEES MILLIONS)
ROAD     ROAD      VEHICLE  VEHICLE  TOTAL    ROAD        ROAD     VEHICLE  VEHICLE  TOTAL
CAPITAL  RECURR   OPRTG    TINE       ECONOMIC CAPITAL  RECURR   OPRTG    TIME         ECONOMIC
YEAR     COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS
ALTO                                            ALTI
1988     0.00      1.91   130.13    15.03   147.08    11.56        3.71   130.13    15.03   160.43
1989     0.00      1.94   144.96    17.21   164.12    22.15        1.86   139.51    16.17   179.68
1990     0.00      2.22   159.84    19.34   181.40    41.41        2.36   156.57    18.72   219.06
1991     0.00      2.54   170.36    20.59   193.49    21.19        2.61   170.57    20.63   214.99
1992     0.00      2.84   180.57    21.74   205.16        0.00     0.57   155.98    17.21   173.83
1993     0.00      3.11   191.42    22.96   217.49        0.00     0.57   167.17    18.59   186.33
1994     0.00      3.37   203.02    24.26   230.66        0.00     0.57   179.00    19.98   199.55
1995     0.00      3.63   215.38    25.65   244.66        0.00     0.57   191.82    21.50   213.90
1996     0.00      3.86   228.49    27.12   259.47        0.00     0.57   205.80    23.18   229.56
1997     0.00      4.06   242.47    28.68   275.21        0.00     0.57   221.11    25.05   246.73
1998     0.00      4.24   257.43    30.36   292.03        0.00     0.63   238.04    27.17   265.83
1999     0.00      4.41   273.38    32.15   309.94        0.00     0.81   257.06    29.61   287.49
2000     0.00      4.58   290.36    34.05   328.98        0.00     0.94   278.19    32.39   311.52
2001     0.00      4.66   308.39    36.06   349.11   -24.08        1.11   301.86    35.56   314.46
COSTS SUMMARY AND CONPARISONS
CONST              TOTAL    VEHICLE             INTERNAL
RECON    ROUTINE  CONST &  OPRTG                RATE OF
UPGRD    NAINT    NAINT    & TINE   TOTAL    RETURN
ALT      COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    (%)
ALTO          0.00    47.37    47.37  3351.40  3398.80
ALTI         72.23    17.45    89.68  3113.70  3203.30    22.30



-70-
HDH-123 REPORT                                                                                   ANNEX 1.2
RUN  PALGAR - WADA  47.0 Ks
TABLE 10
TOTAL AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC ( TWO-WAY
CAR      BUS    TRUCK    TOTAL
1988      888       138       581     1607
1989      948       146       618     1711
1990     1011       154       658     1823
1991     1079       163       700     1941
1992     1151       172       745     2067
1993     1228       181       792     2202
1994     1310       191       843     2345
1995     1398       202       897     2497
1996     1492       213       954     2660
1997     1592       225      1015     2833
1998     1699       238      1080     3017
1999     1812       251      1150     3213
2000     1934       265      1223     3422
2001     2063       280      1301     3645
ECONONIC COSTS OF ALTERNATIVES
(1988 RUPEES HILLION)
ROAD     ROAD      VEHICLE  VEHICLE  TOTAL    ROAD        ROAD     VEHICLE  VEHICLE  TOTAL
CAPITAL  RECURR   OiRTG    TINE       ECONOMIC CAPITAL  RECURR   OPRTG    TINE         ECONOMIC
YEAR     COSTS    COSIS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS
ALTO                                            ALTI
1988     0.00      0.97    80.34      9.76    91.07      6.56      1.86    80.34       9.76    98.53
1989     0.00      0.70    86.51    10.59    97.80    12.58        0.55    84.28    10.08   107.49
1990     0.00      0.59    94.53    11.80   106.92    23.52        0.62    92.74    11.40   128.28
1991     0.00      0.55   104.50    13.38   118.43    12.03        0.66   102.67    12.98   128.34
1992     0.00      0.55   116.35    15.29   132.19        0.00     0.39    93.87    10.31   104.57
1993     0.00      0.56   126.91    16.86   144.33        0.00     0.39   100.46    11.09   111.93
1994     0.00      0.58   135.11    17.92   153.60        0.00     0.39   107.40    11.89   119.68
1995     0.00      0.60   143.82    19.03   163.45        0.00     0.39   114.88    12.76   128.03
1996     0.00      0.62   153.07    20.22   173.91        0.00     0.39   122.96    13.71   137.06
1997     0.00      0.64   162.91    21.47   185.03        0.00     0.39   131.72    14.76   146.87
1998     0.00      0.67   173.37    22.81   196.85        0.00     0.39   141.25    15.92   157.55
1999     0.00      0.70   184.49    24.22   209.41        0.00     0.48   151.79    17.24   169.51
2000     0.00      0.73   196.32    25.72   222.77        0.00     0.57   163.41    18.73   182.70
2001     0.00      0.76   208.89    27.31   236.96   -13.68        0.66   176.22    20.40   183.61
COSTS SUMMARY AND COMPARISONS
CONST              TOTAL    VEHICLE             INTERNAL
RECON    ROUTINE  CONST &  OPRTG                RATE OF
UPGRD-   MAINT    MAINT    & TIME   TOTAL    RETURN
ALT      COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    (S)
ALTO          0.00     9.22      9.22  2223.50  2232.70
ALTI         41.03     8.12    49.15  1855.00  1904.10    40.30



HDM-123 REPORT                                                                                  ANNEX 1.2
RUN  WADA - AMBADI   23.0 Ks
TABLE 11
TOTAL AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC (TWO-NAY)
CAR      BUS    TRUCK    TOTAL
1988      869       204       961     2034
1989      927       215      1023     2165
1990      989       228      1088     2305
1991     1056       240      1158     2453
1992     1126       254      1232     2612
1993     1202       268      1311     2780
1994     1282       283      1394     2960
1995     1368       299      1484     3151
1996     1460       316      1579     3354
19''     1558       333      1680     3570
1998     1662       352      1787     3801
1999     1774       372      1901     4046
2000     1892       392      2023     4308
2001     2019       414      2153     4586
ECONOMIC COSTS OF ALTERNATIVES
(1988 RUPEES MILLION)
ROAD     ROAD      VEHICLE  VEHICLE  TOTAL    ROAD        ROAD     VEHICLE  VEHICLE  TOTAL
CAPITAL  RECURR   OPRTG       TIME    ECONOMIC CAPITAL  RECURR   OPRTG    TINE         ECONOMIC
YEAR     COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS
ALTO                                            ALTI
1988.00     0.00      0.54    51.68       6.53    58.74      3.08      1.03    51.68      6.53    62.32
1989.00     0.00      0.46    57.02       7.38    64.86      5.91      0.39    55.01      6.93    68.24
1990.00     0.00      0.46    63.89      8.54    72.88    11.05        0.47    62.06      8.14    81.73
1991.00     0.00      0.48    69.95       9.48    79.90      5.65      0.52    69.19      9.32    84.68
1992.00     0.00      0.51    74.37    10.05    84.93        0.00      0.19    59.04      6.76    65.98
1993.00     0.00      0.54    79.03    10.65    90.22        0.00      0.19    63.00      7.22    70.41
1994.00     0.00      0.58    83.98    11.29    95.84        0.00      0.19    67.19      7.70    75.08
1995.00     0.00      0.61    89.23    11.96   101.80        0.00      0.19    71.67      8.21    80.07
1996.00     0.00      0.65    94.81    12.67   108.13        0.00      0.19    76.45      8.76    85.40
1997.00     0.00      0.69   100.72    13.42   114.84        0.00     0.19    81.57       9.35    91.11
1998.00     0.00      0.74   107.00    14.22   121.95        0.00      0.19    87.06      9.98    97.23
1999.00     0.00      0.79   113.64    15.05   129.48        0.00     0.19    92.95    10.67   103.81
2000.00     0.00      0.84   120.68    15.93   137.45        0.00      0.20    99.31    11.42   110.93
2001.00     0.00      0.90   128.13    16.86   145.88    -6.43         0.21   106.15    12.23   112.17
COSTS SUMMARY AND COMPARISONS
CONST              TOTAL    VEHICLE             INTERNAL
RECON    ROUTINE  CONST &  OPRTG                RATE OF
UPGRD    MAINT    MAINT    & TIME   TOTAL    RETURN
ALT      COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    (S)
ALTO          0.00     8.77      8.77  1398.10  1406.90
ALTI         19.28     4.35    23.62  1165.50  1189.10    52.40



-72-
Annex 1.2
Chart 1
I    1 
XI                  t    llg 11FA
Xj               
I                         
S! 'L (E~~~
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



-73-
Annex 1. 3
RAJASTHAN
j ,d~~ackground
1.       The State of Rajasthan is located in Northwestern India on
the border with Pakistan.  It is the second largest State of the Union
with an area slightly over 342,000 sq.km., about the size of Finland
or Japan, and roughly 10% of the size of India as a whole. On the
west is the Great Indian Desert and from the Northeast to the
Southwest stretch the Aravalli hills.
2.       The State has about 37 million inhabitants, seven times the
population of Finland and one third that of Japan; it is the eighth
most populated State of India and one of the lower density States at
about 100 inhabitants per sq.km.. Over 80% of the population is rural
and most of them are engaged in agriculture. The largest city in the
State is the capital, Jaipur, with about one million inhabitants.
3.       In 1985, Rajasthan's per capita domestic product was close to
the national average (about US$165 vs. US$195) but the gap between the
national average and the State's income has been widening in the last
few years. The Development Index estimated by the Center for
Monitoring the Indian Economy, which takes into account power
generation, irrigation, transportation, communications, health,
literacy rates and other indicators, places Rajasthan nineteenth in
the country.
The Transgort System
4.       Rajasthan is served by air, rail and road transport.  Air
transportation is used mainly for passengers. Raii transportation,
which was pivotal to the development of India, is comparatively less
important in Rajasthan because the density of rail lines is low.
There are only 5,615 km of railway in the State, most of it meter
gauge, operated by the Western and the Northern Railways. The State,
therefore, relies mostly on roads for its transportation.
The Road Network
5.       There are about 52,000 km of roads in Rajasthan roughly 70%
of them paved and 30% gravel and earth. This is about half the
national average kms of road per inhabitant, and one third the average
national density of roads per sq.km. of surface. In this sense
Rajasthan is comparatively poorly endowed; however, roads in Rajasthan
are predominantly (about 70% of them) bituminous surfaced, which is
better than the average. Still, almost half the length oI the network
(45%) is single-lane, which, as in many other parts of India, have
become quite insufficient for the volumes of traffic now being
experienced.



-74-
Annex 1. 3
Page 2 of 10
ROAD LENGTHS IN RAJASTHAN
(1951-1987 in km)
YEAR      PAVED       GRAVEL     EA-RTH     TOTAL
1951        868        7,846     8,625      17,339
1961      7,474       10,511     8,716      26,701
1971     14,308       12,109     5,335      31,752
1981     27,700       11,196     2,298      41,194
1987     36,369       14,481       836      51,686
Classified in 1987 as
National Highways          2,521           -         -        2,521
State Highways             7,290          135        35       7,460
Major District Rds.        3,274          277        65       3,616
Other District Rds.       10,362       4,242        184      14,788
Village Roads             12,922        9,827       552      23,301
6.       Despite Rajasthan's comparatively better effort at
maintaining its roads, over the past years the condition of the
network has deteriorated to the extent that the great majority of
roads are now just in fair condition.
Condition of the Roads in Rajasthan
(% of Total Km)
1980            1983             1987
Good Fair Poor Good FaiX Poor Good Fair Poor
National Hwys.        45   40   15    50   35   15    60   35    5
State Roads           15   45   40    20   45   35    30   40   30
Major Dstrct Rds.      5   50   45    10   45   45    15   45   40
Village Rds.           5   50   45      5   50   45    10   45   45
7.       Part of the reason is that the network was built to
geometrical and strength standards insufficient for the traffic
volumes now being experienced on most roads. The fact that a
significant proportion of the network is paved does not help because
traffic crossing and overtaking breaks off the edges of pavements,
which if not carefully maintained create uneven roads which have an
effective capacity lower than that of level gravel roads. Significant
portions of the network (national highways, and state and district
roads) need, therefore, to be reconstructed and improved.



-75-
Annex 1.3
Page 3 of 10
Traffic Volumes
8.       Traffic in the State has increased considerably on most roads
in the last few years. Table 1 shows traffic at selected counting
stations along national highways and some major state roads. Although
it is difficult to extrapolate a rate of growth from the figures in
Table 1 because of the inconsistency of the data, it is evident that
the volumes are enough to justify the improvement and increase in
capacity, particularly of one lane roads.
The Vehicle Fleet
9.       Significant increases in the number of vehicles explain in
part the higher volumes of traffic. Since 1970 the number of cars
registered in Rajasthan has increased almost threefold, the number of
buses has more than doubled and the number of trucks '?s five times
larger. The average rate of growth of the car, bus and truck fleet of
the State since 1970 is about 8% per year, which is in tune with the
growth in gasoline and diesel consumption.
STATE OF RAJASTHAN
Number of Registered Vehicles
1970      1980      1985       1987
Cars                24,227    43,574    57,244    67,671
Buses                8,295    13,917    16,874    19,048
Trucks              20,865    53,185    73,414    82,059
Tractors            14,309    49,028    74,518    89,183
Two Wheelers        21,513   141,940   267,887   376,867
Three Wheelers       2,544      6,770    11,285    13,957
Other                  901      1,640     2,051     2,196
Total Vehicles      92,664   310,054   503,273   650,981
Highwav Administration
10.      The Public Works Department (PWD) is responsible for the
planning, construction and maintenance of state, district and village
roads in Rajasthan. In addition, PWD acts as an agent of the Central
Government of India for the construction and maintenance of national
highways within the State. PWD also takes care of public buildings in
the State.
11.      The organization is headed by a State Secretary who exercises
authority through two Chief Engineers; one takes care of buildings and
national highways and is also Additional Secretary, the other, the
Chief Engineer Roads, takes care of state roads. The Roads Department



-76-
Annex 1.3
Page 4 of 10
comprises a Planning, Design, Traffic, and Quality Control Wing headed
by an Additional Chief Engineer, and another Additional Chief Engineer
heads the Districts' Wing which has eleven District Circles. Each
Circle is headed by a Superintending Engineer who has under him
executive engineers, assistant engineers, junior engineers and other
support staff like draghtsmen, accountants, and clerks. PWD's total
complement of professionals is 2,500 and non-professional support
staff are about 4,500. The Department permanently employs about
10,000 laborers although recruitment to the force stopped some years
ago and the numbers are reducing by attrition, and similar numbers of
occasional and temporary workers finrnced under various schemes of the
State as well as the Central Government.
Highway Planning
12.      Highway planning in Rajasthan, as in all States in India, is
conducted along the lines of the collective agreements reached at
periodic meetings of the Chief Engineers of all States. The first of
those meetings was in 1943 and it produced the Nagpur Plan which ran
from 1951 to 1961. The guiding principle of that Plan was
accessibility: no village was expected to be more than 5 miles from a
road by the end of the Plan.
13.      The second Chief Engineer's Conference was in 1957.  It
strengthened the accessibility concept: a village, it was said, should
be no farther than 1.5 miles of any road, and 4 miles off a paved
road, if the area was already developed; in a semi-developed area the
limits were 3 and 8 miles and in undeveloped areas 5 and 12 miles.
The resulting Bombay Plan (1961-1981), did not quite achieve the
stringent targets. In Rajasthan, though the mileage of roads built
increased significantly, the targets were not achieved.,
14.      The third Conference, which produced the Trivandum Plan
(1981-2001), replaced the accessibility concept by connectivity
criteria. The goal now is to connect all villages to one another by
the turn of the century. In addition the Plan would produce an
expansion of the national highways system to create a grid no more
than 100 km on each side.
15.      As a result of these successive Plans, village connectivity
in Rajasthan has improved as follows:
Village Size        Total   Cumulative Number Connected  Target
(number of inhabitants)  Number    1981       1984    1985       1990
1500 +               3,000    1,947    2,173    2,263    3,300
1000 - 1500          2,407    1,002    1,091    1,246    1,721
1000 -              27,598    2,338    2,693    2,813    4,313



-77-
Annex 1.3
Page 5 of 10
16.      Thus, expansion of the network in Rajasthan, as in all of
India, has been in the lower class roads, which carry comparatively
low volumes of traffic, while the higher class roads, which have
considerably more traffic, have remained largely unimproved. The
consequence of this strategy has been that the great majority of
traffic moves at much higher costs than necessary. This suggests that
the connectivity criteria which has guided the use of resources in the
recent past would be better replaced by an efficiency criteria. The
result of such a change would be a shift in the use of resources from
lower class roads to the recorstruction and improvement of higher
class roads which already have high volumes of traffic.
Highway Expenditures
17.      Under the successive State Plans considerable amounts of
resources havo been invested in the construction and expansion of the
state roads network. Measured in constant 1980 rupees, about 2,857
million have been spent between 1951 and 1985:
195156, 1956-61 1961-66 1966-69 1969-74 1974-79 1979-80 1980-85
284.4    496.4    367.1    119.6    209.1    681.9    151.7    542.4
This adds up to over 363 million of 1980 US dollars in State funds
alone. Still, it has been a relatively low, and decreasing, proportion
of overall State Plan expenditures:
1951-56 1956-61 1261-66 1966-69 1969-74 1974-79 1979-80 1980-65
9.2%      9.8%     4.5%      3.1%     3.3%      8.2%     4.8%      3.1%
In addition, a similar amount (2,177 million 1980 rupees, about 277
million of 1980 US dollars) has been spent by the Central Governmert
in the State in building and improving the national highways and other
centrally financed schemes (like strategic roads, tribal roads,
special program area roads. command area roads and others).
18.      As mentioned above, over the past few years State
expenditures (which etxclude Central Government expenditures on
National HIghways) hiave averaged 60% for village and minor district
roads and 40% for st.ate and major district roads:
Expenditures (Rs million)
19'3-84    1984-85    1985-86    1986-87
National Highways           108.59      120.36    134.51       170.90
State Highways and
Major District Rds        495.35     284.87    418.43        582.85
Village Roads and
Other District Rds        523.35        964.99       347.60  518.22
Grand Total               1,127.26   1,370.22    900.54    1,271.97



-78-
Anex 1.3
Page 6 of 10
19.      A more detailed breakdown of road expenditures in recent
years shows that, on average, roughly 25% of expenditures have been
devoted to capital investments and 75% to current expenditure items.
Among the latter, maintenance figures prominently, especially if one
considers that famine relief schemes and rural employment programs
finance labor almost exclusively, which in Rajasthan is employed
mainly for road maintenance:
RAJAS T'4 'LGHWAY AND ROAD EXPENDITURES
Expenditures (Rs million)
1983-84 1984-85 1985-86 1986-87
Capital Expenditures
National Highway Construction      67.79     72.73    83.00   100.90
Other Centrally sponsored schms   13.94      15.65    13.47    64.94
State Plan                        117.69    145.92   139.60   135.38
Othe:: State Plan schemes          40.29     44.10    44.23    35.70
Sub Total                         239.71    278.40   280.30   336.92
Current Expenditure
Maintenance of National Hwys       40.80     47.63    51.51    70.00
Maintenance of State Roads        252.00    342.90   419.58   454.59
Rural Landless Employment Prog.    3.85      60.15    27.70    64.94
National Rural Employment Prog.        -     26.74    42.10      2.82
Famine Relief schemes             590.90    614.40    79.35   342.70
Sub Total                         887.55  1,091.80   620.24   935.05
GRAND TOTAL                        1,127.26  1,370.22   900.54 1,271.97
20.      Despite the relatively large maintenance effort in Rajasthan
compared with other states (roughly 75% of total yearly expenditures)
the condition of the network is only fair (para. 6). As mentioned
earlier, part of the reason is the original design standard of the
roads, but part of the problem lies in the mechanism by which
maintenance decisions are made. There appears to be no systemic
approach to deciding which roads should receive what kind of treatment
and when. There is no network approach to the problem, much less a
life-time cycle analysis of the consequences of different alternative
treatments that could be employed to maintain the roads.
21.      A detailed breakdown of the maintenance expenditures shows
that Rajasthan spends roughly as much on ordinary, routine maintenance
as it does on periodic renewal of surfacings and on extraordinary and
emergency repairs:



-79-
Annex 1.3
Page 7 of 10
Expenditures (Rs million)
1983-84   1984-85   1985-86   1986-87
Routine Ordinary Maintenance      67.70     95.40    107.95    122.90
Periodic Maintenance              97.76    134.40    153.05    173.20
Emergency and Special Repairs    86.54    113.10    158.49    158.69
Total Maintenance Expenditures. 252.00    342.90    419.58    454.79
22.      This practical approach may be acceptable for lack of a
specific tool that generates a more effective use of resources.
Similarly, for budgeting purposes the only guideline currently in use
are the norms suggested by the Government of India's Eighth Finance
Commission. For lack of a better indicator this may be adequate;
however, the norm is ultimately an imperfect guide to the maintenance
requirements of the roads.
Hifhway Financing
23.      The Central Government finances national highway
construction, the Rural Landless Employment Program, the Famine Relief
Program and 50% of the National Rural Employment Program and other
centrally sponsored schemes. Other expenditures are financed by the
State with its own resources.
24.      State revenues come from (i) a sales tax on gasoline, vehicle
spares and accessories, and (ii) fees for vehicle registration,
licenses for commercial vehicles and a small fee levied on freight and
passengers. As can be seen from the following table, over the past
few years user charges have been more than enough to cover State
expenditures on roads and highways, including capital investments:
Revenues (Rs million)
1983-84   1984-85   1985-86   1986-87
Taxes                          553.02    625.18    650.53    842.00
Fees                           19.10      17.30    '40r59     39.35
Total State Revenue            572.12    642.48    691.12    881.35
Total State Expdtrs.          409.98    546.29    624.46    627.08



-80-
Annex 1.3
Page 8 of 10
Highway Safety
25.      Partly as a result of the increases in traffic, and partly as
a consequence of the comparatively low design and construction
standards used, the numbers of road accidents have increased
considerably. As shown below, fatalities resulting from these
accidents have more than doubled since 1977, when counts began to be
kept in Rajasthan:
1977   1978   1980   1981   1982
Number of Accidents           2,449  3,261  3,747  4,098  4,076
Number of Fatalities            507    828    745  1,274  1,168
Number of Injured             2,452  3,404  5,191  5,404  4,381
The Project
(a) Components
26.      In Rajasthan the project would have four components (i) a
road reconstruction and improvement component, (ii) an equipment
acquisition component, (iii) a limited road maintenance component, and
(iv) a technical assistance and training component.
27.      The first involves the reconstruction and improvement of ten
sections of State Roads totalling 868 km. All of them are generally
in poor condition and, given their current traffic levels, need
intensive maintenance to keep them operating adequately. The
reconstruction and improvement of these roads was judged preferable to
their continued intensive maintenance.
28.      The second component involves the purchase of specialized
equipment to control the quality of construction, and to subsequently
monitor road behavior and usage. This will ultimately allow to
maintain the roads better.
29.      The third component involves the preparation of a road
maintenance management system, which based on economic and engineering
criteria derived from road condition and usage, will allow to improve
the use of funds allocated for maintenance on a life-cycle basis, that
is taking into account not only maintenance expenditures but road user
costs as well.
30.      The fourth component involves the provision of consultant's
services for the supervision of one project or a package of contracts
as a demonstration of quality control assurance and contract
management. The training included in this component is geared to
improve the ability of selected PWD engineers to plan, design and
manage contracts more effectively. The training is intended to be
done both in-house and overseas.



-81-
Annex 1.3
Page 9 of 10
31.        As shown below,  total project costs amount to about Rs. 1,489
million (about US$ 102 million).
(RUPEES Million)                      'US$ Million)
I Total                            2 Total
X Foreign Base                       F foreign Ba
Local Foreign Total  Ex-hanse  Costs  Lcal Forcizn Total E:chanst  Costs
. ALWAR-IYIWARI ROAD       90KM     86.1   33.5  11.°.5      28      11   6A     2-5  9.9        28     11
2. ALVAR-KARAULI ROAD      145KM    110.7   43.0  153.7       29      '4  ?2    3.2 11.4          :9     14
3. UDAIPUR-DASOK ROAD       1"K!   51.0   19,°   70.89                '6   3.?    !.5  '.2   19           S
4. DABOK-CHITTORSARH ROAD   97KM     ?6.3   :9.7  106.0       23      10   5.7    2.2  7.9        23     10
5. A!MER-CHITTORCARH ROAD    196N4    159.a   62.1  221.9      29     20  11.8    4.6 16.4        29     O0
6. SIROHI-ABU ROAD          63KM     41.0   16.0   57.0       29       5   3.0    1.2  4.2        ;8      S
7. ADU-4T ABU ROAD          23Kh     17.5    6.8   24.3        '9      2   1.3    0.5  1.8         8      2
9. FATEHPUR-ChURU ROAD      36KH     19.6    7.6   27.2       2        2   1.5    0.6  2.0        28      2
9. CHURU-NARYANA BORDER ROAD  79KH   40.9   15.9   5S.3        ZS      5   3.0    1.2  4.2        28      5
10. SIKAR-HARYANA BORDER ROAD 133KM    91A4   31.7  113,1     29      10   6.0    2.3  9.4        28     10
11. SUPERVISION                      95.0      -   9'.0        -      9   7.0       -  7.0                9
12. EgUIPMENT                         1.9   13.9   15.7       98       i   0.1    1.0  1.2        e8      1
13, TRAININ                          0.6    4.7    5.4       98       0   0.0    0.3  0.4        88      0
14. MAINTENANCE MANAEET STUDY         0.6    9.4   10.0       94       1   0.0    0.7  0.7        94      l
15. CONTRACT SUPERVISION TA           1.4   21.2   22.6       94       2   0.1    1.6  1.7        94      2
Sub-Total ROAD SYSTEM                 783.8  315,3 1I099.0       29    100  !G.1   23,4 91.4        29    100
Totl  ELINE COSTS                       793.9  315.3 1,099.0       '9    100  58.1   23.4 81.4        29    100
Phsical Continncies                   78.4   31.5  109.9        29      10   5.8    2.3  9.1       29      10
"ric  Contingmncin                    215.8   64.5  280.4       23     26  10.4    2.7 13.1         21     16
:al IOJECt COSTS                      1t078,0  411.3 1P489,3      29    136  74.2   20.4 102.6       28    126
(b) Obiectives
32.        Each of the project components caters to a specific objective
identified as desirable by the State Government and assessed justified
by the Bank. The first is intended to help the Rajasthan Government
to reconstruct and improve its roads and, thus, correct inadequacies
in the network. The works would reduce congestion and vehicle
operating cost, and make the road transport industry more efficient.
The reconstructions are also expected to help to reduce traffic
accidents and improve road safety.
33.        The second component would help with the design and execution
of road construction works and assist in improving maintenance
techniques. The information generated by the continual monitoring of
the roads would allow to make more timely and accurate maintenance
decisions.
34.        The third component is intertwined with the second in that
the road maintenance management system is an essential component of
any subsequent attempt at introducing modern network and pavement
management techniques. Ultimately the introduction of such a system is
indispensable to ensure that whatever resources are dedicated to
maintaining the roads yield the best possible results.



-82-
Annex 1.3
Page 10 of 10
35.      The fourth component is a practical approach to raising the
level of competence within the PWD so that the planning, preparation
and management of civil works contracts can be carried out at a scale
sustainable to the needs of the network and the ability of the State
to finance them.
(c) Economic Evaluation
36.      All ten road sections in the project (Table 2) are in poor
condition, their average roughness is 6000 mm/km and most are over 20
years old, although they were designed for an economic life of just 15
years. In 1985 they already had traffic volumes that would have
justified their improvement to two lane highways. Their current and
expected future traffic volumes (Tables 3 to 12) continue to do so.
All have over 500 vehicles per day and one (Udaipur - Dabok) has over
3000 vpd.
37.      The reconstruction designs have been standardized and all
road sections will be built to the same prototype. Pavements have
been calculated for a ten-year life. Still, the costs of carrying out
the works (para. 31) vary for different sections because the residual
value of the existing pavement is different for each of them. Base
costs vary between Rs 700,000 per kilometer (on the Churu - Haryana
Border section) and Rs 1.5 million pe kilometer (on Udaipur -
Chittorghar, a section that is being widenend to four lanes).
Supervision costs have bee estimated to be 10% of base costs, although
the supervision will be carried out by PWD staff, and 10%
contingencies has been added to the base costs to estimate the
financial costs of each section.
38.      Project benefits will accrue mostly from reductions in
vehicle operating costs and time savings. The latter result from the
reduced congestion that the roads will have as they are improved from
single lane carriageways to two lane roads. However, only passenger's
working time and goods in transit time have been quantified, together
time savings are no more than 10% of total benefits. On most road
sections there are also maintenance cost savings.
39.      Economic rates of return have been estimated for all roads
applying a standard conversion factor of 0.8 to the financial costs of
the civil works (base costs plus supervision costs and contingencies).
It was also assumined that at the end of their 10-year life the works
still have a residual value of 25% of the original cost. The rates
estimated are shown on Tables 3 to 12. They range from 21 % for the
Alwar - Bhiwari section to little over 45% for the Sirohi - Abu Road
section, a heavily travelled alternative to the hillier and more
congested National Highway No. 8 used by through traffic to Gujarat.
The average weighted rate of return for all ten sections in Rajasthan
is 32% and, therefore, the works are economically justified.



-83-
ANNEX 1.3
Table 1
INDIA
STATE'S ROAD PROJECT
Traffic Volumes in Rajasthan State
(Average Daily Traffic)
1980                 1983                1986
Road          At        Cars Buses Trucks   Cars Buses Truics  Cars Buses Trucks
NH-8   Dudu             272   208  1,579    515   480  2,359    631   395  3,496
Bhim              75    65    207      97    64    360    363   132  1,027
Rajanagar        177    83    275    244    90    458    462   133    677
Beawar           124    99    377    214   157  1,051    350   169  1,526
NH-11  Bikaner          120    70    283    154    48    281    199    48    215
Dungarghar        82    51    219    151    43    282    195    51    218
Ratanghar        135    38    239    154    45    293    169    36    208
Bikar            320   242    607  2,701   381  1,039  2,805   517    898
Chumu            254   152    352    484   155    629  1,060   247  1,033
Jaipur           320   369    669    662   581  1,108    564   356    943
Daus               -    -       -     435   467    846    836   420  1,237
Nahuwa             -      -      -    288   263    591    431   153    921
Bharatpur        178   166    440    503   312    555    472   383  1,050
NH-12  Sanganer            -     -       -    976   212  1,799    379   172  1,006
Frazer Brdg.       -     -       -    133    95    924    182   135    964
Deoli              -     -       -    132   106  1,060    265   193  1,456
Bundi              -     -       -     98    56    502    292   136  1,716
Kota               -      -      -    196   110    637    793   317  1,989
Ananpur            -      -      -    559   167  1,658    414   150  1,124
Teendhar           -      -      -    118    62    173    158    94    253
NH-15 Bikaner           190    11   n.a.    246    28    424    214    49    621
Arjunsar          85    22    262      89    26    356    193    27    667
Surathgar        140    42    226    352    36    861    423    49  1,204
Bap              142    25   n.a.    635   219    951    141    45    390
Pakaran          162    22      93     99    10    167    298    22    289
Source: Rajasthan PWD



-84-
ANNEX 1.3
INDIA                                               TABLE 2
STATE'S ROAD PROJECT
RAJASTHAN
DEFINITION OF HIGHWAYS TO BE IMPROVED
ROAD              ROAD           TERRAIN                  PAVEMENT          CONDITION
From          To       LENGTH   RISE+FALL CURVATURE    BASE  iQG CRS  LNS.   (ROUGHNESS)
km        a/ke      degik        moa    me       t         mm/km
Aluar        Bhiwari          90.0      20.0       120          190      10      1        6000
Alwar        Karauli         145.0      20.0       140          190      10      1        6000
Udaipur     Dabok             16.0      20.0       120          200      50      2        4500
Dabok       Chittorgahr       97.0      20.0       120          150      12      1        6000
Ajper       Chittorgahr    186.0        20.0       120          300      50      2        6000
Sirohi      Abu Road          63.0      20.0       120          300      20      2        6000
Abu Road    nount Abu         23.0      50.0       200          300      20      1        6000
Fatehpur    Churu             36.0       20.0      120          200      10      1        6000
Churu       Haryana Border  79.0        20.0       120           80      10      1        6000
Sikar       Haryana Border 133.0        20.0       120          180      20      1        6000
Source   Rajasthan PND
September 1988



-85-
HDM-123 REPORT                                                                                  ANNEX 1.3
RUN  ALWAR - BHIWARI   90 Km                                                                    ---------
TABLE 3
TOTAL AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC (TWO-WAY)
CAR      BUS    TRUCK    TOTAL
1988      362       136       270      768
1989      387       146       289      822
1990      415       156       309      879
1991      444       167       331      941
1992      475       178       354     1007
1993      508       191       379     1077
1994      543       204       405     1153
1995      581       218       434     1233
1996      622       234       46'     1320
1997      666       250       496     1412
1998      712       268       531     1511
1999      762       286       568     1617
2000      815       306       608     1730
2001      872       328       651     1851
ECONOMIC COSTS OF ALTERNATIVES
(1988 RUPEES MILLIONS)
ROAD     ROAD      VEHICLE  VEHICLE  TOTAL    ROAD        ROAD     VEHICLE  VEHICLE  TOTAL
CAPITAL  RECURR   OPRTG    TIME       ECONOMIC CAPITAL  RECURR   OPRTG    TIME         ECONOMIC
YEAR     COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------_
ALTO                                            ALT1
1988     0.00      1.90    81.87    12.78    96.55    13.88        3.65    81.87    12.78   112.18
1989     0.00      2.08    89.90    14.23   106.21    26.61        2.33    86.80    13.48   129.23
1990     0.00      2.35    96.14    15.22   113.71    49.75        2.63    95.74    15.12   163.24
1991     0.00      2.52   102.28    16.14   120.94    25.45        2.63   102.32    16.15   146.56
1992     0.00      2.63   109.05    17.18   128.86       0.00      0.75    85.77    11.69    98.20
1993     0.00      2.71   116.41    18.32   137.43       0.00      0.75    91.95    12.56   105.25
1994     0.00      2.78   124.34    19.55   146.66       0.00      0.75    98.53    13.48   112.76
1995     0.00      2.84   132.86    20.87   156.56       0.00      0.75   105.59    14.47   120.81
1996     0.00      2.89   141.99    22.29   167.16       0.00      0.75   113.16    15.54   129.44
1997     0.00      2.95   151.74    23.80   178.50       0.00      0.75   121.28    16.68   13D.71
1998     0.00      3.01   162.17    25.42   190.60       0.00      0.75   129.99    17.92   148.66
1999     0.00      3.08   173.30    27.15   203.53       0.00      0.75   139.36    19.25   159.35
2000     0.00      3.15   185.18    28.99   217.32        0.00     0.75   149.42    20.69   170.85
2001     0.00      3.23   197.85    30.94   232.02   -28.93        0.75   160.24    22.24   154.30
COSTS SUHHARY AND COMPARISONS
CONST.             TOTAL    VEHICLE             INTERNAL
RECON    ROUTINE  CONST &  OPRTG                RATE OF
UPGRD    MAINT    MAINT    & TIME   TOTAL    RETURN
ALT      COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    (S)
ALTO         0.00    36.11    38.11  2157.90  2196.10
ALTI        86.77    18.70   105.47  1784.00  1889.50    21.60



-86-
HDM-123 REPORT                                                                                    ANNEX 1.3
RUN  ALWAR - KARAULI  145 Ka                                                                      ---------
18LE 4
TOTAL AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC (TWO-WAY)
CAR      BUS    TRUCK    TOTAL
1988      235       140       594       969
1989      251       150       636      1037
1990      269       160       680      1109
1991      288       172       728      1187
1992      308       184       779      1270
1993      330       196       833      1359
1994      353       210       891      1454
1995      377       225       954      1556
1996      404       241      1021      1665
1997      432       257      1092      1782
1998      462       275      1169      1906
1999      495       295      1250      2040
2000       529      315      1338      2182
2001       566      337      1431      2335
ECONOMIC COSTS OF ALTERNATIVES
(1988 RUPEES MILLION)
ROAD     ROAD      VEHICLE  VEHICLE  TOTAL    ROAD         ROAD     VEHICLE  VEHICLE  TOTAL
CAPITAL  RECURR   OPRTG    TIME        ECONOMIC CAPITAL  RECURR   OPRTG    TIME         ECONOHIC
YEAR     COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS
ALTO                                             ALTI
1988     0.00      3.07   163.90    21.39   188.36    17.86         5.90   163.90    21.39   209.04
1989     0.00      3.36   179.10    23.63   206.08    34.22         3.61   174.52    22.72   235.08
1990     0.00      3.83   191.09    25.18   220.10    63.98         4.17   191.37    25.23   284.75
1991     0:00      4.18   203.42    26.73   234.33    32.74         4.23   203.72    26.79   267.48
1992     0.00      4.43   216.85    28.44   249.72        0.00      1.20   171.28    20.47   192.95
1993     0.00      4.62   231.42    30.31   266.36        0.00      1.20   183.62    21.99   206.81
1994     0.00      4.78   247.12    32.34   284.24        0.00      1.20   196.76    23.59   221.56
1995     0.00      4.93   263.98    34.51   303.42        0.00      1.20   210.85    25.32   237.37
1996     0.00      5.08   282.01    36.84   323.93        0.00      1.20   225.96    27.17   254.33
1997     0.00      5.23   301.30    39.33   345.85        0.00      1.20   242.17    29.16   272.53
1998     0.00      5.39   321.88    41.98   369.25        0.00      1.20   259.56    31.30   292.07
1999     0.00      5.57   343.83    44.80   394.21        0.00      1.20   278.25    33.61   313.06
2000     0.00      5.67   367.22    47.80   420.70        0.00      1.20   298.33    36.10   335.63
2001     0.00      5.72   392.53    51.07   449.32   -37.20         1.20   319.93    38.79   322.72
COSTS SUMMARY AND COMPARISONS
CONST              TOTAL    VEHICLE              INTERNAL
RECON    ROUTINE  CONST &  OPRTG                 RATE OF
UPGRD    MAINT    MAINT    & TIME   TOTAL    RETURN
ALT      COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    (S)
ALTO          0.00    65.87    o5.87  4190.00  4255.90
ALTI        111.60    29.9A   141.54  3503.80  3645.40    29.10



-87-
HDt-123 REPORT                                                                                  ANNEX 1.3
RUN  UDAIPUR - DABOK  16 Ks                                                                     ---------
TABLE 5
TOTAL AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC (TWO-WAY)
CAR      8US    TRUCK    TOTAL
1988      882       355      1907     3144
1989      944       380     2041      3364
1990     1010       406     2183      3600
1991     1081       435     2336      3852
1992     1156       465     2500      4121
1993     1207       498     2675      4410
1994     1324       533     2862      4718
1995     1416       570     3062      5049
1996     1515       610     3277      5402
1997     1622       653     3506      5780
1998     1735       698     3751      6185
1999     1857       747     4014      6618
2000     1986       800      4295     7081
2001    .2126       856     4596      7577
ECONOMIC COSTS OF ALTERNATIVES
(1988 RUPEES MILLION)
ROAD     ROAD      VEHICLE  VEHICLE  TOTAL    ROAD        ROAD     VEHICLE  VEHICLE  TOTAL
CAPITAL  RECURR   OPRTG    TIME       ECONOMIC CAPITAL  RECURR   OPRTG    TIME         ECONOMIC
YEAR     COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS
ALTO                                            ALTI
1988     0.00      0.54    54.36      6.89    61.78       8.22     1.05    54.36       6.8S    70.52
1989     0.00      0.47    61.32      8.03    69.83    15.76       0.37    59.89       7.73    83.75
1990     0.00      0.47    67.38      8.96    76.81    29.46       0.43    67.43       8.97   106.29
1991     0.00      0.49    72.12      9.59    82.20    15.07       0.48    72.39       9.65    97.59
1992     0.00      0.53    77.09    10.25    87.86        0.00     0.13    60.74       6.68    67.55
1993     0.00      0.57    82.34    10.94    93.85       0.00      0.13    65.11       7.18    72.41
1994     0.00      0.61    87.96    11.67   100.23        0.00     0.13    69.76       7.70    77.59
1995     0.00      0.65    93.94    12.45   107.04        0.00     0.13    74.75       8.26    83.14
1996     0.00      0.70   100.32    13.29   114.30        0.00     0.13    80.10       8.87    89.10
1997     0.00      0.75   107.12    14.17   122.04        0.00     0.13    85.84       9.52    95.49
1998     0.00      0.81   114.35    15.11   130.27        0.00     0.13    92.00    10.22   102.35
1999     0.00      0.88   122.05    16.10   139.02        0.00     0.13    98.61    10.98   109.72
2000     0.00      0.95   130.24    17.15   148.34        0.00     0.13   105.73    11.79   117.65
2001     0.00      1.03   138.93    18.27   158.23   -17.13        0.13   113.38    12.67   109.05
COSTS SUMMARY AND COMPARISONS
CONST              TOTAL    VEHICLE             INTERNAL
RECON    ROUTINE  CONST &  OPRTG                RATE OF
UPGRD    MAINT    MAINT    & TIME   TOTAL    RETURN
ALT      COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    (5)
ALTO          0.00     9.43      9.43  1482.40  1491.80
ALT1         51.38     3.67    55.05  1227.20  1282.20    23.90



-88-
HDM-123 REPORT                                                                                     ANNEX 1.3
RUN  DABOK - CHITTORGARH  97 Ksm----
TABLE 6
TOTAL AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC (TNO-WAY)
CAR       BUS    TRUCK    TOTAL
1988       219       134       330      143
1989       299       143      353       195
1990       319       153       378       851
1991       342       164       404       910
1992       366       176       433       974
1993       391       188      463      1042
1994       419      320        495      1115
1995       448       215       530      1193
1996       479       230       561      1271
1991       513       246       601      1366
1998       549       264       649     1462
1999       581       282       695      1564
2000       628       302       743      16713
2001       672       323       795      1 191
ECONOMIC COSTS OF ALTERNATIVES
(1998 RUPEES NILLION)
ROAD      ROAD      VEHICLE  VEHICLE  TOTAL    ROAD         ROAD      VEHICLE  VEHICLE  TOTAL
CAPITAL  RECURR   OPRTG    TIME         ECONOMIC CAPITAL  RECURR   OPRTG    TIME          ECONOMIC
YEAR     COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS
ALTO                                              ALTI
1988      0.00      1.99    86.41    13.36   101.76    12.31          3.81    86.41    13.36   115.89
1989      0.00      2.04    95.02    14.91   111.97    23.60          2.15    91.73    14.12   131.59
1990     0.00      2.24   102.35    16.12   120.70    44.12          2.48   101.70    15.96   164.25
1991     0.00      2.50   109.10    17.15   128.15    22.51           2.13   109.27    11.19   151.76
1992     0.00      2.71   116.20    11.22   137.19          0.00      0.81    90.56    12.44   103.80
1993     0.00      2.96   123.74    19.35   146.05         0.00       0.81    97.09    13.37   111.26
1994     0.00       3.11   131.94    20.60   155.64         0.00      0.81   104.05    14.35   119.20
1995     0.00      3.21   140.83    21.96   166.00          0.00     0.81   111.52    15.40   121.72
1996     0.00       3.31   150.40    23.42   177.13        0.00       0.81   119.52    16.53   136.86
1997     0.00      3.40   160.67    25.00   189.06         0.00      0.81   128.11    11.75   146.66
1998     0.00      3.48   171.66    26.69   201.83         0.00      0.81   137.32    19.07   157.19
1999     0.00      3.57   183.40    28.49   215.46         0.00      0.81   147.22    20.48   168.51
2000      0.00      3.67   195.94    30.41   230.02         0.00      0.81   157.87    22.01   180.68
2001      0.00     3.78   209.31    32.46   245.54   -25.65           0.81   169.32    23.66   168.13
COSTS SUMMARY AND COMPARISOhN
CONST               TOTAL    VEHICLE              INTERNAL
RECON    ROUTINE  CONST &  OPRTG                  RATE OF
UPGRD    MAINT    MAINT    & TIME   TOTAL    RETURN
ALT       COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    (t)
ALTO          0.00    42.01    42.01  2285.10  2327.10
ALTI         76.95    19.21    96.16  1887.40  1983.50    25.70



-89-
HDN-123 REPORT                                                                                  ANNEX 1.3
RUN  AJMER - CHITTORGARN  186 Ka                                                                -
TABLE 7
TOTAL AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC (TWO-WAY)
CAR      BUS    TRUCK    TOTAL
1988      279       151      1976     2406
1989      299       162     2114      2574
1990      319       173     2262      2755
1991      342       185     2421      2948
1992      366       198     2590      3154
1993      391       212     2771      3375
1994      419       227     2965      3611
1995      448       243     3173      3864
1996      479       259     3395      4134
1997      513       278     3633      4423
1998      549       297     3887      4733
1999      587       318     4159      5064
2000      628       340      4450     5419
2001      672       364      4762     5798
ECONOMIC COSTS OF ALTERNATIVES
(1988 RUPEES MILLION)
ROAD     ROAD      VEHICLE  VEHICLE  TOTAL    ROAD        ROAD     VEHICLE  VEHICLE  TOTAL
CAPITAL  RECURR   OPRIG    TIME       ECONOMIC CAPITAL  RECURR   OPRTG    TIME         ECONOMIC
YEAR     COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS
ALTO                                            ALTI
1988     0.00      5.98   496.70    52.37   555.05    25.78    11.64   496.70    52.37   586.49
1989     0.00      4.92   544.72    58.15   607.78    49.40        3.67   536.10    56.78   645.95
1990     0.00      4.62   584.84    62.53   651.99    92.36        4.24   588.43    63.10   748.13
1991     0.00      4.69   626.41    67.01   698.10    47.26        4.70   628.44    67.33   747.71
1992     0.00      4.93   670.10    71.67   746.71        0.00     1.54   568.30    55.41   625.25
1993     0.00      5.23   716.43    76.60   798.27        0.00     1.54   609.45    59.51   670.50
1994     0.00      5.57   765.84    81.84   853.25        0.00     1.54   653.24    63.86   718.64
1995     0.00      5.94   818.55    87.43   911.92        0.00     1.54   700.22    68.53   770.29
1996     0.00      6.36   874.79    93.38   974.53        0.00     1.54   750.65    73.55   825.74
1997     0.00      6.81   934.79    99.72  1041.32        0.00     1.54   804.80    78.96   885.30
1998     0.00      7.30   998.78   106.48  1112.56        0.00     1.54   863.02    84.79   949.35
1999     0.00      7.85  1067.00   113.66  1188.51        0.00     1.54   925.69    91.09  1018.32
2000     0.00      8.46  1139.70   121.30  1269.46        0.00     1.54   993.23    97.91  1092.68
2001     0.00      9.12  1217.15   129.42  1355.70   -53.70         1.66  1066.45   105.35  1119.77
COSTS SUMMARY AND COMPARISONS
CONST              TOTAL    VEHICLE             INTERNAL
RECON    ROUTINE  CONST &  OPRTG                RATE OF
UPGRD    MAINT    MAINT    & TIME   TOTAL    RETURN
ALT      COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    (S)
ALTO          0.00    87.78    87.78 12677.40 12765.20
ALTI        161.10    39.81   200.91 11203.20 11404.10    38.80



-90-
HDH-123 REPORT                                                                                    ANNEX 1.3
RUN  SIROHI - ABU ROAD  63.0 Ka                                                                   --------
TABLE 8
TOTAL AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC (TWO-WAY)
CAR      8US    TRUCK    TOTAL
1988      772       153      1188      2113
1989      826       164      1271      2261
1990      884       175      1360      2419
1991      946       187      1455      2589
1992     1012       201      1557      2710
1993     1083       215      1666      2964
1994     1159       230      1783      3171
1995     1240       246      1908      3393
1996     1326       263      2041      3631
1997     1419       281      2184      3885
1998     1519       301      2337      4157
1999     1625       322      2501      4448
2000      1739      345      2676      4759
2001      1860      369      2863      5092
ECONOMIC COSTS OF ALTERNATIVES
(1988 RUPEES NILLION)
ROAD     ROAD      VEHICLE  VEHICLE  TOTAL    ROAD         ROAD     VEHICLE  VEHICLE  TOTAL
CAPITAL  RECURR   OPRTG    TIME        ECONOMIC CAPITAL  RECURR   OPRTG    TIME         ECONOMIC
YEAR     COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS
ALTO                                             ALTI
1988     0.00      2.36   150.25    17.74   170.35        6.62      4.61   150.25    17.74   179.22
1989     0.00      2.37   165.01    19.78   187.16    12.70         2.18   161.28    19.08   195.23
1990     0.00      2.60   176.55    21.16   200.32    23.74         2.61   177.38    21.32   225.03
1991     0.00      2.89   188.41    22.55   213.85    12.14         2.90   188.85    22.63   226.52
1992     0.00      3.16   200.92    24.00   228.08        0.00      0.52   170.12    17.85   188.50
1993     0.00      3.42   214.33    25.56   243.31         0.00     0.52   182.42    19.18   202.13
1994     0.00      3.69   228.66    27.22   259.58        0.00      0.52   195.51    20.60   216.63
1995     0.00      3.97   243.94    28.99   276.90        0.00      0.52   209.55    22.11   232.19
1996     0.00      4.26   260.20    30.87   295.33        0.00      0.52   224.62    23.74   248.89
1997     0.00      4.49   277.55    32.86   314.90        0.00      0.52   240.79    25.50   266.82
1998     0.00      4.70   296.23    35.02   335.95        0.00      0.52   258.17    27.40   286.09
1999     0.00      4.90   316.27    37.34   358.50        0.00      0.52   276.86    29.45   306.83
2000     0.00      5.10   337.70    39.82   382.61         0.00     0.52   296.98    31.66   329.17
2001     0.00      5.26   360.59    42.46   408.31   -13.80         0.56   318.74    34.08   339.58
COSTS SUMMARY AND COMPARISONS
CONST              TOTAL    VEHICLE              INTERNAL
RECON    ROUTINE  CONST &  OPRTG                 RATE OF
UPGRD    MAINT    MAINT    & TIME   TOTAL    RETURN
ALT      COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    (t)
ALTO          0.00    53.18    53.18  3822.00  3875.10
ALTI         41.40    17.56    58.96  3383.90  3442.80    45.30



-91-
HDH-123 REPORT                                                                                  ANNEX 1.3
RUN  A8U ROAD - HOUNT ABU  23  s                                                                ---------
TABLE 9
TOTAL AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC (TNO-NAY)
CAN      BUS    TRUCK    TOTAL
1988      453        69        16      538
1989      485        74        17      576
1990      519        79        18      616
1991      555        85        20      659
1992      594        90        21      705
1X93      635        97        22      755
1994      680       104        24      807
1995      727       111        26      864
1996      778       119        28      924
1997      833       127        29      989
1998      891       136        32     1058
1999      954       145        34     1132
2000     1020       155        36     1212
2001     1092       166        39     1297
ECONOMIC COSTS OF ALTERNATIVES
(1988 RUPEES MILLION)
ROAD     ROAD      VEHICLE  VEHICLE  TOTAL    ROAD        ROAD     VEHICLE  VEHICLE  TOTAL
CAPITAL  RECURR   OPRTG    TIME       ECONOMIC CAPITAL  RECURR   OPRTG    TIME         ECONOMIC
YEAR     COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COST!    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS
ALTO                                            ALTI
1988     0.00      0.38    14.26      2.39    17.03      2.82      0.73    14.26      2.39    20.20
1989     0.00      0.34    15.32      2.57    18.23      5.41      0.35    14.52       2.34    22.62
1990     0.00      0.34    16.74      2.85    19.92    10.11       0.39    15.91       2.62    29.02
1991     0.00      0.35    18.47      3.20    22.03      5.17      0.42    17.46      2.92    25.97
1992     0.00      0.37    20.39      3.59    24.35      0.00      0.19    15.32      2.07    17.57
1993     0.00      0.39    22.09      3.92    26.39      0.00      0.19    16.42      2.22    18.84
1994     0.00      0.41    23.57      4.18    28.16      0.00      0.19    17.60      2.39    20.18
1995     0.00      0.43    25.16      4.45    30.04      0.00      0.19    18.86      2.57    21.62
1996     0.00      0.45    26.84      4.74    32.03      0.00      0.19    20.22      2.76    23.17
1997     0.00      0.48    28.63      5.05    34.16      0.00      0.19    21.67      2.97    24.83
1998     0.00      0.51    30.53      5.38    36.42      0.00      0.19    23.23      3.19    26.61
1999     0.00      0.54    32.55      5.72    38.81      0.00      0.19    24.91      3.43    28.53
2000     0.00      0.57    34.70      6.09    41.36       0.00     0.19    26.71       3.69    30.59
2001     0.00      0.60    36.98      6.47    44.06    -5.88       0.19    28.65       3.97    26.93
COST SUMMARY AND COMPARISONS
CONST              TOTAL    VEHICLE             INTERNAL
RECON    ROUTINE  CONST &  OPRTG                RATE OF
UPGRD    MAINT    MAINT    & TIME   TOTAL    RETURN
ALT      COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    (%)
ALTO          0.00     6.15      6.15   406.80   413.00
ALTI        17.63      3.79    21.41   315.30   336.70    26.40



-92-
IIDN-123 REPORT                                                                                ANNEX 1.3
RUN  FATEHPUR - CHURU  36.0 Ks                                                                  ----
TABLE 10
TOTAL AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC (TWO-WAY)
CAR      BUS    TRUCK    TOTAL
1988      235        91      266       592
1989      251        97      285       633
1990      269       104      305       678
1991      288       112      326       725
1992      308       119      349       776
1993      330       128      373       830
1994      353       137      399       888
1995      377       146      427       951
1996      404       156      457      1017
1997      432       167      489      1088
1998      462       179      523      1165
1999      495       192      560      1246
2000      529       205      599      1333
2001      566       219      641      1427
ECONONIC COSTS uF ALTERNATIVES
(1988 RUPEES HILLiON)
ROAD     ROAD      VEHICLE  VEHICLE  TOTAL    ROAD       ROAD     VEHICLE  VEHICLE  TOTAL
CAPITAL  RECURR   OPRTG    TIME       ECONOMIC CAPITAL  RECURR   OPRTG    TIME       ECONOMIC
YEAR     COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS
ALTO                                           ALTI
1988     0.00      0.69    25.61      3.73    30.03      3.16     1.33    25.61      3.73    33.82
1989     0.00      0.71    28.17      4.17    33.05      6.05     0.79    27.03      3.91    37.78
1990     0.00      0.78    30.50      4.54    35.83    11.31      0.91    30.03      4.44    46.69
1991     0.00      0.87    32.51      4.83    38.22      5.79     1.01    32.50      4.83    44.11
1992     0.00      0.95    34.63      5.13    40.71      0.00     0.30    26.80      3.46    30.57
1993     0.00     0.99    36.90       5.46    43.36      0.00     0.30    28.74      3.72    32.76
1994     0.00      1.03    39.39      5.82    46.24      0.00     0.30    30.80      3.99    35.09
1995     0.00      1.05    42.09      6.21    49.35      0.00     0.30    33.01      4.29    37.59
1996     0.00      1.07    44.98      6.64    52.68      0.00     0.30    35.37      4.60    40.28
1997     0.00      1.08    48.09      7.09    56.26      0.00     0.30    37.91      4.94    43.16
1998     0.00      1.10    51.41      7.58    60.08      0.00     0.30    40.64      5.31    46.25
1999     0.00      1.11    54.97      8.10    64.18      0.00     0.3u    43.57      5.70    49.57
2000     0.00      1.13    58.77      8.65    68.55      0.00     0.30    46.72      6.13    53-14
2001     0.00      1.15    62.83      9.25    73.22    -6.58      0.30    50.10      6.59    50.41
COSTS SUMMARY AND COMPARISONS
CONST              TOTAL                       INTERNAL
RECON    ROUTINE  CONST &  VEHICLE             RATE OF
UPGRD    MAINT    MAINT    OPERATINGTOTAL    RETURN
ALT      COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    (%)
ALTO         0.00    13.70    13.70   678.10   691.80
ALTI        19.72      7.03    26.75   554.50   581.20    30.10



-93-
HDH-123 REPORT                                                                                  ANNEX 1.3
RUN  CHURU - HARYANA BORDER  79.0 K 
TABLE 11
TOTAL AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC (TWO-WAY)
CAR      BUS    TRUCK    TOTAL
1988      252        49       292      593
1989      270        52       312      635
1990      289        56       334      679
1991      309        60       358      727
1992      330        64       383      777
1993      353        69       410      832
1994      378        74       438      890
1995      405        79       469      952
1996      433        84       502     1019
1997      463        90       537     1090
1998      496        96       574     1167
1999      530       103       615     1248
2000      568       110       658     1336
2001      607       118       704     1429
ECONOMIC COSTS OF ALTERNATIVES
(1988 RUPEES MILLION)
ROAD     ROAD      VEHICLE  VEHICLE  TOTAL    ROAD        ROAD     VEHICLE  VEHICLE  TOTAL
CAPITAL  RECURR   OPRTG    TIME       ECONOMIC CAPITAL  RECURR   OPRTG    TINE         ECONOMIC
YEAR     COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    cosrs    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS
ALTO                                            ALTI
1988     0.00      1.58    55.80      6.40    63.79       6.60     3.02    55.80       6.40    71.83
1989     0.00      1.62    61.27      7.13    70.02    12.65       1.81    58.97       6.71    80.14
1990     0.00      1.79    66.28      7.16    75.83    23.65       2.08    65.33       7.59    98.65
1991     0.00      1.99    70.67      8.26    80.92    12.10       2.29    70.63       8.26    93.28
1992     0.00      2.16    75.28      8.78    86.23       0.00     0.68    59.69       6.06    66.43
1993     0.00      2.27    80.26      9.34    91.87       0.00     0.68    63.98      6.51    71.17
1994     0.00      2.34    85.69      9.96    97.99      0.00      0.68    68.56       6.99    76.22
1995     0.00      2.39    91.56    10.64   104.58       0.00      0.68    73.46       7.50    81.64
1996     0.00      2.43    97.87    11.36   111.66        0.00     0.68    78.72       8.05    87.45
1997     0.00      2.46   104.63    12.14   119.23        0.00     0.68    84.36       8.64    93.68
1998     0.00      2.50   111.87    12.98   127.34        0.00     0.68    90.41       9.28   100.37
1999     0.00      2.53   119.62    13.87   136.02        0.00     0.68    96.91       9.96   107.55
2000     0.00      2.57   127.90    14.83   145.29        0.00     0.68   103.89    10.70   115.27
2001     0.00      2.61   136.74    15.85   155.20   -13.75        0.68   111.39    11.50   109.82
COSTS SUMHARY AND COMPARISONS
CONST              TOTAL    VEHICLE             INTERNAL
RECON    ROUTINE  CONST &  OPRTG                RATE OF
UPGRD    MAINT    MAINT    & TINE   TOTAL    RETURN
ALT      COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    (%)
--                          -        -         -         -
|       ALTO          0.00    31.22    31.22  1454.70  1q66.00
ALTl         41.25    16.01    57.26  !:96.20  1253.50    28.20



-94-
HDM-123 REPORT                                                                                    ANNEX 1.3
RUN   SIKAR - HARYANA BORDER  133.0 Ks                                                            ---------
TABLE 12
TOTAL AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC (TWO-WAY)
CAR      BUS    TRUCK    TOTAL
1988      764       140       545      1449
1989      818       150       583      1550
1990      875       160       624      1659
1991      936       172       668      1775
1992     1001       184       714      1899
1993     1072       196       764      2032
1994     1147       210       818      2175
1995     1227       225       875      2327
1996     1313       241       936      2490
1997     1405       257      1002      266A
1998     1503       275      1072      2850
1999     1608       295      1147      3050
2000     1721       315      1227      3263
2001     1841       337      1313      3492
ECONOMIC COSTS OF ALTERNATIVES
(1988 RUPEES MILLION)
ROAD     ROAD      VEHICLE  VEHICLE  TOTAL    ROAD         ROAD     VEHICLE  VEHICLE  TOTAL
CAPITAL  RECURR   OPRTG    TIME        ECONOMIC CAPITAL  RECURR   OPRTG    TIME         ECONOMIC
YEAR     COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS
ALTO                                             ALTI
1988     0.00      2.78   213.16    25.98   241.91    13.14         5.33   213.16    25.98   257.61
1989     0.00      3.05   233.63    28.85   265.53    25.19         3.25   226.95    27.58   282.96
1990     0.00      3.49   249.02    30.69   283.19    47.09         3.75   249.84    30.84   331.52
1991     0.00      3.81   264.81    32.52   301.14    24.09         3.79   265.41    32.64   325.93
1992     0.00      4.04   282.09    34.56   320.70        0.00      1.08   226.26    23.60   250.94
1993     0.00      4.23   300.89    36.80   341.91        0.00      1.08   242.50    25.35   268.93
1994     0.00      4.39   321.15    39.22   364.76        0.00      1.08   259.81    27.21   288.10
1995     0.00      4.54   342.90    41.83   389.27        0.00      1.08   278.36    29.21   308.65
1996     0.00      4.68   366.18    44.62   415.49        0.00      1.08   298.25    31.36   330.68
1997     0.00      4.84   391.05    47.59   443.48        0.00      1.08   319.58    33.67   354.32
1998     0.00      5.01   417.58    50.76   473.34        0.00      1.08   342.46    36.15   379.70
1999     0.00      5.09   445.84    54.13   505.06        0.00      1.08   367.03    38.83   406.95
2000     0.00      5.13   476.54    57.82   539.49         0.00     1.08   393.43    41.73   436.24
2001     0.00      5.15   509.63    61.81   576.59   -27.38         1.08   421.81    44.85   440.37
COSTS SUMMARY AND COMPARISONS
CONST              TOTAL    VElICLE              INTERNAL
RECON    ROUTINE  CONST &  OPRTG                 RATE OF
UPGRD    HAINT    MAINT    & TIME   TOTAL    RETURN
ALT      COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    C(STS    COSTS    (S)
ALTO          0.00    60.21    60.21  5401.60  5461.90
ALTI         82.13    26.91   109.04  4553.90  4662.90    43.10



-95-
Annex 1.4
INDIA
STATES' ROAD PROJECT
Uttar Pradesh
Background
1.       The state of Uttar Pradesh (UP) is situated in the northern
part of India, bordering China and Nepal. With a population of 111
million (1981 census) it is India's most populous state; its area of
294,000 sq. km makes UP the fourth largest state and its population
density of 377 persons per sq. km is almost double the national
average. About 80% of the population lives in rural areas. Rural
population density ranges from 280 to 720 persons per sq. km, the
lowest densities occurring in the northern and western parts of the
state and the highest in the east.
2.       The economy of UP is predominantly agrarian, with agriculture
contributing about half of state income and employing almost 80% of
the work force. Economic growth has been below the national rate, and
per capita net domestic product is about $150, 75% of the national
average and making UP one of the poorest states in India. There are
other indicators that UP is one of the least advanced states in India.
The literacy rate of 27% compares with the national average of 36%.
The number of doctors and health centers per 1,000 persons is among
the lowest in India; and the provision of safe potable water has been
slow. Although the state is well connected to the rest of India via
national highways, railways and airways, intrastate communication is
inadequate. In relation to population, the length of surfaced roads
is only 60% of the national average, one quarter that of nearby
Punjab, and amongst the lowest in India.
3.       The level of development varies across the state, with the
west being more industrial and enjoying higher levels of income and
public services. Eastern UP, by contrast, is one of India's
traditional poverty belts. It is industrially backward, with less
than half the state average proportion of industrial workers. Per
capita income is lower, and surfaced road density is only half the
state average. The Central and State Governments are pursuing
policies directed at ameliorating this regional imbalance by improving
infrastructure and promoting agricultural and industrial development
in the east. The proposed project roads will support this effort.
Transport System
4.       UP is well-served by some 8,600 route-km of rail, the most
important of which is the broad gauge electrified line running from
Varanasi in the south-east via Allhahabad, Kanpur and Agra then on to
New Delhi (beyond the state's western border). This line forms part



-96-
Annex 1.4
Page 2 of 10
of the main ttunk route between New Delhi and Calcutta, the most
heavily trafficked rail corridor in the country. Another heavily
trafficked east-west broad gauge route, being electrified with Bank
assistance under Loan 2417-IN, runs through the northern half of the
state through Gorakhpur, Faizabad, the state capital Lucknow then via
Bareilly to New Delhi. The state is also quite well served witn 2,740
km of national highways (Map 20921), although much of this network
requires strengthening and widening, along with bye-passes around
major urban areas. The state road network, discussed in the following
paras, is less well developed, although it is the main means of
intrastate transport. The state's principal cities, Agra, Allahabad,
Kanpur, Lucknow and Varanasi, receive daily air services to New Delhi
and other state capitals. Some minor use is made of inland waterways
for cargo from as far away as Haldia and Calcutta.
The Road Network
5.       UP now has a total road network of almost 200,000 km, 60% of
which is lower class mostly unsurfaced roads administered by agencies
other than the state road authority, the Public Works Department
(PWD). Furthermore, 75% of PWD's network consists of "other district
roads" or lower categories, and virtually all of the growth in the
network has been in this lower end of the spectrum. Between 1975 and
1987 the length of surfaced PWD roads has increased from 29,750 to
53,300 kia., again with most of this growth occurring in other district
roads and village roads (most of the higher category roads already
having been surfaced by 1975). While all of the state highways and
major district roads are surfaced, 80% and 90% respectively are still
single lane, and in view of the heavy traffic volumes (para 7) much of
this network needs to be upgraded.
Uttar Pradesh Road Network
Length in kms
1975         1987
National Highways                 2,464         2,744
PWD Roads
State Highways                  7,922         7,692
Major District Roads            8,420        10,270
Other District Roads           10,484        22,399
Village Roads-Surfaced              -        10,791
Village Roads-Unsurfaced       5.,565        27816
Subtotal                       34,905       81,712
Non-PWD Village Roads             4,153        53,003
Urban Roads                        n.a.        20,688
Project Roads                      n.a.       40.896
Grand Total                        n.a.       196,508



-97-
Anngx 1.
Page 3 of 10
6.       Since 1975, the overall condition of the PWD network has
deteriorated, reflecting inadequate initial design standards, and
failure of the maintenance effort to keep pace with the substantial
extension that has occurred in the network. This issue is addressed
by the pavement management system that is to be developed under the
proposed project.
Condition of PWD Roads
(%)
1975      1980      1987
Good       49        40        36
Fair       18        20        20
Poor       33        40        44
7.       PWD conducts regular (twice yearly) 7 day classified traffic
counts at 100 points on the state highway network, in accordance with
procedures standards laid down by the Indian Roads Congress. As might
be expected in such a populous state with low road density, traffic
volumes are considerable. Most state highways carry at least 400
commercial vehicles a day, many over 1,000; substantial lengths in the
western part of the state carry 2,000 or more, and volumes as high as
5,000 commercial vehicles a day are reached towards Delhi. The
vehicle fleet has grown at an average annual rate of 13.6% since 1979,
with motorcycles, tractors and others (mostly scooters) growing
particularly rapidly. Of more relevance for rural highways, the truck
fleet has been growing at about 8% per annum.
Number of Motor Vehicles Registered
(in Thousands)
Average
Annual
Growth
TYDe of Vehicle          1979       1986       (%)
Cars                     44.1       65.2         5.7
Taxis                     5.5       18.7        19.1
Buses                    12.0       19.4         7.1
Trucks                   27.2       46.9         8.1
Motorcycles             191.7      557.9        16.5
Tractors and Others      93.2      206.0        12.
Total                   373.7      914.0        13.6



-98-
Annex 1. 4
Page 4 of 10
Road Expenditures and Plans
8.       The construction and maintenance of national highways is
financed by the Central Government, although the actual work is
executed by the UP PWD, generally using contractors. Most of the cost
of works on the PWD network is met by the state Government, although
about one quarter of the outlays - all devoted to lower class roads -
is financed by the Central Government through the National Rural
Employment Program (NREP) and the Rural Landless Employment Guarantee
Program (RLEGP). Most of the cost of works on other roads is met by
district councils, other local authorities, or project agencies such
as forestry, irrigation and electricity authorities. Much of the
latter expendil:ure does not get recorded as road expenditure, at least
in centralized records. The following discussion relates only to
Central and State Government expenditures recorded as such.
9.       In real terms, tetal Central and State Government Development
(i.e., capital) expenditure on roads in UP has increased
substantially, especially over the past 10 years.
Annual Development ExNenditure on Roads in UP. 1952-90
(Rs million, 1970 prices)
Central
National                       Joint
Plan Period      Hi&hways  Other   State   Central/State  Total
Actual
First    (1952-56)    10.3       0.0    23.6        -            33.9
Second   (1957-61)    26.0       7.9    56.0        -            89.9
Third    (1962-66)    29.8       2.1    85.2        -           117.1
Annual   (1967-69)    28.8       2.4    64.4        -            95.5
Fourth   (1970-74)    54.2       1.7   128.2        -           184.1
Fifth    (1975-79)    37.8       2.9   230.8        -           271.5
Annual   (1980)        62.4      3.2   507.4        -           573.0
Sixth    (1980-85)    51.4      79.3   524.8       80.9         736.4
Planned
Seventh  (1986-90)    48.1      96.2   486.3      160.5         791.1
Source:  Planning Commission (Annex 6.1, Ref. 6).
As the road lengths cited in para. 5 confirm, much of the expenditure
has been applied to extending the lower class network, especially in
recent years. Expenditure under "other" Central schemes has increased



-99-
Annex 1.4
Page 5 of 10
markedly since 1980 with the introduction of schemes such as NREP,
RLEGP, Special Problem Area Roads and Hill Area Development roads.
For some of these schemes, the State Government is required to make
matching expenditures. Furthermore, the State Government has its own
programs for district and village roads. Overall, just under 60% of
Central and State roads expenditure under the Sixth Plan was devoted
to rural roads, and this is planned to increase to 67% under the
Seventh Plan.
10.      The major roads objectives of UP's Seventh Plan are to:
(a)  meet the national Minimum Needs Program (MNP) 1990 targets of
providing a r3ad to every village with a population in excess
of 1,500 and 50% of the villages with populations between
1,000 and 1,500; this requires the construction of some 7,500
kms of roads to connect 3,200 and 800 villages in the
respective size ranges;
(b)  reconstruct 3,100 kA of distTict and village roads;
(c)  upgrade 1,000 km of major district roads to state highways
(out of a total of 2,500 km requiring such upgrading);
(d)  widen and strengrhen 2,500 kms of state highways; and
(e)  recognizing the need for adequate all-weather crossings of
the state's numerous rivers and creeks, undertake a
substantial bridge-building program.
11.      The expenditures required to pursue these objectives are
summarized below:
State Development ExDenditure on Roads. 1985-2000
(Rs Million)
Seventh Plan
Allocation
(1985 Prices)    1986    1987      1988    1989
State Highways            2,609         629     808       650     678
District and
Other Roads             5,604         884     972    1,179   1,164
Admin, Research,
Surveys                 1.377         239     232       304     303
Total                     9,650       1,752   2,012    2,133   2,145
Source:  Government of Uttar Pradesh, Planning Department, Anmual
Plan, 1988-89, pp. 148-9.



-100-
Annex 1.4
Page 6 of 10
An alternative breakdown of the Seventh Plan allocation by type of
work illustrates the focus on the lower class roads:
Seventh Plan Allocation
Rs Million        L
New construction of district and
village roads                              3,453          36
Reconstruction of district and
village roads                              1,049          11
Upgrading major district roads to
state highways                               325           3
Widening and strengthening state
highways                                   1,245          13
Bridges                                      1,874          19
Other                                        1224           18
TOTAL                                        9,650         100
12.      As discussed in greater detail in the main text, all states
in India are spending less on road maintenance than the niorms
suggested by the Eighth Finance Commission.  (These norms are a rather
imperfect absolute measure of warranted maintenance expenditures but
nevertheless provide an order of magnitude guide for assessing
relative effort.) According to a recert Planning Commission study
(Annex 6.1 Ref. 6), UP was one of the better performers, spending 66%
of the norm compared with a national average of 55%. Considering UP
is one of the poorer states, this was quite a satisfactory situation.
However, UP's maintenance expenditures have declined sit.ce then, even
in nominal terms, so the state's maintenanee effort warrants careful
monitoring. Under the proposed project, a pavement management system
will be established to more accurately assess funding requirements,
identify the most appropriate program for alternative maintenance
budgets, and monitor the effectiveness of maintenance work.



-101-
Annex 1.4
Page 7 of 10
Maintenance Expenditures on PWD Roeds
Fiscal Year                Rs million
1983                        644.5
1984                        590.2
1985                        809.3
1986                      1,093.3
1987                        908.7
1988                        906.6
PWD Maintenance Expenditure by Road Category. 1987
Rs million 
State Highways                 326            36
Major District Roads            142           16
Other District Roads           210            23
Village Roads                  2jj.
909          100
The Proiect
*           13.       The project component for Uttar Pradesh would comprise:
(a)  the strengthening and widening to two lanes of four roads:
Sonauli-Gorakhpur (93 km), Gorakhpur-Ballia (153 km),
Faizabad-Allahabad (150 km) and Allahabad-Dohrighat (208 km)
(Map 20921);
(b) specialized equipment to assist PWD in monitoring the
condition and usage of its roads; and
(c) staff training and technical assistance to introduce a
pavement management system and other improvements in highway
administration.
14.      In early 1987 UP Government commissioned consultants to
prepare a road improvement program to promote development in the
backward eastern part of the state, one of India's traditional poverty
belts (para. 3). The consultants report (Annex 6.1, ref. 39),
identified nine priority sub-projects and the four highest ranking of
these were selected for inclusion in the proposed project.



-102-
Annex 1.4
Page 8 of 10
15.      Gorakhpur, the second largest city in eastern UP after
Varanasi, is the main trading and distribution center for the north-
eastern part of the state. It is served by two national highways as
well as by rail, and is the headquarters of the North Eab,terv Railway.
State Highway 1 runs north from Gorakhpur to Sonauli, near the border
with Nepal. There is a population in excess of 2 million people in
the influence area of the Sonauli-Gorakhpur road, which also serves
transit traffic to and from Nepal. Traffic ranges from about 700
vehicles per day at the Sonauli end to over 3,000 towards Gorakhpur,
yet -,;he road is single lane (3.6m) for most of its length. Surface
condition is generally rough and bumpy, and for some 16 km there are
deep ruts and the surface has disintegrated. A total length of 15 km
needs realignment, and sections totalling 4.4 km are subject to
submergence and need to be raised. The project will widen the road to
two lanes (7m), which is well warranted by the traffic levels, and
will rectify the other design deficiencies.
16.      The Gorakhpir-Ballia road is the southern extension of State
Highway 1. Near Ballia there is a junction with an important east-
west road which to the west provides a link to Ghazipur and Varanasi
and to the east passes along the fertile banks of the Ganges and, via
a new bridge being constructed across the Ghaghara river at Manjhi,
will link with Chhapra in Bihar, which is the terminus of a project
road in that state. The Gorakhpur-BalLia road thus forms part of a
system linking Bihar and points east (including the port of Calcutta)
to Goraklbpur and, via the Sonauli-Gorakhpur project road, NRepal. The
road passes through the headquarters of three districts, with a
population totalling over 9 million and a population density 60% above
the state average. Traffic averages about 2,000 vehicles par day and
is likely to increase significantly when construction is completed of
a major new bridge acros& the Chaghara river near Belthara, about 50
km north of Ballia. This bridge (not to be confused with the above-
mentioned-bridge at Manjhi, to the east of Ballia) replaces an
existing pontoon bridge which cannot be used during flood periods.
The pavement is generally single lane, varying from 3.6 to 4.1m, and
mostly has a rough and bumpy surface. Under the preject, the road
will be widened to two lanes (7m pavement), strengthened, and
realigned/raised as necessary.
17.      Faizabad and Allahabad are both substantial cities, and
important transport nodes. National Highway 28 and several major
State Highways pass through Faizabad, which is also a railway
junction. Allahabad lies on the main rail and national highway routes
between Calcutta and New Delhi, and three State Highways radiate from
it. The Faizabad-Allahabad road (part of State Highway 9) not only
links these two cities, but also passes through two other district
headquarters (Sultanpur and Pratapgarh) and provides an important
north-south link between three heavily trafficked east-west national
highways (2, 28 and 56). Motorized traffic (excluding motor scooters)
ranges from 800 to 2,000 vehicles per day, but the road is almost
entirely single lane. Although the road has generally good alignment
and satisfactory surface condition for most of its length, pavement
strength and cross-drainage structures are inadequate. Most of the



-103-
Annex1.
Page 9 of 10
19 bridges along the road have adequate strength and width, but four
minor bridges are weak and/or narrow and need to be replaced. The
project will widen the carriageway to two lanes (7m) and rectify the
other deficiencies.
18.         The Allahabad-Dohrighat  road passes  through  three districts
with a combined population of 10 million, almost 90% of which is in
rural areas, mostly engaged in agriculture. Motorized traffic
(excluding motor scooters) ranges from 1,200 to 2,600 vehicles per
dry, but the road is mostly single lane, with a poor to fair surface,
generally inadequate pavement strength and stretches with poor
drainage subject to submergence. The project will widen the pavement
to two lanes (7m) and remove the other deficiencies.
19.         The other project components  (equipment,  technical assistance
and training) are the same as for the other states, and are described
in paras. 4.11-.16 of the main text.
20.         The project  in UP would cost Rs  2,312 million  (US$ 160
million), as detailed below.
(RUPEES  lilli3n)                          (US$ Million)
% Total                                 ':tai
I o-eisn  B:se                         ZFcretin  P.se
Local  Foeign Total  .:;^hange   Ccsts  Local Foreign Total L:cnzn9e   :^.ts
A. R:PD SYSTE!
1. SONAULI-SORAKHPUR ROAD      931K1    !607    :2.5  223.2          29      13   11.9      4.4 16.5          °       3
2. LAND ACQUISITION                       3.7       -     8.7         -       1    0.6        -    S          -       1
3. SORAKHP'JR-BALLtA ROAD     1531K     270.4  105,2  37S.6          28      22   20,0      7.8  .a          29      22'
4. LAND ACOUISITION                       8,2       -     9.2         -       0    0.6       -   06          -       0
5, FAIZABAD-ALLAABAD RAD    150'1       '245.5   95.5   !.i.0        2g      20   18.2    7.1  25.3          29      20
6. LAND ACQUISITION                       c,9       -     9,9         -       1    0.7        -   0,7         -       I
'. ALLAHAIAD-DOHRIG4AT ROAD   2081      37:5.7  145.3  519.0         29      it   2?.7   10.8  38.4         28       30
9. LAND ACQUISITION                      27-5       -    27.5         -       2    2.0        -  2.0          -       2
9. SUPERVISION                          151.       -   161.3         -       9   il.z       -  11.2          -       9
10. EQUIPllENT                            1.9    13.8    15.7        89       1    0.1    1.0   1.2         88        1
1. TRAINING                               0.6     4.7     5.4        91       0    0.0    0*3  0.4           88       0
12. fAINTENANCE NANAGEfENT STUDY          0.6     9t,   10.0         94       1    0.0     0.7   0.7        94        1
13. CONTRACT SUPERVISION TA               1.4    21.2   22.6         94       1   O.i    1.6   1.7          94        1
_ _ _0.    ______  1____      ______    _  ____4
Sub-Total ROAD SYSTEN                    1,260.3   457,6 1,718,O        27     100   93.4    33.9 127.3         27     100
T'tal 9ASELINE COSTS                       1,260,3   157.6 1,718.0        27     100   93.4    33.9 127.3         27     100
Physical Contingaences                    126.0    45.8  171.9         27      10    9.3     3.4  12.7         27      10
F!ice Continoencin                        331.0    91,7   422,7        22      25   16.0 *  3.0  19.8          19      16
T:t3l PROJECT COSTS                        1017.4  595.1 24312.5          26     135  1i8.7    41.1 159,.         26     126
--                          _                              _--__-_--  ==-=- --



-104-
Annex 1. 4
Page 10 of 10
Economic Evaluation
21.      The road improvements in UP were evaluated using the same
methodology applied in the other states, which is described in
Chapter V of the main text. The roads were divided into sections of
reasonable homogeneity in terms of physical characteristics and
traffic levels. The rates of return for the individual sections are
presented in Tables 2 to 4 they range from 12% to 25%. The average
rate of return for the project in Uttar Pradesh is 19%.



-105-
ANNEX 1.4
INDIA                                         TABLE I
STATE'S ROAD PROJECT
UTTAR PRADESH
DEFINITION OF HIGHWAYS TO BE IMPROVED
ROAD                          ROAD           TERRAIN                 PAVEMENT           CONDITION
No              Section           LENGTH   RISE+FALL CURVATURE    BASE  WRG CRS  LNS.   (ROUGHNESS)
km        8/ku      deg/km       me     so       t         so/km
SH-  I   Sonauli to Gorakpur          93.0       20.0       120          255     22   1.0          4000
SH-  1   Gorakpur to Ballia          153.0       20.0       120          265     25   1.0         5000
SH-      Faizabad to Allahabad       143.0       20.0       120          450     50   1.0         3500
SH-      Allahabad to Dohrigat       208.0       10.0        20          235     25   1.0         4500
Source: Uttar Pradesh PND
September 1988



-106-
HDM-123 REPORT                                                                                  ANNEX 1.4
RUN  SONAULI- GORAKPUR  93.0 Ks                                                                   ----
TABLE 2
TOTAL AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC (TWO-WAY)
CAR      BUS    TRUCK    TOTAL
1988      243       131       430      804
1989      261       141       462      864
1990      281       151       497      929
1991      302       163       534      999
1992      325       175       574     1074
1993      349       188       617     1154
1994      375       202       664     1241
1995      403       217       713     1334
1996      433       234       767     1434
1997      466       251       824     1542
1998      501       270       886     1657
1999      538       290       953     1781
2000      579       312      1024     1915
2001      622       335      1101     2059
ECONOMIC COSTS OF ALTERNATIVES
(1988 RUPEES MILLION)
ROAD     ROAD      VEHICLE  VEHICLE  TOTAL    ROAD        ROAD     VEHICLE  VEHICLE  TOTAL
CAPITAL  RECURR   OPRTG    TIME       ECONOMIC CAPITAL  RECURR   OPRTG    TIME         ECONOMIC
YEAR     COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS
ALTO                                            ALTI
1988     0.00      2.15    80.91    11.35    94.41    25.93        4.14    80.91    11.35   122.33
1989     0.00      1.92    89.32    12.77   104.00    49.70        1.50    86.06    11.98   149.24
1990     0.00      1.94   100.08    14.69   116.71    92.92        1.81    96.28    13.79   204.80
1991     0.00      2.06   111.87    16.80   130.74    47.54        1.98   108.41    15.99   173.93
1992     0.00      2.23   121.93    18.45   142.61       0.00      0.77    96.99    12.83   110.60
1993     0.00      2.41   130.79    19.77   152.97       0.00      0.77   104.61    13.88   119.27
1994     0.00      2.61   140.27    21.18   164.06       0.00      0.77   112.73    14.99   128.49
1995     0.00      2.84   150.41    22.67   175.92       0.00      0.77   121.50    16.20   138.47
1996     0.00      3.10   161.22    24.27   188.59       0.00      0.77   130.98    17.51   149.26
1997     0.00      3.40   172.76    25.96   202.11       0.00      0.77   141.26    18.94   160.97
1998     0.00      3.74   185.04    27.75   216.52       0.00      0.77   152.43    20.50   173.70
1999     0.00      4.13   198.10    29.64   231.86       0.00      0.77   164.58    22.22   187.57
2000     0.00      4.59   211.95    31.63   248.16        0.00     0.82   177.89    24.13   202.83
?001     0.00      4.95   226.63    33.71   265.29   -54.03        0.89   192.45    26.24   165.55
COSTS SUMMARY AND COMPARISONS
CONST              TOTAL    VEHICLE             INTERNAL
RECON    ROUTINE  CONST &  OPRTG                RATE OF
UPGRD     AINT    MAINT    & TIME   TOTAL    RETURN
ALT      COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    (%)
RUN---  AUL--  --- R---K --------3 -----------------------
ALTO          0.00    42.07    42.07  2391.90  2434.00
ALTI       162.08    17.31   179.38  2007.60  2187.00    11.70



-107-
HDN-123 REPORT                                                                                 ANNEX 1.4
RUN  GORAHPUR - BALLIA  153.0 K 
TABLE 3
TOTAL AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC (TWO-WAY)
CAR      BUS    TRUCK    TOTAL
1988      765       146      440      1351
1989      822       157      473      1452
1990      884       169      509      1561
1991      950       181      547      1678
1992     1022       195      588      1804
1993     1098       210      632      1940
1994     uil8       225      679     2085
1995     1269       242      730      2241
1996     1364       260      785     2410
1997     1467       280      844      2590
1998     1577       301      907      2785
1999     1695       324      975     2993
2000     1822       348     1048      3218
2001     1959       374     1127      3459
ECONOMIC AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE COSTS
(1988 RUPEES MILLION)
ROAD     ROAD      VEHICLE  VEHICLE  TOTAL    ROAD       ROAD     VEHICLE  VEHICLE  TOTAL
CAPITAL  RECURR   OPRTG    TIME       ECONOMIC CAPITAL  RECURR   OPRTG    TINE       ECONOMIC
YEAR     COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS
ALTO                                           ALTI
1988     0.00     2.80   220.37    28.33   251.50    43.63        5.33   220.37    28.33   297.67
1989     0.00     2.46   242.64    31.78   276.88    83.63        2.45   235.62    30.16   351.87
1990     0.00      2.63   274.90    37.29   314.82   156.35       3.18   266.68    35.48   461.69
1991     0.00     2.94   305.66    42.22   350.82    79.99        3.57   299.97    41.04   424.57
1992     0.00      3.33   327.59    45.18   376.10      0.00      1.27   260.76    29.94   291.97
1993     0.00      3.75   350.82    48.30   402.86       0.00     1.27   281.15    32.42   314.84
1994     0.00     4.17   375.63    51.61   431.40       0.00      1.27   302.90    35.03   339.20
1995     0.00     4.58   402.22    55.14   461.94       0.00      1.27   326.39    37.86   365.52
1996     0.00      4.98   430.74    58.93   494.66      0.00      1.27   351.79    40.95   394.01
1997     0.00      5.38   461.34    62.99   529.72      0.00      1.27   379.31    44.32   424.90
1998     0.00     5.70   494.15    67.33   567.18       0.00      1.27   409.19    48.02   458.48
1999     0.00     5.92   529.70    72.06   607.68       0.00      1.32   441.76    52.11   495.20
2000     0.00      6.08   568.35    77.23   651.66      0.00      1.36   477.30    56.64   535.29
?O01     0.0^      6.21   610.13    82.84   699.18   -90.90       1.47   516.24    61.68   488.49
COSTS SUMNARY AND CONPARISONS
CONST              TOTAL                       INTERNAL
RECON    ROUTINE  CONST &  VEHICLE             RATE OF
UPGRD    HAINT    MAINT    OPERATINGTOTAL    RETURN
ALT      COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    (%)
-- - - -- --____- - - - -- - - -_          -- - - - - -- - - - -
ALTO         0.00    60.91    60.91  6355.50  6416.40
ALTI       272.70    27.57   300.27  5343.40  5643.70    19.20



-108-
HDH-123 REPORT                                                                                    ANNEX 1.4
RUN   FAIZABAD ALLPHABAr   143.0 Km                                                               .........
TABLE 4
TOTAL AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC (TWO-WAY)
CAR      BUS    TRUCK    TOTAL
1988      416       205       429      1050
1989      447       220       461      1129
1990      481       237       496      1213
19^1       517      255       533      1304
1992      556       274       573      1402
1993      597       294       616      1507
1994      642       316       662      1621
1995      690       340       712      1742
1996      742       366       765      1873
1997      798       393       823      2013
1998      857       423       884      2164
1999      922       454       951      2326
2000       991      488      1022      2501
2001      1065      525      1098      2688
ECONOMIC COSTS OF ALTERNATIVES
(1988 RUPEES MILLION)
ROAD     ROAD      VEHICLE  VEHICLE  TOTAL    ROAD         ROAD     VEHICLE  VEHICLE  TOTAL
CAPITAL  RECURR   OPRTG    TIME        ECONOMIC CAPITAL  RECURR   OIRTG    TIME         ECONOMIC
YEAR     COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS
ALTO                                             ALT1
1988     0.00      2.60   157.94    23.56   184.10    39.61         4.96   157.94    23.56   226.08
1989     0.00      2.03   173.25    26.26   201.53    75.92         1.46   168.01    24.86   270.25
1990     0.00      1.89   193.67    30.17   225.73   141.94         1.89   188.65    28.86   361.34
1991     0.00      1.92   219.98    35.45   257.35    72.62         2.09   213.54    33.81   322.07
1992     0.00      2.06   245.66    40.38   288.09        0.00      1.19   191.42    27.19   219.80
1993     0.00      2.24   265.02    43.63   310.90        0.00      1.19   206.45    29.42   237.06
1994     0.00      2.45   284.30    46.76   333.51        0.00      1.19   222.46    31.79   255.43
1995     0.00      2.66   304.93    50.10   357.68        0.00      1.19   239.75    34.35   275.29
1996     0.00      2.88   327.04    53.67   383.59         0.00     1.19   258.47    37.14   296.79
1997     0.00      3.12   350.70    57.49   411.32        0.00      1.19   278.75    40.19   320.13
1998     0.00      3.39   376.01    61.56   440.96        0.00      1.19   300.79    43.53   345.50
1999     0.00      3.70   403.03    65.89   472.61        0.00      1.23   324.83    47.22   373.28
2000     0.00      4.05   431.84    70.48   506.37        0.00      1.25   351.09    51.30   403.63
2001     0.00      4.45   462.52    75.34   542.31   -82.53          1.33   379.86    55.83   354.50
COSTS SUMMARY AND COMPARISONS
CONST              TOTAL    VEHICLE              INTERNAL
RECON    ROUTINE  CONST &  OPRTG                 RATE OF
UPGRD    HAINT    MAINT    & TIME   TOTAL    RETURN
ALT      COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    (%)
ALTO          0.00    39.44    39.44  4876.60  4916.10
ALTI        247.58    22.52   270.09  3991.10  4261.10    17.90



-109-
HDH-123 REPORT                                                                                  ANNEX 1.4
RUN  ALLAHABAD - DOHRIGAT  208.0 Ka                                                             -
TABLE 5
TOTAL AVERAGE DAILY TRAFFIC (TWO-WAY)
CAR      8US    TRUCK    TOTAL
1988     1251       270       490     2011
1989     1345       290       527     2162
1990     1446       312       566     2324
1991     1554       335       609     2498
1992     1671       361       654     2686
1993     1796       388       704     2887
1994     1931       417       756     3104
1995     2076       448       813     3336
1996     2231       482       874     3587
1997     2399       518      939      3856
1998     2578       557      1010     4145
1999     2772       598     1086      4456
2000     2980       643      1167     4790
2001     3203       691      1255     5149
ECONOMIC COSTS OF ALTERNATIVES
(1988 RUPEES MILLION)
ROAD     ROAD      VEHICLE  VEHICLE  TOTAL    ROAD        ROAD     VEHICLE  VEHICLE  TOTAL
CAPITAL  RECURR   OPRTG    TIME       ECONOMIC CAPITAL  RECURR   OPRTG    TIME         ECONOMIC
YEAR     COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS
ALTO                                            ALTI
1988     0.00    12.16   436.22    58.73   507.12    60.29    23.96   436.22    58.73   579.21
1989     0.00    11.06   478.14    65.27   554.47   115.55         4.67   422.32    51.17   593.70
1990     0.00    10.52   518.65    71.22   600.38   216.03         5.95   472.34    60.04   754.36
1991     0.00    10.24   559.59    77.02   646.85   110.53         6.93   535.82    71.52   724.81
1992     0.00    10.10   602.67    83.04   695.82         0.00     1.73   521.62    64.04   587.38
1993     0.00    10.04   648.48    89.40   747.91         0.00     1.73   562.44    69.36   633.53
1994     0.00    10.00   697.44    96.18   803.62         0.00     1.73   606.01    74.98   682.71
1995     0.00      9.98   749.92   103.43   863.33        0.00     1.73   653.09    81.08   735.90
1996     0.00      9.98   806.26   111.21   927.44        0.00     1.73   704.05    87.75   793.53
1997     0.00      9.97   866.78   119.56   996.31        0.00     1.73   759.35    95.06   856.13
1998     0.00      9.97   931.81   128.54  1070.32        0.00     1.73   819.47   103.11   924.31
1999     0.00      9.97  1001.71   138.18  1149.86        0.00     1.83   885.23   112.07   999.13
2000     0.00      9.97  1076.85   148.54  1235.36        0.00     2.02   957.38   122.09  1081.49
2001     0.00      9.97  1157.62   159.69  1327.27  -125.60        2.20  1036.53   133.28  1046.41
COSTS SUMMPRY AND COMPARISONS
CONST              TOTAL    VEHICLE             INTERNAL
RECON    ROUTINE  CONST &  OPRTG                RATE OF
UPGRD    MAINT    MAINT    & TIME   TOTAL    RETURN
ALT      COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    COSTS    (S)
------------------------------------------------
ALTO          0.00   143.93   143.93 11982.10 12126.00
ALTI       376.80    59.65   436.45 10556.10 10992.60    24.50



-110-                                Annex 2.1
INDIA
STATES' ROAD PROJECT
Growth of Transport System, 1961-85
Item                        Unit              1961        1971       1980        1985
1.     RAILWAYS
1.1    Route length                 Kms             56,247      59,790      60,933     61,661
1.2    Electrified route length   Kms                  748       3,706       4,820       6,440
1.3    Tonnes                       Million            156         196         218         264
1.4    Net Tonne Kms                Billion             88         12i         156         183
1.5    Passengers                   Million          1,594       2,431       3,505       3,380
1.5    Passenger Kms                Billion             78         118         199         229
2.     ROADS
2.1    Total length                 000 Kms            705         917       1,534       1,772
2.2    Surfaced length              000 Kms            234         398         658         833
2.3    Unsurfaced length            000 Kms            471         520         876         939
2.4    National highways            Kms             23,769      24,000      29,000      31,710
2.5    Villages connected with
all-weather roads           Nos.               n.a.        n.a.    167,376    199,789
2.6    Percentage of villages
connected with all-
weather roads                Percent           n.a.        n.a.          28         34
3.     ROAD TRANSPORT
3.1    Number of trucks             No.            167,649    342,577    472,093    763,000
3.2    Number of Passenger buses  No.               56,792      93,907    140,346    206,268
3.3    Tonne Kms (est.)             Billion             35          67         101         131
4.     MAJOR PORTS
4.1    Traffic handled              Million tons        39.9        55.7        78.5       106.7
4.2    Number of major ports        No.                  9          10          10          10 1/
5.     SHIPPING
5.1    Overseas Shipping
5.1.1  Shipping tonnage             Million GRT          0.54        2.20        5.30        5.97
5.1.2  Traffic carried              Million tons         2.2        10.4        20.0        31.00



-111.-                        Annex 2.1
Page 2 of 2
Item                         Unit             1961        1971        1980        1985
5.2    Coastal Shipping
5.2.1  Shipping tonnage             Million GRT           0.31        0.23       0.25        0.36
5.2.2  Traffic carried              Million tons          5.4         4.3        4.4         5.5
6.     INLAND WATER TRANSPORT
6.1    Length of navigable
waterways                    Kms                                     14,544      14,544
6.2    Length of waterways
suitable for mechanized
craft                        Kms                                      5,685       5,685
7.     CIVIL AVIATION
7.1    Indian Airlines
7.1.1  Capacity                     Million Ton Kms   113          208         586         960
7.1.2  Traffic
a) revenue ton kms           Million             83         161         399         664
b) revenue passenger kms   Million              614       1,543       4,199       6,676
7.2    Air India
7.2.1  Capacity                     Million Ton Kms   161          516       1,388       2,007
7.2.2  Traffic
a) revenue ton kms           Million             76         275         819       1,257
b) revenue passenger kms   Million              583       1,994       5,731       8,623
8.     PIPELINE
8.1    Length                       Kms                  -           -       5,035       6,535
1/  This does not include Nhava Sheva Port, which is under construction.
Source:  GOI Planning Commission, The Seventh Five-Year Plan 1985-90,
October 1985, Volume II, Table 8.1



-112-
Annex 2.2
INDIA
STATES' ROAD PROJECT
Experience with Recent Bank-Assisted Transport Projects
1.        The Bank's past involvement in the sector (Table 1) has been
predominantly in railways, due to the Indian authorities' preference for
local competitive bidding in road and port projects. However, following
GOI's recent decision to entertain international competitive bidding in
roads and ports, the Bank has, after a long hiatus, recommenced lending
operations in these two subsectors, with the Nhava Sheva Port Project
(Loan 2387-IN, 1984, US$ 250 million), the National Highways Project (Loan
2534-IN, L985, US$ 200 million), and the Gujarat Rural Roads Project
(Credit 1757-'IN, 1987, SDR 101 million).
Railways
2.        Through sixteen operations approved between 1949 and 1984, Bank
Group assistance to Indian Railways (IR) has totalled US$ 1.8 billion
equivalent. The first thirteen operations were based on one- to three-
year slices of IR's investment programs and covered foreign exchange for
acquisition of: (a) materials, parts and components for manufacture of
motive power and rolling stock; (b) machinery and plant for IR manufactur-
ing units; and (c) materials and equipment for line improvement works and
telecommunications. Since 1978, there have been three specific investment
projects focussing on particular components in respect of motive power,
rolling stock, workshop and track electrification. The audit (Report
No. 6055-IN, January 10, 1986) on the Thirteenth Railway Project, the last
of the program loans, concluded that the project "came close to achieving
its principal objective to provide capacity for the forecast increase in
traffic during the Project period...  and IR's operational and financial
performance improved... However, the Project included some investments of
low economic priority while inadequate resources were devoted to higher
priority investments in replacements and renewals...  and resources allo-
cated to the Depreciation Reserve Fund were inadequate."
3.        The first of the specific projects, the Railway Modernization
and Maintenance Project (Credit 844-IN, 1978, US$ 190 million) was satis-
factorily completed in late 1985, about 18 months behind schedule. The
project had two major components: (a) support for the first phase of IR's
workshop modernization and rationalization program; and (b) the estab-
lishment of a wheel and axle plant. The audit found that the element of
workshop modernization devoted to five major pre-specified workshops was
"successful and probably justified", but that the program element of
workshops modernization, "in which machine tools were placed in numerous
shops around the country that may or may not be viable elements of the
maintenance system, probably had a much lower return." Moreover little
rationalization has occurred and few of the potential labor savings have
been realized. Regarding the wheel and axle plant, the audit noted that



-113-
Annex 2.2
Page 2 of 3
while this is a "model industrial operation," its economic impact has been
disappointing, because of cost overruns and the decline in the world
market for rail equipment. Overall, the audit concluded that any com-
ponent having a major impact on the labor force needs careful design, but
that this project and its successors (paras 4-5) have "sharply outlined
the real long-term problems facing IR and the constraints the Bank must
consider when structuring a lending operation. This was not the case with
the earlier lending format and is the useful result of a serious attempt
to effect specific changes."
4.        The Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project II (Credit
1299-IN/Loan 2210-IN, 1982, SDR 184.7 million and US$ 200 million) is
directed at (a) further improvements in the maintenance system through
establishment of a facility for reclamation of diesel electric locomotive
components and assemblies, and the provision of unit exchange spares; (b)
introduction of new electric locomotive technology; and (c) components and
materials for new design high-capacity wagons. This project is behind
schedule due to disturbances in the Punjab (the site of the Diesel
Component Works), and delays i& initiating procurement of electric
locomotives/components and bogies for wagons. However, 80X of the
Credit/Loan is now committed.
S.        The Railway Electrification and Workshop Modernization Project
(Loan 2417-IN, 1984, US$ 280.7 million) supports electrification of about
3000 route-kms, and Phase II of the workshop modernization program. After
a slow start, physical implementation is now progressing well and the
project is expected to be completed on time. About 60X of the loan has
been committed.
Ports
6.        The Nhava Sheva Port Project (Loan 2387-IN, 1984, US$ 250
million) supports the establishment of a new bulk and container port in
the Bombay area. This project also started slowly, but physical implemen-
tation is now proceeding well and is expected to be completed by June
1989, about a year behind schedule. However, institutional development is
behind schedule, which may require that initial operations are contracted
out to a port management company.
Roads
7.        The Bihar Rural Roads Project (Credit 1072-IN, 1980, US$ 35
million) comprises the construction/improvement of about 700 kms of rural
roads, and improvements to the maintenance organization (including provi-
sion of equipment). This project has been implemented satisfactorily,
though with some delays, and is nearing completion.



-114-
Annex 2.2
Page 3 of 3
8.        The National Highway Project (Loan 2534-IN, 1985, US$ 200
million) aims to (a) foster institutional development by, amongst other
things, introducing modern aspects of highway, planning, design, construc-
tion and financing; (b) evaluate the extent to whicn modern, more fuel-
efficient vehicles should be encouraged to ply Indian roads, and if so how
to promote the appropriate vehicle fleet; (c) develop the capabilities of
local contractors by exposing them to foreign competition and
collaboration; and (d) alleviate congestion on some key sections of the
national highway system, by the construction! rehabilitation of some
500 kms of road in six States. The civil works component is well behind
schedule, due to delays in finalizing tender documents, evaluating tenders
and awarding contracts. In part, these delays are attributable to the
need to familiarize the state agencies responsible for executing this
component with Bank procedures. However, most of the contracts have now
been awarded. The institutional comsponents are progressing well, although
the Vehicle Fleet Modernization and Road User Charges Study was initiated
behind schedule.
9.        As the Gujarat Rural Roads Project (Credit 1757-IN, 1987,
SDR 101 million) became effective only in August 1987, there has not yet
been sufficient implementation experience to draw any conclusions.



Annex 2.2
Table 1
STATES' ROAD PROJECT
,:ans nd Coditi to India Trneportation Segtor
Approvl  Closing   Loon   Atrot
4o.     Oate   ODat    A4o0nt  Disbursd    Status
tUSI Ihilon E4uti.)
!8R0 loas   qa;j    ROIly                                       S 4        151      '4.00    32S.0      Coupints
:::zz:zz-=             S,cwEn Railway                    167    '151    121'S       24.00    24.00      Comlete
Second Railway                    1tS    7/57    12:5S       19,11    :9.11      CO"Ite
SeonC Ria ny                      169    ?157    12/59       11.20    11.20      Complete
Secotd Rllwan                     170     1 57    i2/5S      35.70    35.70      Couplet.
'lhifd Railay                     207    9159    6t59       95.e00     5.00      Complete
Fourth Railway                    235    7n50      6/60      50.00    50.00      Cmplete
FI:fth Railomo                    262    7,60      1/62     70.00    70.00       Col.tt
Siuth Rallway                     298   10/41    12/12      50.00    50.00       Copl te
Second Raii lodetiriatio         2210   11192      9/0     200.00      2.94  i1
Railway Elctrif.cation           2417    5184      9/T0    280.70    73.20
SuIbtotal                                                    s. 71
Port     Calcutta *wt                      19      4151    12145      20.00   2.00        Complete
a44ras P  t                       1I"    4/58      414       14.00    10.47      Coulets
Second Calcutta Port              294    7/T1      7169      21.0u    19.84      coplets
bhava Shew  Part                 2397    3)94      6/99    250.00   120.39
Subtotal                                                    314.00
Rods    koda  Urban transeortaton          1535   10/7      6/84     25.00    25.00      Couplets
Ratiual HMghuy                   2534    3/05    12/02    20.00    23.62
Stotat                                                      22500
Air      Alr India                          1t1    3/57    12153       5.40      5.40     Couplets
Total IN  La                                                        1404La1
IR Credits  Ral       Sevnth Ratlway                    35    3/43       8tb4      91.43 t    1.43     Ctoule
*iEjth ttRalwa                     47   10/44      1/46      74.79    74.79      Ctolet
both Railway                       a     6146      4/49      92.03    92.30      Complete
tenth RaIlNaY                     142    910       9171     46.35    66.35       Couplete
Eleventh Raily"                   250    1172      1/74      79.99    70.99      toCplet.
Twlfth Ralw y                     44    12173    9*75        90.00    90.00      Couplete
thirtenth  aill"y                 92    un75       9179    110.00   110.00       Coults
Railway R rn. & Rainte.           944    Bi7S      9/05    190.00   190.00       Couple
2nd Railway fad. t Rabits.    12 9    11/92        9tS     253.63   210.14
Subtotal                                                   1011.21
Port     losay Port                         27    7/42    12/U7       21.00    19.09      Coptle
India ShUipinq                    329    3/72      tl75      t9 4     U4.69      Comlete
Subt,tal                                                    105.7S
Reoms     od                                 5      /61      6/67     72.11    71.59      Coplete
Urbam Trasport                   1035    410    12/95        36.00    44.57      Couplete
i,har bial Road                  1072   il/o        blot    3.46    32.39
Gujarat Rural Rhads              1757    2197    12194    135.U9       4.19
Sutotal                                                     30.44
Total 10  Credits                                         1427.45
T 0 T A L  10t  LOMIS 1110 t   CR113tS                    J3S1.7t
It  00rt fro  initiatlon fwe, loa  will Rot he dr    apict
stil crldit  w  sum projett is flly dskiburod.



INDIA
STAESE  ROAD PROJ
Reaistered Motor Vohiclesa All India. 1951-1987
'000
Aver&s& Annual Growth (X)
125        191    97    17    1981   1982   1983  1984   1985    1986    1987     L451- 87    1975-87
Buses                   34    57       94    113    154    164    178    196    213      233     255        5.8         7.0
Trucks                  82    167     342    334    527    587    648    719    783      860     938        7.0         9.0
Cars, Jeeps, Teaxis    159    309     682    760  1,117  1,207  1,351  1,424  1,540   1,665   1,819         7.0         7.5
Two- end
Three-Wheelers        27     95     613  1,011  2,708  3,167  3,742  4,514  5,22a   6,417   7,834        17.1        18.6
Other Al               4..    -a      134    236    667    718   800    906  1.037   139   1.246           17.3        14.9
Total                  306    664   1,865  2,454  5,173  5,843  6,719  7,759  8,796  10,314  12,092        10.8        14.2
gI Tractors and trailers.
Sourcet Ministry of Surface Transport
I.'



-117-
Annex 4. 1
INDIA
STATES' ROAD PROJACI
Equirment to be rrocured
Rupees
Number        (thousand)
Bridge Inspection Equipment                   4             16,000
Dynamic Vehicle Weighing Equipment            8             10,000
Automatic Traffic Counters                   80                640
Nuclear Density Measuring Equipment          24              2,400
Dynamic Cone Penetrometers                   12                240
TRRL Bump Integrators                         9                240
Dipstick Road Profilers                       4                800
Bitumen Distributors 7,5001                   8              5,600
Chip Spreaders                                8              2,400
Survey Equipmert Sets                         8                540
Laboratory Equipment                                           440
Training Aids                                                  600
Driver Simulators                             4              4,400
Color-/Night-Blindnoiss Equipment            24              8,000
Breathalysers                                40             24,000
Brake Testing Equipment                      24              8,000
Computer Software                                              100
TOTAL                                                       62,800



-118-
Annex 4.2
DRAFT TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE DEVELOPMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION OF
AN INTEGRATED COMPUTER-AIDED ROAD MAINTENANCE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (RMMS)
BACKGROUND
1.        The Government  of    (state)       intends to introduce a modern Road
Nt twork Management System (RMMS) to ensure a more effective and efficient use
of its  road rehabilitation  and maintenance  funds.   At present, maintenance
decisions are largely based on (i) the judgement and experience of engineers
and administrators in the state Public Works Departments (PWDs), and on (ii)
varying, and sometimes inconsistent, sources of road condition information;
also, there is a marked absence of factual information on the consequences of
previous maintenance decisions. Further, because of high inflation, fewer
funds, and significant increase in the number of heavy vehicles, PWDs are
falling behind in their attempt to maintain their highways in a satisfactory
condition.
2.        There is  therefore a  pressing need for an efficient system to plan
road rehabilitation and maintenance on rational engineering and economic
grounds. The RMMS should meet this need through the establishment of an in-
tegrated system of data bases containing essential highway network statistics,
and of various computer-aided economic-engineering analysis systems. The RMMS
should enable the evaluation and economic optimization for the whole network,
of various maintenance and rehabilitation strategies, and allow producing
rapidly and accurately economically optimized annual, medium-term and long-
term roadworks programmes and budget estimates based on least total life-
cycle, infrastructure and user, costs.
3.        The system  should also  be capable  of producing computer-generated
roadworks designs and quantities, and generate automatically tendering docu-
ments for the roadworks.  In addition, it should provide  a means  of handling
contract monitoring and contract change orders in a simple manner, so that
funds budgeted for each roadworks contract can be readily reallocated to suit
site conditions.
GENERAL PRINCIPLES FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE RMMS
Fundamental Structure
4.        The RMMS  shall be  developed as  an integrated system. and cover the
full range of activities that the highway authorities must carry out to pre-
pare and implement maintenance and rehabilitation works; i.e. policy evalua-
tion and optimization, works planning and budgeting, design, tendering and
construction monitoring.
5.        The RMMS  should comprise  a system  of fully  integrated data bases
which would be replicated  at each  administrative and  executive level.   The
information in the data bases would be accessed and used at these different



-119-
Annex 4.2
Page 2 of 10
levels, by means of analysis models three of which seem essential for the man-
agement of road maintenance and rehabilitation works:
(i)     A Planning and Programming Model (PPM) in which roadwork policies
and intervention strategies can be evaluated and optimized, and which
would produce annual, medium-term and long-term programmes and budgets
which minimize life-cycle costs.
(ii)   A Design and Tendering Model (DTM)  which, for the treatment types
determined as most appropriate in the PPM, would genernte designs and
tender documents automatically and rapidly, following annual network
field surveys.   The  system should be able to handle large programmes of
yearly maintenance works and should make it possible to handle rolling
programmes of annual works in a practical manner.
(iii)    A  Construction  Monitoring  Model  (CMM)  shich should allow to
constantly monitor the execution of maintenance and rehabilitation works
and at the same time handle contract change orders so that during con-
tract implementation funds budgeted for each roadworke contract can be
readily reallocated to suit site conditions.
6.        The data  bases for  the RMMS should be developed in such a way that
additional data items, and additional analysis modules can be added easily as
works progress  and, in  the future, as a more complex RMKS with broader func-
tions, e.g. bridgeworks or urban roadworks, evolves.
Multi-level System Compatibility
7.        THe RMKS should be developed in a way that allows  all agencies con-
cerned with the network to use the same information and a similar analysis
system, even though the depth of analysis and the outputs, and therefore the
specific reports required by each agency, may differ.  The principle of system
compatibility and replication at different administrative levels is extremely
important.   The system  should allow  simple and  rapid resimulation, for in-
stance for the higher level of authority (including lending agencies, if any)
who are charged with approving changes in work programming, design or imple-
mentation proposed by the agency responsible for the execution of the works.
RMMS Data Collection Philosophy
8.        The data requirements for the analysis models of the RMMS  should be
as simple as is consistent with reasonably reliable results.  The intention is
to make the RMKS operational as soon as possible, but not later  than the same
year in which the first field survey is carried out.
9.        The basic  parametric data  required for  running the RMMS should be
the same at the national, state and any other administrative level, and the
Consultant should ensure that the data requirements of the system he develops
match, one on one, the data used in similar systems either at the national
level by the Ministry of Surface Transport (MOST), or any of the states in the
project (Bihar, Maharashtra, Rajasthan  and  Uttar  Pradesh).    However, this
would not preclude inclusion in the data base for a specific administrative



-120-
Annex 4.2
Page 3 of 10
level, of additional data specific to that level. To further ensure that data
is compatible and uniform, a high level Committee will be created at which
each of the states and MOST will be represented.
10.       It is envisaged that the data requirements for  the RMMS  would fall
into two broad categoriess "Periodic Data" and "Routine Data". The sampling
frequencies in time and space for both sets of data need to be carefully
assessed by the Consultant as they impact decisively the cost of data collec-
tion and storage, as well as the reliability  of the  results.   Periodic Data
would be data that needs to be entered into the data base once at the time of
first setting up the system, and thereafter needs to be up-dated only occa-
sionally, as needed, say every 3 to 8 years, e.g. data reference points,
network inventory, pavement structure, axle load data, materials sources and
types, unit costs of maintenance and rehabilitation activities, vehicle oper-
ating costs, accident costs, time costs, etc. Routine Data is data that would
be collected at short regular intervals. In the execution of a given programme
of roadworks, routine data would need to be collected at three separate times,
corresponding to the operation of the three analysis modules, as follows:
(i) For PPM a few routine data items on the whole network at wide inter-
vals (per link or per km) like roughness; traffic volumes, composition
and loading; and, surface type, condition and level of distress.
(ii) For DTM data items would be required at closer intervals (200m or
lkm) for those selected portions of the network determined in PPM to
require overlay work: existing pavement layers and CBRs, deflection
measurements, surface aistress prior to the works, pavement crossfall
(camber), and a full inventory ( existing pavement, shoulders, ditches,
width of pavement, length of ditches, number and condition of culverts,
water levels and 10 year flood levels)
(iii) For CHM a larger number of items would be inventoried at close
intervals (typically 25m) for each contract package at least once during
the contract period, and at the end of the contract, for example pavement
structure review, crossfall review, surface type as built dimensions and
others.
11.       The information requirements have a critical effect on the structure
of the RMMS and therefore the Consultant is expected to carefully study and
assess this  item.   The most  cost effective  and appropriate methods (to the
needs and circumstances of the country) of collecting the information should
be recommended.   Consideration  should be  given and allowance should be made
for the future use of automated methods of data collection.
12.       The Consultant should ensure the present  and future  consistency of
the data collected (i) in itself, and should thus provide for the auditing of
the data, and (ii) with that of the data collected at the national, state or
any other administrative level operating a similar system, and should thus
closely coordinate and cooperate with any other consultant or authority,
particularly the  MOST, engaged  in a  similar effort.   The means for regular
calibration of measurement methods, and for independent auditing of the data



-121-
Annex 4.2
Page 4 of 10
in the collection and entry phases should be developed as part of the informa-
tion subsystem.
Systems Development Methodology
13.       Consideration should be given  to using  a "prototype" approach, in
which only the bare essential data items, an4 simplified prototypes of the
three analysis models are installed initially on a temporary basis while
development of the final more complex RMMS is still on-going. The purpose is
to concentrate initially, on developing the administrative and organizational
arrangements that will allow the system to work on a permanent basis, in par-
ticular the institutionalization of standardized data collection formats and
methods.
14.       The prototype  RMMS, if  adopted, should  be operational immediately
following the first annual survey of the network using the new standardized
RMMS data collection procedure, i.e. 6 to 8 months after the start of the con-
sultancy services.   The  prototypes would  use a  best-estimate overall main-
tenance strategy and approximate pavement deterioration functions based on the
accumulated subjective experience of local engineers, and therefore could be
used ahead of setting up the detailed policy evaluation model and ahead of
determining detailed pavement performance relationships. It is expected that
by running simplified prototypes (which can be programmed very quickly) ap-
proximate results are obtained quickly, and thereby confidence in and enthu-
siasm for the system is built up. The use of prototypes would facilitate de-
bugging the programs at the earliest possible stage of the RMMS development,
it would also allow an early start to RMHS training and help highway officials
to understand the more complex final RMMS.
Development Priorities
15.       The data bases and the three  basic analysis  systems (PPM,  DTM and
CMK) should be developed concurrently and as an integrated overall system.
Development of a PPM, which gives maintenance policy optimizations and budget
estimates, requires that the technical standards and methodology used for the
roadworks design be known; similarly, the DTM needs to be developed in such a
way that it accurately reflects the capabilities and capacities of the local
contracting industry, and using the CMM is only possible to the extent to
which works monitoring and design review during contract implementation are
feasible and practical.
16.       This principle of concurrent development of all the major components
of the RMMS does not mean the same development work effort is required on each
component. However, as the existing data in India is more advanced for some
components than for others, in developing the RMMS emphasis will need to be
placed on development of the modules lacking, and on the data collection and
data-base storage systems of the PPM in particular.



-122-
Annex 4.2
Page 5 of 10
NATURE OF THE SERVICES REQUIRED
17.       The  Consultant  shall  provide  a  team  of  specialists, including
highway planners, systems analysts, highway engineers  and economists.   These
specialists will work with and assist counterpart staff from the (state)
PWD to carry out the following tasks:
Development of the Data Base and Data Collection
(i)    A computer-based relational data base shall be developed  in which
all data is referenced to the link description, location (District) and
data reference points (kilometer posts) along the highway. The data base
should be capable of accepting data between each data reference point or
over several of these points.   The data  base shall  be formulated  in a
way which enables any number of additional data files to be added at a
later date, depending only on the amount of memory storage available.
The data base shall be developed to run on an IBM-AT compatible micro-
computer with a 40 MB hard disk and should be capable of providing strip
maps of data for each logical data group in the data base.
(ii)    A  data entry  program shall be developed, through which all data
entering the data base shall  be  processed.    This  program  shall have
extensive data error checking features and also data sorting and graphing
features to allow the highway officials to apply engineering judgement to
the processing of all basic field instrument readings and store in the
data bases only the data  parameters  required  for  the  analysis.   The
programme shall also be capable of automatically producing homogeneous
sublinks having essentially the same road condition within each sublink.
(iii) A series of standard forms for the collection of the Periodic Data
required for the RMMS shall be developed and the appropriate field sur-
veys undertaken to obtain any of the data items not yet already avail-
able.    Part   of the Periodic Data required for the RMMS, viz. pavement
thickness and history, is already be available for many road sections.
The Periodic Data will include original surface and layer types as well
as thicknesses and time of construction (or last reconstruction), overlay
or reseal types and the time of construction should also be collected.
The classification of such surfaces layers, overlays and reseals should
be agreed upon with PWD before the survey. The vehicle damage factors
should also be reviewed.
(iv)   Manuals should be prepared for collecting the  data in  a uniform,
standardized and consistent manner at all administrative levels engaged
in the use of an RMMS (viz. national and state levels); for Data Auditing
i.e. to ensure the consistency of the data collected in different parts
of the country and for different categories of roads; for the Data Entry
program; for maintaining and up-grading the data bases; and for the sort-
ing and processing of the data  prior to  analysis.   The Consultant will
ensure that training is provided in the use of all these Manuals to the
appropriate PWD staff.



-123-                                 Annex 4.2
Page 6 of 10
(v)    Reports which  can be  printed directly  from the  data base shall
include summaries of any data file on a per link basis. The distribu-
tion of any data parameter or combination of parameters over the whole of
the network shall also be able to be reported directly in either tabular
or graphical form.
(vi)   The Consultant shall ensure that  the physical  intervals at which
data is collected on the network is compatible with the level of analysis
in which the data will be used (PPM, DTM or  CMK) and  tailored to nature
of the traffic and type of road for which it is collected (national
highways, state highways, state  roads).   To this  effect the Consultant
shall  closely  coordinate  with  the  MOST and the other states at which
similar systems are being developed and used.
PPM Development
(i)    Literature Review.  A state-of-the-art report shall be prepared on
modern maintenance management planning systems used throughout the world,
including their  most  recent  developments.    Maintenance  planning and
budgeting systems  as currently used in    (state)   and as used or being
developed for national highways, shall be reviewcd and recommendations on
the introduction  of relevant  planning practices  to   (state)  shall be
made.
(ii)   Routine Data Collection.  Existing available routine data relevant
to the PPM shall be reviewed together with the associated data collec-
tion formats and methods and, where necessary, new standard formats and
data  collection  procedures  shall  be  developed.   Assistance with the
implementation of annual routine data collection surveys, using the new
formats and procedures, shall be provided. These surveys shall be done
on the whole of the road network and shall include road condition
surveys which shall be carried out between Data Reference Points (gene-
rally the kilometer posts along the road).   The  descriptions of defects
given in the Code of Practice for Maintenance of Bituminous Surfaces of
Highways (IRC:82-1982) should be followed as closely as possible, e.g.
the four categories of surface defects, cracks, deformations and disin-
tegrations visually estimated as the averages between Data Reference
Points, e.g. surface defects, pavement deformations, cracks, pot holes
etc. will be divided  into suitable  categories.   The criterion proposed
for all such classifications shall be agreed with PWD before being used
for detailed field surveys.
(iii) Pavement Deterioration Models. For the initial prototype version
of the PPM, approximate pavement deterioration relationships for the
various types of pavements shall be determined taking into account recent
international information and such relevant Indian information as may be
available from the series of trial strips which are being monitored by
the Central Road Research Institute (CRRI). With the available data the
Consultant will carry out an analysis to clarify environmental factors in
the pavement  deterioration models for various subgrades, and environmen-
tal zones for the classified pavement model groups.



-124-
Annex 4.2
Page 7 of 10
(iv)   Maintenance Effect Models.  Existing relevant Indian research work
on the improvement effects of maintenance shall be reviewed and compared
with other relationships around  the world.   If  additional field trials
are considered warranted, the trial sections shall be identified by the
Consultant in consultation with the PWD. The PWD will provide funds for
the laying of such trial sections but observance of the data, analysis
and study to arrive at pavement improvement functions will be by the
Consultant at his cost.
(v)      Treatment Standards.   The rehabilitation and maintenance treat-
ments to be used in the proposed RMHS must be agreed upon with the PWD.
Assessment of unit costs for each treatment type should be made and the
material, labor and equipment resources needed per unit of treatment
should be determined for the state.
(vi)    Subgrade  and Environmental  Classification.  The area covered by
the highway network shall be classified into various subgrade and en-
vironmental  zones.    Classification  systems  shall  be recommended and
agreed upon with the PWD and then a preliminary classification for each
road link shall be based on terra_n evaluation and discussions with state
and district officials.
(vii) Maintenance Cost Model. Surveys of maintenance costs/km for va-
rious pavement model groups, environmental zones and subgrade types at
different ages since construction or overlay shall be reviewed so that
these costs can be derived over the analysis period and included in the
life-cycle cost analysis.
(viii) Vehicle Operating Cost Models.   The vehicle  operating cost rela-
tionship', with roughness for representative vehicle types shall be ob-
tained from a review of Indian and international state of the art stu-
dies.
(ix)    Vehicle  Damage Factors and Growth.  The default values for these
vehicle damage factors and projected growth rates shall be reviewed.
(x)    Detailed PPM System Design and Programming.  The  various pavement
performance and cost models developed shall be used in the PPM computer
program to enable to predict traffic, pavement deterioration, pavement
condition improvement following treatment, vehicle operating costs, and
determination of the effect on road users costs and total transportation
costs of alternative maintenance strategies. The economic effects of
deferring maintenance should also be predicted. The PPM program shall be
developed to enable determination, in the first instance, of the optimum
economic maintenance and rehabilitation strategies for the network assum-
ing a 10- year life cycle. Selected economic strategies giving estimated
total works costs for the network within the available budgets shall then
be applied to the network through a screeuing process to determine both
the present and future physical and financial works requirements on the
network within the state. For the coming financial year, a programme of
works shall also be determined and the physical boundaries and budgets



-125-
Annex 4.2
Page 8 of 10
for contract  packages fixed.   The works programme  so determined shall
comprise clearly differentiated sub-programmes of rehabilitation works
and  periodic  maintenance  works.    For road sections not identified as
requiring pavement strengthening, the most economic and technically
appropriate treatment type is to be identified (e.g resealing, routine
patching, etc.). It should be possible to present the results on a state
wide basis and district-by-district.
(xi)    Manuals  and Training.   The  Consultant shall prepare a standard
routine data collection manual and a program User's Manual for PPM, and
shall ensure that all PWD counterpart staff are thoroughly trained in the
use of the system.
DTM and CMM Development
(i)    Review Indian  Road Maintenance  Practices.   The Consultant shall
review current routine, periodic and special maintenance, as well as
rehabilitation practices in    (state)   including  gang labor  and main-
tenance by contract (if any) practices. Budgets, as well as programming,
design and  tendering practices  shall be  documented.   The strength and
weaknesses the observed practices shall be documented and the scope for
introducing more efficient practices should  be  discussed.    Any inade-
quacies in the institutional framework of the PWD, which may have been
contributory to the past record of inadequate attention to the mainte-
nance needs of the road netwprk should be identified and improvements
recommended.
(ii)   Review Field Data  Collection and  Design Procedures  and Formats.
The Consultant shall review the data collection and design procedures
used in   (state)   for quantifying maintenance  and rehabilitation works
and  for  preparing  tender  documents.    On the basis of his review the
Consultant shall propose, if necessary, simple, standardized procedures
to enable a more effective and rapid collection and monitoring procedure,
and a simplified tender preparation procedure.
(iii) Standardize and improve the tendering and bid evaluation process.
The Consultant shall review and propose, if necessary, a standardized and
improved tender and bid evaluation process. The proposed process should
improve bidders' awareness of the project requirements and ensure that
any unrealistically low bid, which will tend to lead to poor construction
quality is rejected.
(iv)    The Consultant shall prepare recommendations for revisions to the
contractual practices presently being used, with the aim of giving Pro-
ject Managers greater flexibility to make changes during contract im-
plementation.
(v)    Improve central coordination and monitoring.  The Consultant shall
prepare recommendation to improve the work coordination and monitoring
process to enable deadlines to be set and met, and to increase feed-back
from the site supervision personnel to the PWD so that the standardized
specifications and other contract documents can be continually updated



-126-
Annex 4.2
Page 9 of 10
and improved in a systematic manner in the light of problems encountered
in the field.
(vi)   Standardization  and computerization  of the  monthly progress re-
ports.   The Consultant  shall propose  a simplified field administration
system that would enable project managers to effect simple rescheduling
of yearly budget requirements on all on-going contracts when required.
(vii)   Detailed DTM System Design and Computer Programming.  The Consul-
tant shall develop the DTM and CMH computer programmes based on the new
simplified field data collection, design and contractual procedures
adopted, and apply the DTM to the annual programme of roadworks (iden-
tified by  the PPM).   The automated production of tender documents shall
then be carried out by the DTM.
(viii) Detailed CMM System Design and Computer Programming.   The Consul-
tant shall develop a CMK computer program which would enable the tendered
DTM designs to be reviewed easily during contract implementation and to
determine in more detail the treatment thicknesses and quantities which
would produce the most economically viable solution for the budget, given
the bid price for each contract package. The CMM is then to be used
throughout the implementation of each roadworks contract to monitor
variations betveen the designed and the as-built works, enabling rapid
and accurate evaluation of contract change orders and of any field pro-
posals for additional budget.
(ix)    Manuals  and Training.  For both the DTM and the CMM, the consul-
tant shall prepare standard field data collection manuals and User's
Manuals and shall ensure that all PWD counterpart staff are fully trained
and competent in both how to use the systems and how to up-date or modify
them as technical standards and budgets change in the future.
18.       The software  and other  programs developed by the Consultant should
be readily implementable on microcomputers (IBM compatible), as well as on
other computer hardware as required for general PWD use in    (state)
EQUIPHEN?
19.       The Consultant  will advise  the PWD of the cost and source (whether
local or foreign) of  all equipment  procured for  the project.   The  PWD may
arrange advance financing against a Bank Guarantee for equipment considered
essential. After procurement, such equipment will have to be mortgaged to the
PWD for the duration of the project and, the end of the consultancy, shall be
handed over to the PWD in good working condition together with any unused
spare parts.



-127-                             Annex 4.2
-P       Oof 10
TRAINING
20.       The Consultant will be responsible for the training of five officer-
(who will be identified by the PWD) in assessing the road condition and in
calibrating and operating all equipment.  The period of training will be three
to four months.
RIGHTSIRESP')NSIBILITIES
21.       The systems developed, all research data  collected, and  all equip-
ment purchased for this project shall be the property of the PWD and the
Consultant shall have no right to dispose of it in any way without the express
written consent of the Ministry. The Consultant shall also indemnify the PWD
from and against all claims and proceedings for, or on account of infringement
of any patent rights in respect of each and every part of the works. An
indemnity bond shall be furnished to the Ministry on acceptance of the Consul-
tant's cost quotation and before the advance payment is disbursed by the PWD.
REVIEW OF PROGRESS
22.       The PWD  shall review  the progress  of the study from time to time,
generally once a month, and will require the Consultant to present his plan
and progress before appropriate officers or Committees, as the case may be.
The PWD may also issue such further directions on this matter as it may con-
sider necessary.   The  Consultant should  include the  cost of all such even-
tualities in his price and no additional payment shall be allowed on this
account.
REPORTS
23.       The  Consultant  shall  furnish  100  copies  of all Users' Manuals,
standard data collection manuals, and final report for each part of the work,
and the cost of all such documents should be included in the consultancy
charges. In addition, the Consultant shall be required to furnish 30 copies
of the interim report(s) and progress reports at the time of reviews andlor at
different stages of the study.
DOCUMENTATION
24.       The Consultant will be responsible for preparation of slides, photo-
graphs and audio-visuals illustrating various phases of the study, covering
data collection, operation of equipment and presentation of analysis of data.
Two sets of this material should be supplied to the PWD.



-128-
Annex 4.3
INDIA
Supervision By Consultants of Road Work Contracts
Draft T-ms of Reference
Background
1.       The Government of India has applied for a loan from the World
Bank on behalf of the States of Bihar, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and
Uttar Pradesh for the strengthening and widening to two lanes of about
2300 km of single lane road in those four States through as many as
thirty separate contracts, plus the construction of a major bridge
across the river Ganges in the State of Bihar. For the first time in
dealing with road contracts in India, the States have agreed to the
supervision by independent consultants of one or two contracts, or a
package of contracts, in each State. The contracts to be executed
under the project follow the FIDIC Conditions of Contract
(International), 3rd Edition, and will have an average value of US $
10 million. Two or more contracts may be grouped together to form a
single package. Heretofore, road contracts were much smaller in value
and were supervised in toto by the PWD organisations of the States.
Some of the contracts under this project will also be supervised by
the State PWD.
2.       These Terms of Reference, however, refer specifically to
works to be executed in the State of              , where approximately
______km of presently single-lane road are to be strengthened and
widened to two lanes in         number contracts.
Objective
3.       The  objectives of introducing contract supervision by
consultants are two-fold:
(a) to demonstrate the efficacy of contract supervision by
external agents experienced in this field of work; and
(b) to promote technology transfer through joint-ventures between
expatriate and local firms so as to enhance the capabilities
of the latter to undertake similar work in future. ( To
achieve the same objective, the Employer may request the
consultant to employ suitably qualified PWD personnel as
counterparts. If it is possible to comply without detriment
to his work plan and in the knowledge that his responsibility
as the Engineer is not diminished, the consultant should be
prepared to consider such reasonable requests).



-129-
Annex 4.3
Page 2 of 6
4.       Foreign firms wishing to apply for this work will be required
to associate with local consulting firms, utilising to the extent
possible the latter's personnel and expertise. In this connection, it
shall be part of the submission that the joint venture agreement
between the foreign and local firms be provided, detailing clearly the
responsibilities assigned to the individuals from each firm proposed
for the project.
5.       Because the State PWDs are unfaniliar with  working with
consultants on contract supervision, and the present administrative
difficulties in delegating all supervisory authority, the consultant
should be aware that under Clause 2 - Power and Duties of Engineer -
of the FIDIC Conditions of Contract, the Engineer shall obtain the
specific approval of the Employer in writing before taking any of the
following actions specified in Part 1:
(a) approving subletting of any part of the Works under Clause 4
of Part 1;
(b) certifying additional sums under subelause 5(2) of Part 1;
(c) certifying additional cost under Clause 12 of Part 1;
(d) determining an extension of time under Clause 44 of Part 1;
(e) issuing a variation order under Clause 51 of Part 1; and
(f) fixing rates or prices under Clause 52 of Part 1.
6.       Moreover, the Employer would require prior consultation
before the Engineer orders any tests under subelause 36(4) of Part 1.
Definitions
(a)  Contractor        is _
(b)  Contract          is the contract entered into between the
State of          and          for the
execution of certain road works.
(c)  Works             means the economic assets to be constructed
in accordance with the Contract. The term
"economic assets" is deemed to include any
temporary structures or facilities required
for that purpose.
(d)  Agreement         means the Agreement between the State of
and the Consultants for the
engineering supervision of the Contract.
(e)  Engineer          means the Consultants,          , appointed
under the Agreement.



-130-
Annex 4.3
Page 3 of 6
(f)  Engineer's        means the representative appointed by
Representative    the Engineer with the consent of the
Employer to supervise the Contract on site.
(g)  Employer          means the State of         , represented by
the Engineer-in-Chief, PWD, _
(h)  PWD               is the authority designated by the State of
as responsible for all matters
pertaining to the Agreement and the
Contract on behalf of the Employer.
(i)  Starting          is the date of the signature of the
Date              Agreement Date between the Employer and the
Consultants.
Scope of Work
(A)  Duties and Responsibilities of the Engineer
7.       The duties of the Engineer are to supervise the works and to
approve the materials and workmanship of the works in cooperation and
consultation with the Employer. He shall have no authority to relieve
the Contractor of any of his duties or obligations under the Contract
nor to order any work entailing delays or any extra payment by the
Employer.
8.       Accordingly, and in consultation with the Employer, the
principal responsibilities of the Engineer shall be:
(a) to issue the order to commence to the Contractor;
(b) to authorise the Contractor's subletting parts of the work;
(c) to explain and/or adjust ambiguities and/or discrepancies in
the Contract Documents and to provide assistance to the
Employer in the settlement of disputes with the Contractor;
(d) to approve the Contractor's working drawings and if necessary
to issue further drawings and/or to give instructions to the
Contractor;
(e) to approve data for the setting out of work;
(f) to approve or to disapprove the Contractor's superintendence,
key persorrnel and/or construction program, land to be
occupied by the Contractor, materials and/or sources of
materials;
(g) as required, to order special tests of materials and
completed works and/or removal and substitution of improper
materials and/or of work after prior consultation with the
Employer;



-131-
Aenx 4.3
Page 4 of 6
(h) to control and appraise the progress of the Works, to order
the suspension of Works, and to authorise extensions of the
period for completion of the Works;
(i) to issue variation orders, to evaluate variations, to fix
rates for unpriced work, to order daywork after obtaining
prior approval of the Employer, and/or to make
recommendations to the Employor regarding alternatives;
(j) to issue interim certificates for payment to the Contractor
and to certify the completion of the works or parts thereof;
(k) to inspect the works during and/or after the Maintenance
Period and to issue the Maintenance Certificate;
(1) to carry out generally all the duties of the Engineer as
specified in the Contract, within the limitations specified
above; and
(im) to advise the Employer on all matters relating to claims from
the Contractor and to make recommendations thereon including
the possible recourse to arbitration.
(B)  Duties and Resnonsibilities of -he Engineer's Representative
and his Staff
9.       The duties of the Engineer's Representative ar.d his staff are
to supervise construction of the Works and to test or order to test
and examine any materials to be used or workmanship employed in
connection with the Works. He shall have no authority to relieve the
Contractor of any of his duties or obligations under the Contract nor
to order any work involving delay or any extra payment by the Employer
nor to make any variation of or in Works.
10.      The principal responsibilities of the Resident Engineer shall
be as follows:
(a) to inspect the performance of the Works with regard to
workmanship and compliance with the Specifications and to
order, supervise or perform tests on materials and/or work
and to approve or disapprove the Contractor's plant and
equipment;
(b) to order if required the uncovering of completed work and/or
the removal and substitution of improper materials and/or
work;
(c) to check systematically the progress of the Works and to
order the initiation of certain work which is part of the
Contract;



-132-
Annex 4.3
Page 5 of 6
(d)  to examine and attend the measurement of any work which is
about to be covered up or put out of view before permanent
work is placed thereon and/or to examine the attend the
measurement of the completed Works;
(e)  to check the Contractor's accounts, invoices, claims and
other statements with respect to arithmetical error and
compliance with the Contract, and if required to make
corrections thereof;
(f)  to supervise the Contractor in all matters concerning safety
and care of the Works and if required to request from the
Contractor the necessary lights, guards, fencing and
watching;
(g)  to direct the Contractor to carry out all such work or to do
all such things as may be necessary in the opinion of the
Resid-int Engineer to avoid or to reduce the risk in case of
Pn emergency affecting the safety of life or of the Works or
of adjoining preperty;
(h)  to carry out such duties under'the terms of the Contract as
may from time to time be delegated in writing by the
Engineer; and
(i)  to prepare as-built drawings for the complete Works.
11.      The Engineer shall furnish the Employer with a full list of
all the responsibilities he will delegate to the Engineer's
Representative for supervision of the Contract in accordance with the
Agreement.
Additional Services
12.      As services additional to those specified above, the
Consultants shall, if so requested by the Employer, provide any of the
Services specified below:
(a)  preparation of reports or additional contract documents for
consideratior. of proposals for the carrying out of additional
(b)  carrying out work consequent upon any assignment of the
Contract;
(c)  advising the Employer and carrying out work following the
appeal to arbitration or litigation relating to the Works;
(d)  the maintenance of a day-by-day project diary which shall
record all events relevant to and which might impinge upon
the Contract, requests from and orders given to the



-133-
Annex 4,3
Page 6 of 6
Contractor, and any other information which may at a later
date be of assistance in resolving queries which may arise
concerning execution of the Works; and
(d) any other specialist services by the Consultant or other
specialists as may be agreed upon.
13.      All additional services will be authorized by the Employer at
rates and under conditions to be mutually agreed.
ReRorts and Documents
14.      The Engineer shall furnish to the Employer the following
reports and documents in the number of copies stated. All reports and
documents shall be in English.
(a) Progress Regorts (10 copies). The Engineer shall submit
monthly Progress Reports to the Employer which shall include
minutes of site meetings with the Contractor which the
Engineer's Representative has convened, to the Employer,
commencing at the end of the month following the date of
award of the contract for construction. After the issue of
the Completion Certificate, these reports shall be submitted
at quarterly intervals until the end of the Maintenance
Period.
(b) Completion Report (20 copies). The Engineer shall submit a
completion report a the time of final certification.



-134-
Annex 4.4
INDIA
STATES' ROAD PROJECT
Personnel Training Program
Numbers of Personnel to be Trained
ProRosed Courses                1989   1990   1991   1992   1993    Total
Highway Planning, Economic Studies            1      1       1      1      1        5
Pavement Management                           1      1      1       1      1        5
Traffic and Transportation Engineering        1      1      1       1      1        5
Equ!pment Hanagement and Planning             1      1      1       1      1       5
Environmental Aspects of Highway
Planning and Design                         1      1      1       1      1       5
Rehabilitation of Corrosion-Prone
Bridges                                     1      1      1       1      1        5
30
Personnel drawn from the PWD's of Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, and Bihar.
30 individuals for about 6 months each - 180 man months of training.



-135-
Annex 4.5
INDA
STATES' ROAD PROJECT
Selected Design Standards
Design Speed (km/hr)                            80-100
Right of way (m)
(a)  Geometric improvements                   30
(b)  Bypasses                                 30
Carriageway width (m)                            7.0
Shoulder width (m)                               2.5
Formation width (m)                             12.0
Culvert width (m)                               12.0
Bridge width (m)                                 7.5
Carriageway camber (%)                           2.5
Shoulder camber (%)                              3.0
Maximum super-elevation on curves (M)            7.0
Ruling gradient (%)                              5.0
Minimum Radius (horizontal curves)(m)          360
Sight distance                                 Passing
But to accord with the drfsign standards
of the Indian Roads Congress numbered 3, 37, and 73



INDIA
STATES' ROAD PROJECT
Estimated Project Costs
'RUPEES Millicn)                              (USS Millicn)
% Total                                  % Total
Z Foreign  Base                          X Foreign  Bese
Local  Foreian Tctal   Ex.change   Costs   Local Fo?eign Total E&.hanse   Ccsts
I. INVESThENT COSTS
A. CONSTRUCTION
1. CIVIL WORKS                      2,?21.3 1?212.8     '3.1I        29       86  216.4    89.8 306.2          29       96
2. LAND ACQUISITION                    70.9        -    70.9           -       1    5.3        -   5.3          -
3. SUPERVISION OF CONSTRUCTION        392.1        -   332,4          -        8   29.3        -  29.3          -        8
Sub-Total CONSTRUCTION                 39374.6 1,2!2.8 4,S87.4           26      95  250.0    89.8 339.8           26      95
B. ECOUIPNENT                               ?.5    55.3    62.8          98       1    0.6      4.1   4.7          88       1
C. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. TRAINING                            10.7    10.7    21.4          50        0    0.8      0.9   1.6         SO        0
2. CONSULTANTS SERVICES                 8.4   132.0   140.4          94        3    0.6      9.8  10.4          94       3
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE             19.1   142.7   161.8          88       3    1.4    10.6  12.0           88       3
Total BASLINE COSTS                         3.401.3 1,410.7 4,812.0          29      100  251.9   104.5 356.4          29      100
Physical Contingencies                     340.1   141.1   481.2          29       10   25.2    10.4  35.6          29     1b
Price Contingeneies                        951.4   297.0 1,248.5          24      26   45.6    12.4  58.1           21      16
Total PROJECT COSTS                         4,692.9 1,948.8 6,541.7          28      136  322.8   127.4 450.2          28      126
_-:a_= 2=S== =1=     S=-_== 5=         srz --==               =---2  ====:



INDIA
STATES ROAD PROJECT
Financing Plan by Disbursement Category
(US$ '000)
Government                             Local   Duties
World Bank    of India       Total       Foreign    (Excl.   and
Amount       Amount        Amount  %    Exchange   Taxes   Taxes
Rajasthan State Roads         58.0  56.0   45.6  44.0  103.6  23.0    28.4         62.9    12.3
Uttar Pradesh State Roads   85.7  53.6   74.1  46.4  159.8  35.5    40.9           99.8    19.0
Maharashtra State Roads       49.7  56.7   38.1  43.3   87.8  19.5    25.1         52.3    10.3
Bihar State Roads &
Bhagalpur Bridge           56.6  57.1   42.4  42.9   99.0  22.0    32.9          54.4    11.7
Total Disbursement          250.0  55.5  200.2  44.5  450.5 100.0   127.4         269.5    53.3
Ix



-138-
Annex 4.8
INDIA
STATES' ROAD PROJECT
State Finances
1.       The states play an important role in the social and economic
development of India, discharging major responsibilities in the areas of
education, health, social welfare, agriculture, irrigation, roads, and
internal law and order. Resources for financing state expenditures come
mainly from tax and non-tax levies imposed by the states ("own" tax and
non-tax receipts), and from central transfers.
2.       The states levy about ten different taxes, including a sales tax;
stamp duties; taxes on motor vehicles, goods and passengers; on
entertainment tax; excise duties on liquor; and a land tax. Broad-based
sales taxes dominate state tax structures, providing 50-60% of revenues
from the states' taxes. Non-tax receipts on the current budget make a
limited contribution to revenues because the Indian states have not relied
extensively on charges for public services (user charges). On the capital
budget, the main sources of the states' own capital receipts are market
borrowing, net contributions to state provident funds, recoveries of loans
and advances made in the past, and surpluses of various reserve funds.
3.       Central transfers to the states take the form of revenue sharing,
grants-in-aid, small savings loans, and plan assistance. Revenue sharing,
which is based on the recommendations of Finance Commissions, presently
consists of a transfer by the Central Government of 45% of the net proceeds
from Union excise duties and 85% of the net proceeds from personal income
tax (but not corporation tax) to State Governments. The formulae for the
distribution of these revenues among the states are slightly different, but
both formulae take accour.t of population and per capita income. Grants-in-
aid are paid largely to states which are expected to have current budget
deficits after taking account of the devolution of revenues proposed by a
Finance Commission. Through small savings loans, the Central Government
shares with the states the resources generated from the operation of small
savings schemes.
4.       Plan assistance is provided in the form of block (general purpose)
loans and grants, assistance for specific centrally sponsored schemes, and
transfers in respect of external assistance for state projects. Block
assistance is allocated among the states on the basis of the so-called
modified Gadgil formula, which includes factors such as population, per
capita income and tax effort. Assistance for centrally sponsored plan
schemes consists of full or partial funding (matching grants) by the
Central Government of specific schemes and programs of national importance.
5.       Transfers in respect of external assistance for state projects are
in addition to transfers effected through these means. However, only a
proportion of external assistance for state projects is transmitted to the



-139-
Annex 4.8
Page2 of 16
states. Seventy percent of the proceeds from external assistance for a
state project are passed on to the relevant state, with the Center
retaining the balance. The states must therefore finance substantial
proportions of total project costs of externally aided projects from other
sources (i.e., from own capital receipts and untied central assistance).
The rationale for withholding part of the proceeds is to moderate the
effect of aid resources on the pattern of interstate allocations secured
through the Gadgil formula and transfers for centrally sponsored schemes.
6.       The project covers states with highly disparate levels of
development. It includes three states with per capita incomes below the
national average (including the poorest state, Bihar) as well as one of the
most developed states fXaharashtra). The wide variations among the states
in relative tax effor'., dependence on central transfers and in levels of
state expenditures (Table 1) reflect in part the large differences in
income levels. The disparities are the greatest in respect of receipts
from taxes controlled by the states: in per capita terms, Bihar raises Rs
75 from own tdxes, as compared to Rs 344 raised by Maharashtra. Central
transfers, on the other hand, are relatively more important in poorer
states -- for example, the- finance two-thirds of Bihar's total
expenditures, but just over one-quarter of those of Maharashtra. Despite
this, large dlfferences in per capita state expenditures persist.
Overall Trends
7.       The financial positions of the project states should be seen in
the context of trends itt overall state finances. State finances have
deteriorated in recent years. High growth in current expenditures has been
a major reason for this. An important indicator of growing pressures on
state resources is the trend in current budget balances. The substantial
current budget surplus for all states of Rs 15.5 billion in 1979/80
dwindled to a mere Rs 2.1 billion in 1983/84. In 1984/85, for the first
time in many years, there was a current budget deficit of Rs 9.2 billion.
There has, however, been some improvement in the more recent years. A
current budget surplus of Rs 6.5 billion was realized in 1985/86, and
preliminary estimates show a surplus of Rs 2.9 billion for 1986/87. The
budgeted current surplus of Rs 9.9 billion for 1987/88 reflects substantial
additional resource mobilization by the states. However, the outcome is
likely to be less favorable, given the widespread drought in many states
and floods in the Eastern Region, and salary revisions and cost of living
adjustments.
8.       Bihar has pursued a cautious budgetary policy (Table A).  By
containing current expenditures below current revenues, the state has
achieved sizable surpluses on the current budget in recent years. This has
enabled it to more than double its capital expenIditures (including loans
and advances) over the last few years. The budgetary outcome for 1987/88
is, however, expected to be less favorable than the budget estimates
indicate because the worst floods in recent memory during the year have
seriously strained the state's finances.
9.       The budgetary position of Maharashtra deteriorated sharply in
1984/85, when the previous year's current budget surplus turned into a
large deficit (Table B). The deficit widened further in 1985/86, rising to



-140-                                Annex 4. 8
Page 3 of 16
Table 1: COMPARATIVE STATISTICS
Uttar
Bihar    Maharashtra    Rajasthan   Pradesh
Population, 1981 census (million)               69.9        62.78         34.26       110.86
Per capita income, 1984/85 (Rs)                1,418        3,203          1,990       1,782
Revenue from states' own taxes (1985/86):
2 of State Domestic Product (SDP) (2)           5            10            7            5
2 of total tax receipts /a (2)                40             83           64           51
Per capita (Rs)                                75          344           146          106
Central transfers (1985/86):
Central taxes as Z of
total tax receipts (2)                      59.8          17.2          36.5         48.9
Central taxes and grants as
I of current receipts (2)                    55.3         19.6          42.5         53.2
Central taxes, grants and loans (net)
as S of total expenditures (2)              66.4          27.9          43.0         57.4
State:' expenditures (1985/86):
CurreLL exp./SDP (2)                          17.6         18.9          19.0         15.3
Capital exp. /W/SDP (2)                        5.4          4.2           5.3          5.4
Total exp./SDP (2)                            23.0         23.1          24.3         20.7
Per capita current exp. (Rs)                   272          649           389          303
Per capita capital exp. /b (Rs)                 83           146          108          107
Per capita total exp. (Rs)                     355          795           497          410
/j Receipts from own taxes and from central taxes received under revenue sharing.
/p Including loans and advances.



-141-
Annex 4.8
Page 4 of 16
a level equivalent to nearly 8% of the state's current revenues. However,
imposition of substantial Ldditional taxation in 1986/87 and 1987/88,
coupled with restraint over the growth of expenditures, has helped to bring
the budgetary situation under control. The budget proposals for 1987/88
envisage a modest current budget surplus.
10.      In Rajasthan, a deficit on the current account h;; persisted from
1984/85 (Table C). An important reason for the state's budgetary
difficulties has been the prevalence of drought or near-drought conditions
in the state for the past three to four years. Drought has not only
necessitated substantial outlays for drought relief, but has also depressed
revenues. The state undertakes sizable additional resource mobilization
each year, and this is reflected in the relatively high buoyancy of its tax
revenues (see para. 12). While these efforts have helped to contain the
magnitude of deficit, they have not been sufficient to eliminate it.
11.      The budgetary situation in Uttar Pradesh improved in 1985/86 with
the achievement of a surplus (Table D). However, the surplus declined to a
negligible level in the following year, and the budgetary situation
deteriorated further in 1987/88. The budgeted current account deficit for
1987/88 is large both in relation to the state's current revenues (about
6%) and its annual additional resource mobilization efforts. With the
state exper'sencing one of the worst droughts of the century in 1987/88, an
early turnaround in the budgetary outlook seems unlikely.
Resource Mobilization
12.      The states' relatively low reliance on user charges, and limited
possibilities for influencing the growth of own capital receipts -- market
borrowing, for example, is regulated by the Central Government -- make
receipts from state-controlled taxes the most suitable indicator of
resource mobilization. The proportion of state domestic product (SDP)
taken in state (own) taxes, as alreasy indicated, varies directly with per
capita income (Table 2). Thus, the ratio of receipts from own taxes to SDP
in Maharashtra is about twice that in Bihar. Trends in these ratios
suggest that Rajasthan and Maharashtra have been more successful than the
other two states in increasing tax revenues. Buoyancy coefficients, which
indicate percentage increases in revenues associated with one percent
increase in SDP, confirm this. The buoyancy coefficients of receipts from
own taxes are estimated at 1.36 and 1.26 for Rajasthan and Maharashtra,
respectively, compared to about 1.15 for Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. The
relatively high coefficients for Rajasthan and Maharashtra suggest
substantial increases in tax rates in these states since the elasticity of
tax receipts (i.e., the automatic response of tax receipts to changes in
GDP) of Indian states is low.
Five-Year Plans and Their Implementation
13.      The states' five-year plans for 1985/86-1989/90 provide for
outlays of Rs 51 billion for Bihar, Rs 105 billion for Maharashtra, Rs 30



-142-
Annex 4.8
Page 5 of 16
billion for Rajasthan and Rs 105 billion for Uttar Pradesh 1/ (Tables E-H).
Alleviation of critical infrastructural constraints to development and
greater development of social and community services than in the past
constitute the main priorities. The largest allocations are for
agriculture, irrigation and energy; these account for 50-60% of plan
outlays. Social and community services are allocated about 17% of the
outlays in Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, and over 20% in Maharashtra and
Rajasthan. The relative shares of roads vary from 2.6% in Maharashtra to
8.8% in Uttar Pradesh.
14.      Reasonable progress is being made in the implementation of five-
year plans. During the first three years of the plan period, Maharashtra,
Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh incurred 50-60% of the outlays proposed in
their plans. The implementation of over 70% of the plan outlays in Bihar
reflects primarily the relatively modest size of the state's plan. The
pace of progress in these states is in line with that for all states taken
together.
15.      The implementation of plan outlays on roads has kept pace with
overall plan implementation. By the end of the third year of the plan
period, Bihar and Maharashtra had incurred three-quarters of the plan
outlays on roads, and Uttar Pradesh about three-fifths of the outlays.
Rajasthan, which has spent slightly under one-half of the plan allocation,
has proposed a substantial increase in 1988/89; with the satisfactory
implementation of these higher outlays, the state will have spent nearly
three-quarters of the five-year plan outlays on roads by the penultimate
year of the plan period.
Implications of the Proposed Project for the States' Finances
16.      The project size by states takes account of the resource
constraints facing the states. Project costs would be modest in relation
to the states' total five-year plan outlays, and annual project spending
would be moderate in comparison to present levels of plan outlays on roads.
These factors would help to restrict the impact of the project on state
finances to a manageable level.
17.      Project costs as proportions of the states' five-year plans would
be under 3% in Bihar, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh. Annual average
project costs in relation to present levels of annual plan outlays on roads
would amount to about 25% in Bihar, 30% in Maharashtra and 20% in Uttar
Pradesh.
18.      Since Rajasthan has the lowest plan size and a relatively large
project component, the project's impact on the state's finances will be
greater. Project costs would be equivalent to about 5% of the five-year
plan outlays. Rajasthan undertakes substantial capital outlays on roads
outside the plan, so that it would not be appropriate to compare annual
project outlays with recent levels of plan outlays on roads. Thus, for
1987/88, while the likely plan outlays on roads are estimated at only Rs
I/ Plan expenditures consist of all expenditures, current as well as
capital, in respect of projects included in the plan. Five-year plans



-143-
Annex 4.8
Page 6 of 16
174 million, total capital expenditures on roads amounted to an estimated
Rs 1.4 billion. Capital outlays on roads outside the plan are mainly in
respect of centrally sponsored schemes (which are partly or wholly financed
by the Central Government) and for famine roads (which are meant to provide
drought relief). Taking account of capital expenditures umdertaken outside
the plan, annual outlays under the project would be equivalent to about 35%
of the recent levels of annual capital outlays on roads (plan and non-
plan).
19.      The project implLes the states' contributions to project costs
ranging from about Rs 125 million annually for Bihar to Rs 220 million
annually for Uttar Pradesh. To the extent that the project is accommodated
within the existing five-year plans, the additional resource requirements
will be less. The annual shares of project costs will be moderate in
relation to annual growth of capital receipts from own sources and from
untied central transfers (i.e., general purpose assistance under the Gadgil
formula, and small savings loans). With restraint over the growth of
current expenditures and reasonable additional resource mobilization
efforts, the project should not place a heavy burden on state finances.
20.      The bulk of the project outlays will be incurred from 1990/91
onwards. The recommendations of the recently-constituted Ninth Finance
Commission, and the Planning Commission on plan and non-plan transfers over
the Eighth Five Year Plan, 1990/91-1994/95 may have major implications for
atate finances during the later part of the project period.



-144-                           Annex 4A. 8
Page 7 of 16
Table 2: TRENDS IN RECEIPTS FROM STATE TAXES
Uttar
Bihar    Maharashtra    Rajasthan   Pradesh
Receipts from Own Taxes as % of SDP
1973/74                                    3.4           6.6            3.8       3.6
1979/80                                    4.1           8.1            6.4       5.4
1984/85                                    4.3           9.0           6.5        5.3
1985/86                                    4.8          10.0           7.1        5.3
Buovancy of States' Main Taxes
Total own taxes                             1.15         1.26           1.36      1.14
Stamps and registration fees               0.90          1.18           1.42      1.36
Sales tax                                   1.46         1.29           1.44      1.24
Taxes on vehicles, passenger and goods    1.18           1.06           1.34      1.15
Electricity duties                         0.36          1.16           2.12      1.15
Entertainment tax                          0.69          1.00           1.22      1.07
Note:  Further details of estimates of buoyancy coefficients are given in Table I.



Table A: BIHAR - SUMMARY OF PUBLIC FINANCES
(million rupees)
Revised      Budget
1983/84        1984/85       1985/86       1986/87       1987/88
Current Revenue                                      15,043.7       17,939.3      23,957.0      26,227.1      28,343.9
Tax receipts                                       10,320.0       11,114.2      14,307.0      16,490.7      18,087.3
State's own taxes                                (4.414.9)      (4,641.4)     (5.755.0)    (6.587.1)    (7.507.9)
Share in central taxes                           (5.905.1)      (6,472.3)    (8.552.0)      (9.903.6)   (10.578 4)
Non-tax receipts                                    4.723.7        6,825.1       9,650.0       9,736.4      10,256.6
Own non-tax receipts                             (2.292.4)      (3.383.1)    (4.951.2)    (5.344.2)       (5.784.9)
Grants from the Center                           (2,431.3)   - (3.442.0)      (4,698.8)     (4.392.2)     (4.471.7)
Current Expenditure                                  14,322.3       16,872.2      20,980.4      22,773.1      25.378.4
Current Surplus/Deficit                                 721.4        1,067.1       2,976.6       3,454.0        2,965.5
Capital Disbursements                                 4,119.9        5,149.6       6,395.6       8,396.5      10,231.9
Capital expenditures                                3,240.4        3,749.8       5,043.9       6,075.9       6,375.3
Loans and advances                                    879.5        1,399.8       1,351.7       2,320.6       3,856.6
Financing of Overall Deficit                          3,398.5        4,082.5       3,419.0       4,942.5        J,266.4
Loans from Center (net)                             3,743.5        3,030.7       4,928.7       3,167.3       4,223.9
Market loans (net)                                    403.3          542.2         811.7       1,035.1       1,167.6
Borrowing from Reserve Bank of India (net)             99.4         -743.1           7.8          -              _
State provident funds (net)                           830.1        1,085.4       1,471.6         799.7         813.3
Recovery of loans and advances                        118.1          123.7         150.3         328.6         333.7
Use of cash balances                                 -621.3         -220.6      -3,487.3        -980.6          93.2
Other                                             -1.174.6           264.2        -463.8         592.4         634.7
OQn
x
0*
Hi 
X %



Table B: MAHARASHTRA - SUMMARY OF PUBLIC FINANCES
(million rupees)
Revised      Budget
1983/84       1984/85       1985/86       1986/87       1987/88
Current Revenue                                    32,519.8       36.678.4      41.741.5      47.916.9      53,838.3
Tax receipts                                     22.724.1       24,959.9      28.768.2      33.428.1      38.028.3
State's own taxes                             (18.224.9)    (19.662.2)   (23.815.6)   (27.502.7)   (31.728.2
Share in central taxes                          (4.499.2)     (5.297.7)    (4.952.6)    (5.925.4)    (6.300.1)
Non-tax receipts                                  9,795.7       11,718.5      12.973.3      14.488.8      15,809.9
Own non-tax receipts                            (7.089.9)     (8.455.9)    (9.754.3)    (9.585.2)   (11.107.4)
Grants from the Center                          (2,705.8)      (3.262.6)    (3.219.0)    (4.903.6)    (4.702.5)
Current Expenditure                                 31,812.2      38.798.4      44.908.0      49.280.9      53.519.0
I-.
Current SurPlus/Deficit                                707.6      -2.120.0      -3.166.5      -1.363.9         319.5
Capital Disbursements                               8.908.1        9.363.1      10.080.9      11,803.4      14.455.0
Capital expenditures                              5.444.5        6,070.9       5.818.7       6.724.4       8.401.4
Loans and advances                                 3.463.6       3.292.2       4.262.2       5.079.0       6.053.6
Financing of Overall Deficit                         8,200.5      11.483.1      13.247.4      13.167.3      14.135.5
Loans from Center (net)                           4.222.8        5.654.7       7.163.5       6.866.1       6.413.3
Market loans (net)                                   191.1         422.5         563.6         490.9         594.7
Borrowing from Reserve Bank of India (net)            -             -            -94.7          -             -
State provident funds (net)                         426.8          551.1         420.0         620.1         569.4
Recovery of loans and advances                      803.8          978.1         907.9         896.7         719.8
Use of cash balances                                 385.6         292.4          82.7          38.7         974.0
Other                                             2.170.4        3.580.3       4.204.4       4.254.3       4.864.3
o.
. ..,



Table C: RAJASTHAN - SUMMARY OF PUBLIC FINANCES
(million rupees)
Revised      Budget
1983/84        1984/85       1985/86       1986/87       1987/88
Current Revenue                                      11,413.2       12.272.3      15,056.9      18,441.3       18,218.6
Tax receipts                                        6,831.9        7.543.6       8.912.4      10.369.6       11.237.3
State's own taxes                               (4.411.8)       (4.873.9)     (5.659.5)     (6.690.7)      (7.326.9)
Share in central taxes                           (2.420.1)      (2.669.7)     (3.252.9)     (3.678.9)      (3.910.4)
Non-tax receipts                                    4.599.3        4,728.7       6,144.5       8,071.7        6,981.3
Own non-tax receipts                             (2.674.5)      (2,797.5)     (3.000.0)     (2.984.5)      (3.267.5)
Grants from the Center                           (1.924.8)      (1.931.2)     (3,144.5)     (5,087.2)       (3,713.8)
Current Expenditure                                  10,984.?       13.030.9      15,078.5      19.193.1        19.348.8           _
Current Surplus/Deficit                                 446.5         -758.6         -21.6        -751.8       -1.130.2
Capital Disbursements                                 3,830.8        3,269.9       4.170.8       5,155.2        5,352.3
Capital expenditures                                2,680.4        2.205.5       2,690.6       3.422.5        3.332.2
Loans and advances                                  1,150.4        1.064.4       1,480.2       1,732.7        2,020.1
Financing of Overall Deficit                          3.384.3         ..028.5      4,192.4       5,907.0        6.482.5
Loans from Center (net)                             1,525.0        1,415.2       1,883.0       1,980.4        1,725.5
Market loans (net)                                    547.1          716.2         763.0         821.3          952.6
Borrowing from Reserve Bank of India (net)           -204.2          122.5        -122.5          -              _
State provident funds (net)                           403.0          680.0         423.9         742.3          916.2
Recovery of loans and advances                        409.6          402.0         750.7         577.9          538.4
Use of cash balances                                  -86.8           14.3        -140.0         893.6        1,340.2
Other                                                 790.6          678.3         634.3         891.5        1,009.6
IOD



Table D: UTTAR PRADESH - SUMMARY OF PUBLIC FINANCES
(million rupees)
Revised      Budget
1983/84        1984/85       1985/86       1986/87       1987/88
Current Revenue                                      26.554.1       31.449.4      38.768.4      42.859.6      46.024.9
Tax receipts                                       16.742.1       21,018.3      25.259.9      29.385.0      31.738.4
State's own taxes                                (9.921.0)     (11.401.8)    (12.914.0)    (15.109.0)   (16.565.9)
Share in central taxes                           (6.821.1)      (9.616.5)   (12.345.9)    (14.276.0)   (15.172.5)
Non-tax receipts                                    9.812.0       10,431.1      13,508.5      13.474.6      14.286.5
Own non-tax receipts                             (4.047.5)      (3.843.9)    (5.238.9)      (4.776.4)    (5.261.2)
Grants from the Center                           (5.764.5)      (6.587.2)     (8.269.6)     (8,698.2)      (9.025.3)
Current Expenditure                                  27.611.6       32,922.4      37.022.3      42.850.0      49.245.1           4
Current Surplus/Def.'cit                             -1.057.5       -1.473.0       1.746.2            9.6     -3.220.2
Capital Disbursements                                10,387.4       14,039.5      13,058.7      15,586.5      12.139.8
Capital expenditures                                5,413.9        7,533.8       7.321.7      10.163.4       8,134.7
Loans and advances                                  4.973.5        6,505.7       5.737.0       5.423.1       4,005.1
Financing of Overall Deficit                         11.444.9       15.512.5      11.312.5      15.576.9       15,360.0
Loans from Center (net)                             3,884.4        4,584.6       8,114.2       5,467.9       8,125.6
Market loans (net)                                  1.346.8        1.784.0       2.136.5       2,348.2       2,720.7
Borrowing from Reserve Bank of India (net)             54.1        3,358.0      -1.990.9          -              -
State provident funds (net)                           641.2        1.012.1         739.2         652.5         470.0
Recovery of loans and advances                        622.2          576.1         733.6       3,254.6         949.8
Use of cash balances                                  360.8          284.9        -420.3         555.6          718.3
Other                                               4,535.4        3.912.8       2.000.2       3,298.1       2,375.6         o ¢
oo x
lb
0
H i
o0a



-149-
Annex 4.8
Page 12 of 16
Table E: BIHAR - FIVE-YEAR PLAN AND ANNUAL PLANS
(million rupees)
5-Year Plan                           Likely    Proposed
1985-90     1985/86    1986/87    1987/88    1988/89
Agriculture and allied services         2,781.5       634.6       994.0      802.7       881.9
Rural development                       4,580.5        810.0    1,035.3    1,135.6    1,169.5
Special area programs                      -           -          125.0      150.0      200.0
Irrigation and flood control           17,240.0     3,141.1    3,642.8    4,265.0    4,498.0
Energy                                 10,830.0     1,529.0    2,246.7    3,508.5    3,715.0
Industries and minerals                 2,166.0       482.5       748.4      752.7      778.2
Transport and communications            3,961.0       791.9    1,098.5    1,140.5    1,169.9
of vhich:  roads                     (3,700.0)     (760.1)  (1,008.4)  (1,058.5)  (1,001.5)
Decentralized Planning                    100.0      * 22.0       500.0      747.6    1,207.8
Social and community services           8,631.0     1,636.2    2,113.6    2,190.5    2,460.5
of which:  education                 (3,207.5)     (536.3)    (602.8)    (663.0)    (730.0)
health                    (1,464.0)     (272.4)    (450.6)    (487.0)    (540.0)
water supply              (1,800.0)     (312.6)    (483.6)    (450.0)    (500.0)
Other                                     710.0       274.3       316.2      340.4      419.2
TOTAL                                  51,000.0     9,321.2   12,812.1   15,033.5   16,500.0
-------------- ........................... ,,,,,,X



-150-                             Annex 4.8
Page 13 of 16
Table F:  MAHARASHTRA - FIVE-YEAR PLAN AND ANNUAL PLANS
(million rupees)
5-Year Plan                            Likely    Proposed
1985-90     1985/86    1986/87    1987/88    1988/89
Agriculture and allied services          6,545.7      1,104.6    1,139.7    1,479.0    1,594.4
Rural development                        6,876.3      2,862.7    2,948.2    2,324.0    2,236.9
Irrigation and flood control            18,906.1     3,516.2    4,167.3    4,429.5    4,729.0
Energy                                  30,538.9     3,725.9    4,335.5    4,645.5    4,958.0
Industries and minerals                  3,650.0        577.5      694.2       748.9      930.5
Transport and communi:ations             7,751.9        899.5    1,091.5    1,479.3    1,424.7
of vbich:  roads                      (2,738.2)      (567.2)    (605.2)    (986.1)    (n.a.)
Social and comunity services            26,050.2     3,953.9    4,471.4    5,579.7    6,233.3
of vhich:  education                  (3,243.8)      (298.0)    (485.6)    (725.6)  (1,003.1)
health                    (3,640.0)      (333.6)    (474.9)    (800.2)    (826.4)
water supply             (16,966.7)   (3,066.8)  (3,222.6)  (3,629.8)  (3,915.0)
Other                                    4,681.0       642.1       790.0       975.2    1,077.4
TOTAL                                  105,000.0    17,282.4   19,637.7   21,661.1   23,200.0
", . _~~~~~~~~



-151-                             Annex 4.8
Page 14 of 16
Table G: RAJASTHAN - FIVE-YEAR PLAN AND ANNUAL PLANS
(million rupees)
5-Year Plan                            Likely    Proposed
1985-90     1985/86    1986/87    1987/88    1988/89
Agriculture and allied services           2,054.4        286.0      342.9       404.3       566.1
Rural development                        1,300.7        232.4       321.8       322.1       362.3
Special area programs                       -            -           -            7.0         8.0
Irrigation and flood control             6,820.7      1,233.8    1,283.5    1,434.0    1,791.7
Energy                                   9,274.8      1,260.C    1,803.1    2,158.0    2,490.0
Industries and minerals                  1,906.9        198.8       237.7       316.3      417.3
Transport and communicatious             1,403.6        185.2       187.9       226.5       340.0
of which:  roads                        (979.6)      (139.6)    (135.4)    (174.0)    (270.0)
Social and community services            6,747.1        835.3    1,051.4    1,429.7    i,827.4
of vbich:  education                  (2,134.5)      (313.5)    (420.9)    (558.2)    (711.7)
health                       (825.7)      (156.6)    (189.7)    (237.5)    (300.1)
water supply               (2,200.8)      (211.2)    (285.8)    (450.0)    (565.0)
Other                                      491.8         50.7        50.0       152.1       182.1
TOTAL                                   30,000.0      4,282.1    5,278.4    6,450.0    7,990.0
..........................................



-152-
Annex 4.8
Page 15 of 16
Table R: UTTAR PRADESH - FIVE-YEAR PLAN AND ANNUAL PLANS
(million rupees)
5-Year Plan                            Likely    Proposed
1985-90     1985/86    1986/87    1987/88    1988/89
Agriculture and allied services           8,919.5      1,583.3    1,902.3    2,117.6    2,624.3
Rural development                        6,263.5      1,435.2    1,534.4    1,734.7    1,828.2
Special area programs                    2,234.7         32.2        85.2       122.7       146.9
Irrigation and flood control            22,455.0      3,403.9    3,980.1    4,336.6    4,987.7
Energy                                  34,580.0      5,746.6    5,830.3    6,515.0    9,051.7
Industries and minerals                  6,275.3      1,308.6    1,293.8    1,285.7    1,397.6
Transport and communications             11,584.9     2,078.2    2,370.4    2,518.6    2,537.9
of vhich:  roads                      (9,650.0)   (1,752.3)  (2,012.4)  (2,133.4)  (2,145.0)
Social and community services           18,629.6      3,094.4    3,797.5    4,814.1    5,751,
of which:  education                  (3,87,2.5)     (675.4)    (817.6)  (1,045.4)  (1,2' .3)
healtb                    (3,141.0)       (805.5)    (683.7)  (1,046.6)  (1,045.5)
water supply               (4.320.0)      (670.4)    (895.9)    (885.0)  (1,115.4)
Other                                    2,305.6        338.1       460.2       612.7       643.8
Less:  Adjustment /I                    -3,248.1         -           -           -           -
TOTAL                                  110,000.0    19,020.5   21,254.2   24,057.7   28,969.5
/a In respect of central assistance for dacoity prone areas, and strengthening
of administration.



-153-                           Annex 4.8
Page 16 of 16
Table I: BUOYANCY OF THE STATES' MkIN TAXES
Uttar
Bihar            Maharashtra       Rajasthan         Pradesh
Stamps and registration fees          0.90               1.18             1.42             1.36
(6.33)  0.76      (18.91)  0.97    (12.82) 0.93    (13.82) 0.9
Land revenue                          0.22*              0.51               5             -0.11*
(0.99) -0.001      (4.23)  0.58    (2.43)  0.29   (-0.70) -0o.
Sales tax                             1.46               1.29             lA4              1.24
(13.62)  0.94      (41.48)  0.99   (13.45)  0.94   (11.60)  0.9
State excise duties                   0.68*              151.37                            1.15
(1.67)  0.13      (33.85)  0.99    (7.44)  0.82   (13.13)  0.9
Taxes on vehicles,
passengers and goods                1.18               10               1.34             1.15
(7.14)  0.81       (9.76)  0.89   (14.95)  0.95   (13.47)  0.9
Electricity duties                    kJ6                1.16             2.12             1-15
(2.60)  0.32      (15.98)  0.95   (21.25)  0.97    (2.58)  0.3
Entertainment tax                     0.69               1.00             1.22             1.07
(4.99)  0.67      (16.49)  0.96    (8.80)  0.87   (11.32)  0.
Profession tax                  ,1.45                                      -                -
(45.33)  0.04
Total own tax receipts                1.15               1.26             1.36             1.14
(16.59)  0.96      (44.12)  0.99    (7.37)  0.97   (13.72)  0.'
Not&: Buoyancy coefficients were estimated from the double-log function
log x - log a + b log y, where x represents receipts from the relevant source, y
represents state domestic product (SDP), and b is the buoyancy coefficient. Buoyancy
coefficients are underlined; the figures under them represent t value and R ,
respectively. The estimates are based on the data for 1973/74 to 1985/86.
Not significant at,the 5 percent level.



INDIA
STATES' ROAD PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
198                1989                    1990                    1991                    199
BIHAR                                   0
Bhagalpur Bridgo                                     _ __   _
Protection   Works                                   _  _ _   _ _  _ _    __ _________________
Approach Roads                                       __                   __ 4_d_                        _    _
Road Widentng *nd Strengthening          s|      X                     __I______I___   ______I____
MAHARASHYRA                             °_              _  _ __  _ _  _ z_   _  _ _  __  _ _  _   __ _  _ _  __  _ _
Road Widening and Strengthening                                                                UI
RAJASTHAN                               0 z 
Road Widening and Strengthoning           an
410
UTTAR PRADESH                                       ____________
Road Widening and Strengthening          0 u _  l
_ ,.
EQUIPMENT                                                   __la_____O
Consultants, Services for
Organization Study                                                     V   OITPET  XXX
Mhahrashtra PISD                             0 P.t
Consultants' Services for                    t    P4
Construction Supervision                  4    f4$
Consultants' Servicos for Road                                           _______
Maintenance Management Studies C
1/ Prepare specs.
2/ DGSAD clearance.
3/ Invite quotes.



-155-
Annex 4.10
STATES' ROAD PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
Cumulative Disbursement
IBRD Fiscal Year                 at Quarter Ending
and Ouarter Ending                    USS Million
1989      June  30                        5.7
1990      Sept. 30                        8.6
Dec.  31                      11.4
March 31                      24.3
June  30                      37.3
1991      Sept. 30                       50.2
Dec.  31                      63.2
March 31                      86.5
June  30                     109.9
1992      Sept. 30                      133.2
Dec.  31                     156.5
March 31                     176.7
June  30                     106.9
1993      Sept. 30                      217.0
Dec.  31                     237.2
March 31                     240.3
June  30                     243.5
1994      Sept. 30                      246.7
Dec.  31                     250.0



-156-                                                 Annex 5.1
INDIA
STATES' ROAD PROJECT
UKICLE FLUt CNAUCt?E31TI0  AiD wit COtl
...... .......... ......................... ...... ..........
cOS" ii INDIII SUPER
CAR        PUs       TRUC
FINANCIAL O0S"
.............................
M VilNICL       (COMtIMICL)  120000.00  303000.00  265000.00
f1i8               (cosYt/SIRE)       516.00    1230.00    5230.00
Ailt? LUOR    (COtI/LA1OR-1)          10.00       10.00      10.00
CUII tlSl        (COsT/CRU-ll         22.50      22.50       1?.10
tU8s11GU  DIUt? (WIMPASS-1             .00         .00         .00
CAIGO DIU?LA      (COT/T9-1)            .00         .00         .00
AINUL OVIUEAD COSt" (TOTL)            I1.00       15.00      15.00
AIUJL I1tESUT UAtE          (1)       11.00       11.00      15.00
"UL * LUBEICAITS(COS?/LITIR)          PETROL       8.50      DIES9L FUEL        3.90      EGIN  OIL        19.00
ucomice WSa
................ .....................  
M   MICLE    (COIT/VIIICLE)   16000.00  242000.00  212000.00
?1118              (CO9ITRTI)       605.00    4184.60    4184.00
ulA? LUAO       (COILAWOU-1N           8.00       8.00        8.00
cEll TI?1        (COst/CRII-1)       18.00      11.00       14.00
PUAINGU DEULY (CO8t/PAJS-3)            6.20       2.60        2.60
CARGO DEULT        COSt/iI-I)          .04          .40       1.40
MIIAL OVNIAD COtS (TOTAL)            15.00      15.00       15.00
AIIUAL 1311U18?  An                   15.00      15.00       11.00
FU)L I LUIRICANTS(COSILII1)           ntROL        6.30      DIS81L FUEL        3.12      IIGIU  OIL       15.20
CAR        SUB       TRUCE
......     ......   .    ------..... ...
ViNCLI DiscUIpTIOMS
.............................
IICE TYPE                                 2           6          4
ML TPE                              PEIOL       DIESEL      DIESIL
uGIN  POEII(UEYRIC IP)               S1.00      114.00      114.00
ROSS  lE 301?  (T0O8)                  1.50      11.00       12.20
EQUIVALIt AI (IUP:4.0)                  .00        1.51       2.28
sUIIVALNT AL19(UI:2.01                  .03        1.U4       1.t5
AVUAIR O   ICJi  ALis                 2.00        2.00        2.00



_157-
Annex 5.2
INDIA,
STATES' ROAD PROJECT
AINITENANCI URIT COSTS
...................... ....................................
COST PM  IPPLICATION  IN  INDINUI Wl
PIRCBNTAGE Of TOTAL
...... ................. ..............................
10.   AINTRIANCE OPERATION                          UWIT   COST TYPI             LABOR        IQUIPENiT       NATEBIALS          OVERBEAD TOTAL UNIT COST
-- -- -..-...- --.- -.-.-- -..-                      .... .......... ..  ............  ----- . . ........ .  . . .... ..... .  ---------  --------.... ---------------.............. ................................ ...
I   PATCHIIIC                                      S@Q I   FINAUCIAL               .00              .00              .00              .00        145.00
ICONONIC               .00              .00              .00             .00         116.00
FOREIGN I                                                                                .00
12   ROUTINE flINTIRUNCE-PAIVD ROAD                   i/l   FINUICIAL               .00              .00              .00              .00       6000.00
CONONIC               .00              .00             .00              .00        1000.00
FOUICG  I                                                                                .00



-158-                             Anne). 5.3
INDIA
STATES' ROAD PROJECT
Results of Economic Evaluation
(km; 1988 Rupees Million; %)
Road                                       Costs
-om              LaTo            Length   Financial  Economic       ERR
I    BIHAR
Hajiipur         Muzaffarpur       51.0       204.5       136.6     20.2
Sonepur          Chhapra           50.0       260.2      208.1      12.3
Bhagalpur Bridge                  [18,        688.5       534.1     21.2
119.0    1,153.2       878.8     18.9
II   MAHARASHiTRA
Pune             Ahmednagar       113.6       142.8      114.3      49.9
Ahmednagar       Kopargaon         95.0       123.1        98.4     96.8
Abmednagar       Aurangabad       105.4       142.8       114.2     49.8
Aurangabad       Mantha           124.0       201.2       161.0     38.7
Akola            Xanhargaon'       96.0       123.7        98.9     23.3
Nagpur           Kampad            69.0       120.3        96.3     22.3
Palgar           Wada              47.0        68.4        54.7     40.3
Vada             Ambadi           _23.0        32.1        25.7     52.4
673.0      954.4       763.5     43.6
III  RAJASTHAN
Alwar             Bhivani          90.0       144.6       115.7     21.6
Alwar            Karauli          145.0       186.0       148.8     29.1
Udaipur          Dabok             16.0        85.7        68.5     23.9
Dabok            Chittorghar       97.0       128.3       102.6     25.7
Ajmer             Chittorghar     186.0       268.5       214.8     38.8
Sirohi           Abu Road          63.0        69.0       55.2      45.3
Abu Road         Mount Abu         23.0        29.4        23.5     26.4
Fatehpur         Churu             36.0        32.9        26.3     30.1
Churu            Haryana Bdr.      79.0        68.7        55.0     28.2
Sikar            Haryana Bdr.    133.0        136.9      109.5      43.
868.0    1,081.1       919.9     32.2
IV   UTTAR PRADESH
Sonauli          Gorakhpur         93.0       270.1      216.1      11.7
Gorakhpur        Ballia           153.0       454.5       363.6     19.2
Faizabad         Allahabad        143.0       412.6      330.1      17.9
Allahabad         Dohrighat       208.0       628.0       502.4     24.5
597,0    1.765.2    1.142.2       ILA
2,257.0    4,953.9    3,974.4      27.5
September 1988



-159-
Annex 6.1
INDIA
STATES' ROAD PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data in the Project File
A. Selected Documents on the Sector and Subsector
1. Central Road Research Institute, Road User Cost Study in
India, New Delhi, 1982
2. Indian Roads Congress, Manual on Economic Evaluation of
Highway Proiects in In4ia, Special Publication No. 30,
1984
3. Ministry of Shipping and Transport (Roads Wing), Road
Development Plan for India (1981-2001), New Delhi 1984
4. Planning Commission, Seventh Five-Year Plan. 1985-90,
October 1985
5. Planning Commission, Seventh Five-Year Plan: Mid-Term
Aioraisal. Transnort Sector, (4 Vols.), August 1987
6. Planning Commission, Growing Problem of the Maintenance of
Roads - A Critical Study, February 1987
7. Kadiyali, L.R., Road Transport Demand Forecast for 2000 AD
B. Selected Documents on Bihar
8. Planning Department, Draft Annual Plan. 1988-89
9. Road Construction Department, Report on Detailed
Investigations for a Road Bridge across River Ganga near
BhagalRur, Volumes 1 and 2, March 1984
10. Consulting Engineering Services, Proposed High Level Road
Bridge Across River Ganga at BhagalRur: Techno-Economic
Evaluation, February 1988
C. Selected Documents on Maharashtra
11. Government of Maharashtra, Regort of the Committee on
Substitution of Octroi, October 1987
12. Motor Vehicles Department, Basic Road Transport Statistics,
1986
13. Planning Department, Seventh Five-Year Plan 1985-90
14. Plarning Department, Annual Plan. 1987-88



-160-
Annex 6.1
Page 2 of 3
15. Public Works Department, Road DeveloRment Plan for
Maharashtra. 1981-2001, May 1985
16. Public Works Department, ReRort of the Committee for Review of
Norms for Maintenance and Repair of Roads, 1978
17. Public Works Department. Instructions for Maintenance of
Roads, October 1984
18. Public Works Department,iMaintenance & Regairs of Roads &
Bridges: Performance Report. 1986-87, October 1987
19. Public Works Department, Traffic Census. December 1985 (state
highways)
20. Public Works Department, Handbook of Basic Road Statistics,
1986-87
21. Public Works Department, Note on Rehabilitation and
Maintenance Proiect for State Roads in Maharashtra, November
1987
22.  Public Works Department, Project Report on Maharashtra Roads
Project. Improvement and Black ToDDing of Certain Roads in
Ma-harashtra State. Parts I & II, February 1988
D. Selected Documents on Rajasthan
23. Planning Department, Annual Plan 1988-89
24. Public Works Department, Organization Set-up of Public Works
Department, March 1985
25. Public Works Department, Report of the Working Group on Roads
for VII Five-Year Plan. 1985-90, October 1984
26. Public Works Department, Improvement of Alwar Bhiwari Road
(S.H. 25) Rajasthan, Project Report and Estimate (2 Vols.)
27. Public Works Department, Alwar Raigarh Mahuwa Hindoon Karauli
Road, Estimate
28. Public Works Department, Sikar Jhunjhunu Pilani. Harvana
Border (Loharu) Road, Project Report
29. Public Works Department, Improvement and Strengthening Beawer-
Pali-Sirohi-Abu Road. Mount Abu Road. Section Sirohi-Abu
Road-Mount Abu. Km 198 to 267 & 23 Km. Mount Abu, Project
Report
30. Public Works Department, Imnrovement of UdaiRur-Mavli-Ka asan-
Chittorgarh. State Highway-9 (Km. 19 to 117), Report,
Economic Analysis and Abstract Estimate (3 Vols.)



-lul-
Annex 6.1
Page 3 of 3
31. Public Works Department, Improvement of Ajmer Bhilwara
Chittorgarh Banswara Road upto Gujarat Border. State Highway
4. Aimer Nasirabad Bijainagar Raila (Section), Km 1/765 to
99/000, Estimate (Details)
32. Public Works Department, Improvement of Ajmer-Chittorgarh-
Banswara up to Gujrat Border. State Highway-4 (Kin. 186/0 to
315/4), Report and Economic Analysis, (2 Vols.)
33.  Public Works Department, Construction and Improvement of
Fatehpur-Churu-Taranagar-Nohar-Hanumanzarh-Sri Ganganagar
Road, Project Report and Estimate (3 Vols.) January 1988
34. Public Works Department, Improvement of Churu Rafiarh Haryana
Border (Hissar). Km. 0/0 to 79/4, Report and Estimate (2
Vols.)
35.  Public Works Department, State Highway No. 8. J(m 1-83: Km 84
to 100: SH13: Km 140 to 151: Km 1 to 3: DR 9 Km 3 to 180,
Estimates (2 Vols.)
36. International Consultants and Technocrats, Four Laning Project
UdaiRur to Dabok. Proiect Report and Estimate (2 Vols.)
E. Selected Documents on Uttar Pradesh
37. Planning Department, Draft Annual Plan 1988-89, 4 Volumes,
December 1987
38. Public Works Department, Background Note for Discussion with
World Bank Mission. June 2. 1987
39. Consulting Engineering Services, Rehabilitation and
Improvement Programme for State Roads and Construction of
Bypasses in Uttar Pradesh, Summary Report, October 1987
40. Consulting Engineering Services, Techlio-Economic Feasibility.
Study for Sonauli-Gorakhpur State Highway, Final Report,
February 1987
41. Consulting Engineering Services, Techno-Economic Feasibility
Study for Rehabilitation and Improvement Programme for
Faizabad-Allahabad Road, Final Report, December 1987
42. RITES, Techno-Economic Feasibility Study and Report for
Rehabilitation and Improvement of Gorakhpur-Deoria-Ballia
Road, December 1987
43. RITES, Techno-Economic Feasibility Studs for Rehabilitation
and Improvement of Allahabad-Jaunpur-Dohrighat Road, Final
Report, December 1987



MAP SECTION
I
i
i
I
I
I



r  -~~~~~~~~ ~INDII A                                                                                          '1         b                - PUN      B         76'_                                                A 7
STATES' ROAD PROJECT                                                    ~                                                b~,PNA
RAJASTHAN AND MAHARASHTRAf                                                                             /  ---/
CO~ ~~yoy,oo~                                                         
PROJECT 
Rocod Widening and Strenthening                                                                    IUTTAR
Blocktopping                                                                                         1HA                                       AN
EXISTING:                                                      I                                       ?NoPRADES
-3-      National Highways/                                                                                                             /P ADS
-- -State Highwoys                                      -I
0      Selected Towns and Wilages                                                                                                 (                                           EW  DELHI
C  District Headquarters                                                                                                      a I-                                          iH
(i State Capitals                                                                                       ~                              Lobo-u
®   National CapitalI                                                                            -         hra'/
District Boundaries/                                                                                                          N
State Boundaries                            2'                 Ion                                                      h.
-- International Baundaries                                                                                                                     ' 
/aFte pui
(A    /.         ?0 KI IOiI)MifTt    I R                                                      N\~
,    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~ ~        ~        ~       ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       -                 I~~~~~~~~~~.. 
*    ,***,*.-,,*,-/ *~~~~~~~~ ~****~~~**   -              - ~~    Nogour                                                         aIR1Io                        h~p       Agro
B.-                                         Ph~~~~~~~~--                                    
F~~~~4
Bundtiow
Joslre01                                   -                                                     -                              aiu                        5
PAKISTA~~~~~~~~~;,-_ _~~~~~~~~,  CHINA                                                                                        oto~~~~~~~~  I
MUTAN                                                                                 -                . 
V'TTAR-- NEPA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     /i,-~I                            I               h l\r
~~AJA   .~~~~~~~"A-l~~                                                                                            -
fPRADESH                               S-h. 0.~~~~~~~~~~'- 1r-r.,                                               ~                   If-   1  (rO, 
B                                                    -11A)~~~~~~-            -"oTok                                                     /~.ahOuX
,,,,,SSA                    r.~~~~                     '5-d--                                         />MADHYA 
24' ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ->
ANorDrHRA~-_                                                                                                                                          . 
PRADFSH                                                                                                                                                                    PRADESHndi
Go.        P".~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~-                                                     
STTRI LNK PA                                                                      F. A.                       M7
OAJAV"AN  PRADESH  ~~~~~~~~~~~~             I           ,(                                         (~~~~MA HYAPRA                       ES
BIHAR   ( o.ri;   -  A                                                                             )~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  O  T  b&P
GUJ,ARAUJAATT
KiNOCHEEWV     ~~ N                                                                                                                       N,
TAMII                                     I          I    -,I...\                              I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .
To Atw,edobod                    Aw
SRi LANKA                                                               To Atwedobod                                                                                          Sh'KoWprdh
AAomad                            Ruld.-~~~~~~,X.    -- 
r                            I                      -        I W~~~2~~1BurIdonI                                                                                                                     21Y /KflO
Wodo                                                                                              noI
il          31                                                                                            '      N:'                           i Ad,Ioo
A.i     .dd,,Po'tb                                                                                                I
Ahnrodnog.rJ'/                                                             -~Nne
-Br
Boniboy                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/ /"
K.)  .P. C
17                                 N >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~~~~~q            ~~~~ANDHRA                                        PRADESH
--4----.                                                             I~~~~~~~~~~~~~0-.bd    .5-db
-   .  /    N. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N                       IT  ,d                     
/ I -'KARNATAKA
z                                        -                           /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.H&b
a             -     N ~~~~~ Satan,                 -       I                           ,           To Hydeobod~~~~~~~op     78



-. -                                                 ~~~~~~~~INDIA
PAKISTANK/tu~-Ag ?  CHINA      ISTATES' ROAD  PROJECT
UUSfrrAR M PsHtlTAs                                                     BIHAR
j  AJASTHAN             PRADFSH            }I, A55                                               PRJECT:
%  M!CSA QO                                         Rood Widenog and Slrpohn
GUA-AT       MADHIYA  PRADESH          wrs\                                           -         Propasad Nolionol High-y (1981 2001)
EXISTING:
ORISSA                                                           F-* F.,i
MAHARASSTraA                                                                       *     Ta  Homi e Ty Slalomi-
ANDHRA                                                                        Nalsanal Highosoys
POALIt- -  -  Sl-e High-oys
KARN~TArA                                                                           o      Tons
o     Distric Heodqwrbus
tAaML lC"Esw                                                       (l    Slat. Capital
XERAIA NAcU                                                                      P      Notionol Capitd
/                                                                      --  D,sDIrid hwnodoies
SRI                                                                      Sal Boo.oeri.es
LANKA                                                                     Io-enrmlirA.o   daandrf
an                         en                         bb'                       Nr.                       ovS 
SIKKIM
N    E   P    A    L                                                (
9 ~~~~-                 )        a a7
PRADESH-                        5~                         1
Q~~~~~~~~~~~ah,  Staoha."  '                                                '
25,'.t 4Z//t--- --F' 'leadabl,                                                )            'Y5> 75
5A.                                                                                                      IANGI--ESHI
2^~~~~~ ~  1/'  3DPt n                                                               ,  .t      'X,r7
2sJj.           j5callara,al                                                             
en~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J
,,.   s    ,    /             g  \   i                  )                ~~~~~~~~~~~~WEST    BENGAL                       7
MAQDHVYA
PRADESH-
X~~~~~~~~~~t,aa                                          a.a ----                 sa'. a7 A,
|                       ORISSA I--/j---   $  ) A
h   {'  SA                         5                          'w'3t *



HIMACHAL                                                                                                        PAKISTAN                                      CHINA
A S S N I D S P U T ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~   '¼ _o'p \J                                                                                   4 S N   l t t a_             I K A ri
,PRADESH              ZN~</uro~
C       H       I     N       A                             RA;ASTil_A
SoI                                         -                                                                                 JSO lA
tIsorh   ()   Uto.  - I                    9                                                       DUIARAT        Z k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OcDiIA PRAOEOA1  Oie&i'
_i n   o,h                             -                                                                                                              --A
.j                    I, \                                                    IDbo  u(L'Te. _' (9hml
tl  I       ',                  < )         D o h D                        I                           J"                                             A N D heO A
z;l                                                                            1   lP-7   J eIANAAT
</  /        -N/t 'pR4-'                                    I         "-' 
Sompa    }   E1Meerr  t    )_   J  _  1   Jl                                                                            IA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NKA
To2arsur  t   t   X   X      -          ,< T~~~~~~N IIitl®           0-                                                                     040011
ft                                                                                                                                                              (     \ 9 4 zr
E         . DE                                      \.
toroill y                         'N.            $
) / 4 0 ~         ~~~~~~~                    0                                               ' " 'Vh >                                          nIL SO E nO O S >   _
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Soihno tomrle                                                                   K.t$e       
lol7eemn-   ®Ea                                                                                            N J>    H Y A / P R         
Bhoontpoo" -   -                 ,                                                                           ®  t
elCdpt oo r_                                                                                                                                   Fonondo
d~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~leo   Si,io _r\J 
X biR  d J A S    T   A N                                                                                                                                       h; ., -  Ao'oB    IoARo
iNDIA~~~~~~~~~~~~
M       SAADH EY' ROA  POECT                                       
UTTAR PRADESH
PROJECT
R-ad Wid.MNR -d St .. gthning
EXISTING:
Notiono High.)rs
------- Stt. High-oy.
0      S.Idecd T-wm          P  ood Vilkps
D isiwld H..dworser
(3 SO0'W -  tC.piftpb
Ns MADcrA PRADSI
DistridtOO,on
'io.oio.otTh.WotOo-                                                                    50
e'&'oo0.oO.oOOenoeco ~ ~ ~  ~       ~      ~      ~       --        Iner0hc2 Bondrr



