Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1959 IN
                                               LOAN NUMBER 2994 IN
                       (States Road Project)
                               among
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
                          STATE OF BIHAR
                                and
                       STATE OF MAHARASHTRA
                                and
                        STATE OF RAJASTHAN
                                and
                      STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
                      Dated November 17, 1988
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  November  17,  1988,  among  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association),  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and the STATES OF BIHAR,
MAHARASHTRA,  RAJASTHAN  AND   UTTAR   PRADESH,  acting  by  their
respective  Governors  (hereinafter  collectively  referred  to as
"States" and severally in each case as "State").
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association  has  agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in  various currencies equivalent to sixty-
two  million   two   hundred   thousand   Special  Drawing  Rights
(SDR 62,200,000) on  the  terms  and  conditions  set forth in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  but  only  on  condition  that the
States agree to undertake  such obligations toward the Association
as are set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by the  Loan  Agreement  of  even  date herewith between
India, acting by its  President  (the  Borrower) and the Bank, the
Bank has agreed to  make  available  to  the Borrower an amount in
Page  2
various  currencies  equivalent  to  one  hundred  seventy million
dollars ($170,000,000) on the  terms  and  conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the States agree to
undertake such obligations toward  the  Bank  as  are set forth in
this Agreement; and
     WHEREAS each  State,  in  consideration  of the Association's
entering into the Development  Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
and the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower,
has  agreed  to  undertake  the  obligations  set  forth  in  this
Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  Development  Credit Agreement, the
Loan Agreement, the  Preamble  to  this  Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined in the Development Credit Agreement and
the Loan  Agreement,  respectively)  have  the respective meanings
therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 2.01. (a) Each  State  declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and,  to  this  end, shall carry out
its  respective  Part  of  the  Project  with  due  diligence  and
efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices,  and  shall provide, or cause
to  be  provided,  promptly  as  needed,  the  funds,  facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except  as  the  Association, the Bank and the
concerned State shall otherwise agree:
       (i)    each State shall  carry  out  its respective Part of
              the Project  in  accordance  with the Implementation
              Program set forth in  Schedule  2 to this Agreement;
              and
       (ii)   each State shall  design,  construct, strengthen and
              maintain roads under the  Project in accordance with
              the design standards and specifications specified by
              India Roads Congress  in  their  issue numbers 3, 37
              and 73.
     Section 2.02. Except as  the  Association  and the Bank shall
otherwise agree, procurement of  the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project  and  to  be financed out of the
proceeds of the  Credit  and  the  Loan  shall  be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. Each State shall  carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03,  9.04,  9.05,  9.06,  9.07 and 9.08 of the
General Conditions applicable to  the Development Credit Agreement
and in Sections  9.04,  9.05,  9.06,  9.07,  9.08  and 9.09 of the
General Conditions applicable to  the  Loan Agreement (relating to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance  and  land  acquisition, respectively) in
respect of the Project Agreement and  such Parts of the Project as
are carried out within its territory.
     Section 2.04. (a) Each  State  shall,  at  the request of the
Association or the Bank,  exchange  views with the Association and
the  Bank  with  regard  to  the  progress  of  the  Project,  the
Page  3
performance of  its  obligations  under  this  Agreement and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit and the Loan.
     (b)  Each State shall promptly inform the Association and the
Bank of any condition  which  interferes or threatens to interfere
with the  progress  of  the  Project,  the  accomplishment  of the
purposes of the Credit and the  Loan,  or the performance by it of
its obligations under this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 3.01. (a)  Each  State  shall  maintain and cause its
departments and other agencies and authorities responsible for the
carrying out  of  the  Project  or  any  part  thereof to maintain
records and accounts adequate to  reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices their  operations  and financial condition in
respect of the Project.
     (b) Each State shall:
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of  this  Section  for each financial
               year  audited,   in   accordance  with  appropriate
               auditing   principles   consistently   applied,  by
               independent auditors acceptable  to the Association
               and the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Association and  the Bank as soon as
               available, but  in  any  case  not  later than nine
               months after the end  of  each such year, certified
               copies of the report of such audit by said auditors
               of such scope and in such detail as the Association
               and the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Association  and the Bank such other
               information concerning said records and accounts as
               well as the audit  thereof,  as the Association and
               the  Bank  shall  from   time  to  time  reasonably
               request.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which  both  the Development Credit Agreement and
the Loan Agreement become effective.
     Section 4.O2. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association, the Bank and of each State thereunder shall terminate
on the earlier of the following two dates:
          (i)  the  date  on  which  both  the  Development Credit
               Agreement  and  the   Loan   Agreement  shall  have
               terminated in accordance with their terms; or
         (ii)  the date 25 years after the date of this Agreement.
     (b)  If  the  Development   Credit   Agreement  or  the  Loan
Agreement or both of said  Agreements terminate in accordance with
their   respective   terms   before    the   date   specified   in
paragraph (a)(ii) of this  Section,  the  Association and the Bank
shall promptly notify the States of this event.
     Section 4.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension  under  the  General  Conditions  applicable  to the
Development Credit Agreement or the Loan Agreement.
Page  4
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 5.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                      440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For Bihar:
          Secretary to the Government of Bihar
          Road Construction Department
          Patna, Bihar, India
          Cable address:                    Telex:
               Bihar Works                     031-66104
               PATNA
     For Maharashtra:
          Secretary to the Government of Maharashtra
          Public Works Department
          Mantralaya, Bombay, India
                                            Telex:
                                               114243 DGPR IN
     For Rajasthan:
          Secretary to the Government of Rajasthan
          Public Works Department
          Jaipur, India
          Cable address:                    Telex:
Page  5
               Work Sec                        365-2306 PWD R
               JAIPUR
     For Uttar Pradesh:
          Secretary to the Government of Uttar Pradesh
          Public Works Department
          Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, India
                                            Telex:
                                               0535-259 CH
     Section 5.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of  a  State  may  be  taken  or executed by a
Secretary to the Government of such  State or such other person or
persons as the State  shall  designate  in  writing, and the State
shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 5.03. As long as the Bank has not given notice to the
contrary to the  States  and  so  long  as  the Development Credit
Agreement shall not have  terminated  prior  to the termination of
the Loan Agreement:
     (a)  the obligations of each  State  to  consult with, and to
furnish  information,  documents,   plans,  reports,  records  and
statements  to,  the  Bank  shall   be  satisfied  to  the  extent
performance in respect  of  such  obligations  is  rendered to the
Association;
     (b)  the obligations of  the  Bank  to  consult  with, and to
furnish information  to,  each  State  shall  be  satisfied to the
extent such obligations are fulfilled by the Association; and
     (c)  all actions taken (including  the giving of approvals or
granting  of  waivers)   by   the   Association  pursuant  to  the
Development Credit Agreement shall be  deemed to be taken pursuant
to both the Development  Credit  Agreement and the Loan Agreement,
and in the name  and  on  behalf  of  both the Association and the
Bank.
     Section 5.04.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     Section  5.05.  Any  amendment  to  the  provisions  of  this
Agreement as applicable to each State  may be made by an agreement
among the Association, the Bank and such State.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
Page  6
                    STATE OF BIHAR
                    STATE OF MAHARASHTRA
                    STATE OF RAJASTHAN
                    STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
                    By /s/ Anil Kumar
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Bidders for the works to  be  procured in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 above shall be prequalified as described
in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof,  goods  manufactured in India may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof,  a  margin of preference to domestic
contractors may be granted in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of  paragraphs  2.55  and  2.56  of  the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Small contracts for civil works, up to an aggregate amount of
$5,000,000 equivalent in each State,  may  be awarded on the basis
of competitive  bidding  advertised  locally,  in  accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association and the Bank.
2.   Preliminary earth works in  Rajasthan  may  be carried out by
force account.
3.   Contracts for items or groups  of items estimated to cost the
equivalent of $10,000 each or  less,  up to an aggregate amount of
$150,000, may be procured  under  quotations solicited from a list
of at least  three  suppliers  eligible  under  the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association and the
Bank.
4.   Specialized equipment selected in agreement with the Bank, up
to an aggregate amount  of  $3,500,000  equivalent may be procured
under contracts negotiated directly with  one or more suppliers of
such equipment in accordance  with  procedures satisfactory to the
Association and the Bank.
Part E:   Review by the  Association  and  the Bank of Procurement
          Decisions
1.   Review of prequalification:
Page  7
     With respect to the  prequalification  of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 hereof,  the  procedures  set  forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract  referred  to in Part A of
this Schedule the procedures set  forth  in  paragraphs 2 and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for such
contract  are  to  be  made  out  of  the  Special  Account,  such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association
and the Bank pursuant to  said  paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished
to the Association and the Bank  prior  to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to  the Association and the Bank pursuant
to said paragraph 3 shall be  furnished to the Association and the
Bank as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph
4 of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
     (c)   The provisions of  the  preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b)  shall  not  apply  to  contracts  on  account  of  which  the
Association or the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Credit
Account  or  the  Loan  Account  on  the  basis  of  statements of
expenditure. Such contracts shall  be  retained in accordance with
Section 4.01 (a) (ii) of the Development Credit Agreement.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist  the  States  in carrying out the Project,
each  State   shall   employ   consultants  whose  qualifications,
experience  and  terms  and  conditions  of  employment  shall  be
satisfactory to the  Association  and  the  Bank. Such consultants
shall be selected  in  accordance  with  principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association and  the  Bank on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as  Executing  Agency"  published by the Bank in
August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                      Implementation Program
A.   The States
1.   In order to assist  in  the coordination of implementation of
its respective Part of the  Project,  each State shall establish a
supervisory unit  which  shall  be  headed  by  an  officer  of an
appropriate senior rank and  shall  include  an adequate number of
suitably qualified and experienced staff.
2.   Each  State  shall  take  necessary  steps,  agreed  with the
Association and the Bank, for  the provision of training for staff
of its respective Public  Works  Department  at a level lower than
the professional staff.
3.   Each State shall: (i)  undertake  and  complete no later than
December 31, 1992 a study to introduce a Road Maintenance  Manage-
ment System referred to in Part F.(a)(ii) of the Project; and (ii)
take necessary steps to progressively introduce a Road Maintenance
Management System in  accordance  with the recommendations arising
from said study that  are  agreed  upon among the Association, the
Page  8
Bank and the concerned State.
4.   Each State shall  approve,  prior  to  the  beginning of each
financial year, all administrative  action  necessary to carry out
the next year's construction program  under its respective Part of
the Project.
5.   Prior  to  the  commencement  of  land  acquisition  for  the
Project, each State  shall,  in  relation  to  the  land  to be so
acquired: (i) furnish to the  Association  and the Bank a detailed
report on the nature and extent of any involuntary resettlement of
individuals (including those  resident  on  such  land who may not
have legal title to  it)  and  any  loss  of private incomes which
could arise from  such  acquisition  of  land;  and  (ii) take all
necessary steps, agreed with the Association and the Bank, for the
resettlement  and  rehabilitation  of  all  individuals  adversely
affected by the  Project  in  a  manner  adequate  to restore such
individuals at least to  the  standard  of  living enjoyed by them
prior to the implementation of the Project.
B.   Bihar
6.   Bihar shall: (i) furnish to  the  Association and the Bank no
later than  June  30,  1989  a  time  bound  action  plan  for the
completion of the Bhagalpur  bypass  road  under  Part A(2) of the
Project so that it is open  to  traffic prior to the completion of
the Bhagalpur bridge  under  Part  A(1)  of  the Project; and (ii)
thereafter take all necessary steps  to  carry out the said action
plan on a timely basis.
C.   Maharashtra
7.   Maharashtra shall take all necessary  steps on a timely basis
to: (i) complete by  December  31,  1990  the study referred to in
Part F.(a)(iii) of the Project; and (ii) thereafter take necessary
steps on a timely basis  to implement such recommendations arising
from  such  study  as  are  agreed  upon  among  Maharashtra,  the
Association and the Bank.
