                                            Document of
                                         The World Bank

                                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                          ReportNo. 41346-NP




                                        PROJECT PAPER

                                                ONA

                   PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCING(GRANT)

                          INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR 38.7 MILLION
                               (US$60,0MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                  TO

                                               NEPAL

                                             FOR THE

                               EDUCATION FOR ALL PROJECT

                                         November8,2007




HumanDevelopment Unit
SouthAsia Regional Office


This documenthas a restricteddistributionand may be used by recipients only inthe performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosedwithout World Bank
authorization.

                                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                             (Exchange Rate Effective September 17,2007)
                                     Currency Unit = NPR
                                         NPR 1.00 = US$0.01556
                                          US$l.OO = NPR 64.25



                                            July 16 --
                                              FISCAL YEAR
                                                        July 15


                                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB     Asian DevelopmentBank                        IPR        ImplementationProgressReport
ARCS    Audit ReportComplianceSystem                 I S N      Interim StrategyNote
ASIP    Annual Strategic ImplementationPlan          JAR        Joint Annual Review
AWPB    Annual Work Planand Budget                   JICA       JapaneseInternationalCooperationAgency
BPEP    Basic and PrimaryEducationProject            MOES      Ministry of Educationand Sports
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy                  MOF       Ministry of Finance
CFAA    Country FinancialAccountabilityAssessment    NCB       NationalCompetitiveBidding
CMS     Community-ManagedSchool                      NER       Net EnrollmentRatio
CPAR    Country ProcurementAssessment Review         NPC       NationalPlanningCommission
CPIA    Country Policy and InstitutionalAssessment   NPR       NepaleseRupee
CSSP    Community School Support Project             NPV       Net Present Value
Danida  DanishInternationalDevelopmentAssistance     OAG        Office ofAuditor General
DE0     District EducationOffice                     PCF        Per Capita Funding
DFID    Departmentfor InternationalDevelopment       PDO        Project DevelopmentObjective
        (UK)                                         PEFA       Public Expenditure and Financial
DG      Director General                                       Accountability
DHS     Demographic and HealthSurvey                 PFM        PublicFinance Management
DOE     Departmentof Education                       PIM        ProgramImplementationManual
DO      Development Objective                        PPMO      Public ProcurementMonitoring Office
DTCO    District Treasury Comptroller's Office       PRSC      Poverty ReductionStrategy Credit
EC      EuropeanCommission                           RED       Regional EducationDirectorate
EFA     Educationfor All                             SGOD       School Grants Operation Directives
FCGO    FinancialComptrollerGeneral's Office         SIP        School Improvement Plan
FM      FinancialManagement                          SMCs       School ManagementCommittees
FMR     FinancialManagementReport                    SPA        Seven Party Alliance
GDP     Gross Domestic Product                       SWAp       Sector Wide Approach
GPI     Gender ParityIndex                           UNICEF    UnitedNationsChildren's EducationFund
GON     GovernmentofNepal                            UNESCO    UnitedNationsEducational, Scientific and
ICAN    Instituteof CharteredAccountants Nepal                 CulturalOrganization
ICB     InternationalCompetitiveBidding              WFP       World FoodProgram
IP      Implementation Progress

                                                                                                                               FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY
                                                             Table of Contents



         PROJECTPAPER DATA SHEET                         .............................................................................................................      1
            IINTRODUCTION
            11.BACKGROUND RATIONALE FORADDITIONALFINANCINGINTHE AMOUNTOF US$60 MILLION .....2
            .                .......................................................................................................................................
                            AND
            111. PROPOSED  CHANGES...........................................................................................................................               2

            Iv.CONSISTENCY                                                                                           ..................................................... 76

            V. ECONOMIC      WITH COUNTRY ASSISTANCE                          STRATEGY (CAS)rrSN
                                                                                                                                                                            8
            VI.EXPECTED   ANALYSISOF FINANCINGGAp.............................................................................................
                         OUTCOMES          ..........................................................................................................................       8
            VIISBENEFITSAND RISKS                                                                                                                                           8
            VI11 FINANCIALTERMS
                .                         ...........................................................................................................................
                                       AND CONDITIONS FOR THE ADDITIONAL FINANCING                                             ............................................ 9
         ANNEX 1: SCHOOL EDUCATIONREFORMSINNEPAL                                                        ...............................................................    10
         ANNEX 2: DONORHARMONIZATION                                ................................................................................................       13
         ANNEX 3: PROGRESSON KEY INDICATORS                                       ...................................................................................      14
         ANNEX 4: FIDUCIARY RISK ASSESSMENT                                   .......................................................................................      15
         ANNEX 5: EFA FINANCING                 ...................................................................................................................        24
         ANNEX 6: GOVERNANCEAND ACCOUNTABILITY ACTIONPLAN OF THE DEPARTMENT
         OF EDUCATION      ........................................................................................................................................        26
         ANNEX 7: STATEMENT OF LOANS AND CREDITS                                             .........................................................................     30
         ANNEX 8: COUNTRY AT A GLANCE                            ...................................................................................................       31




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                           Project Paper Data Sheet

Date: November 8, 2007                     Team Leader: RajendraDhoj Joshi
Country: Nepal                             Sector DirectodManager: Michelle Riboud
Project Name: Education for All            Country Director: Susan Goldmark
Additional Financing                       Environmental Category: B
Project ID:P107558
Recipient: Government ofNepal
Responsible agency: Ministry of Education and Sports
Revised estimated disbursements(Bank FY/US$m)




Bankpolicies?


                              For Additional Financing
[ ] Loan   [ ] Credit [XI Grant
For LoandCreditdGrants:
       Total Bank financing (US$m.):     60
       Proposed terms: Standard
                               FinancingP an (US$m.)
                  Source
Recipient
IDA
ADB
UNICEF
Financing Gap
Total




                                          1

I.Introduction

1. This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to provide an additional
financing ingrant terms inan amount o f US$60 millionto the Nepal Education for All (EFA)
Project (Project ID: P074633; Cr. No. 39560). The proposedadditional grant would help fill the
financing gap - estimatedat US$87l million for the remaining two years - resulting from a cost
overrun o f core project activities and scalingup of reforms for improved quality and efficiency.
The government is expecting the EuropeanCommission (EC) support to close the remaining gap.

2. The original credit (US$50 million) was approvedon July 8,2004, and became effective on
August 27, 2004. This funding was IDA'Scontribution to the five-year EFA Program originally
estimatedto cost US$654 millionbut only fundedup to US$629 million. The revised estimated
cost i s US$994 million. The Project uses a sector-wide approach(SWAP) and receives funding
from the government, the Asian Development Bank (ADB), Denmark,Finland, Norway, DFID,
UNICEF, andthe World Bank.Itrepresents an excellent example of donor harmonization. It
covers a large sector that accounts for around 10% o fthe national budget. Donors contribute
aroundone quarter of the project costs.

3, Inthe past few years, significant reforms aimed at enhancingefficiency of investments in
primary educationhave beenintroduced. The government has announced, through the FY07/08
budget speech, that the reforms will be further broadenedand deepened. With a view to meeting
the heightenedaspirationsofthe Nepalesepeoplethe government is increasing investment in
education- particularly primaryeducation-one of the top priorities of the people as evidenced
by the mobilization of significant community resources for its expansion.

11. Backgroundand Rationalefor AdditionalFinancingin the Amount of US$60 million

4. Countrycontext: The popular movement of April 2006-led                         by the Seven Party Alliance
(SPA) andthe Maoists-brought              an endto the direct rule ofthe King, and reestablished
democracy inNepal. Subsequently, a Peace Agreement was signed betweenthe SPA
Government andthe Maoists ending the ten year old insurgency. InDecember2006 an interim
Parliament-including representationby the Maoists-was                    constituted, and inApril 2007 an
interimgovernment including the Maoists was formed. The next step would beholding elections
for a Constituent Assembly, which will havethe mandate for drafting the constitution and
function as a Parliament2.The swift and impressive move towards settlement of the conflict and
the restoration of democracyhave raisedpopular expectations, however challengesstill exist
towards cementing this process. Sustainingthe peace process will be a challengeunless the root

'This is the gap without the proposedadditional financing. The additional financing will reduce this gap to US$27
million.
  Following a failure to reach consensuson the electoralsystem, the government, on October 5, announceda
postponementofthe Constituent Assembly elections,plannedfor November 22. Comingjust over two weeks after
the CPN-Maoist withdrew from the Council of Ministers, these events illustrate the continuing fluid nature ofthe
political situation inNepal. The ongoing special session of the interim parliament is expectedto resolvethe
deadlock either through a political compromise or a vote. Announcement of a new election date -- possibly before
April 2008   -- isalso anticipated soon thereafter. Notwithstanding the current setback, all sides appear keen to
emphasize that they continue to honor the ComprehensivePeace Agreement which the UNis mandatedto monitor.


                                                           2

causes o f insurgency are addressed. These, among others, include: disenchantment o f the people
withpublic service delivery; elite capture of the government and bureaucracy; inequitable
allocation o f resources; geographic and ethnic disparities; and lack o f employment. Some o f
these could be addressedthrough greater investment inprimary education, and effective
management o f the limited resources.

5.  Sector context: In2001, Nepal initiated reforms (Annex 1) aimed at increasingthe
accountability o f schools and efficiency o f investments following the SeventhAmendment o f the
Education Act passedby the Parliament and demonstrating a rare consensus. Despitethe political
instability, these reforms have moved ahead and by now Nepal has already built an impressive
track recordthat includes: (a) formation of school management committees (SMCs) accountable
to parents- thus ending the political appointment o f SMCs; (b) transfer of public schools3 to
communitymanagement: to date 3,607 schools-r                   over 13% o f public schools-have          been
transferred; (c) per capita funding for non-salary costs reducing the political influence in
resource allocation; (d) disbursementof salary grants to schools instead o f supplying government
teachers allowing schools to recruit teachers; (e) funding o f unaidedschools improving equity,
and encouraging communities to open schools; (0introduction o f a grants manual for transparent
allocation o f resources; (g) opening textbook printingand distribution to the private sector; (h)
introduction o f social audit for strengthening accountability o f schools to communities; and (i)
shift from implementation ofdevelopment activities through dedicated project unitsto delivery
through the regular government administration.

6. Nepal has also made significant progress interms o f donor harmonization (Annex 2).
Buildingon the success ofthe basket funding(pooled donor funding) approach adopted inthe
Basic and Primary Education Project (BPEP) I1(1999-2004)-funded                      by Denmark, EC, Finland,
Norway and the World Bank-a              SWAPwas adopted for EFA through which seven donors are
pooling resources together with the government. The government i s preparing School Sector
Reform (SSR) Program covering grades 1 to 12, which will start in2009 after the end o f EFA.
Donors have indicatedtheir commitment to jointly appraise this program. Donors are also
considering the government request to fund piloting o f selected SSR activities underthe
framework of EFA.

7. Encouraged by the reforms and efficiency gains, the government i s increasing investment in
primary education. This fiscal year: (a) the share o f the education sector inthe national budget
increased to 16.6% from 16% (the previous year); and (b) the share o fprimary education inthe
education budget i s being maintained at a highlevel o f over 60%. The wide reach o f education
investments makesit a good vehicle for delivering peace dividends.

8. Programobjectives and scope: The original project development objective (PDO) was to
improve access to and benefits from basic and primaryeducation for children, especially from
disadvantaged groups, and from literacy programs to poor adults. The project objectives and
designhave remained un-changed. However, based on the implementation experience some sub-


3InNepal schools are classified into community and institutional schools. Institutional schools, which are fhded
privately, are called private schools. Community schools are classified into aided and unaided schools. Schoolsto
which government has suppliedteachers are aided schools. Unaided schools receive salary grants from the
government insteadofteachers. Aided schools are also referred to as public schools inthis project paper.


                                                         3

activities were addedand others dropped or modifiedwhile remaining within the overall scope of
the project.

9. Performanceto date: The project i s making good progresstowards achieving the EFA
outcomes. The progresson key indicators is presented inAnnex 3. Access to primary education
i s steadily rising. From2004 to 2006, according to Ministry of Education and Sports (MOES)
statistics, the net enrolment rate (NER) increasedfrom 84.2% to 87.4%.The expandedreforms
are likely to acceleratethe pace to reachthe access target of 96%.

10. Social disparity inaccess to education has beenreducing satisfactorily. From 2004 to 2006,
according to MOES, the gender parity index (GPI) has increasedfrom 0.87 to 0.94. The
efficiency ofthe system i s improvingas evidenced by the increaseinthe survival rate4from
76.2% in2004 to 80.3% in2006 against the project target of 85%. Ifthe present trendcontinues
the project target is likely to bemet. Similarly, progress is also being made inreducing illiteracy,
with the literacy rate of the population aged 15 to 24 reaching 79.4% in2006 from 70% in2001
against the project target of 82%.

11. Although standardizedlearning achievementshave not been administered during the EFA
period, an evaluation of community schools underway, which includes standardized learning
assessment tests, should helpNepal to initiate suchtests.

12. On the implementation side, the government has been always meeting its commitment for
co-financing EFA, and it has demonstratedreasonable implementation capacity. The absorption
capacity of EFA has beenhigh - using at least 95% of allocated resources annually. Adequate
emphasis i s being given to improvingaccountability and governance, and particularly
strengtheningfinancial management. The process of periodic progress reporting through the
Implementation ProgressReports(IPRFthat measureprogresson outputs, detailed analysis of
financial information and procurement management-has             now gradually beeninternalized.

13. The development objective (DO), implementation progress(IP) and components have been
rated satisfactory, and all covenants have beencomplied with.

14. Justificationfor additionalfinancing: EFA i s the main vehicle for attaining universal
primary educationinNepal. The Program originally estimatedat US$654 million startedwith a
total commitment of US$629 million - US$479 million from Government ofNepal (GON), and
US$l50 millionfrom donors, o f which US$50 million was the IDA Credit. The financial gap
estimated at US$25 million at the beginning has increasedvery significantly due to: (a)
government's commitment to provide free primary education and meet the popular aspirationsof
universal primary education, which entailed funding additional teachers and non-salary costs
including additional classrooms; (b) unforeseenrise of 27% inteacher salaries; (c) increase in
numberandamount of scholarship for girls anddalits; and (d) a fall ofUS$ againstNepali
Rupeeby about 11%.




  The share of childrencontinuingstudy to grade 5 computedusingthe proxymethod.
5 Basedon Census, 2001 and Demographicand HealthSurvey, 2006.


                                                      4

 15. Inaddition, radical reforms, which are expectedto improve both quality and efficiency of the
primary education systeminNepal, are being expandedto cover additional schools and
mainstreamwithin EFA (see box 1).

                         Box 1: Major Reforms in EducationSector in Nepal

1. Salaw grants are provided to schools to recruit community teachers. Empowering communities to hire and fire
    their own teachers -as opposed to governmentsupplying them with centrally recruitedteachers- increases
    teacher accountability, which impacts quality of education.First introduced in2003104 inunaidedschools
    through IDA PRSC support, it was mainstreamedinto the EFA SWAP program inFY04/05. This funding
    modality was spreadto aidedschools from FY05/06. Already very popular amongthe communities,this reform
    has provento be highly effective and EFA plansto scale up the impact by providing additional salary grants
    equivalentto 8,000 and 10,000 (Le. cumulative 21,824 and 31,824) teachers' salaries inFY07/08 and FY08/09
    respectively.
2.   CommunityManaged Schools (CMS): Startedin2002, the transfer of aidedprimary schools to SMCs has beena
    radical reform. To date, 3,607 schools have completedthe process. Community ownership empowers the SMC
    (consisting of parents, other community members, teachers and a local governmentrepresentative)with various
    staffing and fiscal decisions. GON has set atarget to transfer an additional 2,500 aided schools to community
    management inFY07/08, andrecently announced aplan to bring all 7,000 or so unaidedschools to the fold of
    community-managedschools (CMSs). EachCMS is provided with a one-time start-up untied grant of
    approximately US$1,540 as an incentive for its choiceto transfer. The transfer of management of aidedschools
    to the community was first supportedthrough CSSP and later mainstreamedinto EFA SWAp. EFA additional
    financing is expectedto disburse incentive grants to about 16,000 schools.
3.  Per capita fundinz (PCF) of salaries is a student enrolment-basedfunding (as opposedto teacher-based
    funding) that is expectedto enhance quality and efficiency through increasedschool choice (for children),
    competition among schools, and efficient teacher deployment. GON is introducing PCF based salary grants in
    both unaidedand aided community-managedprimary schools from FY07/08. While allocating PCF grants,
    schools with high student-teacher ratio will receivehigher priority. PCF provides amajor shift in funding
    formula and mitigates political influence inresource allocation.
4.  Zmmoved equifv: One ofthe major reforms of EFA interms of improvingequity inresourceallocation is the
    expansionof-ita         non-salarycost grants financing (NPR 300 per student per year on an average
    equivalentto about US$4.6 per student per year) across the country. The number of recipients ofthese grants is
    expected to increaseby over sevenmillion students. An increase inthe number of dalit students and the
    expansionof girls' scholarshipsto cover 50% of girls is expectedto increase the number of scholarship
    recipientsby over five million. To addressthe increase in enrollmentsthe additional financing would support
    constructionof 8,000 additional classrooms.
5.  Opening textbook mblication to mivate sector: Textbook grants to schools havebeenpart of EFA since the
    beginning. They were introducedto remedy extreme delays indelivery of free textbooks by Janak Education
    Materials Center (JEMC), a state owned enterprise. GON has now opened up printing and distribution of
    textbooks to the private sector. Started as apilot in FY06/07 inthe eastern development region for grade 5
    textbooks, it is now expanded to grades 1to 5.



16. These include: (a) providingsalary grants to schools insteadof supplying government
teachers - supported at the beginning through the IDA Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit
(PRSC); (b) transferring public schools to community management(supportedon apilot scale
through CSSP, an IDA Learning and InnovationLoan); (c) gradually introducing "per capita
(child) funding" (PCF) o f salaries for improved efficiency of education expenditure, which
entails a shift from teacher-based funding to child-based funding; (d) improvingequity through
per capitanon-salary cost grants and scholarships; and (e) disbursement of text book grants to
schools - insteadof free textbooks suppliedthrough by a state owned enterprise -to ensure
timely delivery of quality books.


                                                           5

17. The program i s now estimatedat US$994 million. To meet the gap of US$365 million, GON
and donors have committed additional US$247 million and US$31million, respectively. GON
i s requestingUS$60 million grant from IDA to further narrow the financing gap.

111. ProposedChanges

18. With the additional financing, there will be no changes inthe PDO or the project design.
Institutional arrangements for financial managementand disbursementwill remain unchanged.
The fiduciary assessment for additional financing is presentedinAnnex 4. The governmenthas
agreedon an Action Plan with the donor partners for improvingoverall financial management in
the sub-sector. The proposedFinancialManagement (FM)arrangements will be adequate for the
additional funding level. The additional financing i s expectedto be used before the current closing
date6.

19. The Parliament has enactedthe Public ProcurementLaw based on UNCITRAL model, and
the Government has subsequentlyapprovedthe related ProcurementRegulations. Inthis project,
though no ICB procurementis foreseen, any ICB procurement related to project activities which
i s to be financed under the Grant shall be procured in accordancewith the procedures inthe
Bank's Guidelinesfor Procurementunder IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (May 2004, revised
October 2006) using the Bank's StandardBiddocuments. All procurementthrough national
competitive bidding using the proceeds of this additional financing will be carried out following
proceduresprescribedinthe above Law and Regulations with the caveat that no preferenceof
any kindwill be given to any bidder. The bid documents for National Competitive Bidding
(NCB) shall be those reviewed by and agreedwith the Bank.

20. The ProcurementSection ofthe EFA Program Implementation Manual (PIM) will be revised
to incorporate the above change. The revised PIM will also specify measures for enhancing
governanceand accountability, as outlined inthe Governance and Accountability Action Plan
preparedby GON.

21. The financing plan for EFA i s presentedinAnnex 5. The original estimated cost of the
Project was US$654 million, of which the government was expectedto finance US$479 million,
and donors US$175 million(26.8% of the total costs). At the beginning ofthe program donors
were able to commit only US$l50 million (22.9% of the program costs), reducing the original
financing to US$629 million. The cost of the program is now estimatedto increaseto US$994
million. O fthe proposedadditional financing of US$365 million, US$247 million will be borne
by the government, and ADB andUNICEF have committed US$30 million and US$l million
respectively. The proposedadditional financing o f US$60 million from IDA will reduce the
funding gap to US$27 million. A significant portionof this gap is likely to be met from the
requested assistance from EC.

22. Inspite of the large increase inthe cost of the program (about 52%7), the donor share in
program financing i s expectedto be close to the planned-i.e.,              27.0% against the originally
planned26.8%. This indicates that donor financing has not displaced government financing and
that the government has mobilizedadditional resourcesfor EFA.

'Therelation
      additional financing will fund expendituresincurred till the end of FY08/09 only.
  In        to the original program cost o fUS$654 million.


                                                        6

23. A detailed account o f changes inthe structure o f expenditures i s also presented inAnnex 5.
EFAAgreement has only one expenditurecategory "Eligible Expenditures under AWPBs*".
The classification o f expenditures into categories, shown inAnnex 5, into salary grants, non-
salary grants, scholarships, classrooms and other physical facilities, and incentive grants i s
merely for understandingthe nature o f changes inthe structure o f expendituresthat the
additional financing may bring. Overall the structure o f expenditure has remained similar inspite
of the considerable increase inthe program costs.

24. As the proposed additional financing to EFA will be pooled with funds from other sources it
will not bepossible to linkthis financing with a particular set o f EFA activities. The budget
heads o f the GON Red Book to be financed by this additional financing, consistent with the Joint
FinancingArrangement entered by GON and SWAPdonors, are as follows: 65-3-1409-
Education for All Primary Education, 65-3-169 - School Teachers' Documentation, 65-3-176 -
Teacher Pension Facilities, 65-3-167 and 65-4-167 Non-Formal Education Center, 65-3-170 -
Special Education Council, 65-3-417 and65-4-417 Educationfor All Program Center, 65-3-804
and 65-4-804 - Education for All Program District.

25. Out o f the IDA Credit o f US$50 million, US$11.4 million i s yet to be disbursed. The
remaining funds are expected to be disbursedwithin FY07/08.The proposed additional financing
needs to be committed for expenditures incurredfrom the beginningo f FY07/08.Therefore, the
proposed additional financing will be effective retroactively from July 17, 2007". The amount o f
retroactive financing will not exceed SDR 7.6 million (equivalent to US$l 1.8 million). Before
drawing the grant proceeds from the proposed additional financing GON will use the balances
available under the existing Credit.

IV. Consistencywith CountryAssistance Strategy (CAS)/ISN

26. Supporting continuation o f reform efforts aimed at buildinga new prosperous and peaceful
Nepal i s the core theme o f the Bank's 2006 InterimStrategy Note (ISN). Following the Seventh
Amendment o f the EducationAct in2001, the education sector has witnessed bold reforms that
have started to reshape the sector by changing the role o f government from being a provider o f
education services to beinga facilitator for ensuring efficient delivery o f education services
throughcommunities. These reforms constitute the state's response to the strong public
discontent over the failing public education system, but have endured opposition from teachers'
unions' 'andthe     political turmoil because o f the strong popular appeal. The success being
achieved through these reforms does provide some hope to the population that a "New Nepal"
can be built.

27. Supporting community management o f schools i s consistent with the Bank's strategy-as
reflected inthe I S N - o f protecting the reform process. The proposed additional financing will
significantly helpto accelerate the pace o f transfer o f schools to community management.


8Annual Work Planand Budget.
 These numbersare budget codes.
loThe beginning ofNepali fiscal year FY07/08.
  At one stage the student union affiliatedto the Maoists also supported teachers' unions, but now this supporthas
withered.


                                                          7

28. Political interference inthe selection and deployment o f teachers constitutes a major
hindrance for equitable and efficient allocation o f public resources as it disempowers SMCs,
which are responsible for the management o f schools. The proposed PCF to finance teachers'
salaries will go a longway towards protecting communities from such interference, and as a
result strengthencommunity management o f schools. Financing for both physical facility
upgrading and salaries-which         i s a long overdue obligation of the state-will send a strong
message across the country that the government cares about its citizen's needs. This will help
sustain peace, a key objective o f the ISN.

V. EconomicAnalysis of FinancingGap

29. The results o f the revised economic analysis remain largely the same as for the original
project, and as such, the project remains economicallyjustified. Usingthe original analytical
framework and accounting for the additional project costs, the net present value (NPV) i s revised
to US$136 million from the original US$235 million. Similarly, the revisedinternal rate o f return
(IRR)is estimated at 14.2% from the original 16.2%.

30. The revised fiscal analysis, assuming that the benefits remain unchanged, indicates that the
extra EFA costs are financially sustainable. This i s based on the recent increasing trends in
education spendingas share o f Gross Domestic Product (GDP) (about 3.6% o f GDP inFY07/08)
and commitment to maintain education spendingat around 17% o f overall government
expenditures.

VI. ExpectedOutcomes

3 1. The most significant outcomes o f the additional financing are: (a) enabling government to
pursuesignificant reforms inschool education that will helpto enhance the effectiveness of
investmentsinprimary education by improving accountability of schools to beneficiaries; (b)
ensuringaccessto primary education for all children, including to socially and economically
disadvantaged children by increasing investmentinprimary education; and (c) improving school
infrastructure to help enhancing access to good quality education and retention o f children. The
above outcomes will translate into the following changes inthe end o f the program targets for
outcome and results indicators: (a) the survival rate to grade 5 o f 85% will increase to 88%; (b)
the share of sub-sector budget transferred to schools as grantso f65% will increase to 75%; (c)
the number o fschools transferred to community management will increase from 10,000 to
16,000; (d) the number o f recipients o f scholarships from 1.7 million to 7.1 million'*; (e) the
numberof students getting per capita salary grants will increase from 0 to 1,000,000.

VII. BenefitsandRisks

32. This additional financing will support the continuation o f a series o f ground breaking reforms
that will increase the returns from investmentsbeingmade inthe primary education sub-sector.
This will inturnhelpto achieve the objective o f improving access to and quality o fprimary
education, and improving efficiency and institutional capacity. Because of the likely resistance


                   ~~




l2Interms ofrecipient (student) years.


                                                      8

to reforms from vested interest groups and the continuing political instability, implementation of
the program continues to be risky. Given that the resurgence o f conflicts inNepal can not be
ruled out, the risks associated with a potential expansion o f the conflict also needto be
considered indesigno f the program. The potential risks, measures for mitigating them and risk
ratings are giveninthe table below.




                                       beneficiaries behindthe reforms

Risk Rating:H(High); S (Substantial);M(Modest); N(Negligibleor Low)

33. Duringthe conflict, schools not only continued to function, but also educational indicators
improved significantly. The risks associated with the conflict can be reduced by speeding up the
transfer o f schools to community management, which strengthens community ownership o f
schools. The transfer o f schools to community management, salary grants for teachers, per capita
salary grants, transparent resource allocation criteria, and opening textbook supply to the private
sector are all reforms aimed at reducing the chances o f elite capture. However, efforts to reverse
these reforms cannot be ruledout. To help mitigate this risk a communication campaign to rally
the beneficiaries behindthe reforms is critical and will be carried out.

VIII. FinancialTerms and Conditionsfor the Additional Financing

34. The additional financing will be on IDA grant terms, instead o fthe IDA credit terms
applicable for the original operation. The terms and condition for the Grant will be standard.




                                                   9

                             Annex 1: School EducationReformsinNepal
                                     NEPAL: EFA Additional Financing

Historicalcontext

1. The regime of the Ranas13tightly controlled access to education fearing that educated people
would not tolerate their tyranny. Duringthe Rana period, there were only a few government
schools catering to the ruling elite. As such, mass education inNepal started only after the
overthrow o f the Rana regime and establishment o f democracy for the first time. At that time-
i.e., in 1951 when the population o f the country was about 8.3 million (as compared to 26.5
milliontoday)-total      primary enrolment was barely9,000, Inspiredby the advent of democracy,
people started a mass campaign for opening public school^'^. Communities decided when and
where to open schools. They built classrooms and hiredteachers. Schools were fundedthrough
philanthropic donations and fees. The government, instead of opening government schools,
started giving grants to schools covering around 25% o f operating costs. With little government
funding and intervention, by 1971primary enrolment reached 410,000, In 1971,all community
schools were nationalized, but the tradition of community initiation o f schools continued, which
helpedNepalto make remarkableachievements inimprovement o f access to primaryeducation.
By 2006 primary enrolment reached4.3 million, and the percentage o fprimary age children in
school at 87% i s one o f the highest inSouth Asia.

Reforms

2. Duringthe last seven years, Nepal has introducedtwo major reforms inprimary education:
transferring management o f schools to communities and introduction of salary grants.

3.   Transferring management of schools to communities:Nationalization of schools ledto the
serious deterioration o f their accountability, and as a result the decline inthe quality o f
education. Responding to the demand for quality education by parents, the government was
forced to open school education to the private sector inthe beginningo f 1980s. Private schools
m~shroorned~~,and private education soon became synonymous with quality education. The gap
between private and public schools became wider and wider, which fueled serious public
discontent. Responding to this discontent, in2001,the Parliament passedthe Seventh
Amendmentof the Education Act paving the way for reforms inschool education. This
amendmentrenamed public schools as community schools. This was a symbolic gesture
recognizing the failure o f the public school system, and expressing the hope that communities
would be able to rescue the failed system. The cornerstones o f the amendment were the
provisions for formation of school management committees (SMCs) accountable to parents, and
recruitment of teachers by SMCs. In2002, Government o fNepal (GON) announced the policy o f




                            ~    ~~~



13 The Ranadynastyruled Nepal from 1847to 1951andwas an autocratic and repressiveregime. During this period
Nepal was isolatedfrom rest ofthe World.
l4 Inthose days, schools establishedby communities were referredto as "public schools" (public schools inthe
conventional sense are government schools). After 1951the government did not open schools.
l5 There are about 8,000 private schools inNepal cateringto about 10%of school enrolment.


                                                        10

transferring managementof schools to communitieson voluntary basis16.Schools volunteering
to becomecommunity-managed were offered incentive grants ofNPR 100,000 (equivalent to
around US$1,540), and assured o f continued government funding. This reform, which has no
precedence world-wide, constitutes one o f the most radical reforms inschool education aimed at
addressing poor governance o f public schools wide spread inmany developing countries.

4. Soon after the announcement o f this reform, an intense political debate started, which
continues to date. The fiercest resistance to this reform came from teachers' unions though there
was no dearth o f teachers who stood behindthe reform. Notably breaking the ranks o f the
unions, some unionactivists also supported the reform. At one stage, the studentunion affiliated
to Maoists also joined the opposition from teachers' unions. The reform seriously slowed down
because o f the agitation o f the Maoist Student Union, which resorted to coercive means to arrest
the expansion of community-managed schools (CMSs). Notwithstanding all the odds,
community managemento f schools is expanding. To date 3,607 out of about 23,000 aided
schools have been transferred to community management. Now the opposition from the Maoist
student unionhas withered, and the teachers unions have become more conciliatory to the
reform.

5.   This reform is already showing results. The mobilization o f community resources has
increased, regularity o f teachers and studentshas improved, and there i s greater transparency and
accountability inschools. The best indication o f the positive results from this reform i s the
incidence o f movement o f students from private schools to CMSs. The following factors have
contributedto the success o f this reform: (a) the strong popular support for community
management o f schools associated with a long tradition o f community delivery o f school
education; (b) the consistent support from GON notwithstandingthat the government has
changed six times since the implementation o fthis reform; and (c) the positive results shown by
CMSs.

6. The government has set a target o f transferring an additional 2,500 public schools to
community management inFY07/08, and has also announced a planto bring unaided schools to
the fold of CMSs. Approximately 7,000 unaidedschools are expected to be converted into CMSs
bythe end of EFA.


7. Introduction of salary grants: All schools inNepal are initiated by communities with
permission from the government but without its financial support. Suchschools are called
unaided schools. Subsequently, the government provided teachers to these schools converting
them into aided schools. The government has not increasedthe number o fgovernment teachers
since 1998. The implications o f this action were: (a) all schools established after 1998 have
remained unaided; and (b) the shortfall o fteachers inaided schools increased with the rise in
enrolment. As a consequence, communities had to fund and recruit more and more teachers. To
reduce burdenon communities and fulfill the commitment to free primary education, since 2003
the government introducedthe policy ofprovidingsalary grants to schools instead of supplying


16The decisionto accept community managementis madeby the SMC andendorsed by a parents' meeting.A
schoolgets the status of a community-managedschoolby entering intoan agreement with the districteducation
office.


                                                   11

government teachers allowing SMCs to recruit teachers financed through public resources
(SMCs have always been recruiting teachers fundedby community resources). At present, over
40,000 community recruited teachers are working incommunity schools. This policy has
encouraged communities to open new schools as well as upgrade the existing schools. The
number o f unaided schools has reached about 7,000, and all higher secondary schools inNepal
are unaided. Notwithstanding the stoppage insupply of government teachers, the net enrolment
rate inprimaryeducation increased from 70.4% in 1998 to 87.4% in2006. This stands as a
uniqueexample ofhow community initiativecan helpindelivery of school education.




                                              12

                                 Annex 2: DonorHarmonization
                               NEPAL: EFAAdditionalFinancing

1. Donor harmonization inthe education sector inNepal began with the implementationo f the
five-year Basic and Primary Education Program I1(BPEP 11) in 1999.The Government,
Denmark, European Commission(EC), Finland, Norway andthe World Bankpooledtogether
resources into a basket to fund BPEP I1- a primary education sub-sector development program.
The distinctive feature of the basket-approach was the joint financing o f each expenditure item
according to the pre-agreed shares. This became possible after all parties agreed to: (a) fund the
government sub-sector program; and (b) use IDA financial management and reporting
procedures, and procurement guidelines. The basket funding approach helped to significantly
reduce the transaction costs, strengthen government leadership, and improve donor cohesion.

2. Building on the successful implementation o f BPEP 11, the Sector-Wide Approach (SWAp)
was usedfor the follow on program - Education for All Program (2004-2009). At the beginning,
the programwas fundedby GON, Denmark, DFID, Finland, Norway andthe World Bank.
Donors, who were not able to join the SWAP supported the program through parallel financing.
Donorsjoining the SWAPbecame known as pooled donors and others non-pooled donors.
Subsequently, ADB and UNICEFjoined the pool. Owing to the success o f the SWAp, the share
o f pooled funding inthe total program funding has been increasing over the years. Non-pooled
donors include JICA, UNESCO and World Food Program (WFP). Pooled donors, non-pooled
donors, and INGOs participate inannual missions facilitating primary education sector wide
coordination.

3. The Core Document outlining the sub-sector goals, strategies, polices and the program
underpinnedthe SWAp. The Joint FinancingAgreement signedby pooled donors and the
government sets the basic principles for SWAPoperation. The Code o f Conduct signed by all
donors sets the basic principle for donor harmonization.

4. EFA SWAPuses the government's financial management system that includes planning,
budgeting,accounting, reporting and auditing systems.Ituses the governmentregulations for
procurement using national competitive bidding, and the World Bank Procurement Guidelines
for internationalcompetitive bidding.Disbursementsare based on trimester implementation
progress reports, which give account o f physical and financial progress, and procurement
activities.

5.  An important feature o fthe SWAPis financing of bothrecurrent, including salaries, and
capital expenditures. This approach has helpedto enhance the effectiveness of donor support by
bringingthe whole primary education sector under the purview o f collaborating partners.




                                               13

                                    Annex 3: Progresson Key Indicators
                                     NEPAL: EFA Additional Financing

    Indicator        Baseline,       April         End                                Remarks
                        April         2006        Project
                        2004                      Target,
                                                July 2009
Net enrolment rate      84.2%        87.4%         96.0%      Expectedto reach92.2% at the currentpace ofprogress,
(NER)                                                         but successful implementation of PCF is likely to move
                                                              much closer to the attainment ofthe project target. The
                                                              net attendanceratio" in2006 was 86.6% accordingto
                                                              Demographicand Health Survey (DHS)       - anindependent
                                                              survey.
Survival rate to        76.2%        80.3%         85.0%      The project target is expected to be met.
grade 5
Gender parity            0.87         0.94            18      GPI for 2006 according to DHS was 0.95. GPI for hills
index (GPI)                                                   was 0.99.
Percentageof             30%         60.2%          99%       The project target is expected to be achieved.
teachers with
required            -
qualifications and
training (for
government
teachers)
Literacy rate for                    79.4%          82%       The target likely to be met.
15-24age
population
Literacy rate for                                             According to DHS between2001 and 2006 increased
15-45 age                                                     from 46% to 55%.
population
Literacy rate for                                             According to DHS between2001 and 2006 increased
15-45 age female                                              from 40% to 50%. Not monitored by MOES.
population
Share of schools         0%          55.3%          75%       Target likely to be met.
completing social
audit
Share of sub-            25%          70%           65%       The reform moved faster than anticipated.
sector budget
transferredto
schools as wants
           "




  Net attendance rate is as a rule lower than net enrolment rate because of student absenteeismor dropout.
  No GPI target set.
  70% in2001.


                                                         14

                                 Annex 4: Fiduciary RiskAssessment
                                  NEPAL:EFA Additional Financing

Adequacy of FMArrangements

1. The World Bank commissioned financial management review o f EFA for FY04/05 and
FY05/06. Based on the review a set o f actions for the short-term was agreedupon inthe Joint
Annual Review(JAR) of EFA inMay 2007. Key results expected are inseven areas: (a) timely
fund release; (b) timely submission of ImplementationProgress Reports (IPR); (c) improved
quality o f school audit; (d) compliance with social audits inall schools; (e) submission of
Department o f Education (DOE) computerizationplans for all districts; (f)simplifiedand
harmonizedProgram Implementation Manual (PIM) and School Grants Operation Directives
(SGOD) to be made applicable for all education programs; and (g) preparation o f mediumto
longterm capacity development plan.

2. Ina recent assessment o f the implementation o f these actions, there was good progress. DOE
has beenregularly monitoring the implementation o f these plans. Inview o f the progress made
the FMarrangements are found to be adequate for the current funding level. Fromthe fiduciary
perspective, based on current assessmentof the progress made inthe implementation o f the
action plan, the FMrisk rating i s modest. Attachment 1provides the FMRisk Rating Summary.
Agreed Action Plan for Financial Management Improvement

      Issue                          Action                    Responsible        Timeline
                                                                Agency
 Delayed first Fund Release on Time
 trimester
 fund release
                 1. Agree onthe modality with National         DOE/MOES/   May 25,2007 (before
                 PlanningCommission(NPC) and Ministry o f      NPCMOF      annualreview).
                 Finance (MOF) regardingtimely first
                 trimester fund release based on agreed Annual
                 Strategic ImdementationPlan(ASIP).
                 2. Ensuretimely submissionof FormNumber       DOEDEOs     Within 30 days ofthe
                 2 (Trimester Progress Report) to DTCO for                 end of eachtrimester
                 timely release of funds for the second and
                 third trimesters.
 Delayed         Timely submissionof FMR/IPR                   DOE         First Trimester by
 submission                                                                December 31;
 o f Financial                                                             Second by April 30;
 Monitoring                                                                Third by September
 Reports                                                                   30
 (FMRsY          1.  Assign a coordinator andteam members      DOE         May 31,2007
 Implementat         for FMWIPR preparationand internal
 ionProgress         quality control.
 Reports         2.  Provideonline access to Financial         DOE         July 15,2007
 ( W W               ComptrollerGeneral's Office (FCGO)
                     database (read only).
                 3.  Completionof respectivedraft by           DOE         First: December 15
                     concernedunits.                                       Second: April 15
                                                                           Third: September 15



                                                      15

    Issue                        Action                         Responsible           Timeline
                                                                   Agency
             4.  Compile internal review ofthe first draft. III DOE           Within one week ofthe
                                                                coordinator   respectivedates in (3)
              5. Submit final FMWIPR to MOES, MOF,              DOE           As per the agreed
                NPC, Pooling PartnerContact Point                             timeline
              6. Review and submission of comments by           Contact Point Within two weeks of the
                 pooled partners.                                             receipt of reports
              7. Compile feedback from poolingpartners      I   DOE           Within two weeks of
                 and forward final FMWIPRtoMOES,                              receipt ofreports
                 MOF, NPC, PooledPartner Contact
                 Point.
Audited       Improved quality of school audit.
financial     1. PrepareAudit Guide and standards for the       DOE           July 15, 2007
statements       audit of schools by coordinating with
of schools       Institute of CharteredAccountants of
were either      Nepal (ICAN) and/or Auditing Standards
not              Board. Audit Guide to specify that
submitted or     auditors would be appointedas per the
delayed          EducationRegulations.
              2. New Audit Guide to be made effective           DOE            September 30,2007
                 from FY07108.
              3. Publishroster of qualified auditors for all   1Regional      September 30, 2007
                 districts -(registered with ICAN).             Education
                                                                Directorate
                                                                (RED)
             4.  Dissemination and orientation ofthe new        DOE           December 31,2007
                 Audit Guidelines.
              5. Assign atask force inDOEto monitor             DOE           September 30,2007
                 complianceof school audits.
             6.  Arrange quality review arrangements of         DOE           March3 1,2008 (before
                 school audits and monitoringof actions                       Joint Annual Review
                 reportedby auditors and remedial                             Mission)
                 measureson a sample basis.
             7. Report on audit complianceof school             DOE           December3 1,2008
                 audits with a separate section ineach                        (before Annual
                year's status report.                                         Consultation Meeting)
Social audits Compliancewith social auditsin all
not          schools.
performed     1. Ensurethat SocialAudit Committee is            District      December31,2007
and schools     constituted in all schools.                     Education
not aware of                                                    Offices
requirement                                                     (DEOs)

S            2.  Issue circular that schools will get third     DOE           August 31,2007
                trimester budget released only upon
                submission ofthe social audit report for
                the previous year. Use radio notice as
                well as newspaper notice three times.
             3. Revisit the Social Audit Guide, and             DOE           August 15,2007
                revise, as necessary, to make it


             1. Disseminationandorientation on the              DOEDEOs       December31,2007
                revised Social Audit Guide specifying



                                                   16

     Issue                        Action                   Responsible        Timeline
                                                            Agency
                 minimumrequirementsfor social audits:
                 students' attendancerecords, class
                 occurrencerecords,community recruited
                 teachers' recruitment practice, reward
                 practicesfor best performing
                 teacherskudents, disclosureto public,
                 etc.
              5. Assign atask force inDOE to monitor       DOE         September 30, 2007
                 compliance of social audits.
              6. Report on audit compliance of school      DOE         December31,2008
                 auditswith a separate section ineach                  (before Annual
                 year's status report.                                 Consultation Meeting)
              7. Arrange quality review arrangementsof     DOE         March 31,2008 (before
                 social audits and monitoring of actions               JAR Mission)
                 reportedby auditors and remedial
                 measureson a sample basis.
              8. Periodically review audit findings,       DOEMOES     March31, 2008 (before
                 identify key issues, and capacity gaps.               JAR Mission)
Accounts      Prepare DOE Strategy and
still being   Computerization Plan in all districts
maintained    1. Preparecomputerizationplan to connect     DOE         August 31,2007
manually         those DEOs which have electricity and
                 telephonefacilities and transmit
                 information directly by DEOs to DOE
                 and vice versa.
              2. Start computerization in DOE and afew     DOE         March 31,2008
                 districts to start with.
Most DEOs     Simplified and harmonizedPIM and
and schools   SGOD to be made applicablefor all
are not able programs.
to comply     1. Revisit and revise the Program            DOE         September 15, 2007
with             Implementation Manual (PIM) and
Program          SGODto harmonizewith overall DOE
Implementat      requirementswith other programswith a
ion Manual       view to simplify it to forms andtemplates
(PIM) and        for use by all schools.

School        2. Dissemination and orientation on the      DOEDEOs     December31,2007

Grants           RevisedManual to all concerned and with
                 follow-up orientation.
Operation
Directives                                                I
(SGOD)
Inadequate    1. Preparemedium to long term capacity       DOE/REDsD   December3 1,2007
capacity at      development plan
various level
including
accounting
staff




                                                   17

Status of Implementationof Action Plan

3. Fund Release on Time. Compared to the previous year, there are improvements that will
contribute to timely fund release duringthe first trimester inFY07/08. For FY07/08, a total
budgeto f about US$245.9 millionwas approved. The Annual Work Program and Budget
(AWPB) was approved on July 26,2007. Based on this, authorization for spendinghas already
beensent to DEOs. Orientation programs for District Education Officers, Resource Persons and
Accountants have also been organized. Because o f these actions, fund release i s now expected
to take place during the first trimester (this otherwise used to happen only inthe second trimester
untillast year). Since AWPB was approved ontime, there is no needto releasefunds basedon
ASIP. DOE will closely monitor the timely submission o f FormNumber 2 (Trimester Progress
Report) to enable timely release inthe second and third trimesters.

4. Timely Submission of IPWFMR. All sub-actions agreed on these indicators have been
complied with. On line access to Financial Comptroller General's Office (FCGO) database was
provided to DOE inthe first week o f August after submission o fthe second trimester FMR.
DOE was able to submit the second trimester report for FY06/07 withinthe due date. The third
trimester report was also submittedwithin the deadline agreed inthe mission.
Improved Quality of SchoolAudit. DOE has asked the Institute o f Chartered Accountants of
Nepal (ICAN) to submit a proposal, and this has recently been submittedto prepare an Audit
Guideto schools. There has beena slight slippage inthe time table due to closure o f ICANdue
to internal strike.

5.  Compliance with Social Audits in all Schools. DOE has already sent circulars to all schools
conveying the need for complying with social audits as per the Social Audit Guide. DOE has
also used mass communication such as, newspapers and radios, for dissemination o f the existing
Social Audit Guide. DOE plans to discuss the preliminary draft o f the Guide inthe workshop.
Based on the testing o fthe existing Guide, DOE plansto move ahead revising the Guide, and
take further actions as laid out inthe sub-actions.

6. Prepare DOE Strategy and Computerization Plan in all Districts. Danida is providing direct
funding support to the implementation ofthis action. DOE has already recruitedthe Financial
and Information Technology Experts, and the work has been initiated. DOE plans to preparethe
Strategy and Computerization Plan with the help o f these consultants and also prepare detailed
technical specifications. This would be first piloted inten districts.

7. Simplified and Harmonized Program Implementation Manual (PIM) and School Grants
Operations Directives (SGOD). Draft P I M and SGOD have now beenprepared. RevisedP I M
has beendisseminated to DEOs. Revised SGOD will be disseminated to schools during School
Improvement Plan (SIP) training.

8. Prepare Medium-to-Long-Term Capacity Development Plan. DOE i s planning to prepare the
medium-to-long-term capacity development plan. A focal person has beenidentifiedto initiate
this action.




                                                  18

Disbursements

9. Current IDA disbursementsunder the ongoing EFA are US$40.44 million or 78% of the total
credit allocation of US$50.0 million. The remaining amount is expectedto be fully disbursed
during FY07/08. Ofthe total approvedbudget of US$245.9 million, the pooled partnershave
committed during the recent JAR to contribute about US$47.1 million (about 19%) of the total
EFAbudget. GONis expecting atotal contribution of US$73.5 million (about 30% ofthe total
EFA budget) from the pooledpartnersfor FY07/08. Ofthe total committed US$49.4 million
from pooled partners, the following are the contributions of eachpartner: ADB -US$11.8
million, Denmark-US$7.5 million, DFID-US$8.0 million, Finland-US$3.2 million, Norway
-US$7.3million,UNICEF-US$0.2million,andtheWorldBank-US$l1.4millionfromthe
existing credit. Fromthe additional financing, IDA i s expectedto pick up the funding gap of
about US$24.1 million, ifno other commitments are obtained to fillup this gap. Disbursements
will continue to be report-based. All pooled partnerswill continue to disbursetheir portionof
funds as determinedby the FMRsto the designatedForeign Exchange Accounts maintained at
theNepal RastraBank.

ExternalAudit

 10. The Office of the Auditor General audits the accounts of EFA. There are no pending audit
reports. Issues raised by Auditors such as, strengtheningthe monitoring of scholarship
distributionand making social audits effective, were notedduring the financial management
review, and hence, they have beenappropriately incorporated into the Action Plan. FY05/06
audit was submitted three months late from the due date (was March 15,2007). With the
current efforts inDOE, it i s expectedthat FY06/07 audit report will be on time (March 15,
2008). The following audit reportswill be monitored inthe Audit Report Compliance System
(ARCS) :

  Implementing              Audit                    Auditors             Audit Due Date
     Agency

  DOE              EFA Financial             Office of the Auditor       8 months after the
                   Statements                General (OAG)               end of eachfiscal
                                                                         year (March 15th)
I                 I                         I                           I


ImplementationProgressReport

 11. The third trimester IPR of FY06/07 was submitted on September 30,2007 - within the due
date. The second trimester report of FY06/07 was also submitted within the due date for the first
time. This marksconsiderableprogress interms oftimely submissionof IPRs. Generally reports
have beenof acceptable quality. Inthe interim, the current processes and financial reports are
adequate.




                                                19

Procurement

12. The report on the ex-post procurementreview carried out by the World Bank recommended
.the needfor strengtheningprocurementmonitoring systemat DOE. Other thanthis, the existing
procurementarrangements and designatedprocurement staff are adequate.

13. The Parliament has enacted the Public ProcurementLaw based on UNCITRAL model, and
the Governmenthas subsequently approvedthe related ProcurementRegulations. Inthis project,
though no ICB procurement i s foreseen, any ICB procurementrelated to project activities which
i s to be financed under the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the procedures inthe
Bank's Guidelinesfor Procurementunder IBRDLoans and IDA Credits (May 2004, revised
October 2006) using the Bank's StandardBiddocuments. All procurement through national
competitive bidding using the proceeds of this additional financing will be carried out following
proceduresprescribedinthe above Law and Regulations with the caveat that no preference of
any kind will be given to any bidder. The bid documents for NCB shall be those reviewed by and
agreedwith the Bank.The ProcurementSectionof the EFA Program Implementation Manual
(PIM) will be revised to incorporate the above change. The revised PIM will also specify
measures for enhancing governanceand accountability. DOE has prepareda Governance and
Accountability Action Plan.

14. To address the issue of weak monitoring capacity, DOE shall be responsible for
implementing its procurement monitoring system, which the DOE is currently inthe process of
strengthening.

Disclosure of Information and Corporate Governance

15. With recent enactment of the Rights to Information Act, 2007, disclosure requirementsunder
EFA are expectedto be even more transparent and all information readily available for public
disclosure. DOE will post inits website all available guidelines, procedures, and other key
information relatedto EFA.DOEhas already establisheda mechanismfor publicly
disseminating the informationon community grants through Display Boards inschools. DOE
has specifically agreedto disclosethe following through its website: ProcurementPlan;
Procurement Complaints Mechanism; Trimester Implementation Progress Reports (approved
versions); Invitationfor Expression`of Interest, BidDocuments, Request for Proposals, Minutes
of Pre-bid Conferences, Contract Awards; andAnnual AuditedFinancial Statements.

Proposed Legal Covenant

16. The legal covenant for the Additional Financing should includethe following clause:
Additional Financing shall be retroactively effective from FY07/08 (July 17,2007) to cover the
financing gap of up to SDR 7.6 million (US$11.SO million equivalent). The balances available
underthe existing Credit will be entirely usedbefore usingthe grant proceedsfrom Additional
Financing.

Supervision

17. Inclose cooperation with the pooled partners, the F M supervision activities will follow up on
the implementationofthe agreedAction Plan. The next JAR will closely review the


                                                20

implementation o fthe Action Plan. Ifunsatisfactory results are observed, the FMrating will be
downgraded and the risk rating will also be modified. But, this situation is unlikelyto happen
with thejoint efforts ofthe pooledpartners.Onthe other hand, ifgood progresses continue, the
FMrating will beupgraded. As project implementation moves forward, desk reviewsofinternal,
external, and social audit reports will be conducted. A follow-up FMreview will also be carried
out duringnext fiscal year to determine the impact o f the implementationo f the agreed Action
Plan.




                                                21

3




          E




     +
     z


     d

        E     -1   E   -1 E E




        %1       E n      n n     33I
                                       m




              4

                 4        4
n  l    x           >c       >c

                            Annex 5: EFA Financing
                      NEPAL: EFA Additional Financing

                      Tablel. Structure of EFA Financing

                                                                   Total  Share,
expenditure
 categories  US$M                                     Yo of
                                                     original
                                                    financing

Salary         443     70         224       61          51         667     67
grants

Non-salary     45      7           36       10          79          81      8
grants

Scholar-        12     2           29        8         249          41      4
ships

Classrooms     32      5           35       10         109          67      7
and other
physical
facilities

Incentive       7       1          25        7         362
grants

Others         90      14          16        4          17

Total          629    100         365       100         58




                    Year            FY05 FY06 FY07 FY08 FY09 Total




                    ActualProjected  92.5  102.4 126.8  172.2 232.1 726.0

            Donors  Planned          18.3  26.4  32.4   37.6  35.3  150.0

                    ActuaVProjected  29.9  38.8  45.6   73.5  80.0  268.0




                                         24

                             Table 3. EFA FinancingPlan (in US$ million)

                                                            Original      Additional
                                                            financing      financing

                      Estimatedcosts                                          365
                                                               654
                      Gap                                      25             27

                      Available                          III                  338
                                                               629     III
                      Estimatedfinancing                       629            365

                      Government                               479            247

                      Donors                                   150            91

                      "of which"

                      DFID                                     35

                      Denmark                            I     28      I
                      Norway                             I     23      I
                      Finland                                   14

                      World Bank                               50             60

                      ADB                                                     30

                      UNICEF                                                   1

                      Gap                                                     27Lu

                      Estimatedtotal                                  994
                      cost/financing*'




2oA significant portionof this gap is likely to be coveredby EC.
  The gap ofUS$25millioninthe originalfinancing is not included, as this hasbeen accountedfor inthe additional
financing.


                                                         25

   Annex 6: Governanceand AccountabilityAction Plan of the Departmentof Education
                              NEPAL: EFA AdditionalFinancing

For the CentralLevel

Disclosure of Informationand CorporateGovernance

1. With the recent enactment o f the Rightsto Information Act, 2007, information underthe
Education for All (EFA) program will be made transparent, which will be available for public
disclosure. Inthis context, DOE shall disclose the following information inits website: (1)
Agreed Procurement Plan; (2) Procurement Complaints Mechanism; (3) Trimester
Implementation Progress Reports (approved versions); (4) All Expression o f Interests (EOIs),
BidDocuments, Request for Proposals, Minutesof Pre-bid Conferences, awards of contract
details; (5) Annual Work Planand Budget; (6) Annual AuditedFinancial Statements; (7)
Program Implementation Manual; (8) School Grants Operation Directives; (9) Per Capita
FundingGrants ImplementationDirectives; (10) FlashReports; (11)Number ofpermanent
teacher positions, rahat teacher positions and number o f per capita (student) grants by districts.

2. The Government o fNepal inits efforts to improve the governance, has already revised the
Anti-Corruption Act, enacted the Public Procurement Act 2007 and Right to Information Act
2007, and has initiated the revision of the Financial Administration Regulations.

3. MOES/DOE will undertake the following specific actions:

        0   Disclosure oflizformation: Ensure full implementationof the recently enacted
            Procurement Act, 2007 and Rightto Information Act 2007, inparticular related to the
            disclosure provisions.

            External Complaints: Developa functioning, independent, and credible system to
            deal with external complaints on procurement, fraud/corruption.

            Monitoring: StrengthenMonitoring Mechanismto monitor compliance to the
            agreements with development partners and the provisions made inthe law o fthe
            Land together with assessingimpact on outcomes.

Disclosure of Information

4. Disclosure ofProcurement Information: DOE will make available the following
information in its website:


        0   Promptly post DOE'Sannual procurement plans and schedules;

            Post all biddingdocuments and requests for proposals issued inaccordance with the
            procurement provisions o f the agreement;




                                                26

         0  Post all short lists o f consultants and, incases o f prequalification, and lists o f pre-
            qualified contractors and suppliers;

5.  Inadditionto above, MOES/DOE shall also:

         0  Allow representatives ofthe end-users o fthe goods or works beingprocuredto attend
            the public bid openings;

         0  Post inits website the contract award information for all contracts for goods and
            works inaccordance with Clause 60 o f the Public Procurement Act, 2007.

            Post inits website a list o f all contracts awarded inthe last three months, which
            include the name o f the contractor/consultant, the contract amount, the number of
            bidderdmakerso fproposals, the procurement method followed and the purpose of the
            contract.

6. Disclosureof Final Audit Report:DOE will make publicly available its latest final audited
financial statements.

7. Dealingwith ExternalComplaintson Procurement,Fraud/Corruptionand
ConstructionQuality

8. DOE will establish a system dealing with external complaints on procurement,
fraudcorruption and constructionquality. This system will be publicized on the DOE website
with a log and filing to monitor status of follow up of eachreceivedcomments, suggestions and
grievances. The mechanisms will include provision for follow up investigations o f substantial
complaints by Internal Auditors, or thirdparty audit to ensure independence and reliability of the
system.

9. Ifas a result o f any such informationprovided by the member o f the public, cost savings are
achieved or charges o f misconduct and misappropriation are proven, such memberso f the public
will be awarded some recognition such as a certificate of excellence or felicitation at apublic
ceremony with or without a monetary reward. Simultaneously strict disincentives will be
announced for the erring members o fthe departments.DOEwill establish the remedial actions
and sanctions for cases of fraud and corruptionthat are reportedand for which evidence i s found
and charges established after due process of investigation. This will include sanctions to
government staff provento be involved in such cases.

10. Any entity that i s found to have misused funds, or not effectively carried out key elements o f
the anti-corruption provision, may be excludedfrom subsequentparticipationinthe program
carried out by the DOE. Information regardingsuch cases, where lessons are learned and funds
are retrieved, will be widely publishedfor information o f the members o fpublic. Strict
procedures to ensure anonymityo f informants will be enforced.

11. Tracking o f the status o f investigations and measurestaken will be reported intrimester
reports.




                                                   27

12. Inthe event that a complaintlallegation i s receivedconcerning an externally funded contract,
the relevant funding agency shall be informed at each stage o f the complaint handlingprocess.

13. RespondingtoProcurement Complaints:Procurement related inquiriesand complaints from
suppliers, contractors or consultants occurring from time to time shall be efficiently disposed o f
inaccordance withthe provisions ofthe Public Procurement Act, 2007.

14. General inquiries about DOE procurement policy, procedures and guidelinesare dealt with
by the DOEwithin20 working days o freceipt.

15. Filing and disposal o f complaints directly by the biddersrelating to a specific procurement
shall be inaccordance with the Public Procumbent Act, 2007 and the Regulations framed under
the said Act.

16. RespondingtoAllegations of Fraud or Corruption: All forms o f complaints related to the
quality o f works, goods or services shall be recorded. Where allegations are shown to be valid,
the matter shall bereferredto PPMOwho shall act, includingimposing sanctions, inaccordance
with the Public Procurement Act provisions.

17. Individuals who choose to report allegations o f fraud or corruption may remain anonymous
or request that their identity not be disclosed outside o f any investigating team.

18. Respondingto Complaintson ConstructionQuality: Complaints received directly from the
public relating to the quality o f a specific work, goods or services shall be inwriting. They are to
be receivedand thenreviewedby the Director General (DG).

19. The DG shall record all complaints, whether they are referred from other recipients or
directly, ina register to be maintained ina secure location inhis own office. The email and
physical address o f the DG i s to be made public.

20. The DG shall, within five working days o f receipt o f complaint, acknowledge receipt in
writing to the complainant indicatingthat the DOE is considering the issues raised and will
discuss them with the concerned officers o f the DOE.

21. The DG shall then consult with the relevant officers o f the DOE and, after thorough review
o f the facts as well as interviewing o f officers concerned as necessary, shall make ajudgment as
to the validity o f the complaint. Within twenty working days, the DG shall instruct the relevant
officer to take remedial action as necessary.

22. The DG shall write to the complainant within thirty working days o f the receipt o f such
complaint as to the final decision o f the competent authority.

Indicatorsfor Monitoringthe Complianceto the Agreements and Impact on Outcomes of
the Provisions made in the law of nation

23. DOE shall establish a monitoring team on the convenership o f the Director, Planning and
Monitoring Division for tracking the implementationo f program activities. The DG DOE will
supervise the activities o f the team.



                                                   28

For the DistrictLevel

Disclosure of Information and Corporate Governance

24. The DOE will disclose the following information to the public through the District Education
Office (DEO) public notice Board and/or newspapers: (1) criteria andjustification for allocation
of classrooms, rahat teacher positions and per capita financing; (2) annual work plan and budget;
(3) implementation status o f work plan and budget on trimester basis; (4) allocation o fpermanent
teacher positions by school; (5) allocation of rahat teacher position by school; and (6) allocation
of per capita financing grants by school. Inaddition Citizen's Charter will be displayed inall
DEOs together with the arrangement of public hearing once a year.

Complaint Mechanism and Monitoring

25. The DOE will put inplace the following complaint handlingmechanism at the DE0 level:
(1) public disclosure o f complaint procedures; (2) mandatory registration and investigation o f
any complaint received; and (3) disclosure o f results o f such investigation on a trimester basis.

For the School Level

Disclosure of Information and Corporate Governance

26. The DOE will disclose the following informationto the public through the school notice
board: (1) criteria for allocation scholarships; (2) allocation of scholarships; (3) annual financial
statement, financial and social audit reports; (4) calendar of operation; and school annual report.

Complaint Mechanism and Monitoring

27. The DOE will put inplace the following complaint handlingmechanism at the school level:
(1) public disclosure o f complaint procedures; (2) mandatory registration and investigation of
any complaint received; and (3) disclosure o fresults o f such investigation on a trimester basis.




                                                  29

                                           Annex 7: Statementof Loansand Credits
                                                NEPAL: EFA AdditionalFinancing

                                                                                                                          Difference between
                                                                                                                          expected and actual
                                                                 Original Amount in US$Millions                             disbursements

ProjectID   FY    Purpose                                     IBRD        IDA       SF       GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.   Orig.     Frm. Rev'd
P100342    2007   Avian Flu                                      0.00      18.20    0.00      0.00     0.00     16.34      0.08        0.00
PO90967    2007   SecondHigher EducationProject                  0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     62.65     -1.70        0.00
PO40613    2005   NepalHealthSector ProgramProject               0.00      10.00    0.00      0.00     0.00     17.33     -5.16        0.00
PO93294    2005   Economic Reform TA                             0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      1.66      0.52        0.00
PO74633    2005   Education for All Project                      0.00     50.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     11.24    -11.44        0.00
PO83923    2005   RuralAccess Improve. & Decentralization        0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     27.86      4.11        0.00
PO84219    2004   Fin Sector Restructuring(Phase 11)             0.00     68.50     0.00      0.00     0.00     20.50     17.36        0.00
PO81968    2004   Poverty Alleviation Fund                       0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     20.69     -9.66       -1.33
PO71285    2004   RuralWater Supply & Sanitation Project         0.00     25.30     0.00      0.00     0.00      8.71     -2.11        0.00
PO82646    2003   CommunitySchool SupportProject                 0.00      5.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.62      0.33        0.27
PO71291    2003   FinancialSector Technical Assistance           0.00      16.00    0.00      0.00     0.00      7.93      5.48        0.00
PO43311    2003   POWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                      0.00     50.40     0.00      0.00     0.76     68.47     46.42       42.37
PO50671    2002   NP: TelecommunicationsSector Reform            0.00     22.56     0.00      0.00     2.18      8.62      6.97        6.97

                                                      Total:     0.00   265.96      0.00      0.00     2.94    272.62     51.20       48.28




                                                                   NEPAL
                                                         STATEMENTOF IFC's
                                                      Heldand DisbursedPortfolio
                                                        InMillionsofUS Dollars

                                                                 Committed                                   Disbursed
                                                                IFC                                       IFC
       FY Approval   Company                        Loan       Equity      Quasi     Partic.   Loan      Equity      Quasi      Partic
       1996          BhoteKoshi                     13.21        2.95       0.00     17.41      13.21       2.95      0.00       17.41
       1998          Bhote Koshi                    1.64         0.00       0.00      0.00       1.64       0.00      0.00       0.00
       1994          Himal Power                    18.17        0.00       2.54      0.00      18.17       0.00      2.25       0.00
       2001          ILFC Nepal
                          -                         0.00         0.10       0.00      0.00       0.00       0.10      0.00       0.00
       1998          Jomsom Resort                  4.00         0.00       0.00      0.00       4.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
                                  Total portfolio:   37.02       3.05       2.54     17.41      37.02       3.05      2.25       17.41




                                                                               Approvals Pending Commitment

                      FY Approval      Company                             Loan      Equity       Quasi       Partic.




                                             Total pendingcommitment:      0.00       0.00         0.00        0.00




                                                                      30

                                          Annex 8: Country at a Glance
                                    NEPAL: EFA AdditionalFinancing
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            South       Low-
                                                      Nepal    Asia     Income       levelopment dlamond'

2006
Population, mid-year(millions)                         27.7    1493        2,403
GNIpercapita(Atlas method, US$)                         290      765        650                     Life expectancy

GNI(Atlas method, US$ billions)                          8.0    1143       1562
Average annual growth, 2000-06
Population (4                                            2.1      17          19
Lab0rforce (%)                                           2.8      2.1        2.3     GNi                                      Gross
                                                                                     per                                     primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 2000-06)                                capita                               enrollment
Poverty (%of populationbelownatlonalpoveriylinej         31
Urbanpopulation(%of totalpopulation)                     F        29         30
Lifeexpectancyat birth (pars)                            63       64          59
Infant mortality(per1OOOlivebirths)                      56       62         75
Childmainutrition (%ofchiIdrenunder5)                    45                              Access to improvedwatersource
Access to an improvedwater source (%ofpopulation)        90       84          75
Literacy(%ofpopulation age S+j                           49       58          61
Gross primaryenrollment (%of school-age population)      P 6      m          a 2              -Nepal
  Maie                                                   129      115        a 8                     Low-incomegroup
  Female                                                 123      0 5         86

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                               1986    1996    2006       2006       Economlc ratlo8'
GDP (US$ billions)                               2.9     4.5      7.4         8.1
Gross capital formation/GDP                      8.0    27.2    28.9        30.3
Exports of goods and services/GDP                117    22.3      F.1        8.6                         Trade
Gross domestic savlngs/GDP                       0.4    0.7      P.4         ni
Gross nationalsavings/GDP                        11.4   212     32.7        34.9                           T
Current account baiancelGDP                     4.4     -5.4      2.2        2.4
Interest paymentslGDP                            0.4     0.7      0.4                Domestic                             Capital
Total debt/GDP                                  26.5    53.7    44.4                 savings                              formation
Total debt serviceIexports                       8.4     6.6      5.3
Presentvalue of debt/GDP                                        30.4                                       1
Presentvalue of debt/exports                                    018
                                                                                                     Indebtedness
                                   1986-96 1996.06    2006     2006 2006-10
(averageannualgmvdh)
GDP                                      5.1     3.6     2.7       19        4.4               -Nepal
GDP percapita                            2.6      13     0.7      -01        3 0               -      Low-incomeomuo
Exports of goods and services


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY


                                               1986    1996    2006       2006
(%of GDP)                                                                            Growth o f capital and GDP (Oh)

Agnculture                                       515    405     382         39 5                                                    I
Industry                                         159    223      210         211
 Manufactunng                                    62      9 4      77         7 7
services                                        327     372     40 8        39 5
Householdfinal consumption expenditure          805     770     774         78 7
Generalgov't final consumption expenditure       9 1     9 2     a 2         u 2
Imports of goods andservices                    203     358     326         377     I           -0CF              W G D P           1

                                            1986-96 1896-06    2006       2006
(averageannualgmvdh)                                                                Growth of exports and Imports (Oh)
Agnculture                                       2 9     33       3.0         17     T
Industry                                         7 9     3 1       15        3.5     i
                                                                                   12

 Manufacturing                                   0 0     19       2.6        2.2
services                                         6 3     35       2.4       -5.9   I1


Householdfinal consumption expenditure
Generalgov't final consumption expenditure                                                    01    02     03      Ob     05     OB
Gross capital formation                                                                      -Exports          -3-ln-QOrtS
Imports of goods and services

                                                                                            ~

Note 2006data are preiiminaryestimates
This tablewas producedfromthe DevelopmentEconomics LDB database
*Thediamonds showfourkeyindicators inthecountry(inboid)comparedwithits income-groupaverage If dataaremissing thediamondwll
 be incomplete




                                                             31

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                                                                                    I
                                            1986     1996      2005     2006
Domestic prices
pkchange)
Consumer pnces                                290      9 2         6 8
Implicit GDP deflator                         144      7 8         4 6     72

Government finance
(%of GDP,includes currentgrants)
Current revenue                                8 3     122        156     144
Current budgetbalance                          -16      0 7        40      20
Overall surplus/deficit                       -9 2     5 3        -08      -27

T R A D E
                                            1986     1996      2005     2006
(US$ millions)                                                                     Export and import levels (US$ mill.)

Total exports (fob)                            156     602        832     865     2,500  T
 Foodandlive animals                                    35          90     94
 Animal andvegetableoils                                  4         68      71
 Manufactures                                          294        579     602
Totalimports (cif)                            472    1350       2,022     2on
  Food                                          60      111         72      71
  Fueland energy                                54     152        370     475
                                                                                I
 Capital goods                                 '08     277        250     248

Export pnce index(ZOOO=WO)                                                                 00   01    02     03   04    05    06

Import price index(2000=WO)                                                                  13 Exports        sImports
T e n s of trade (20OO=WO)




BALANCE o f P A Y M E N T S
                                            1986     1996      2005      2006
(US$ millions)                                                                     Current account balance to GDP (Oh)

Exports of goods andservices                  328     1,032       183     1231
Imports of goods andservices                  565      16t?      2,411   2 851    6 T
Resource balance                             -237     -580       -1218   -1621

Net income                                      -3        8         23      68
Net current transfers                           7x3    329       1,356    1742

Current account balance                       -Q7     -243         '50     8 0

Financing items (net)                          ff5     2'5        -150     158
Changes innet reserves                         -48      27         -Kl    -298    1     00   01    02    03     04    05     05   I
M e m o :
Reserves includinggold (US$ millions)           93     615       1,484    1780
Conversion rate (DfC,iocai/US$)                8 5     55 5       722     724

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                            1986     1996      2005      2006
(US$ millions)                                                                  /Composition o f 2005 debt (US$ mill.)

Total debt outstanding and disbursed          755     2 411     3,285
  IBRD                                           0        0          0       0                          0.47
  IDA                                         295     1,049      1396     1468  I
Total debt service                              28      78          Iff
  IBRD                                           0        0          0       0
  IDA                                            4       '5         42      42

Compositionof net resource flows
  Officialgrants                               Kl8      142        315
  Officialcreditors                             ID      123        157
  Pnvatecreditors                               27       -4          0
  Foreigndirect investment (net inflows)          1      8           2
  Portfolio equity(net inflows)                  0        0          0
World Bank program
  Commitments                                   80        0          0       3
  Disbursements                                 55                                                                   E - Blldwa!
                                                        62          33      43     A . IBRD
                                                                                              D. Other rmltilatwai   F. Private
  Principal repayments                            1       8                        B .IDA
                                                                    30      31     C - I M F                         G. Short-teri
  Net flows                                     54      54           3
  Interest payments                              3        8         t?      nn
  Net transfers                                 51      46          -9       1


Note This tablewas producedfrom the Development Economics LDB database                                                    9/28/07




                                                              32



