Page  1
CONFROMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H340-NEP 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing For Education for All Project) 
 
between 
 
NEPAL  
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated January 31, 2008  
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H340-NEP 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated January 31, 2008, entered into between NEPAL 
(
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for activities related to 
the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Recipient and 
the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I - GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, in the 
Appendix to this Agreement, or in the Original Financing Agreement (as defined 
in the Appendix to this Agreement).  
ARTICLE II - FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement,
 
a
grant in an amount equivalent to 
thirty-eight million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
 
(SDR 38,700,000) (“Financing”) to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is Dollars. 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE III - PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through MOES in accordance with 
the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
the Joint Financing Arrangement, the Program Implementation Manual, the 
EMP, the VCDP, and Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following: 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the EFA 
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
(b) 
(i) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph: 
(A) 
the right of the Recipient to withdraw the proceeds of 
any grant or credit made to the Recipient for the 
financing of the EFA Program has been suspended, 
canceled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to 
the terms of the agreement providing therefor; or 
(B) 
any such credit has become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof. 
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Recipient establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: 
(A)  such suspension, cancellation, termination or 
prematuring was not caused by the failure of the 
Recipient to perform any of its obligations under such 
agreement; and 
(B) 
adequate funds for the EFA Program are available to the 
Recipient from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Recipient under 
this Agreement. 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE V - TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
5.02. 
For purposes of Section 8.05(b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payments obligations) shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI - REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Secretary, Ministry of Finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Government of Nepal 
Singha Durbar   
Kathmandu 
 
Nepal
 
Facsimile: 
 
(977-1) 4211-164 
 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
AGREED at Kathmandu, Nepal, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
NEPAL 
 
By /s/ Vidyadhar Mallik 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Susan G. Goldmark 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) ensure access and equity in primary 
education; (ii) improve efficiency and institutional capacity; and (iii) contribute to 
sustainable socio-economic development and equity, through the enhancement of quality 
and relevance of basic and primary education to children and illiterate adults in the 
territory of the Recipient.   
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
Part A
:
Expanding and Improving Early Childhood Development
Provision of goods and services, for a series of activities designed to establish 
new Early Childhood Development centers and operating existing Early Childhood 
Development Centers. 
 
Part B
:
Ensuring Access to Education for all Children
The carrying out of works and provision of goods and services for a series of 
activities designed to improve the access to education for children in primary schools 
through: 
 
1. 
Development of village education plans to promote social inclusion through 
 
partnerships with local organizations, and provision of School Grants.  
 
2. 
Construction and furnishing of new classrooms, rehabilitation of existing 
 
classrooms, and improving site services in existing schools with special focus on 
 
drinking water facilities and 
school girls’ sanitation facilities. 
 
3. 
Construction of DEO buildings and Resource Center buildings. 
 
4. 
Supporting alternative schooling for children aged from five (5) to seven (7) 
 
years in very small or remote hamlets through the provision of school outreach 
 
programs; and provision of flexible schooling programs for children aged from 
 
seven (7) to thirteen (13) years. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
Part C
:
Meeting Learning Needs
Provision of goods and services for a series of activities designed to develop and 
implement:  
 
1. 
a pilot program to facilitate home-to-school transition in schools serving 
predominantly non-Nepali speaking populations in selected districts and 
subsequent upscaling of the pilot program across the country; 
 
2. 
a
communication campaign for the EFA Program’s objectives and strategies; 
 
3. 
a primary education promotion strategy; and 
 
4. 
a curriculum update. 
 
Part D
:
Improvement of Adult Literacy
Provision of goods and services to support the ongoing women’s literacy 
program and national literacy campaign through schools, local bodies and community 
groups and community learning centers catering to newly literate adults. 
 
Part E
:
Eliminating Gender Disparity
1. 
The carrying out of a program for the provision by MOES of Basic Grants to 
 
unaccredited schools.  
 
2. 
The carrying out of a program for the provision by MOES of Level I Grants and 
 
Level II Grants to eligible schools. 
 
3. 
Development and implementation of a framework to prevent discrimination 
 against 
students 
from 
dalit, 
disadvantaged 
janajati
 and other disadvantaged 
 groups. 
 
4. 
Provision of incentive scholarships to pre-service female teacher trainees, 
dalit,
 
disadvantaged 
janajati 
and other disadvantaged groups. 
 
5. 
Provision of scholarships to girls and 
dalits
.
Part F
:
Improving Education Quality 
1. 
Provision of services to support the development and carrying out of a School 
 Improvement 
Plan 
(SIP). 
 
2. 
Provision by MOES of School Improvement Plan Grants to schools. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
3. 
Provision by MOES of grants for teacher salaries to schools. 
 
4. 
Provision of services and in-country training for capacity building of SMC  
 
members, including head teachers and community organizations. 
 
5. 
Strengthening and streamlining the education management information system  
 
through the provision of services. 
 
6. 
Provision by MOES of Incentive Grants to both aided and unaided community- 
 
managed schools.  
 
7. 
The carrying out of assessments and/or studies on the effectiveness of initiatives 
 
supported under the EFA Program, including, 
inter alia
:
(i) scholarships for girls, 
 
dalits
,
disadvantaged 
janajati
 and other disadvantaged groups; (ii) language 
 
transition for non-Nepali speaking children; (iii) alternative education; and (iv) 
 
adult literacy programs.  
 
Page  9
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
Overall Project Implementation and Coordination 
 
The provisions of Section I of Schedule 4 to the Original Financing Agreement 
are incorporated herein by reference and apply to the Project, 
mutatis mutandis
.
B. 
Annual Work Plan and Budget (AWPB) 
1. 
The provisions of Section II of Schedule 4 to the Original Financing Agreement 
are incorporated herein by reference and apply to the Project, 
mutatis mutandis
.
2. 
No withdrawals shall be made for payments made for Eligible Expenditures 
under any AWPB until the annual allocation and disbursement targets for such 
AWPB shall have been agreed with the Association during annual reviews. 
C. School 
Grants 
 
The provisions of Section III of Schedule 4 to the Original Financing Agreement 
are incorporated herein by reference and apply to the Project, 
mutatis mutandis
.
D. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Association.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one Fiscal Year trimester, and shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the 
period covered by such report.  
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  10
-
9
-
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association as part of the Project Reports not later than 
forty-five (45) days after the end of each Fiscal Year trimester, interim unaudited 
financial reports for the Project covering the Fiscal Year trimester, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) Fiscal Year of the 
Recipient.  The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than six (6) months after the end of such 
period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1. 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3. 
Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
National Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 3 
below, goods and works estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National 
Competitive Bidding in accordance with the provisions of the Public 
Procurement Act, subject to the following: 
(i) 
Only the bidding documents approved by the Association shall be used. 
 
Page  11
-
10 -
 
(ii) 
No preference shall be given to any bidder. 
 
3. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding and National Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods and 
works.  The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such 
methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
 
(a)   
Shopping 
(b)   
Direct Contracting 
(c)   
Community Participation procedures acceptable to the Association 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of the Public Procurement Act and using only the request for proposal 
(RFP) documents approved by the Association.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants
’
services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method
 
(a)   
Quality-Based Selection 
(b)   
Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(c)   
Least-Cost Selection 
(d)   
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(e)   
Single-Source Selection 
(f)   
Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
(g)   
Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
Page  12
-
11 -
 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association:  
(a) each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$500,000 or more; (b) each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm 
and estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more; and (c) each contract 
for consultants’ services provided by individuals and estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $20,000 or more.
 
2. 
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association.
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to 
be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
Page  13
-
12 -
 
Category 
Amount of the 
Financing Allocated 
(Expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of  
Expenditures 
to be Financed 
 
Eligible 
Expenditures 
under AWPBs 
38,700,000 
Such percentage of Eligible 
Expenditures as the 
Association may determine for 
any Fiscal Year  
TOTAL AMOUNT 
38,700,000  
3. For 
the purposes of this Section, the term “Eligible Expenditures” means the 
Eligible Expenditures as defined in the General Conditions and includes School 
Grants and scholarships provided under the Project and recurrent expenditures 
covered by the EFA Program; provided, however, that the term “Eligible 
Expenditures” does not include (i) expenditures which have not been incurred in 
accordance with the terms and conditions and eligibility criteria specified in the 
Program Implementation Manual or (ii) expenditures for goods, works or 
services supplied under a contract which the Association or any national or 
international financing institution or agency, other than the Pooling Donors, shall 
have financed or agreed to finance under any other credit or grant. 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 7,600,000 equivalent 
may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after July 17, 2007, 
for Eligible Expenditures. 
2.
 
The Closing Date is January 31, 2010. 
Page  14
-
13 -
 
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement. 
3. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
4. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005, (as amended 
through October 15, 2006). 
5. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the development credit agreement for the 
Education for All Project between the Recipient and the Association, dated 
August 12, 2004, as amended to the date of this Agreement 
 
(Credit No. 3956-NEP). 
6. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement. 
7. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
8. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated October 7, 2007, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
9. 
“Program Implementation Manual” means the Program Implementation Manual 
of the Recipient dated October 7, 2007, and approved by the Association, which 
sets forth guidelines for the implementation of the EFA Program, including the 
administration of School Grants, and replaces, 
inter alia
,
the Operational Manual 
(as defined in the Original Financing Agreement), as the same may be amended 
from time to time with the agreement of the Association. 
10. 
“Public Procurement Act” means the Recipient’s Public Procurement Act, 2063 
(2007). 
Page  15
-
14 -
 
11. 
“School Grants” means, collectively, Basic Grants, Level I Grants, Level II 
Grants, Incentive Grants, School Improvement Plan Grants and grants for the 
payment of teacher salaries provided to schools. 
12. 
“School Improvement Plan Grants” means grants for the payment of non-salary 
recurrent costs incurred in connection with the implementation of a School 
Improvement Plan. 
 
