IIPP1I07
01 February 2005
Executive Summary
of
Vulnerable Community Development Plan
for
Nepal Education for All Programme
(2004-2009)
Prepared by
Kiran Bhatia
Mark Turin
with support from
Mukta Singh Lama
HURDEC
Submitted to
The World Bank
DANIDA
Ministry of Education and Sports
February 2 00 4



Table of Contents
TABLE OF CONTENTS                                                                          11
ABBREVIATIONS                                                                             111
1.     Introduction                                                                       1
2.     Legal and policy framework                                 Error! Bookmark not defined.
3.     Review of government education policy from an inclusion perspective: BPEP and NEFAP
2
3.1   BPEP                                                                         2
3.2   Review of EFA Core Document                                                  4
3.2.1  Strengths of the EFA Core Docunient                                    4
3.2.2  Clhallenges                                                            5
3.2.3  Budget analysis                                                        6
4.     The parameters of social exclusion in Nepal: baseline data on women, Dalit, Janajati and
disadvantaged groups                                                               6
4.1   Barriers to social inclusion                                                 6
4.2   Social barriers for vulnerable groups                                        8
4.3   Cumulative impact of varying types of social exclusion                       9
5.     Recommendations                                                                   10
5.1   National policies and directives                                            10
5.2   Core recommendations for actions at the village level                       12
5.2.1  Local support to SMCSf fotm co,nmiii uulity groups to iniplement NEFAP  1 2
5.2.2  Develop niodalities to redutce discriminiation                       1/2
5.2.3  Home to school languiage tralisitioni for n on-Nepali speaking children  13
5.2.4  EMIS disaggregated data                                              13
jj                                       VCDP 2004                               01/02/2005



Abbreviations
BPE              Basic and Primary Education
BPEP             Basic and Primary Education Programme
CBS              Central Bureau of Statistics
CMIS             Community Managed Information System
CWIN             Child Workers in Nepal
DEO              District Education Officer
DoE              Department of Education
ECD              Early Childhood Development
EFA              Education For All
EMIS             Education Management Information System
FHP              Feeder Hostel Programme
FHs              Feeder Hostels
GER              Gross Enrolment Ratio
HDI              Human Development Index/Indicator
NHDR             Nepal Human Development Report
HMG/N            His Majesty's Govemment, Nepal
INGO             International Non-Government Organisation
IPDP             Indigenous People Development Plan
M & E            Monitoring and Evaluation
MoES             Ministry of Education and Sports
MoU              Memorandum of Understanding
NCED             National Centre for Educational Development
NEFAP            Nepal Education For All Programme
NER              Net Enrolment Ratio
NGO              Non-Governmental Organisation
OD               Operational Directive
PEB              Programme Executive Board
RC               Resource Centre
SNES             Special Need Education Section
SMC              School Management Committee
TSC              Teacher Selection Committee
VDC              Village Development Committee
VCDP             Vulnerable Communities Development Plan
iii                                     VCDP 2004                             01/02/2005



1.   INTRODUCTION
This Vulnerable Community Development Plan (VCDP) addresses social exclusion in primary
education and the effects and implications for vulnerable people for the Nepal Education for All
Programme (NEFA) 2004-2009 as detailed in the EFA Core Document, 2003. The Core Document
sets out a five-year plan with three primary objectives: (i) ensuring access and equity in primary
education, (ii) enhancing quality and relevance of primary education, (iii) improving efficiency and
institutional capacity
A significant proportion of the total population of Nepal are Dalits and indigenous people (recent
estimates from the 2001 census suggest 16 percent Dalits and 36.4 percent indigenous population.
Because they inhabit all regions and districts of Nepal covered by this broad national education
project, a Vulnerable Communities Development Plan is an essential prerequisite for achieving the
stated objective of social inclusion in primary education as set out in the NEFA Core Document. The
central goal for this VCDP is to assess the capacity of the NEFA programme to offer inclusive
education to meet the learning needs for all disadvantaged conmm1unities in Nepali society, including
ethnic minorities, women, Dalits and indigenous people and linguistic minorities through equal access
to educational resources as advanced in the Dakar Framework of Action of April 2000. The overall
Project Development Objective of the EFA Core Document for Nepal is to strengthen Nepal's
institutional capacity at national, district and school levels so as to deliver more efficient and better
education services. The Social Development Objective is to foster genuinely inclusive education
environment in Nepal.
This VCDP plan assesses NEFAP compliance with accepted safeguard policies, primarily The World
Bank's Operational Directive (OD) 4.20 on Indigenous Peoples. This directive requires that
vulnerable people benefit from development projects and that potentially adverse effects on these
vulnerable communities resulting from Bank-assisted activities are at best completely avoided or at
least mitigated.
Social inclusion is defined in the World Bank Social Analysis Sourcebook as 'the renloval of
institutional barriers and the enhancenment of incentives to increase the access of diverse individuals
and groups to developnment opportunities' (as cited in Bennett 2003: 4). The EFA Core document
presents inclusive education with the following definition: " inclusive education is to 'incorporate
learning needs of socially marginalized groups, children witlt disabilities, indigenous children and
children living in difficult circum7stances withi special needs '. The Ministry of Education and Sports
further defines 'disadvantaged children' as children with disability, girls, Dalit (23 disadvantagecd
groups) and other mnarginalized groups'.
2. LEGAL AND POLICY FRAMEWORK
2.1 International Policies: Over the past few decades the international development agenda has
witnessed rapid progress in policy reform on education. Following the Jomptien Meeting, the
DAKAR Framework of Action, 2000 has called for a global commitment to achieve Education for All
(EFA) goals and has inclusive education as a core priority. Other international instruments have
together provided a sound framework of rights and equity for all women and children and other
vulnerable groups. Nepal has been signatory to all these commitments and EFA has been a high
priority since 1990.
2.2 National policies: the new Constitution of 1990 established Nepal as a much more inclusive state
by explicitly describing it as "multi-etlmic, multi-lingual and democratic country". A number of key
reforms have been introduced to strengthen the focus on equity and decentralisation most significantly
In the Nepalese context this includes women, former " low caste" or Dalits and Indigenous Peoples or Janajati. The latter two groups
especially fit the World Bank description in its Operational Directive.
i.e. "ethnic minorities, lin uistic minorities, children from indigenous groups as per 2002 Act, working children, street children, conflict &
calamity affected children, children from remote regions, poor children, children from par-ents in prisons, those rescued from trafficking and
childien fiom migr-ant parents." (EFA corc document)
1                                        VCDP 2004                              01/02/2005



the Local Self-Governance Act, 1999. The Tentlt Five Year Plan is the first national plan to have
social inclusion as one of the four pillars of the Nepal Poverty Reduction Strategy and identifies
inclusive education as a central approach to reduce gender, etlinic and caste related disparities.
Decentralisation is presented as a core strategy with school education to be managed locally with
increased commuiunity participation. The approval of the 7th Amendment of the Eduication Act, 2001
has provided formal rights to commnunities for the management of primary schools for improved
responsiveness to issues of equity and access in primary education2. However, though community
involvement is repeatedly stated as a key strategy for decentralization, further analysis and improved
modalities is required to ensure that equal participation of women and children from disadvantaged
families and ethnic minorities can really take place.
2.2.1 Nepal continues to present poor improvement in the HDI for women in most sectors inspite of
significant efforts at all levels to confront gender based inequality and discrimination. Nepal has
been signatory to numerous International Conventions ( Platform for Action, CEDAW, CRC and and
providing  increasinig policy  reform  and  resources for women's development and    gender
mainstreaimiing. The Tenth Plan, building on the efforts of the ninth Plan has a specific focus on social
inclusion that has created a strong and positive policy environment for empowennent of women and
girls.
2.2.2 Dalit communities have not witnessed much change from being the most religiously,
culturally, socially and econon-mically oppressed population in Nepal. Two recent measures, the Local
Self-Governance Act 1999 and the establishment of the National Dalit Commission aim to increase
Dalit participation in governance with improved protection of rights. Despite this, and the signing of
other national and international acts and conventions in particular CERD, the caste ideology has
continued to have a strong influence on Nepalese society and Dalits continue to have the lowest
social, economic and political status compared to other groups in Nepal.
2.2.3 The Constitution of Nepal provides solid constitutional bedrock for indigenous peoples to have
access to mother tongue language instruction (Articles 63 and 18). The Seventh Amendment to the
Education Act of 1971 made further provisions for the medium of instruction in primary education in
Nepal (up to Grade Five) to be in mother tongue. The Government formed the National Commzittee
for Formiulating Cultural Policy antd Programmnes in 1992 to conceive and realise concrete plans to
help preserve and promote Nepalese culture. A bill for a 'three-language policy' - mother tongue,
Nepali and an international language (likely English) has been presented in parliament.
3.Review of government education policy from an inclusion perspective: BPEP and NEFAP
Thlie Basic Primary Education Programmu1e (BPEP) implemented by MoES/DoE has been recognized
for several significant achievements in improving primary education in Nepal. Specific amongst them
are:
*     Net Enrolment Rate increased from 69 percent in 1998 to 81 percent
*     Cycle completion rate increased from 42 percent to 60 percent
Gap between girls and boys in NER reduced to 11 percent
Literacy rate reached 54 percent (men 65 percent and women 43 percent)
*     Initiation of bottom up planning process with resources at the site of implementation and active
involvement of stakeholders
*     Decentralised programnme implementation with more than 80 percent resources at district and
sub district levels. (EFA Core Docuiyie,it, Nov. 2003)
After the successful completion of BPEP, the following lessons have been identified by MoES
relating to social inclusion:
2 School Management Committee (SMC) was made responsible for management ofcommunity schools at primary level
Article 6 of Pait I of the Nepal Constitution states: (1) The Nepali language in the Devanagari script is the language of the nation.
The Ncpali language shall be the ofticial language; (2) All the laniguages spoken as the mother language in the various parts of
Nepal aie the national languages of Nepal.
2                                        VCDP 2004                               01/02/2005



*    Moving towards a demand-driven approach
*    Intensive social mobilisation for involving stakeholders in strategic decision processes
*    Decentralisation of education to ensure equity, transparency, accountability and participation
*    Classroom focused interventions for enhanced learning achievement
*    Building partnership with stakeholders-parents, local bodies, I/NGOs, Community Based
Organisations s and private agencies
*    School-based support and participatory monitoring
3.1.1 BPEP lessons as related to social exclusion
3.1.1.1 Primary schools and teachers: There are about 25,000 primary schools in Nepal. The
number of public schools is much higher as compared to the private schools, which show a shalp
decline since 1999, a consequence of the Maoist insurgency. There are just 25 percent women
teachers in Nepal, an increase of four percent since 1996. Still, there has been very little change in the
gender gap. Typically, the number of women teacher's decreases rapidly in lower secondary and
secondary levels. As regards training, overall the situation is bleak with 85 percent teachers currently
not fully trained. Data indicates that the districts with the lowest proportion of primary school women
teachers in 2001 (e.g. Bajhang, Achham, and Baitadi), had very low NER values. Therefore it is
essential to review the policy of recruiting one-woman teacher in primary school and implement
effective strategies to recruit a minimum of two women teachers.
At present, there is no disaggregated data by ethnicity/caste for teachers. However, the recent data
from 39 districts on caste/ethnic composition of Resource Persons and School Supervisors confirms
the domination of the privileged castes (78.63 percent are Brahmins and Chhetris).
Recognising the poor results from previous centre driven plans, the Seventh Amendment has adopted
a new approach, on the assumption that communities have the capacity to manage primary schools
with effectiveness, efficiency and quality once given the ownership.
3.1.1.2 Discrepancies in data on primary school education: Data on primary education are
collected and processed mainly through school based MoES system and household based CBS system.
Unfortunately the two systems use different sources and apply different methodologies for data collection,
and therefore produce different sets of data. There is also inconsistency in data reporting, which exists
in the data among different variables over one year and same variables over the data of several years.
These inconsistencies then force us to question all available data and raise concerns about data reflecting
social inclusion issues, as they, especially, require sensitive collection and management.
3.1.1.3 Special Needs Education Section: Specific programmes for Special Needs Education Section
offers a Special Education Scheme that provides for four types of disability: Mental, Plhysical, Blinid,
and Deaf.
The programme is run in regular schools and is presently in 56 districts where 309 classes are
running. Students with disability are provided scholarship amounting to Rs. 1000 for hostel and food
facility. The schools arrange one resource teacher and one maid for teaching and managing the
children. The Resource Centres (RCs) are setup in regular schools and there is a provision of Rs.
50,000 per resource class. Residential scholarships are provided for the blind, deaf and mentally
retarded.
Current concerns for a culture of inclusion: Inclusion has almost entirely been of those with
disabilities, only a negligible number of those who are socially excluded. Incentives only provide
support to children to gain access to schooling. Schools require to address the issues of exclusion and
promote a more socially and academically inclusive culture. The education administrative system
needs to demonstrate its commitment to social inclusion by including it as a criteria for excellence in
guidelines and monitoring. As of now, the criteria for becoming a "model school" are purely related to
academic achievements. At central level, wwithin the DEO there appears to be inadequate conceptual
clarity of what Inclusive Education entails and activities generally are linked with special education.
A project approach by the stakeholders has reduced a sense of ownership and a learning process has
been inadequate at central, district or at school levels about these issues.
3                                      VCDP 2004                            01/02/2005



3.1.1.4 Feeder Hostel Programme: The BPEP programme attempted to invest in girl students as
future female teachers through the setting up of feeder hostels in remote areas. The findings of a
recent survey show that the problems of the programme are associated with inefficient dissemination
of infonration regarding FHs, unequal representation from target districts, insufficient budget for
scholarships and hostel management, inadequate physical facilities (toilets, water, rooms and
compound wall), little attention from DEO in terms of supervision, monitoring and evaluation. These
issues were compounded by the lack of awareness of FH girls about their role to serve as primary
school teachers especially in remote areas, unconditional enrolment of the girls into FHs, and absence
of practice of appointing then as teachers inmmediately after graduation (Literature Review on Studies on Girls
anid llomiieni Ediucationi in Nepal, 2001).
3.1.1..5 Expenditure tracking survey: The Expenditure Tracking Survey of Primary, Lower
Secondary and Secondary Schools, carried out by the Office of the Financial Comptroller General in
June 2002 found that the fund flow of the budget from the Ministry to the Department was extremely
slow. The budget allocations made to schools were actually spent either by the Ministry or by the
District Education Office. Government grants constituted about 70 per cent of the total annual income
of the schools surveyed. This study confirms the urgent need to redesign current govemment
structures and decision-making processes.
The study reported that schools were collecting fees, although illegal, from primary level students as
well. Field visits during the social analysis confinred this. In fact, several Dalit children, girls, parents
and NGO staff identified this 'unofficial fees' as a primary cause for increase in drop out rates.
Innovative strategies for accountability and transparency are necessary as at present only the DEO and
the accountant are informed about the programme and the available budget. Community involvement,
with specific focus on the inclusion of excluded groups, is essential for increasing transparency and
accountability at local levels.
3.2   Review of EFA Core Document
3.2.1 Strengths of the EFA Core Document
Policy and strategy framework responsive to EFA goals and vision for ensuring access and equity
Targeted interventions for social inclusion of girls, Dalits, ethnic and linguistic minorities and
other marginalised groups
Decentralisation of school management through community schools
Building partnerships with stakeholders
*    Gender mainstreanmiing
3.2.1.1 Strengths from  gender and social exclusion aspects: Eliminating gender disparity is
highlighted by the guiding principles that emphasize gender mainstreaming and social inclusion as
primary approaches. There are reference to issues of social equity and mitigating social cultural
barriers in the principles and strategies for implementation. Specific reference to inclusion of women
in key progranime components, in particular the increased recruitment of female teachers, special
provisions for inclusion of girls, gender sensitive curriculum, incentive schemes and partnerships for
social mobilisation for awareness raising indicate positive recognition of existing disparities. There is
commitment to follow the recommendations of the gender audit carried out by DoE that are presented
in the 10-point action plan. The first comprehensive study on incentives and scholarships has been
initiated. The conmmitment to establishing criteria and distribution mechanisms based on the findings,
are positive steps towards the development of a more realistic and equitable design.
3.2.1.2 Strengths for Dalit and Janajati and bi-lingual aspects: Provision of scholarships for
indigenous peoples becoming gradually compulsory, increase in special programmes for indigenous
peoples and other disadvantaged groups and encouraging mother tongue education programmes are
some strengths of the core document. Meeting the learning needs of all children including indigenous
peoples and linguistic minorities using locally available materials, to produce educational materials
and promote altemative and flexible schooling to address the needs of marginalised children are other
excellent elements supportive of social inclusion. That 20 percent of curricular content is to be based
4                                       VCDP 2004                             01/02/2005



on local contexts to reflect diversity of local cultures is to be highly appreciated. The document has
recognised the need for social mobilisation programmes through awareness raising and empowerment
for marginalised groups, and the need to make the curriculum relevant to children's daily lives. It
supports the shift from teacher-centred to child-centred teaching methods and promotes targeted
programmes such as incentives and scholarships for marginalised groups. Extra resources are to be
given to schools that increase enrolment of children from indigenous conmmunities and priority is to
be given to indigenous and disadvantaged communities when recruiting teachers.
3.2.2 Challenges
A number of challenges from a gender, Dalit and Janajati perspective, were identified:
No compelling vision and a lack of conceptual clarity: A review of the EFA Core Document fiom a
gender and social inclusion perspective reveals that conceptual clarity on gender and mainstreaming and
inclusive education is still lacking and a rights based approach is absent. There is no compelling vision of
how to deliver on proposals, with no detailed discussion of the reasons that children from vulnerable
communities are not attending school or how their poor attendance can be practically addressed.
Unclear Modalities: There are no details on the 'how' of the operationalisation despite frequent
references to social mobilisation, community participation, collaboration and participatory planning to
improve inclusion, but there is no insight into 'which' community members as language used
throughout the document is gender-neutral. The EFA progranime does not introduce specific
mechanisms to address the extensive discrimination faced by Dalit children in school and classrooms,
which requires specific procedures for punishment to teachers and others to ensure such impunity is
confronted and stopped.
Absence of or insufficient priority on women, Dalit, and Janajati representation at all
management levels: Inclusion of representatives from these vulnerable groups is minimal in school
management structures. Women's representation is low. SMCs have almost no representation of men
and none of women from the Dalit families. Research has indicated that high caste Brahmin men run
most SMCs. Given that the role of SMCs is now key to effective management of community schools,
and equity is a core goal, the document does not spell out a clear strategy to include representatives
from marginalized communities. There are no indigenous people's representatives in Programme
Executive Board (PEB). The involvement of representatives from indigenous communities in the
management of education at a regional or community level is not addressed in the Core Document.
Commitment to make primary education free is weak and non-committal: No indication is
provided of a time frame or results to ensure more girls, Dalit and Janajati children join school and
complete their education. There is strong field evidence that primary education is not 'free' but
schools demand sums of money frequently for various school activities. Girls suffer in particular.
Participatory planning and evaluation: Participatoty planninlg and evalitation appears mere
rhetoric as primary stakeholders, specifically women and children are not included in equal numbers
and with equal status, only senior Government officials are proposed as members of the national
committee. M&E design is typically top down with far too many layers in the management and
reporting structures resulting in confusion, duplication and poor accountability.
Absence of specific actions for improved incentives management for Dalits: While several
scholarship projects by govemment and donors are offered for Dalit children, it is well known that
these do not reach many of the intended beneficiaries. The numbers of scholarships are far less than
the number of students and the amount is inequitably distributed. There is rampant misuse with elite
and higher caste authorities using funds for other purposes. Dalit parents have poor access to
information on procedures and rights to incentives and do not claim their due.
Insufficient emphasis on ethnic teachers speaking indigenous languages: There is an insufficient
emphasis on ethnic teachers speaking indigenous languages. The importance of local knowledge and
ability in locally spoken languages, is not addressed. There is no mention of locally recruited or ethnic
teachers and the figures and goals of local teachers coming from indigenous communities are not
explicit enough.
5                                      VCDP 2004                             01/02/2005



Lack of clarity on the difference between mother tongue and bilingual education: A lack of
clarity on the difference between mother tongue and bilingual education is demonstrated by the insufficient
focus on precisely what kinds of linguistic policies may be suitable for Nepal's indigenous communities.
Deeper institutional bias: Indigenous peoples invariably come at the end of the list of disadvantaged
communities indicating a deeper institutional bias against indigenous peoples and reluctance to
acknowledge that they now make up around 35 percent of Nepal's total population. Their issues
appear to be add-ons rather than being mainstreamed within overall policy directives.
No explicit budget for the development of indigenous communities and ethnic languages: There
is no mention in the financial details of funding allocated to indigenous peoples and the provision for
education in the mother tongue and no explicit mention of funding for extending bilingual education
initiatives
3.2.3 Budget analysis
Given the cuiTent rate of progress in enrolment in primary education, it is unlikely that Nepal will
achieve universal access to primary education by 2015. If the existing trend continues, about 89
percent of all appropriate-age children will enjoy access to primary schooling in 2015. (United Nations
Coiuntitrl Tea in, Progress Repor t 2002: Alillenniuiit Development Goals, Nepal). EFA (2004-09) has estimated a total budget of
US$ 815 million. Including estimated regular expenditures, the total government contribution for
EFA would be US$ 536 million (66 percent). The remaining US$ 279 million (34 percent) are to be
covered through donor support. Nearly one-third (32.3 percent) of the total budget is allocated for
school-feeding programme.
Programmes expected to contribute directly to increase inclusive education and social access to
schooling for the deprived have 5-8 percent e.g. scholarship (5 percent), non-formal/literacy (4
percent), women education (4 percent), free textbooks (8 percent). With more than one-third share,
improving quality of education is given high priority. Life skills in the curriculum, is being introduced
to contextualize the leaming. Reducing illiteracy includes women literacy programme, out of school
children progranume, and skill training. Eliminating gender disparity provides scholarship and other
incentives to girls and Dalits and EFA has received an allocation of 8 percent, an increase from the 5
percent in BPEP. Under the present budget scenario, this component shares about five percent in total
BPE sector budget whereas in EFA, share of this component would be over eight percent in total
(including agreed progranuies). While the increase has to be appreciated, this is a very limited
resource for addressing the EFA priority goal of reducing gender and social disparity.
2.   THE PARAMETERS OF SOCIAL EXCLUSION IN NEPAL: BASELINE DATA ON
WOMEN, DALIT, JANAJATI AND DISADVANTAGED GROUPS
4.1  Barriers to social inclusion
Barriers to social inclusion in Nepal include gender-based social stratification, which in tum must be
placed in the prevailing ethnic, and caste based hierarchies that structure economic and social
relationships in Nepal. This defines how the lives of girls and boys, men and women will be shaped
according to the caste and ethnic groups they are born in, their religion and the location of their
community and the rules and nomis that these social structures define. These social structures govem
all spheres of an individual's daily life. In education, children in Nepal are not able to attend school
on account of four main barriers: economic, physical/mental, geographical and social reasons.
4.1.1 Economic barriers: Nepal is predominantly an agricultural country, drawing about 40 percent
of its Gross Domestic Product from this sector with approximately 85 percent of its population still
earning their living from farming. The annual per capita income of Nepal is now USD $240 and
around 42 percent of the population are estimated to be living in poverty. The majority of the
population is rural-based, where poverty is at its worst, particularly in the mid-western and far-
westem regions of the country which are beset by the double problem of continuing food shortages
and the ongoing impact of the State-Maoist conflict. Given the social stratification in Nepal, women
6                                     VCDP 2004                            01/02/2005



and girls are often the first victims of resource poor households. A woman's share in household assets
and income (and even basic food security) is far more uncertain than a man's. Nepal Living Standard
Survey data indicates that female-headed households are poorer than male-headed households.
The poverty level among the upper social castes (Newars, Brahmins and Yadavs) is generally much
lower than that of the groups that are lower in the social ladder. The Dalits have poverty levels as high
as 65-68 percent. They live five years less than the average non-Dalit Nepali citizen; collectively own
less than one percent of farm land; and have an appallingly low literacy rate of 10 percent for men and
3.2 percent for women, compared to the national rate of over 50 percent.
For every HDI indicator, Janajati groups fall below the national average and well below that for the
Brahmins, Chhetris and Newars but there is considerable variation in the welfare status of different
Janajati groups. Among the more disadvantaged Janajati groups with large populations are the Tharu,
Tamang and Kham Magars, along with 16 other smaller groups.
4.1.2 Geographical barriers: Nepal is one of the poorest and most mountainous countries in the
world with great diversity in terrain that presents a range of challenges for access and infrastructure.
Significant geographical variations mirror the existing income poverty differentials. The HDI for
urban areas (0.616) far outstrips that for rural areas (0.446), because of far better access to services,
resources and opportunities. Similarly, there are significant differences among ecological zones. The
HDI for mountains (0.378) is well below that for the hills (0.51). The broad scattering of communities
in the mountains sharply limits access to services and resources and severely disadvantages people
who live there. Human development in the hills is higher than in the Terai (and the national average).
The high concentration districts of Hill Dalits are Surkhet, Kailali and Kaski and Siraha, and Saptari
for Terai Dalits. Gender based development indicators are low in almost all the districts with Kailali
having a female literacy of merely 15.27 and male literacy of 55.75 and Saptari with a female literacy
of 13.3 percent and male literacy at 53.3 percent (NHDR 1998). The central and eastern regions of the
country have the highest proportion of indigenous peoples, but the data overwhelmingly indicates that
Janajatis primarily occupy the hilly and mountainous regions of Nepal, and that these districts are
often remote and accessible only by foot. All available data in Nepal suggest that poverty is more
rampant, deeper and severe in rural (as compared to urban) areas.
4.1.3 Barriers for children with special needs: Children with disability are the most visible group,
from amongst the MoES definition of disadvantaged people that have been targeted for special needs
education and are amongst the most excluded from access to school and education. Disability, class
and gender discrimination, extreme poverty, inadequate access to health care, lack of access to free
education and social exclusion all contribute to the hard ships faced by many children. The situation
analysis of disability in Nepal has revealed that 68.2 percent of total disabled have no education (aMfG
& UNICEF 2000).
4.1.4 Barriers caused by Maoist conllict: For the present plan, and for the successful
implementation of the NEFAP 2004-2009 progran-une, understanding the effects and implications of
the Maoist insurgency on Nepal's education system is essential. Hundreds of schools in several
districts have shut down due to damaged infrastructure, capture of the premises, fear, abduction or
death of teachers and students. 3,000 teachers have been displaced from district schools and some 700
private schools targeted by the Maoists have closed down since 1996. Children have been traumatised
and emotionally scarred by the effects of war and these are potentially more hanmful in the long run than
many physical injuries (CWIN, 2003).
The insurgency has had several consequences on the vulnerable and disadvantaged groups. Women
and girls' safety, livelihood and status have been negatively impacted especially with a sharp rise in
male migration. Dalits too have become a victim as both the conflicting parties and the general public
treat them with suspicion. Figures indicate that every third guerrilla is a woman and that 70 percent of
these women come from indigenous ethnic communities.
Given the far-reaching impact of the conflict it is unrealistic to speak of an 'inclusive education
system for all' in the present climate where whole districts are without more than a few functioning
schools. His Majesty's Govemment of Nepal's most immediate task must be to seek a speedy and
7                                      VCDP 2004                            01/02/2005



complete resolution to the present conflict and to depoliticise education and schools. Without this,
EFA may be implemented in Kathmandu but will remain a distant dream in most of rural Nepal.
4.2 Social barriers for vulnerable groups
The primary focus in this analysis is to understand the various barriers for exclusion of children from
school. Past research has concluded that social exclusion occurs due to inequality in:
*     Genider relatiots: How the given socio- cultural structures in a particular conmiunity define the
fonial and infonral rules for men and women, boys and girls for equal opportunity in decision-
making, access, control over resources and participation and the resultant impact on their social status.
*     Caste: How the social stratification by caste hierarchies prescribes the degree of exclusion and
inclusion of specific caste groups and the discriminatory nonns and practices that results
between higlher and lower castes.
*    Etlhnricity: How the norms and socially defined practices of dominant ethnic groups define the
degree and form of discriminatory practices towards disadvantaged Janajatis
*    Lanigutage: How communities speaking the dominant language have more possibility for
inclusion and the resultant inequality between Nepali speaking people and other minority
mother tongue languages.
4.2.1 Social dimensions of gender-based inequality: Though women of Nepal make up more than
half the total population and are the backbone of Nepal's agrarian economy, their access to productive
resources, education, infonration, training, and other opportunities is extremely limited. Their social
status and privileges are comparatively much lower than of men. Nepal's development indicators
starkly demonstrate this: Life expectancy of women is 52.4 as compared to 55.0 for men and adult
literacy is only 42.8 percent for women and 65 percent for men; Political participation of women at all
levels is negligible and women and girls continue to face gender based discrimination, violence and
abuse. Amongst Dalits, it is estimated that more than 98 percent of the Dalit women live in the rural
areas. Their literacy is much lower to that of Dalit men. Dalit women face triple discrimination in
their daily lives -as a woman, as a Dalit, and as a Dalit woman. Women's position relative to men in
the Tibeto-Burman ethnic groups and among the lower caste Hindus was much higher than among the
dominant high-caste Indo-Aryan groups (Bennett 2003). Janajati women are in the paradoxical role of being at
once oppressed by state and national forces yet relatively better off in terms of gender equality within their
own communiiities as compared to upper caste Hindu women. But education and literacy are particularly low
among Janajati women. Women and girls with disabilities in Nepalese society experience additional
discrimination because of their disabilities as they are exposed to greater risk of physical and sexual
abuse, denial of reproductive rights and reduced opportunity to enter marriage and family life. Apart
from birth affected disabilities, womlien and girls in Nepal also become disabled due to discriminatory
social and economic practices and issues of gender based violence.
4.2.2 Social exclusion of girls in education: Literacy rates for girls in rural areas are clearly lower
than urban areas due to many factors such as poverty, distance from schools, household labour and
early marriage. Factors responsible for dropout of girls are predominantly related to the family and
community, the school and the environment within the underlying gender based inequality and the
lower status of womiien and girls. During the past decade however, the proportion of girls' literacy
rates in rural areas has increased far more than in urban areas.
Nepal's geographical variation and the absence of gender sensitive employment structures bring vast
disparity in the presence of women teachers by location and number. Bajhang has the poorest teacher
related indicators (percent of female teachers, percent of trained and percent of female trained
teachers). Siraha has the lowest enrolment related indicators with high gender disparity and is
receiving merely Rs. 12,000 for girls' scholarship, which would suffice for just ten girl students
annually. The BPEP programme attempted to invest in girl students as future female teachers but
failed to produce the required cadre of local female teachers as envisioned.
4.2.3 Caste and ethnicity based social exclusion: The Dalits, as historically disadvantaged groups,
lag behind in their income and asset levels, in their education and other human development
indicators - and in the extent to which they are represented in the power structure. There are 205
8                                       VCDP 2004                             01/02/2005



existing practices of caste-based discrimination, prevalent against the Dalits that have been
documented. The national average Dalit literacy is only 23 percent (12 percent Dalit women and 33
percent men,) and only 30 percent of Dalit children go to school (Situational Analysis of Dalits in Nepal, 2002).
Findings indicate that Terai Dalits have lower literacy rate in comparison to their hill counterparts and
targeted literacy prograimmes are yet to be developed. The key challenges for inclusion of Dalit
children in primary schools has been a generalised approach that does not take into account the
specific constraints facing different groups of Dalits, the scale of educational support is too limited,
with insufficient scholarship funds. Investment has been scattered with poor application of lessons
learned in mainstream programmes and poor delivery of benefits, inefficient infonnation
dissemination and extreme poverty of many Dalit communities.
4.2.4 Social exclusion of Janajatis and linguistic minorities: Nepal's indigenous peoples are
disadvantaged, particularly regarding access to education, as most indigenous children do not speak
Nepali as their mother tongue. The main causes of dropout among Janajati girls and boys and children
from linguistic minority backgrounds are: the absence of a curriculum representative of the ethno-
linguistic composition of the nation; very few Janajati teachers speaking local languages who have the
trust of the students; linguistic barriers to school attendance and poverty of parents which leads
children to seek work rather than education.
It is a widespread belief among ethnic activists and rural villagers from indigenous conmmunities that
despite the countless legal provisions respecting their fundamental rights, an institutional inertia
regarding the complex and emotive issues of mother tongue education and access of minority
communities to government and power are inhibiting the realisation and implementation of these
rights. Indigenous people, particularly in rural areas are poorly serviced by infrastructure, have very
limited access to legal provisions to defend their rights and are intimidated by the very institutions
which are meant to represent and protect them.
4.2.5 Social exclusion due to special needs: Disability, class and gender discrimination, extreme
poverty, inadequate access to health care, lack of access to free education and social exclusion - all
contribute to the hard ships faced by many children with disabilities and their families in Nepal (G
Lansdown 2003). Children with disability are amongst the most excluded from access to school and
education. Only 2-3 percent of these children receive education in developing countries (UNDP 1996).
Those who do go to school are mostly in special schools run by NGOs and the private sector.
Mainstream schools and teachers are poorly equipped to include disabled children and provide the
required learning environment that would enable their inclusion.
Challenges for children with disabilities are poor access to education, poor quality institutional care
rather than community based holistic care, limited learning materials for children with special needs,
no orientation to parents and teachers on social inclusion issues and lack of address to the psycho-
social aspects of childreni witlh special needs.
4.3 Cumulative impact of varying types of social exclusion
Data from districts located in development regions that have a high proportion of caste based social
stratification or geographical barriers demonstrate how the presence of multiple layers of exclusion
(e.g. income poor, Dalit, Janajati and disabled woman in a rural area, in a remote and difficult
geographical location) can contribute to poor development and gender related indicators as compared
to national indicators. - e.g. female literacy in Siraha is 26.8 percent and Jumla 16. 7 when the
national average is 42.4 percent; NER gender gap in Siraha is 46.5 when in Nepal it is 11.8.
Conclusion: Lessons learned from previous initiatives have enabled the EFA Core Document to set
out a promising programme for more inclusive education, including targeted interventions for social
inclusion of girls, Dalits, ethnic and linguistic minorities and other marginalised groups and
decentralisation of school management through community schools. Despite considerable progress
and positive developments, due to an absence of reliable data and an institutional reluctance on the
part of earlier governments to implement refonrs that fundamentally address structural inequality, a
number of groups have been excluded from mainstream education policies in Nepal. The excluded
groups, who face multiple levels of barriers, are predominantly indigenous peoples, occupational
9                                      VCDP 2004                             01/02/2005



castes, girls and women. To address the existing challenges is an essential prerequisite for achieving
the stated objective of social inclusion in primary education as set out in the NEFA Core Document.
Recommendations to support social inclusion are presented below.
3.    RECOMMENDATIONS
After several consultations with stakeholders,4 local, national and intemational experts, and following
a review of the primary and secondary literature, a set of strong recommendations have been devised
for ways to guarantee the social inclusion and access of vulnerable people in Nepal's forthcoming
EFA prograimme. The following set of recommendations offers targeted support and a framework for
social change and transfonration for various socially disadvantaged groups in order to improve social
inclusion in primary education.
5.1   National policies and directives
5.1.1 The Aide Me,nzoire of December 5, 2003, prepared by the Appraisal Mission for the EFA
Progran-une, contains several important recoimmendations that are already under discussion.
The social analysis team would like to reiterate four of these recommendations for the VCDP,
as follows:
(i)  Increasing non-salary recurrent budgets to schools through block grants: We further
recommend that the capacity building block grants be tied to specific measures to
increase SMC accountability for social inclusion in primary schools with support from
VDCs. Funds to VDCs/municipalities must also be tied to the grants made by them to
community schools for social inclusion. Please see the discussion below    on the
conditionality for block grants.
(ii)  Establishing  two women teacher posts in every primary school: We further
recommend that in areas with significant non-Nepali speaking population, at least
one of these female teachers must speak the local language. To implement this
recommendation, regulations, special provisions and guidelines for two women teachers
in every primary school needs to be developed. This can be done through MoES
collaboration with the Gender Affirmative Action Plan currently being developed by the
Ministry of General Administration (MOGA) and the high Level Committee on
Affirmative Action recently established by the Prime Minister.
(iii) Restricting the role of the Teacher Service Commission (TSC): The role of the TSC
is to be limited to teacher licensing only, with allfuture teacher appointmenits to be made
by school managemnent commnnittees (SMCs). Additionally, support from local community
groups is essential for the identification of suitable local women teachers, who are
bilingual where necessary (see 5.2.4 EMIS disaggregated data belolv). Good governance
practices for the fair and representative selection of teachers will require monitoring
through tracking and social audits by conmmunity groups.
(iv)  Gradually increase the role of the private sector in text book printing and
distribution: We also recommend that private sector philanthropic support be mobilised
for: (i) educational radio broadcasts in local languages, (ii) establishing special
relationship or "adoption" of local schools by corporate groups, and (iii) establish
"twinning" arrangements whereby better off private schools offer support to local
On January 8, 2004, three focussed meetings were held with key national stakeholders from the activist communities representing women,
Janajatis and Dalits. On January 9, representatives from these three groups participated in a high-level consultation with Govemment
officials of the MoES/DoE along with other relevant ministries and l/NGOs to discuss inclusion issues and the proposed recommendations.
From all the suggestions and comments niade by the stakeholder groups, the most relevant and practical recommendations focused
specilically on improving the leaming experience of children are included here.
10                                        VCDP 2004                                01/02/2005



schools. The selection of private schools to be thus supported must be based on the
review of their practices of social inclusion.
5.1.2 Two further important recommendations have already been incorporated in the MoES Core
Document and are awaiting implementation. The social analysis team recommends their
immediate implementation:
(i)  Implementation of Ten Action Points outlined in the Gender Audit of the Education
Sector to integrate and mainstream gender: The priority action points are: (i)
establishing accountability of the relevant Government officials to follow up on the
implementation of Ten Action Points at all levels, (ii) advocate strategic changes in
structure and accountability of the Womene's Education Section (WES) to enable the
establishment of an effective Gender Unit and Social Inclusion Unit. The team further
recommends a merging of the two sections, Special Needs Education Section and WES,
so that this unit can then be accountable for gender, Dalit, Janajati and disabled
mainstreaming in all sections of MoES and address issues of children with diverse needs
rather than only focussing on programmes for one socially excluded group.
This unit could also be given the responsibility to develop a modality on sanctions
against caste, ethnic or gender discrimination in schools for teachers or students.
The MoES Monitoring and Inspection section has a grievance cell, which is the
responsible unit to deal with such complaints after they are filed. To enforce sanctions
against discriminatory practices and behaviour the following steps are necessary:
*    initiate dialogue with teacher representatives, civil society, and members from
National Women Conmiission, National Dalit Commission, Nepal Federation of
Nationalities, National Human Rights Coimmission and National Federation of
Disabled-Nepal and education staff to review and develop policies, directives and
mechanisms for sanctions against discriminatory behaviour and practices by
school authorities, teachers or students.
*    inclusion of provisions in Education Rules and Regulations for measures against
discriminatory behaviour and practices. (refer 5.2 Core recommendations for
actions at the village level)
An existing Community Support Programme with a budget head of NRs. 23 crore
rewards schools, which have 30 percent Dalit enrolment and/or 50 percent girls. The
reward is equivalent to the salary of one teacher. These practices need to be strengthened.
(ii)  Curriculum revision: This work is ongoing and the curriculum of Grades 1-12 is up for
review in 2004. The revision and preparation of the new curriculum must be conducted
in close consultation with NGOs and the Nepal Federation of Nationalities, National
Dalit Comunission, Women Commission and representative organisation of the disabled,
to ensure that social inclusion aspects are integrated throughout the approach and text. It
is essential to include positive images of women, Dalits and ethnic minorities and to
acknowledge and celebrate the cultural, ethnic and religious diversity of Nepal
throughout the curriculum. A major focus of this new  curriculum  will be the
development of a module based on intemational and national best practices on the use of
bilingual teaching to facilitate home to school transition and academic success for non-
Nepali speaking children.
11                                    VCDP 2004                            01/02/2005



5.2  Core recommendations for actions at the village level5
The team conducting the social analysis have prepared a detailed set of recommendations in the draft
Vulnerable Connmunity Development Plan. The four core recommendations are presented here.
However like the whole NEFA programme, our whole approach rests on the development of a stron2
School Management Committee that is accountable to all members of the community served by the
school - whether they be rich or poor, male or female and with a special commitment to include
children from Dalit communities and children who do not speak Nepali as their mother tongue. All
of the recommendations below are premised on the NEFA commitment to building strong accountable
SMCs with specific strategies for implementation modalities at the village level.
5.2.1 Local support to SMCS from community groups to implement NEFAP
Conditionalities for SMCs to receive capacity building block grants must be established i.e.
grants should only be given once SMCs take the initiative to establish fonnal agreements
(MoUs) with community-level women's and children's groups or other relevant local
organisations. These community level groups need to be assessed based on criteria developed
about their demonstrated work on social inclusion issues.
Building on the School Improvement Plan and the District Education Plan pilot projects in five
districts, SMC's, in co-operation with VDCs/municipalities, must initiate partnerships with
community groups to carry out the following actions:
(i)  Increase social diversity in SMCs: advocate for the increase of women, Dalit and
ethnic minority representation in SMCs, preferably up to 50 percent. Membership of a
minimum of two women must be ensured.
(ii)  Social audit to enable coimmiunity members to be more informed on:
*    access of targeted children to resources, scholarships and incentives
*    discriminatory behaviour and practices by school authority, teachers and children
(iii)  Documentation of local knowledge for curriculum development:
*    collect and document local infonration on the history and culture of Dalits, and
ethnic and linguistic minorities
*    develop a suitable curriculum for using local languages in the home-school transition
(iv)  Identification of local women teachers: assisting SMCs to identify and recruit local
women teachers.
(v)  Social mapping of school catchment area.
(vi)  Community Management Information System (CMIS): tracking school absenteeism
and drop out rates by gender, caste and ethnicity of children from socially marginalised
communities
(vii) Advocacy against discriminatory practices: raising awareness and advocacy to local
conmrunities on national policies and directives for sanctions against discriminatory
behaviour and practices
(viii) Capacity building: sensitising school authorities, teachers and children on social
inclusion issues
5.2.2 Develop modalities to reduce discrimination
(i)  Report and monitor sanctions against discriminatory practices and behaviour:
Social audit by coimmunity level groups would identify discriminatory behaviour and
See figure.
12                                     VCDP 2004                            01/02/2005



practices by school authorities, teachers and children in schools. These will be reported
to the relevant grievance cell for action and then be monitored for implementation.
(ii)   Honouring good practices in social inclusion: acknowledge and honour schools,
teachers, students and others who have demonstrated initiative and good practices in
social inclusion by:
(iii)
*    developing criteria for good practices and informing SMCs on selection process
*    arranging for wide media coverage on honoured persons
5.2.3 Home to school language transition for non-Nepali speaking children
(i)  Local groups should receive modest support from block grants or from the National
Dalit Cominission or the National Janajati Foundationt to enable them to collect and
document infonnation on the history and culture of socially marginalised groups and
include this in the curriculum and text books
(ii)  By employing bilingual women teachers from the local community, school-going
children attaining fluency in both their mother tongue and Nepali, which will naturally
lead to an increased acceptance of ethnic cultures and minority languages in wider
Nepali society. Pre-service and in-service training will have to be provided to these local
teachers as per need depending on their qualifications. Training in the module on
"Using bilingual teaching to facilitate home to school transition and academic
success for non-Nepali speaking children" would be offered to these teachers in the
local area by MoES approved NGOs.
5.2.4 EMIS disaggregated data
(i)  EMIS must collect data disaggregated by gender, disability, caste (Dalit/non-Dalit) and
ethnicity (Janajati/non-Janajati). At the school level, there may be need for more detailed
classification of categories. These can be aggregated into user -friendly key categories
for the Flash Reports.
(ii)  Use CMIS data collected by local groups under MoU with SMCs for baseline
information in the collection of disaggregated data (see 5.2.1 (vi) above)
13                                    VCDP 2004                            01/02/2005



Fi,-ttre: Prioritised Recommeiidatioiis for Comniuiiitv Level Actions
oc ganstoS        se
(  o implementation of critical)
<    ~elements below    /
I~~~~~~~~~~          a
Srong                   buidn
social          vocacyv
accountale      against           /Icese\
~~~~ <      SMC  v   \   dis~~~~~~~~criminato  sca
EMIS data   =|\                          \/
dsaggregated b 
gender, ethnicity                        \/ocal sppor to
0            < and castev          < a7d                   SMCs from
-- S -1 CMIS c~~~~~~~~~~~~~ommunity groupso
\ 4     ~~Goal:   L     >    kripeetto       tt
Social      g/\             EA 
Inclusion in   >,
>  Primary   X      g|             ,7
_,    ~~~Schools      mappn of    l    lclkowledge
/       \      school     1  ~ ~~~ for currnculum
/               1  catchme~~~~~~~~~~  mnt  developmnt
lagae transit~iOscon       \eces
prgame for non- 
Neaispeakingg
\           D~~~~~evelop policy
\          a~~~~~nd modalities to\
XL          ~~~~~~discrimi'nati'on \ /
/ Integrate \  ~~~~~~~~~      and strengthen 
lcal nweg                               ECD centres 
into nationa                                 /
curriculum at   noc 
dicimn             demonstrated
~ disc~~rinactices       good practices, in
beahcsandi\ social inclusio"n
14                            VCDP 2004                    01/02/2005



I
i
I



