                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                          Report No: ICR00001519



            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                         (IDA-39560 IDA-H3400)



                                      ON A

                                     CREDIT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 34.5 MILLION
                          (US$ 50 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                    AND AN

                           ADDITIONAL FINANCING GRANT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 38.7 MILLION
                          (US$60 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO

                                     NEPAL

                                     FOR AN

                           EDUCATION FOR ALL PROJECT



                                 November 1, 2010



Human Development Sector
South Asia Region
                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective January 31, 2010)

                               Currency Unit = NPR
                               NPR 1.00 = US$ 0.01
                              US$ 1.00 = NPR 73.87

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                                  July 15 – July 14


                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB      Asian Development Bank
BPEP     Basic and Primary Education Project
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CIP      Core Investment Program
CMS      Community-Managed School
CSSP     Community School Support Project
DANIDA   Danish International Development Assistance
DEO      District Education Office
DfID     Department for International Development (UK)
DOE      Department of Education
DP       Development Partner
EC       European Commission
ECD      Early Childhood Development
EFA      Education for All
EMIS     Education Management Information System
FCGO     Financial Comptroller General’s Office
FM       Financial Management
FMR      Financial Monitoring Report
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GPI      Gender Parity Index
GON      Government of Nepal
IDA      International Development Association
ISN      Interim Strategy Note
JICA     Japanese International Cooperation Agency
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MDG      Millennium Development Goal
MOE      Ministry of Education
MOF      Ministry of Finance
NER      Net Enrolment Rate
NPR      Nepalese Rupee
NPV      Net Present Value
PCF      Per Capita Funding
PDO      Project Development Objective
PFM      Public Finance Management
PRS      Poverty Reduction Strategy
PRSC     Poverty Reduction Strategy Credit
RP       Resource Person
SGP      School Grants Program
SIP      School Improvement Plan
SLC      School Leaving Certificate
SMCs     School Management Committees
SWAp     Sector Wide Approach
TEP      Teacher Education Project
TSC      Teacher Service Commission
UNICEF   United Nations Children’s Education Fund
UNESCO   United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
VDCP     Vulnerable Communities Development Plan
WFP      World Food Program

                            Vice President: Isabel M. Guerrero
                          Country Director: Susan G. Goldmark
                           Sector Manager: Amit Dar
                     Project Team Leaders: Rajendra Dhoj Joshi/Venkatesh Sundararaman
                         ICR Team Leader: Huma Waheed
                                                        NEPAL
                                                Education for All Project



                                                          CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 4
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 10
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 16
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 17
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 18
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 19
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 21
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 23
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 26
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 29
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 31
  Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 33
  Annex 7. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders…………... ....35
  Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 41
  MAP
                                           Data Sheet
A. Basic Information
Country:                Nepal                     Project Name:             Education for All Project
Project ID:             P074633                   L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-39560,IDA-H3400
ICR Date:               11/01/2010                ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                            GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                       Borrower:
                                                                            NEPAL
Original Total
                        XDR 34.5M                 Disbursed Amount:         XDR 73.2M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 73.2M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Department of Education
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:
 Asian Development Bank (ADB)
 Finland Ministry of Foreign Affairs
 UK Department for International Development (DFID)
 UNICEF
 DANIDA
 Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
 Australian Agency for International Development (AusAID)
 European Commission (EC)

B. Key Dates
                                                                                   Revised / Actual
      Process              Date              Process           Original Date
                                                                                       Date(s)
Concept Review:         08/15/2003     Effectiveness:             08/27/2004           08/27/2004
Appraisal:              03/08/2004     Restructuring(s):                               12/06/2007
Approval:               07/08/2004     Mid-term Review:           12/30/2006           05/04/2007
                                       Closing:                   01/31/2010           01/31/2010

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                         Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                      Moderate
Bank Performance:                                 Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                             Moderately Satisfactory
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
           Bank                  Ratings               Borrower                            Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory            Government:                        Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                                    Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                                    Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
     Implementation                            QAG Assessments (if
                               Indicators                                                  Rating
      Performance                                      any)
 Potential Problem Project                           Quality at Entry
                             No                                                Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):                                (QEA):
 Problem Project at any time                         Quality of Supervision
                             No                                             None
(Yes/No):                                            (QSA):
DO rating before
                             Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                        Original               Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Adult literacy/non-formal education                                      10                       3
Other social services                                                     5                       7
Pre-primary education                                                    10                       7
Primary education                                                        70                      59
Sub-national government administration                                    5                      24


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Education for all                                                         33                     33
Gender                                                                    17                     17
Indigenous peoples                                                        17                     17
Participation and civic engagement                                        17                     17
Rural services and infrastructure                                         16                     16

E. Bank Staff
         Positions                          At ICR                                 At Approval
Vice President:              Isabel M. Guerrero                    Praful C. Patel
Country Director:            Susan G. Goldmark                     Kenichi Ohashi
Sector Manager:              Amit Dar                              Michelle Riboud
Project Team Leader:         Venkatesh Sundararaman                Rajendra Dhoj Joshi
ICR Team Leader:             Huma Ali Waheed
ICR Primary Author:          Huma Ali Waheed
                             Saurav Dev Bhatta


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project's long-term development objective is to improve access to and benefit from basic and
primary education for children, especially girls and children from disadvantaged groups, and
from literacy programs for poor adults.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO for the Project was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                 Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                                        Formally
                                                  Values (from                           Achieved at
   Indicator            Baseline Value                                  Revised
                                                    approval                            Completion or
                                                                      Target Values
                                                  documents)                            Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Net Enrolment Rate (%)
                                               Overall: 96%
                                               Female: 96%
                                               Male: 96%
                  Overall:82.4%                                                       Overall: 93.7%
                                               Dalits: NA
Value             Female: 76%                                                         Female: 92.6%
                                               Janajatis: NA
quantitative or   Male: 88.7%                                                         Male: 94.7%
Qualitative)      Dalits: NA                                                          Dalits: NA
                                               No targets for Dalit
                  Janajatis: NA                                                       Janajatis: NA
                                               and Janajati
                                               enrolments were set
                                               at appraisal
Date achieved     06/30/2002                   06/30/2009                         12/31/2009
                  (98% achievement)
Comments          Although NER of Dalit and Janajati subgroups was not availble, absolute enrolment
(incl. %          numbers showed substantial increase.
achievement)      Dalits: 421,605 (2004) to 979,975 (2009)
                  Janajati: 952,872 (2004) to 1,890,078 (2009)
Indicator 2 :     Survival rates to Grade 5
                                                                                  Overall:84.3%
Value             Overall: 67.7%
                                                                                  Female: 83.7%
quantitative or   Female: 76.1%                Overall: 85%
                                                                                  Male: 84.9%
Qualitative)      Male: 59.5%
Date achieved     06/30/2002                   06/30/2009                             12/31/2009
Comments
                  (99% achievement)
(incl. %
                  Disaggregated data on survival rates of Dalits and Janajatis was not available.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Learning achievement outcomes (grade 5)
                                                                                       Overall: 44.5%
                  Overall: 52%                                                         This value is an
Value             Female: 52.2%                                                        average of test scores
quantitative or   Male: 52.7%                    Overall: 60%                          in 4 subjects from a
Qualitative)      Dalit: NA                                                            grade 5 learning
                  Janajati: NA                                                         assessment
                                                                                       conducted in 2008.
Date achieved     06/30/2003                     06/30/2009                            08/31/2008
Comments          Due to the methodolgies used, the actual score reported above is not comparable with
(incl. %          the baseline for this indicator and thus can not be reliably used to measure
achievement)      improvements in student learning. Disaggregated data on Dalits/Janajatis not available.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                 Original Target                        Actual Value
                                                                       Formally
                                                   Values (from                          Achieved at
   Indicator             Baseline Value                             Revised Target
                                                     approval                          Completion or
                                                                        Values
                                                    documents)                          Target Years
Indicator 1 :     Share of out of school children
                  Girls: 24%                   Girls: 4%
Value             Dalits: NA
(quantitative     Janajatis: NA                No targets were set                  Girls: 7.4%
or Qualitative)   Other disadvantaged          for the other sub-
                  groups: NA                   groups
Date achieved     06/30/2000                   12/31/2009                           12/31/2009
                  From a baseline of 0.87 in 2004, Nepal has been able to achieve near gender parity at
Comments
                  0.98.
(incl. %
                  As far as the other sub-groups are concerned, an informed assessment can not be made
achievement)
                  due to lack of reliable data
Indicator 2 :     Number/share of schools with required number of classrooms of acceptable standard
                                                                                    > 14,000 new
                                                                                    classrooms were
                                                                                    constructed and
                                                                                    >6500 were
Value
                                                                                    rehabilitated in four
(quantitative     52.5%                        82%
                                                                                    years of
or Qualitative)
                                                                                    implementation
                                                                                    against targets of
                                                                                    8000 and 6000
                                                                                    respectively.
Date achieved     06/30/2001                   12/31/2009                           12/31/2009
Comments
                  Information on required number of classrooms was not available. However, physical
(incl. %
                  targets for construction of new and rehabilitation of old classrooms were exceeded
achievement)
Indicator 3 :     Number/share of schools with safe drinking water and girls# toilet
Value                                                                                  8000 schools were
(quantitative     59.4% / 37.5%                90% / 80%                               provided clean
or Qualitative)                                                                        drinking water,
                                                                                      toilets and a fence
                                                                                      against a target of
                                                                                      5000 for the Program
                                                                                      period.
                                                                                      As a proportion of
                                                                                      total schools, 55%
                                                                                      have access to clean
                                                                                      drinking water and
                                                                                      62% have a toilet.
Date achieved     06/30/2001                   12/31/2009                             12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %          The share of schools with these facilities is not known.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     Number/share of new entrants at grade 1 with ECD experience
Value
(quantitative     8%                           60%                                    49.9%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2001                   12/31/2009                             12/31/2009
Comments
                  The target set at appraisal was not met; however, the progress made during the five
(incl. %
                  years of Program implementation has been substantial.
achievement)
Indicator 5 :     Number/share of accredited schools
                                                                                      A total of 1757
                                                                                      schools have been
Value                                                                                 accredited.
                  Grade 1: 0%                   Grade 1: 50%
(quantitative                                                                         Grade 1: 6%
                  Grade 2: 0%                   Grade 2: 10%
or Qualitative)                                                                       Grade 2: 49%
                                                                                      Grade 3: 41%
                                                                                      Grade 4: 4%
Date achieved     06/30/2004                    12/31/2009                            12/31/2009
Comments          During implementation, grade levels were changed. 1757 schools have been accredited
(incl. %          on a scale of 1 thru 4. The percentages reflect the proportion of the total accredited at
achievement)      each grade.
Indicator 6 :     Share/number of teachers fully trained
Value
(quantitative     15%                          99%                                    79%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2001                     12/31/2009                             12/31/2009
Comments          This indicator relates only to Government teachers. Teachers hired by the community
(incl. %          are required to be certified. Also, this indicator does not include teachers who are
achievement)      partially trained.
                  Number of schools providing transitional language support to non-nepali speaking
Indicator 7 :
                  students
                                                                                        Government statistics
                                                                                        report transitional
Value
                                                                                        support being
(quantitative     n/a                            300
                                                                                        provided in 17,341
or Qualitative)
                                                                                        classrooms across
                                                                                        Nepal
Date achieved     06/30/2004                   12/31/2009                            12/31/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 8 :     Share of sub-sector non-salary budget transferred to schools as grants
Value
(quantitative     8%                           60%                                   77%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2004                   12/31/2009                            12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %          End of Project target was exceeded by a substantial margin.
achievement)
Indicator 9 :     Share/number of schools completing SIPs
                                                                                     Almost all schools
                                                                                     are preparing SIPs
Value
                                                                                     since it is mandatory
(quantitative     8000                         18000
                                                                                     for receiving funds
or Qualitative)
                                                                                     for textbooks,
                                                                                     scholarships etc.
Date achieved     06/30/2004                   12/31/2009                            12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 10 :    Share/number of schools receiving textbooks on time
Value
(quantitative     n/a                          18,000/72%                            55.8%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2004                   12/31/2009                            12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %          On time was defined as within the first week of the beginning of the academic session
achievement)
Indicator 11 :    Share/number of schools completing social audits
Value
(quantitative     0%                           75%                                   83.2%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     06/30/2004                   12/31/2009                            12/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 12 :    Number of schools transferred to community management
                                                                                     8000 schools
Value                                                                                transferred to
(quantitative     1000 (Estimate)              10,000                                community
or Qualitative)                                                                      management on a
                                                                                     voluntary basis
Date achieved     06/30/2004                   12/31/2009                            03/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 13 :    % GDP channeled to primary education budget
Value
(quantitative     1.9%                         2.3% in 2009                       2.99%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/31/2001                   07/31/2009                         07/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 14 :    Education budget as % age of national budget
Value
(quantitative     15.2%                        17.5% in 2009                      16.56%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/31/2001                   07/31/2009                         07/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 15 :    % total education budget channeled to primary education sub sector
Value
(quantitative     57.5%                        60% in 2009                        62.87%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved     07/31/2001                   07/31/2009                         07/31/2009
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

          Date ISR                                                              Actual Disbursements
 No.                                DO                             IP
          Archived                                                                 (USD millions)
   1     09/22/2004             Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                  0.00
   2     03/16/2005             Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                  5.60
   3     09/13/2005             Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                 12.80
   4     03/10/2006             Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                 21.94
   5     09/07/2006             Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                 21.94
   6     11/29/2006             Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                 21.94
   7     05/29/2007             Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                 40.44
   8     09/24/2007             Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                 40.44
   9     03/21/2008             Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                 40.44
  10     09/19/2008             Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                 51.71
  11     01/26/2009             Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                 62.61
  12     04/22/2009             Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                 62.61
  13     10/23/2009             Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                102.60
  14     01/29/2010             Satisfactory                   Satisfactory                102.60
H. Restructuring (if any)

                            ISR Ratings at     Amount
                  Board
 Restructuring              Restructuring Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring & Key
               Approved PDO
    Date(s)                                 Restructuring            Changes Made
                  Change     DO      IP
                                           in USD millions
                                                           Additional Financing grant of SDR
  12/06/2007        N         S       S          40.44     38.7 million (US$ 60 million) was
                                                           approved




I. Disbursement Profile
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

In 2004 when the Project was appraised, about 40 percent of Nepal’s citizens, the majority of whom
resided in rural areas, lived on less than $1.00 a day. There was unequal distribution of income, with wide
variation across regions and social groups. The development context was defined by (i) an unstable
political environment and a violent conflict affecting most parts of the country; (ii) poor delivery and
quality of basic social services, including education; and (iii) wide disparities in access to and benefit
from public services for females, dalits and children from disadvantaged ethnic communities.

Despite the challenges faced by the country, educational outcomes had been on an upward trajectory at
the time of appraisal. Primary (grades one-five) net enrolment rate (NER) was reported to have increased
from 69 percent in 1998 to 81 percent in 2001. During the same period, the gender gap in enrolments was
reported to have fallen from 20 percent to 12 percent, while primary completion rates rose from 44
percent to 59 percent. Adult literacy rates had also seen significant improvement over the preceding 20
years, increasing from 34 percent to 66 percent for males, and from 12 percent to 43 percent for females1.
There was strong support among policymakers for reforms in the education sector as evidenced by the
passing of the Seventh Amendment to the Education Act in 2001. This Amendment articulated the policy
of devolving school management responsibilities to communities.

The improvements in educational outcomes were attributed to the Government’s policy framework for the
sector, supported by a Core Investment Program (CIP). The CIP was an integral part of the Government’s
five-year Basic Primary Education (BPE) investment program that began in fiscal year 1999/00 and was
supported by a number of Development Partners (DPs) including the International Development
Association (IDA).

Although the gains in educational outcomes had been considerable, significant challenges remained in
meeting the Millennium Development Goal (MDG) of universal primary education by 2015, and the
Education For All (EFA) targets. These included:

Providing equitable access to education: The enrolment rate for girls was significantly below that of boys.
Many public primary schools were charging student fees which, in turn, among several other reasons
discouraged poorer children from enrolling in school; there was evidence that Dalits and disadvantaged
Janjatis were underrepresented in the student population.

The quality of public education was poor: as evidenced by low scores in primary level achievement tests
and low pass rates in the national School Leaving Certificate (SLC) exams. Compared to a 73 percent
pass rate for private schools, the SLC pass rate for public schools was only 22 percent. The quality of
inputs going into the education system was also poor. Only 15% of teachers were fully trained and less
than 10% of new entrants at grade one had ECD exposure. In addition, the efficiency and reliability of the
textbook provision system required significant improvement.

The education system was defined by weak governance and accountability. Under BPEP, educational
services were delivered through 17 centrally managed components, often with unsatisfactory results.



1
 The statistics used in this section have been taken from the PAD, which indicates that these might be biased
upwards due to weaknesses in the administrative data collection and analysis system at the time of appraisal.


                                                         1
Inputs arrived at schools in an unpredictable fashion with little adaptation to local issues and conditions,
little synergy, and consequently less than satisfactory impact. At the same time, funding for schools was
low and frequently released late.

Another important governance issue was the central control over teacher recruitment by the Teacher
Service Commission (TSC) that limited local appointments by School Management Committees (SMCs)
and led to uneven deployment of teachers. There was also a lack of female teachers in more than half of
public schools in the country which in turn hindered progress towards gender parity.

The Education Management Information System (EMIS) was cumbersome and slow, with a two to three
year lag in reporting education statistics.

To address these issues, the Government prepared an EFA Core Document in 2003 to guide the next
phase of the BPE program based on extensive consultations at the regional and district levels. The EFA
program provided a vision statement, a policy matrix to support the vision, time-bound outcome
indicators and performance targets, and an indicative budget. The overall strategy rested on the broad
pillars of improved service delivery, social inclusion and improved governance.

Rationale for Bank Involvement: The World Bank had been engaged consistently with the Government in
basic and primary education for more than twenty years, gaining considerable knowledge and experience.
The gains made under BPEP were vulnerable given the country context and continued Bank technical and
financial support was deemed crucial to enable the government to meet the MDGs for education. Further,
the Project was expected to contribute to the achievement of Nepal’s PRS goals, deepening the Bank’s
support for poverty alleviation in the country.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The long-term development objectives of the Project were to improve access to and benefit from basic
and primary education for children, especially girls and children from disadvantaged groups, and from
literacy programs for poor adults.

The key indicators against which performance was to be measured are listed below. Data related to
students and adult learners was to be reported by gender and disadvantaged groups - Dalits, disadvantaged
Janajatis and others.
     Net enrollment rates
     Survival rates to grade five
     Learning achievement
These PDOs were supplemented by a comprehensive list of intermediate outcomes including :
     Number of out of school girls, Dalits and children from disadvantaged Janajati and other socially
         disadvantaged groups
     Number/share of schools with required number of classrooms of acceptable standard
     Number/share of schools with safe drinking water
     Number/share of schools with toilet(s) for girls
     Percentage of entrants to grade one with Early Childhood Development (ECD) experience
     Percentage of fully trained teachers
     Number/share of accredited schools
     Number of schools providing transitional language support to non-Nepali speaking students
     Share of sub-sector budget transferred to schools as grants
     Share of non-salary allocations in school grants
     Share/Number of schools: (a) completing School Improvement Plans (SIP); (b) receiving block
         grants on time; (c) receiving textbooks on time; and (d) completing social audits


                                                     2
       Number of schools transferred to community management

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
The PDO for the Project was not revised. However, the key indicator related to learning achievement was
not tracked as envisaged at appraisal. Information on this PDO was limited due to the unavailability of an
adequate monitoring system for tracking student learning achievement2.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries
The main target group of the Project was primary school age children in Nepal, especially girls, Dalits,
Janajatis and other disadvantaged groups. Expansion of the Early Childhood Development (ECD)
program was to benefit children in the age cohort 3-5 years, again with a focus on the disadvantaged
classes. Other beneficiaries included 540,000 women from the disadvantaged classes who were to benefit
from adult literacy programs. Teachers benefitted from training and availability of better teaching and
learning material. In addition, the MOE, DoE, CDC, NCED, and DEOs were expected to benefit from the
implementation experience and capacity building efforts integral to the sector wide approach adopted by
the Project.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
The Project adopted a Sector Wide Approach (SWAp) that provided programmatic support to the EFA
Program of the Government of Nepal. The Project was structured around three components:

a) Improved access and equity: Activities under this component included:
 Expanded involvement of community-based organizations in identifying and motivating out of school
   children to enroll;
 Scholarships, funded through school grants and targeted to poor girls, Dalits and out of school
   Janajati children;
 Expansion in the number of classrooms including resources to communities for constructing
   temporary classrooms using local materials, ensuring that designs were structurally sound in addition
   to double shifting as an option to local communities;
 Expansion of non-formal programs based in schools;
 Expansion of literacy programs for adult women, targeted to dalits and ethnic minorities.

b) Enhanced quality and relevance: Activities under this strategic goal included:
 Expansion of ECD, delivered through community managed centers and through pre-primary classes;
 Teacher education through a ten-month certificate training course supported by the Asian
   Development Bank (ADB) under a Teacher Education Project (TEP);
 Strengthened recurrent in-service teacher training by making it school based;
 More substantial and direct funding through the School Grants Program (SGP) to enable SMCs to
   select and finance local expertise for school improvement activities, including teacher training;
 Improved school facilities (including drinking water and toilets); and
 Transitional language support on entry for non-Nepali speaking students.

c) Improved efficiency and institutional capacity.
 Shift from centrally managed sub-programs to an expanded School Grants Program (SGP) that would
   empower SMCs to improve the performance of schools;


2
 Formal documentation explaining the reasons for dropping the indicator could not be found. This assessment is the
viewpoint of the ICR team.


                                                        3
   Expanded block grants to schools transferred to community management;
   Scaling up of school improvement planning which had been successfully piloted;
   Inclusion of funding for non-salary recurrent costs in school grants;
   Depending on the level of accreditation, schools would be eligible to apply for grants for physical
    facilities improvement, capacity building, and quality improvement.
   The use of block grants by schools to be audited annually by parent committees, and the results of the
    social audits to be publicly disclosed.

These activities were grouped into six sub-programs financed through the EFA Program resources which
were envisaged to be channeled primarily through school grants. The sub-programs were aimed at: a)
expanding early childhood education; b) ensuring access to all; c) meeting the learning needs of all; d)
reducing female illiteracy; e) eliminating gender disparity; and f) improving all aspects of quality
education. Details of these sub-programs are included in Annex 2.

1.6 Revised Components
The three main areas of support envisaged under the Program were maintained throughout the duration of
the Project.

1.7 Other significant changes
An Additional Financing Grant in the amount of SDR 38.7 million (US$ 60 million equivalent) was
approved in 2007 to help fill the financing gap (estimated at US$87million) resulting from a cost overrun
of core Project activities and scaling up of reforms for improved quality and efficiency by the
Government. The financial gap was a result of: (a) increased government's commitment to expanding the
Program, which entailed funding additional teachers and non-salary costs including additional
classrooms; (b) an unanticipated rise of 27% in teacher salaries; (c) an increase in the number and amount
of scholarship for girls and dalits; and (d) a fall of US$ against Nepali Rupee by about 11%. Other
Development Partners (DPs) also provided additional funding to meet this gap. The combined additional
financing by the DPs helped maintain donor financing at a quarter of total Program costs.

The development objectives and scope of the Project remained unchanged. Furthermore, the additional
financing was utilized within the original Project period.

Change in Covenant: A legal covenant related to recruitment of staff to manage the action plan for
textbook development production and distribution negotiated at appraisal became redundant during
implementation when the Government started providing grants to schools for textbooks instead of
managing the process at the central level in 2005. The covenant was subsequently dropped.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
A major contributor to achievement of results under the Project was the strong design that put the
Government in the driving seat of the Program. It built upon the increasingly decentralized service
delivery approach adopted by the Government, which strongly emphasized the importance of
empowerment of schools and a school-centered approach for ensuring greater returns from investments.
The design not only increased government ownership of the Program, but also helped to minimize the
fragmentation of development activities in the education sector and maximize transparency among DPs.
At the same time, it enhanced the capacity and commitment of the Government to implement reforms.
Furthermore, it represented a shift from a component driven model to a more holistic and decentralized
implementation process - a shift that had been recommended by the MTR of BPEP II.



                                                    4
The choice of a SWAp for financing EFA too represented the incorporation of lessons learned from BPEP
II in utilizing pooled funding and promoting government ownership of programs. The use of a SWAp
continued to emphasize the use Government systems, together with common reporting formats for
expenditures, auditing and monitoring, which allowed further strengthening of an already exemplary
equation between the DPs and the Government.

Some design aspects that could have been stronger: The overall design of the Program was very relevant
to the country context and took into account lessons learned from past interventions, however, some
aspects could have benefitted from additional attention during the preparation stages. First, during
implementation, the goals with regard to adequate national monitoring of learning outcomes, proved
challenging relative to capacity, particularly given the scale of the coverage and diversity of languages
and capacities. This aspect of the design could have benefitted from concerted efforts during preparation
of the Project. Second, extensive capacity support to districts and SMCs was planned under the Project to
enable better use of resources available to them including provision of inputs to improve quality.
However, the availability at the local level of the kind of support required for pedagogical renewal at rural
schools was not adequately addressed. Lastly, although the objective of improving literacy was well
defined with appropriate targets, a clear framework for implementation to achieve these targets was not
developed. Specifically, targeting mechanisms and attention to the quality of the ongoing Women’s
Literacy program or the community learning centers catering to out of school children could have
improved the outcomes of the Project in this respect.

Risks and mitigation
The most pertinent risks and mitigation measures were properly identified during project preparation. The
overall risk faced by the Project in achieving development outcomes was rated as substantial. The
identified risks included disruptions in school operations due to the insurgency and political instability
(modest), opposition to the decentralization process (substantial) and leakage of funds from schools
(modest). The mitigation measures proposed including, expanding partnerships with NGOs and
community organizations to deliver and monitor education services, increased community involvement,
public disclosure of funding to schools through earmarked and block grants, improved communications
and capacity support to communities for better resource management, were appropriate to address the
risks identified.

One strong attribute of the design was its cognizance of the potential resistance to reforms from vested
interest groups and the risk faced due to continuing political instability. As a mitigation measure to
address these risks, the Program successfully implemented measures such as a communication campaign
to rally the beneficiaries behind the reforms. These proved to be crucial in maintaining progress towards
introduction and implementation of difficult reforms.

Some risks, pertaining mostly to low capacity at the national and sub-national levels especially with
respect to monitoring education outcomes, specifically those related to quality, and financial management
systems could have benefitted from early identification. Adequate mitigation measures that included
providing resources at the district and school levels to carry out some of the devolved functions could
have enhanced overall impact of Program interventions.

Quality at Entry: was Satisfactory. The Project was built on a sound understanding and analysis of sector
issues and adequately incorporated lessons learned from previous education projects. However, the targets
for the Project in the context of the challenges faced by the country were ambitious to say the least. There
was no QAG review for quality at entry for this Project.




                                                     5
2.2 Implementation
Government commitment – A major factor contributing to the success of the Program was the strong and
sustained commitment of the Government of Nepal to pursuing reforms in the education sector.
Significant reforms that devolved authority over school management to the communities were not only
maintained but also enhanced in spite of the frequent changes of government. Some reforms, for example,
Per Capita Funding (PCF) for salaries that made a critical shift from teacher based funding to student
enrolment-based funding, changed teacher deployment and recruitment systems in place reducing
political interference in the process. This is unprecedented in the region and difficult to implement under
any circumstances. Sustained Government support for the reform agenda not only helped to implement
the project smoothly, but also resulted in increased demand from beneficiaries for the reforms despite
changes in the country situation.

Financing: One of the strongest aspects of implementation was the significant and sustained financing of
the Program by the Government supplemented by co-financing on the part of the DPs. The high share of
the education sector in the national budget at an average of 16.5% (approx) was maintained throughout
the EFA period (2004-2009). Expenditure on education as a percentage of GDP increased from 3.4% in
2004/05 to 4.8% in 2008/09. Further, the share of primary education in the education budget was
maintained at a high level of 62%. In per student terms, public spending in primary grades (1-5) saw a
dramatic increase from $35 in 2004 to $65 in 2008 in nominal terms.

                Figure 1: Allocations to Education
                   6                                                                       50
                   5




                                                                                                 NPR Billions
                                                                                           40
                   4
                   3                                                                       30
               %




                   2
                                                                                           20
                   1
                   0                                                                       10
                        2004/05       2005/06       2006/07      2007/08     2008/09

                       Total Education Budget (in NRs bln)        Education budget as % of GDP
                       Primary education budget as % of GDP

Another factor that contributed to implementation success was the Government’s remarkable absorption
capacity with respect to the EFA Program - using at least 95% of allocated resources annually in spite of
the significantly reduced presence of the state in rural areas as a result of the insurgency. Commitment to
decentralization partially enabled the Government to achieve this since funds were increasingly being
channeled through communities. Also, in times of unrest, direct funding to schools through SMCs
allowed schools to maintain their operations even in cases where DEO activities were confined to district
headquarters.

Community commitment was a strong contributing factor to the implementation performance of the
Program. While there was no well-defined framework for promoting or implementing community cost-
sharing, a tradition of contribution to the cost of education was established through the Program. It has
become common for local communities to contribute to recurrent costs, and participate in school
construction and rehabilitation activities with voluntary labor, materials and financial resources.

Development Partner coordination was also an important aspect of implementation. The EFA Program
was effective in providing the DPs a common platform through which they could support Nepal’s


                                                             6
education sector. This can be seen in the increase in the number of partners from 5 at the beginning to 93
by the end of the Program period. The SWAp also enabled DPs to provide high quality technical input to
the Government while reducing its reporting burden by using a common reporting and supervision
process. In addition, the approach allowed the Government to play a leadership role in the supervision
process due to which many of the recommendations of the review missions were internalized and
implemented swiftly.

Some implementation aspects that could have been stronger: Some of the weaker aspects of
implementation were related to inadequate capacity support at various levels. First, the lack of adequate
capacity support targeted to the poorest communities often led to low performance in terms of both
quantity4 and quality of these communities’ involvement in school management. Second, capacity support
often meant short and long term training for the various stakeholders including teachers, SMCs, district
education staff etc5. A comprehensive approach to providing support which involves continuous support
was found to be missing from the implementation process. Third, the lack of adequate emphasis on
providing capacity support was felt most in the area of quality interventions. Resource persons were
provided at a cluster level to provide this support to schools but they often had an unmanageable number
of schools under their purview with lack of clarity on their roles.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization
M&E Design: The EFA Program introduced a new system of Flash Reports in academic year 2004,
linked to a strengthened Education Management Information System (EMIS) which gathered school level
data from all schools across the country twice a year. These Reports would include district and school-
level indicators for educational outcomes and outputs such as student enrolment rates, pass rates,
repetition and survival rates, training status of teachers and supply of text books and learning materials.
The reports would also document the progress and participation of SMCs and PTAs in various school
activities.

Two major weaknesses of the M&E system were the near absence of indicators to track changes in
education quality and student learning outcomes and the lack of an appropriate dissemination mechanism
for providing feedback to schools based on data collected. Given that the EMIS would be based on self
reported data from schools, another design weakness was the lack of an effective strategy for minimizing
problems of false reporting.

Drawing upon the experience of CSSP, the EFA Program proposed to use social audits for monitoring the
use of school grants, the achievement of school improvement objectives and community satisfaction.
These audits would be undertaken by committees chaired by the PTA Chairperson. While the design
provided some audit guidelines, it did not adequately clarify how the audit findings could be effectively
consolidated for policy purposes on a regular basis.

The overall M&E design envisaged tracking student learning achievements through three yearly
assessments during the Project period to monitor education quality. It was, however, unclear whether and
how these assessments would also systematically build the capacity of the government to continue with


3
  Initial partners included IDA, Norway, Finland, Denmark and UK. ADB, UNICEF, UNESCO and JICA joined the
program later through either pooling or parallel financing mechanisms.
4
  By 2008, the poorest region of Nepal (in terms of poverty headcount rate), the mid-west, had the lowest number of
schools that had transferred to community management (606). This is in comparison with the eastern region which
has about double the population compared to the mid-west but had four times as many schools (2426) transfer to
community management by 2008.
5
  This was noted in the MTR findings


                                                         7
regular quality monitoring in the future. It is critical to have an institutionalized student assessment
system that can provide information on the efficacy of interventions and also help policymakers to
address the challenges associated with education quality.

M&E Implementation: Data collection for the EMIS and publication of the Flash I and Flash II reports
proceeded satisfactorily during the EFA period. Biannual EMIS data collection and Flash Report
publication have now been established as regular activities within DoE. These reports include valuable
data on access and system efficiency. Implementation of social audits progressed relatively well. Social
audit guidelines were prepared as planned. By 2009, 83% of schools were conducting social audits (as
compared to 0% in 2004). While steps need to be taken to maintain, monitor and enhance the quality of
these audits, both the government and local communities now view them as an effective approach to
improving the accountability and transparency of schools.

Implementation of student assessments, however, was weak. At the time of appraisal, three yearly
assessments had been planned. Only one was conducted during the time the EFA Program was
implemented. In addition, monitoring of classroom teaching practices which was to be undertaken by the
cluster level resource persons and to some extent by school supervisors was not accomplished as
envisaged. This was in part due to the large number of schools each RP had under his/her purview.

M&E Utilization: There has been some concrete progress in utilization of M&E systems. Per capita
funding grants to schools are being released on the basis of data collected through the Flash mechanism.
This is a direct use of data (in this case enrollment) for implementation of the Program. The EMIS data
has also been used to develop baselines and targets for the follow on Project - SSRP.

Better systems for collecting and reporting data on a timely basis have created tremendous potential for its
use for planning and monitoring of outcomes at all levels. . At the central and district levels, there is
potential for using data for allocating resources, especially with respect to targeting additional resources
to lagging regions, and within districts, low performing schools. Purposeful dissemination of data to
district/schools, for example to inform them of their progress vis-à-vis other schools could be an effective
tool to promote competition between schools and for better performance. Again, at the school level, Flash
Reports have the potential for comparison of targets achievements against school plans. Progress in this
area has been slow but there is a gradual move towards internalizing the use of data to perform these
functions and it has been identified as one of the major areas of focus for the follow on SSR Project.

Program Evaluations: As part of the Program, two external evaluations of the EFA Program were carried
out during the period it was implemented, one at mid-term and one at its completion. The main objective
of the evaluations was to provide information about the outcomes of the EFA Program implemented from
2004-2009 that the Government of Nepal, Development Partners and other education stakeholders could
use for informing policy making and in the design of the follow on School Sector Reform (SSR) Program.
A Joint Evaluation of the EFA Program was undertaken by an external party at the end of 2008/beginning
of 2009. The evaluation was based on interviews of various stakeholders and primary data collected from
eight districts representative of the development zones of Nepal with an emphasis on districts with low
ranking in terms of Human Resource Development Indices. Views on the EFA Program were elicited
from more than 300 people, representing parents, teachers, students, local Non-Government
Organizations (NGOs), Village Development Committees (VDCs) and personnel of District Education
Offices (DEOs), with a focus on women and disadvantaged groups. A key part of the evaluation was to
gather of beneficiaries on the EFA Program. The main findings of the report are included in Annex 5.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
Social Safeguards: Ratings for safeguard compliance were satisfactory. The Government prepared a
Vulnerable Communities Development Plan (VCDP) based on the findings and recommendations of a


                                                     8
social assessment study and extensive consultations with stakeholders. The VCDP, which complies with
OD 4.20 (now OP 4.10) on Indigenous Peoples and provides necessary measures to give disadvantaged
groups equal access to Project benefits, was satisfactorily implemented.

Environmental Safeguards: In order to address small-scale and local environmental problems potentially
associated with project activities, the Government prepared the National Environment Guideline for
School Improvement and Facility Management. These guidelines were generally followed during the
construction of new buildings and facilities related to sanitation, water supply and waste management.

Fiduciary: The EFA Program was the first sector-wide program In Nepal which was aligned with the
Government’s financial management system. At the time of appraisal the country environment was
characterized by high fiduciary risk which had a direct impact on sectoral activities. While many of the
risk factors were beyond the control of the sector, a number of initiatives were undertaken at the sectoral
level to mitigate the risk environment. A detailed fiduciary assessment was carried out by the World Bank
in 2006 followed by one by DFID in September 2007. The assessments concluded that the overall risk in
the education sector was “High? – amongst other weaknesses the absence of effective social and financial
audits at the school level also attributed to the increased risk level. Subsequent to the detailed assessment
by the Bank, an action plan for Financial Management Improvement was agreed on with the Government
which was closely monitored by DPs during joint reviews. A review carried out by the World Bank and
DFID in 2008 noted satisfactory progress in the implementation of the Action Plan.

Some of the key results that were achieved through the implementation of the Action Plan included: (1)
Preparation of School Audit Guide through the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nepal (ICAN) and
subsequent approval by the Accounting Standards Board followed by training program to the registered
auditors; (2) Integration of training on School Audit Guide into the regular curriculum of training courses
conducted by ICAN – this has now been fully integrated and internalized into the system; (3) Revision of
Social Audit Guidelines – in order to improve the compliance of the social audit (from about 60%
estimated to meet a target of 100%), a social audit committee was formed in the DOE to monitor both the
compliance and quality of social audits; formation of social audit committees at schools is also
mandatory; in order to enforce compliance, the DOE issued a notice in the newspapers and also issued
circulars to all DEOs mandating all schools to submit a social audit report of the preceding year in order
to be eligible for release of budget for the third trimester of the fiscal year; (4) Initiation of
computerization of DOE and some DEOs following the preparation of a computerization plan, (5)
Preparation of a simple accounting manual for schools and (6) Human Resource Development (HRD)
Plan prepared to build the skills in the areas mentioned above.

The financial management challenges in the sector remain substantial. Weak capacity of financial
management and frequent turnover of finance staff in the Department of Education made program
implementation a challenge till the end. Despite numerous efforts and assurances by the implementing
agency, the Financial Management Information System (FMIS) was not established in the DOE during
the project period. The on-line connectivity provided to the DOE by FCGO for accessing expenditure
information through FCGO FMIS was discontinued. This has made it difficult for DOE to obtain timely
financial information and process financial monitoring reports on a timely basis.

Further evidence of financial management challenges surfaced when the Office of the Auditor General
released a heavily qualified annual audit report indicating extremely poor financial management practices
and weak internal control environment. While the continued political instability in the country to some
extent has contributed to a deteriorating fiduciary environment, many of the qualifications in the audit
report actually have to do with poor governance at the level of the implementing agency, the Department
of Education. Non-compliance with the provision of the Fiscal Procedure Rules, 2007 with regard to



                                                     9
timely action for returning the unspent balance to the consolidated fund accounts was raised as a major
concern of the Auditors. More specifically, the audit report of FY2008/09 documented cases of
irregularities and ineligible funds related to the per child financing scheme, as well as a number of other
significant systemic weaknesses including inter alia: (1) weak monitoring including non-compliance
with the requirements for proper record keeping on work completion reports and measurement books); (2)
non-compliance with the requirements of the Education Program Directives, (3) failure to maintain
supporting documents and associated vouchers, (4) failure to submit documentation needed for audit, (5)
failure to maintain the required ledgers and books of accounts including Foreign Exchange Account, and
(6) significant delays in preparation of trimester Implementation Progress Reports that include Financial
Monitoring Reports (FMRs). Total reported ineligible expenses amounted to Rs.144.16 million of which
the pooled partners’ share amounted to Rs.51.74 million6. These ineligible expenses were due to financial
indiscipline resulting in over payments or advance disbursements. Further, the Auditor’s opinion was not
complete as the Ministry failed to provide all the required documentation for the purpose of audit. All
these demonstrated significant weaknesses in the system, and perhaps more critically, the lack of
appropriate attention on fiduciary issues in program management.

The Bank and other DPs took these matters seriously. The Bank and the DP group indicated to the
Government that disbursements to the SSRP would be suspended unless acceptable audit reports were
resubmitted, and though the project was not formally suspended, the development partner group
collectively agreed to not entertain requests for reimbursements. The outstanding issues were divided
into two parts:

                    (i) issues of compliance, such as completing the audit of missing documentation,
                         submitting the missing statements, refunding the ineligible expenses to the DPs
                         and re-submitting the revised Audit Certificate; and
                    (ii) issues dealing with systemic improvements including strengthening of the
                         monitoring system and increasing oversight on sectoral governance.

Through a series of high level meetings, the government demonstrated a strong commitment to address
the issues of compliance and system strengthening. Significant progress has been made on issues dealing
with compliance. Furthermore, the Government has committed to refund all ineligible expenses to the
DPs and this process is currently underway.

A concrete action plan to enhance system monitoring, and thus mitigate risks associated with weak
control and monitoring environment is being developed jointly by the Ministry and the DPs. The
Government has also given high priority to the full implementation of the Governance and Accountability
Action Plan (GAAP) in SSRP.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
The Education for All Program (2004-2009) was part of a series of national education programs
undertaken by Nepal since the early 1990s.7 Building upon the foundations of earlier reforms, the EFA
Program was able to make considerable progress towards achieving EFA targets, and meet some key
MDG goals. The completion of the EFA Program has been followed by a seamless transition to the



6
  Total ineligible expenses amounts to NRs. 144.16 (or USD 1.95 million) and the amount owed to the DPs is
NRs.51.74 million (USD 0.70 million).
7
  The major education reform programs preceding EFA included the Basic Primary Education Projects (BPEP I,
1992-1998 and BPEP II, 1999-2004), the Community School Support Program (CSSP, 2003-2008), and the
Secondary Education Support Program (SESP, 2003-2009).


                                                     10
Government’s School Sector Reform Program (2010-2015), which aims to consolidate the gains made
under EFA and enhance support to areas requiring further attention based on the findings of intensive
evaluation of the EFA Program. The SSRP is the final program in the series of national programs
supporting the Education for All National Plan of Action (2001-2015). Some of the key EFA reforms that
are being continued in SSRP include: the use of a Sector Wide Approach to finance the program, donor
harmonization using a Joint Financing Arrangement, mainstreaming implementation through Government
structures rather than through stand-alone PIUs, the use of per capita financing (PCF) to allocate budgets
to schools, devolution of school management to communities, and the decentralization of teacher
recruitment. The follow-on Project also concentrates on strengthening the M&E system to provide
information on learning outcomes as well as disaggregated data for ethnic groups to track performance in
these key areas.


3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
The main objectives of the Project to improve access to and benefits from basic and primary education for
children, especially from disadvantaged groups, and from literacy programs to poor adults were highly
relevant to Nepal’s overall and sector priorities as reflected in the Government’s Poverty Reduction
Strategy based on the 10th Plan prepared in 2003 and the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy and the
Interim Strategy Note (INS) of 2006. The Project provided programmatic support to the EFA framework
(2004-2009) articulated by the Government which was reflective of its pro-poor approach, especially
targeted to children from disadvantaged communities such as Janajatis, Dalits and girls, and children
living in difficult circumstances due to poverty or conflict. The Program’s focus on the poor and other
disadvantaged groups was also important from the perspective of maintaining social cohesion and
stability during the period of violent political conflict it was implemented. Lastly, the objectives of the
Project were also extremely relevant to the MDGs relating to gender parity and education for all.

Another key element of the Project design and implementation strategy was its emphasis on devolving
school management responsibilities to School Management Committees (SMCs) to improve the quality
and efficiency of education. This emphasis was fully consistent with the Seventh Amendment to the
Education Act (2001) and continues to be equally relevant for the SSR Project. Further, the Project’s
focus on transferring publicly financed schools to community management and empowering the SMCs
with various staffing and fiscal decision making authority, enabled continued service delivery in the
context of the internal strife faced by the country. The social capital that has been developed through the
SMCs could be tapped for other development activities at the community level as well.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
This section discusses the achievements of the EFA Program for which the Project provided partial
financing. Since project financing was pooled with that of other DPs and the Government’s own financing,
the Program results cannot be attributed to the Project alone. It is also important to note that apart from
the EFA Program, there were other political, social, and economic factors that could have contributed to
the results discussed below. Since it is not possible to properly account for these other factors, the
achievements discussed here cannot be attributed exclusively to the EFA Program. At the same time,
some of the critical reforms achieved under the ambit of the EFA Program have gone beyond the scope of
the Project laying the foundations for sustained growth of the sector.

The EFA Program was structured around three main themes to achieve the overall PDO. Each of these is
discussed below with an assessment of how successful the Program was in achieving the intended goal. A
detailed review of outputs of the Program is included in Annex 2.



                                                    11
PDO 1: Ensuring access and equity in primary education
The Program made commendable progress in increasing equitable access to primary schooling in the
country. As shown in Figure 2, the net enrolment rate (NER) for primary schooling increased from 84.2%
in 2004 to 93.7% in 2009. While this fell just short of the end-of-Project target of 96%, it should be noted
that this target was ambitious in view of the country context and also in comparison with the performance
of comparable countries. Given the political instability, deteriorating security and reduced presence of the
state during the Program period, the gains in enrolment are substantial and commendable. The progress in
access to primary education was particularly impressive for girls, whose NER increased from 78% in
2004 to 93% in 2009 (the male NER increased from 90% to 95%).8

Enrolment rates of Dalits and Janajatis were not tracked systematically during the implementation of the
program. At the same time, the Project did not set targets for the enrolment of these groups so assessment
of how successful the program was in this respect cannot be made in a meaningful manner. However, the
Flash data collected during the program period indicates that enrolment of Dalits increased substantially.
Absolute numbers show a more than doubling of Dalit children enrolled in school at the end of the Project
period with near gender parity (GPI of 0.98). Dalit children now account for 18% of total enrolment at the
primary level, which is comparable to their share in total population. Enrolment of Janajatis also
increased substantially from just below one million to almost 2 million in 5 years, with near gender parity.

Figure 2: Net Enrolment Rate at Primary Level                    Figure 3: Survival Rate to Grade 5

     100
                                                                   90
       95
                                                                   80
       90
     %




       85                                                          70
                                                                  %




       80
                                                                   60
       75
       70                                                          50
             2004    2005     2006   2007     2008     2009             2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009
                             Girls   Boys                                          Girls    Boys

The achievement in enrolment, while viewed as a success also predicates challenges for the future. To
improve access and equity indicators through the next set of reforms, it will be crucial to get a better idea
about the profile of the children who remain out of school. A review of literature suggests that the
majority of primary school age children who remain out of school are from the disadvantaged groups,
such as those impacted by conflict, extreme poverty, child work, migration, trafficking or HIV/AIDS. It
will be critical to collect disaggregated data for these groups to measure the impact of program
interventions targeted to these children to make any further improvements in access and equity indicators.

Project targets for improvements in survival rates to grade 5 were met. There was significant variation in
performance of this indicator over the Project period. Overall, the survival rate to grade 5 increased from
a baseline of 76% in 2004 to 84% in 2009 against a target of 85%. The gains are reflective of
improvements in survival rates of boys. Starting from a relatively low base of 72.4% in 2004 compared to
80.6% for girl students, the survival rate for boys increased to 84.9% in 2009 in comparison with 83.7%


8
    The resulting gender parity index for NER was .98 in 2009.


                                                          12
for girls. Two explanations for this trend were explored: first, there was a marked jump (over 20
percentage point) in the survival rate of girls between 2003 and 2004 (from 60.2% to 80.6%). This could
be attributed in large part to the introduction of the girls’ scholarship program. After a spike in the first
year of the scholarships, the rate stabilized at a more sustainable level. Second, the survival rate for male
students started from a lower baseline, creating the space for larger improvements9. If improvements are
measured from a baseline of 2003, when the rates for both boys and girls were almost at the same level,
gains in survival rates of boys have exceeded that of girls by a small margin. In addition, there was a
significant unexplained drop in survival rates of both girls and boys in 2008.

The findings of the Joint Evaluation Report based on extensive surveys in 8 districts of Nepal indicate
that there are substantial inter-district variations when it comes to indicators such as the survival rate10.
There are also substantial differences between girls and boys at the district level. A closer examination of
district level trends is essential when developing interventions in the future to target support to lagging
districts.

Progress on creating access to non-formal education/literacy programs for poor women, another key goal
of the EFA Program, was modest. The target of enrolling 540,000 women in literacy programs was
missed by almost 28%. Although articulated as one on the main areas of focus under the EFA Program,
attention to this objective was minimal as reflected by the low levels of resources allocated to this focus
area during implementation. Less than 3% of total expenditure under the EFA program was channeled to
non-formal education programs. In addition, no clear framework for implementation of the programs was
developed to achieve these goals.

PDO 2: Enhancing quality and relevance of primary education
The primary indicator for assessing student learning achievement included in the Results Framework of
the approved Project was not monitored during implementation. In the absence of longitudinal
measurement of student learning outcomes over the EFA Program implementation period, it is difficult to
assess the achievement in learning outcomes in a meaningful way. Proxy indicators such as pass,
retention and repetition rates, all of which have shown modest improvement, can provide some
indications of Program performance in improving the quality of education. Repetition rates decreased by
3-4 percentage points between 2005 and 2009 but remain high at about 27% for grade 1 for example. At
the same time, pass rate at the Grade 5 level is at a low 40%. All of these indicators point towards low
levels of student learning.

The EFA Program relied on four sets of interventions: expansion of ECD Programs; a teacher training
program; a new program to provide transitional language support on entry for non-Nepali speaking
students; and increasing the number of accredited schools to achieve this PDO 11 . These and other
interventions including the provision of essential infrastructure and teaching staff, grants for teaching and
learning material etc. focus on providing adequate inputs to improve the quality of education as reflected
in better student learning. The performance in each of these areas has been considerable; the share of new
entrants to grade 1with ECD experience increased from 10% in 2004 to 50% in 2009; the share of fully
trained teachers increased from 30% to 80%; 56% of students received textbooks within the first week of
the beginning of the academic session in 2009, up from 30% in 2004; and 77% of the non-salary budget
was transferred to schools as grants compared to 7% at the beginning of the Project. The STR at the
primary level, however, increased from 38:1 at the beginning of the Program to 44:1 at the end. There are


9
  These are only presented as possible explanations and should not be read as a rigorous analysis of the trends.
10
   The surveys carried out for the report found survival rates to grade 5 for girls in Dhanusha to be as low as 50%
and as high as 100% in Jhapa.
11
   Achievements in the four key areas focused on by the EFA program are included in Annex 2.


                                                         13
also large variations among districts (for example only 23:1 in Rasuwa compared with 73:1 in Mahottari)
and within Districts (varying from 10:1 to 50:1 for a random sample of schools in Dhading). In addition,
7934 schools (25%) out of a total of 31,150 primary schools have been improved since 2004 with the
provision of additional classrooms, toilet, clean drinking water and a fence12. There is variation within
Districts in terms of class size as well. For example class sizes are often over 40 in urban areas of Mugu,
but average only 15 in remote areas 13.

The emphasis of the EFA program on provision of inputs to improve the quality of education has led to
successful implementation and institutionalization of several important initiatives discussed in the
paragraph above. However, improving student learning requires a more holistic approach that brings
about changes in classroom processes and interactions. This needs, for example, in addition to the
recruitment and training of teachers, continuous support for teacher development including on-site
support to provide academic support on an ongoing basis. For any meaningful improvements in the
quality of education, more emphasis must be placed on translating these inputs into school/classroom
processes that enhance student learning.. This is a major focus of the follow-on SSRP Project.

PDO 3: Improving efficiency and institutional capacity in the education sector
The EFA Program made its biggest achievements in this area. Some of the key reforms included:

Devolution of decision making powers to communities and school management committees: The transfer
of management of primary schools to communities through the SMCs14 has been a critical reform to
improve efficiency in the system15. Community ownership provides the SMCs various administrative and
financial decisions-making powers. By March 2009, a total of 8000 schools had been transferred to
community management on a voluntary basis. Implementation of this reform has for the most part been
successful, with enhanced ownership of the school by the community. This has led to a faster pace of
improvement of these schools and increased monetary as well as in-kind contributions of communities.16
Some lessons emerging include the importance of the SMC, its composition and leadership as key factors
in determining the willingness to transfer to community management and the success in doing so. This
clearly signals the need for effective mobilization to ensure that the ‘right’ people join the SMC. The one
–time, start-up untied grant provided as an incentive for a community’s choice to transfer could in some
cases counter the mobilization process and undermine the importance of the ‘readiness’ factor critical for
a well-performing SMC.17


12
   Further, information on progress of some of the input indicators for quality directly linked to the interventions
envisaged under the EFA, although part of the original Project documentation were not reported in the Bank’s
internal reporting systems. These include: (i) number/share of accredited schools; (ii) number of schools providing
transitional language support to non-Nepali speaking students; and (iii) share of non-salary allocations in school
grants.
13
   Findings of the Joint Evaluation Report
14
   SMCs consist of parent representatives, other community members, teachers and a local government
representative
15
   This reform was also supported by the Community School Support Project.
16
   Short run impact estimates from a recently completed evaluation of the Community School Support Project
(CSSP) suggest that devolving management responsibility to communities has a significant positive impact on a
number of access, equity and efficiency indicators. The study documents a reduction in the proportion of out of
school children, specially from disadvantaged groups, increase in grade progression at the primary level, and
reduction in grade repetitions at the primary level. The impact on learning outcomes is, however, insignificant
suggesting that a longer time period might be required for quality improvements to take effect.
17
   An interesting observation from field visits was the SMC’s suspicions of the Government becoming absent from
the sector after the transfer to the community, feelings that they had gotten them off their shoulders. One
consequence of the transfer has been the diluted role of the DEO. It will be important to define the role of the DEO


                                                        14
Decentralization of teacher recruitment: Two key reforms were introduced that have immense potential
for improving the management of teachers in Nepal. First, salary grants were introduced to schools to
recruit community teachers. Empowering communities to hire and fire their own teachers - as opposed to
government supplying them with centrally recruited teachers - increases teacher accountability, which has
a direct impact on the quality of education. Introduced in 2003 through IDA PRSC support and CSSP,
this reform was mainstreamed into the EFA Program in 2005. At present, about half of the teachers in the
system are those hired by communities. The case studies undertaken for the Joint Evaluation Report,
illustrate that communities are more actively questioning teacher absence and taking appropriate actions
when needed.

Second, a key reform that the government adopted was the shift from teacher based funding to a policy of
providing teacher salary grants to schools based on a per capita financing formula for salaries. The PCF
provides a major reform that avoids political influence in resource allocation to schools. Further the
student enrolment-based funding is expected to enhance quality and efficiency through increased school
choice (for children), competition among schools, and efficient teacher deployment. Introduced in
2007/08, this reform is still new and its true impact will only emerge over the next few years.

Per Capita Financing: was expanded under the EFA Program for providing grants to schools for non-
salary costs. A flat per student annual grant (averaging about NRs 300), that varied by region, was
provided. As with PCF salary grants, this major reform contributes to improving equity in resource
allocation to schools.

Opening up of the textbook printing and distribution system to the private sector: In order to address the
problem of extreme delays in the delivery of textbooks by the state-owned Janak Education Materials
Center (JEMC), GoN opened up printing and distribution of textbooks to the private sector as a pilot in
FY07 for grade 5, and later expanded it to grades 1-5. In addition, under the EFA Program, textbook
grants to schools were introduced which allowed schools to purchase their own textbooks allowing for
timely availability of textbooks to students.

Harmonizing donor support: The EFA program successfully used a SWAp for strengthening the
partnership between the Government and donors, and for harmonizing support from the many DPs
supporting the Program. The harmonization of donor support was strengthened by the endorsement of a
Code of Conduct by both the Government and DPs, and by the implementation of a Joint Financing
Arrangement (JFA) describing the mutual roles and responsibilities of signatories to the arrangement. The
Government has committed itself to policy continuity in this area, as evidenced by the incorporation of
similar arrangements in SSRP.

The Government of Nepal has been able to introduce and implement very significant and politically
challenging governance reforms under the EFA Program. These are already resulting in enhanced
transparency and accountability in the system and have adequately set the stage for even higher gains
under SSRP.

3.3 Efficiency
The economic analysis presented in Annex 3 is a retrospective assessment of benefits and costs associated
with the EFA Program using realized data at the end of the Program. Costs include EFA Program costs
(from both pooling and non-pooling sources) and private costs that comprise of direct household outlays


as the link between the school and the Government with specific terms of reference with respect to community
managed schools.


                                                       15
as well as opportunity costs. Benefits come from three sources: (i) number of primary school completers
who earn higher wages (relative to non-completers); (ii) increased quality of education resulting in higher
wage-premium for all primary school completers; and (iii) decreased wastage of public and private
resources as a result of reduced dropouts and repetitions.

The findings of the analysis, including the robustness analysis, with the IRR ranging from 17% to 21%
and NPV of benefits ranging between US$574 million and US$992 million, clearly suggest that the EFA
Program has been a sound “investment?. In fact these are conservative lower -bound estimates, given that
externality benefits arising from a healthier, more educated and more equitable/inclusive society were not
taken into account in the analysis. Also, additional benefits to those primary level completers who would
have gone on to completer even higher levels of education and receive “higher? wage -premiums were not
included.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Objective                                            Relevance     Efficacy   Efficiency    Outcomes
PDO 1: Ensuring access and equity in primary
                                                         High       High
education
PDO 2: Enhancing quality and relevance of                                                    Moderately
                                                         High      Modest     Substantial
primary education                                                                            Satisfactory
PDO 3: Improving efficiency and institutional
                                                         High       High
capacity in the education sector

The overall outcome rating of Moderately Satisfactory is based on the assessment that the Project either
met or exceeded the majority of targets for providing equitable access to education in Nepal. There was
significant progress towards achieving gender parity and participation of the disadvantaged groups. With
regard to quality, although there is insufficient information on the overall progress in learning
achievement, good progress was made on providing adequate inputs and instituting reforms that can
eventually lead to better learning outcomes of students. When taking into account progress made in
improving governance and efficiency in the sector, the achievements of the Project are truly
commendable. The overall outcomes assessment also reflects the assessments of high relevance of all
objectives and substantial achievement of the efficiency criteria.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey

A key part of the program evaluation discussed in 2.3 above was to gather the views of beneficiaries on
the implementation and outcomes of the EFA Program. Overall, beneficiaries noted marked improvement
in enrolment including that of girls and the disadvantaged classes during the time the EFA Program was
implemented. However, they also stressed that despite the improvement, more needed to be done to tackle
inclusion of the remaining out of school children and to reduce drop out which was deemed high. The


                                                    16
quality of education was perceived to have improved mainly due to the increased availability of teaching
and learning material in schools. There was also recognition of increased demand for education attributed
to increased awareness at the community level. A district wise summary of the findings of the beneficiary
survey is included in Annex 5.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate

The risks to development outcomes are mainly related to the capacity at the center, district and
community levels to sustain and expand some of the gains experienced during the EFA period.
Significant challenges remain. These relate to (i) effective monitoring of education quality and student
learning; (ii) improvements in teacher quality and management; (iii) providing adequate capacity support
to communities for better planning and utilization of resources; and (iv) strengthening academic support
to teachers including both better training and continuous on-site support. A rating of ‘Moderate’ is
appropriate given that the Government has taken the leadership role in developing and preparing a follow-
on program, the School Sector Reform program that continues to push the reform agenda.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

Adequate steps were taken at the preparation stage by the Bank to ensure a high quality operation. These
included: (i) incorporating lessons learned from previous operations; (ii) adopting a sector wide approach
that supported a technically sound Government program; (iii) effective donor coordination to support a
program articulated and owned by the Government; (iv) ensuring pertinent risks were identified and
appropriate mitigation strategies employed to address those risks; and (iv) adequate attention to fiduciary
and safeguards aspects of the Project. Details of these have been discussed in the sections above. The
technical mix of the task team was also satisfactory. However, as discussed in detail in the sections
above, there were some issues related to monitoring of outcomes, specifically on student learning and
adult literacy that were not adequately addressed by the team during implementation of the Program.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Supervision of the Program was based on strong collaboration between the pooling partners who relied on
shared discussions with the Government, reporting mechanisms and agreement on priorities for the future.
There were significant gains from this approach as discussed above, particularly with respect to the
Government leading the supervision function which led to many of the findings being internalized. Also,
the practice of alternating field and desk reviews worked well in maintaining the focus on progress in
outcomes and implementation, and identifying key issues and challenges. Pertinent issues were
highlighted in a timely manner and continuous dialogue with the Government pursued to resolve the
challenges faced by the Program. The team’s diligent attention and follow up on critical actions with
adequate technical support ensured continued focus on key reforms in the sector. The DPs appreciate the
Bank’s lead in addressing some of the issues related to fiduciary and safeguards aspects of the Program,
where it played the lead role among the DPs, specifically on financial management. While the Bank team
played a critical role in ensuring that the Government continued to support the reform agenda during
implementation, they did not lay as much emphasis on the day to day supervision of project



                                                    17
implementation, particularly in terms of fiduciary and safeguards oversight. For these reasons, a rating of
‘Moderately Satisfactory’ for Quality of Supervisions seems appropriate.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Based on the performance of the Bank in preparing and supervising the Project as described above,
overall Bank performance is rated moderately satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The commitment and ownership of the Government of Nepal and strong political will even in times of
unrest, as evidenced in the oversight at the highest levels, and its increasing financial commitment were
key to successful implementation and achievement of results under the Program. The Government
followed through on difficult governance reforms to increase transparency and accountability of the
system despite a challenging political environment. Throughout implementation, the Government
engaged in constructive dialogue with all stakeholders to improve Program implementation by
incorporating lessons learnt. It also internalized the findings of evaluations conducted of the Program,
prioritizing attention to areas identified as weak. Further, the Government played a strong role in
providing leadership and coordinating DP support to its Program. All legal covenants were complied
with.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The DoE, as the main implementing agency for the Program in close coordination with the MoE, played a
proactive role in steering the implementation of a complex national program with a multitude of
stakeholders and interests. This was particularly commendable in light of the weak capacity at both the
center and sub-national levels to implement a fast expanding Program. Although, performance on
fiduciary aspects, specifically financial management was not always satisfactory, some important steps
were taken by MoE/DoE to strengthen processes. The weak internal control system in the DOE is the
basis for providing a rating of Moderately Satisfactory for the Implementing Agency.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Government demonstrated strong commitment for effective implementation of the Program,
maintaining focus on results in a challenging political and security environment. It placed high value on
collaboration with stakeholders at all levels and responded proactively to weaknesses identified at various
stages of implementation. However, there were weaknesses in the DoE’s ability to implement the
program, and provide strong fiduciary oversight during implementation.

6. Lessons Learned
IDA has supported education in Nepal for over three decades, and has constantly evolved its approach to
developing the sector based on the lessons learnt from its Projects. In designing the last program of the
current series, SSRP, it has continued to integrate and build on the lessons learned from the
implementation of past programs. Some of these have been discussed above. Other overarching lessons
for wider application and sector level lessons are summarized below.


                                                    18
From the perspective of wider application, the EFA Program provides some important overall lessons.
Specifically, four key lessons emerge from the successful implementation of the EFA Program: (i) a
SWAp that supports the Government’s own program and relies on Government structures for
implementation can be an effective tool to harmonize partner support, strengthen sectoral management
capacity and reduce transaction costs; (ii) high level political commitment is critical to achieve difficult
reforms as is bureaucratic buy-in; (iii) effective communication, specifically on progress of reforms can
play a critical role in ensuring sustainability of reforms; (iv) participatory processes to engage
communities and mobilize beneficiaries can be a powerful means to achieve results.

In addition, some lessons to enhance the outcomes of the follow-on SSRP further are highlighted below.
Most of these have been adequately incorporated in the SSRP.

Adequate capacity building is crucial to enable effective decentralization, particularly at the village and
community levels. The reforms introduced under the EFA program successfully decentralized
administrative and financial authority to local community bodies, i.e. the SMCs. To be truly meaningful,
this reform needs to be accompanied with strong capacity support to ensure that the SMCs play their roles
effectively. Capacity support needs to be continuous and focused.
Emphasis on quality of education: The lack of systems for tracking student learning outcomes and a
framework of quality standards and indicators for schools can pose substantial constraints in developing,
implementing and monitoring appropriate interventions to improve learning achievements. Also, while
adequate inputs such as physical facilities, free textbooks, and teacher training are all essential for
achieving quality education, they alone are insufficient to bring about improvements in student learning
outcomes. A holistic approach that goes beyond ensuring teacher presence and providing a certain
number of days of training to investing in continuous support to teachers in the classroom is critical. This
lesson has been emphasized in the SSRP.

Balancing incentives to students with incentives to schools: To date, strategies to enhance educational
outcomes of the disadvantaged have focused on increasing access through provision of incentives such as
scholarships. These strategies have been successful in increasing enrolments of these groups. However,
going forward, additional resources to schools that serve disadvantaged communities should also be
explored. Implementation experience tells us that the children who come from poorer backgrounds and
others who have special needs often need more support. Teachers also need more support to meet the
learning needs of these children. Schools could through their SIPs request additional support while
remaining accountable for increasing the educational outcomes (both access and quality) of children from
disadvantaged groups.

Use of data: The use of data in planning and monitoring has led to improvements in the reliability and
usefulness of the data. This function needs to be enhanced further to (i) generate and use reliable
information on student learning; (ii) target additional resources to lagging schools/regions and reward
those that are performing well; and (iii) improve targeting mechanisms for programs such as scholarships
so that their impact is maximized by reaching the neediest. In the case of EMIS, schools often view the
EMIS reporting requirements as an unnecessary burden that has little to do with their school operations.
Providing individual schools feedback based on the collected data will help schools to appreciate the
relevance of this reporting requirement and also aid them in their planning process. The M &E system in
SSRP intends to provide such feedback to individual schools.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies



                                                    19
The Borrower provided its own detailed ICR, a summary of which is included in Annex 7. The majority
of achievements identified are in line with the contents of the ICR. More importantly, the Borrower’s ICR
outlines examples of concrete lessons learnt from the implementation of the EFA Program which have
informed the design and implementation mechanisms for the follow-on SSR Project. The MoE also
reviewed the ICRR in detail and agreed with its findings. It recommended that the risk to development
outcome be rated as ‘modest’.

(b) Cofinanciers
The team held a roundtable with the Development Partners who supported the EFA Program in June,
2010. They expressed their overall satisfaction with the performance of the Program. They also
highlighted the high level of DP collaboration in its support to the EFA Program and the good working
relationships that had been established to align support to the sector. They also noted that lessons learned
from the EFA Program had been adequately incorporated in the follow-on SSR Program which many of
the DPs continue to support. The key areas that came under discussion are summarized in Annex 7.
Comments received from DANIDA have also been included in Annex 7.

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                                    20
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
The Project was designed as a SWAp which pooled development partner financing with that of the
Government to finance Program costs. Also, unlike traditional investment operations, there were no pre-
defined components and associated financial allocations. Project costs at appraisal included total EFA
Program budget by funding source. Table (a) below compares the expenditure expected at appraisal with
actual expenditures. Table (b) records expenditure under the 10 budget heads of the EFA Program –
indicative costs for these budget heads were not included in the PAD.

(a) Planned and Actual Expenditure of EFA Program (Pooled Financing – US$ mln)
                                                      FY05     FY06         FY07            FY08         FY09
                               Planned                  108    117          131             137          136
    Total
                               Actual/Projected         127    152          172             246          320
                               Planned                  90         91        99             100          101
    Government
                               Actual/Projected         89     113          124             172          205
                               Planned                  18         26        32               38           35
    Development Partner
                               Actual/Projected         37         39        48               74         115

(b) EFA Expenditure by Budget Head (NPR 000)18
                                      FY05        FY06         FY07               FY08             FY09
1      Primary Education
                                      5,775,100   7,093,769    7,477,834          9,432,602        12,376,346
2      Non-formal Education
       (recurrent)                    4,275       4,503        4,640              5,155            5,651
3      Non-formal Education
       (capital)                      100         -            -                  -                -
4      Teacher Record Office
                                      208,277     219,770      235,000            240,585          240,662
5      Special Education Council
                                      32,000      33,600       34,000             34,400           40,016
6      Teacher Pension Facility
                                      510,000     650,000      780,000            790,000          790,000
7      EFA ( center ) - recurrent
                                      91,000      51,700       70,048             425,532          1,144,062
8      EFA ( center ) - capital
                                      98,800      28,300       -                  -                13,400
9      EFA ( district ) - recurrent
                                      2,336,711   2,624,989    2,797,136          3,491,784        4,228,985
1      EFA ( district ) - capital
0                                     314,430     553,600      811,182            1,539,500        2,907,600
       Total in NPR
                                      9,370,693   11,260,231   12,209,840         15,969,558       22,372,114
       US$ in million
                                      127         152          172                246              320




18
  The EFA Program (2004-2009) primarily financed expenditures through FY09. Final figures for FY10 (which
ends July 15, 2010) not available.


                                                          21
(c) Financing
                                                               Appraisal     Actual/Latest
                                                Type of                                     Percentage of
             Source of Funds                                    Estimate        Estimate
                                              Cofinancing                                     Appraisal
                                                             (USD millions) (USD millions)
 Borrower                                   Joint           479             703            147
 DENMARK: Danish Intl. Dev. Assistance
                                            Joint           28.00          32.1           115
(DANIDA)
 UK: British Department for International
                                            Joint           35.00          37.1           106
Development (DFID)
 FINLAND: Ministry for Foreign Affairs      Joint           14.00          14.3           102
 International Development Association
                                            Joint           50.00          111.3          220
(IDA)
 NORWAY: Norwegian Agency for Dev.
                                            Joint           23.00          26.47          115
Coop. (NORAD)
ADB: Asian Development Bank (ADB)           Joint           30             33.9           113
EC: European Commission                     Joint           17.5           27.9           160
AUSTRALIA: Australia Agency for
                                            Joint           1.9            2.9            153
International Development
UNICEF                                      Joint           1              0.37           37

Note: The original pooled donors included Denmark, UK, Finland, IDA and Norway; ADB, EC, AusAID
and UNICEF joined the JFA subsequently.




                                                     22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

The EFA program was structured around three strategic goals with a set of interventions linked to each. It
recognized the cross-linkages between the interventions and attempted to look at the sector in a holistic
manner. For example, it recognized that effective ECD programs have an impact on both increasing
enrollment and also student learning outcomes. In doing so, although it defined three strategic
goals/components, activities of the Program were combined into 6 sub-programs, achievements of which
are described below.

Expanding early childhood education – At the time the Project was prepared, Nepal had been
implementing a successful ECD Program which had shown to improve learning gains and completion
rates. This program was envisaged to have particular relevance for children from deprived families and
was thus aimed at targeting to the remote districts and other disadvantaged areas of the country. The
Program aimed to increase the number of community based and school based public ECD centers from a
baseline of 5,700 in 2004 to an additional 11,000 new ECD centers. The centers were to cater for around
270,000 children annually, thus increasing the percentage of new entrants to grade one with ECD
experience from eight percent in 2001 to 60 percent in 2009. A total 7.15% of EFA budget amounting to
NRs. 389.946 million (US$ 6.00 million) was allocated for this activity.

The EFA Program made significant progress in this area. It met its target of establishing 26,000 ECD
Centers by Project completion. The share of new entrants to grade 1 with ECD experience increased
significantly to 50%, however missing the target set at appraisal of 60%. Table 1 summarizes the progress
towards achieving the targets. Of the total enrolment in ECD programs, 16% comprised of Dalits and
39% of Janajatis. Girls constituted 44% of total enrolment.

Table 1: ECD Enrolment
                             2004        2005       2006        2007        2008       2009      Target(2009)
 GER of ECD                   39          70         41          60          63                       51
 %age of new entrants
                              11          na          18         33          36         50             60
 at grade 1 with ECD
 Source: Flash Reports

Although the EFA Program accomplished a considerable amount with respect to creating access to ECD
Programs, the targeting of the Programs remained weak often not reaching the intended disadvantaged
groups. The quality of the programs was also sub-standard eroding some of the impact that ECD
programs have on student learning achievements19. In this case, as in some others, the focus of the EFA
Program remained on numbers, often at the expense of ensuring adequate quality at the newly established
centers through setting standards and monitoring the quality aspects of the programs. However, the
Government recognizes this shortcoming of the Program and is addressing it through partnerships with
International NGOs such as Save the Children.

Ensuring access to all – Performance for this sub-group was to be measured by the increase in NER from
81% in 2001 to 93% in 2009. Enrollment opportunities were to be improved through construction and
furnishing of 8,000 new classrooms, rehabilitation of 6,000 classrooms, improving site services in 5,000
schools with special focus on toilets for girls and safe drinking water. In addition, alternative schooling
programs for children aged six to eight years in very small and remote hamlets was provided through a


19
  Reference Save the Children Evaluation of the ECD Program that pointed out issues related to the quality aspects
of the Program


                                                        23
thousand school outreach program. For children in the eight to 14 years age group who could not join
school, 800 flexible schooling programs were made available.

Achievement of outputs related to provision of new classroom; rehabilitation of classrooms; and the
improvement of school facilities (including toilet, clean drinking water and fence) is summarized in the
table 1 below. Targets set at appraisal were exceeded for all three indicators. Examined in the context of a
total of 31,150 schools in Nepal, the coverage of these activities was 25% based on a conservative
estimate.

Table: Construction and Rehabilitation of Facilities
                                2004/05      2005/06      2006/07     2007/08     2008/09        Total   Target
      Number of new
      classrooms                  1000         3785         4500        4670        n/a          13955   8000
      constructed
      Number of
      classrooms                  1036         1818         1911        1846        n/a          6611    6000
      rehabilitated
      Improved school
                                   38          3273         2251        2372        n/a          7934    5000
      facilities
      Source: Flash Reports

Meeting learning needs of all – This sub-program included support to non-Nepali speaking children,
constituting about 50% of children in Nepal. The activity was envisaged to be piloted in about 50 schools
serving predominantly non-Nepali speaking populations in five districts. Pilot results were to guide
expansion of the initiative to cover about 50% of schools serving predominantly non-Nepali speaking
populations.

This intervention was intended to assist about half of the children in Nepal who do not speak Nepali.
There are about 21 different languages that are used as a medium of instruction in primary schools in
Nepal. Under the EFA Program, an intervention to provide transitional support to non-Nepali speaking
children was initiated. Government of Nepal statistics indicate that 17,341 classes in primary schools in
Nepal are now providing transitional support in classroom activities. The impact of the intervention on
increasing learning outcomes of the target group is not clear.

Reducing female illiteracy – The primary indicator for this activity was an increase in the adult literacy
rate (15+ years) from 48 percent in 2001 to 66 percent in 2009 while raising the gender parity index from
0.6 to 0.9 in 2009 during the same period. To achieve these goals, support would continue for the ongoing
Women’s Literacy Program and National Literacy Campaign. 60,000 women were to receive literacy and
48,000 others to become functionally literate through the Women’s Literacy Program. Ten percent o f the
women who attain functional literacy will be trained in self-employment skills. Women’s Literacy
programs will be focused in 18 low literacy districts. Further, 205 community learning centers catering to
out of school children and neo-literates were to be supported. 250,000 children were expected to benefit
from this program.

The Program’s achievements in this area were modest. Enrolment targets set low targets for increasing
female participation in adult literacy programs20. The adult literacy rate in 2008 was 63% with a gender
parity index of 0.84. Progress towards meeting outcomes was satisfactory, however, there was insufficient
attention to quality which diluted the impact of increased provision of these programs on actual learning


20
     The Project’s results framework set a substantially higher target which was missed by 28%


                                                          24
of beneficiaries. Furthermore, the implementation modalities which involved cost sharing and relied
extensively on NGO support, were counterproductive to targeting the most disadvantaged.

Eliminating gender disparity - provide scholarships of NRs 250 per year to girls, dalits, and children
from other disadvantaged groups. These scholarships would be funded through the School Grants
Program (SGP) and benefit about 650,000 students per year. Under the SGP, booster scholarships of NRs
500 per year would be introduced to mainstream about 120,000 children from excluded households per
year.

The outcomes of this subcomponent, as discussed in the main body, were commendable. Through the
EFA Program, Nepal was able to achieve gender parity from a baseline GPI of 0.87 in 2004. Importantly,
gender parity was also achieved for population sub-groups, with a GPI of 0.98 for Dalits and 0.99 for
Janajatis.

The main intervention used was provision of targeted scholarships to reach all Dalits and 50% of girls in
each district. Initially NRs 250 per annum was provided to all eligible students. This amount was
subsequently raised to 350 NPR per annum in 2007. Scholarships were also made provisional on the
achievement of an attendance rate of at least 80% at the time. Scholarship funds were channeled to
schools as a part of SIP funding, on the basis of enrolments of Dalits and girls, as well as other
disadvantaged children depending on the district.

Coverage of the scholarship program for girls and dalits exceeded the targets set at appraisal. According
to the 2009 Flash report a total of 741,451 dalit children 615,653 girls received the scholarship.

A 2006/07 Performance Audit of schools carried out by the Office of the Auditor General (OAG) 21
identified some issues with the implementation of the Program. These included (i) in 10 of the 15
Districts the amount of scholarship per head was lower than the declared levels (ii) in half the districts the
distribution was “not timely? – in 3 districts, delays went up to well over a year; (iii) scholarships were
given in five Districts in the form of “kind? e.g. bags, uniform, goats. The Government took notice of
these issues and is continuing to improve implementation of the program.

Improving all aspects of quality education - The major focus of the EFA program was to empower
SMCs to take initiative for school improvement in partnership with the community through the School
Improvement Plan (SIP) instrument.

The Program was fairly successful in this respect. The MTR found that SIPs are prepared by almost all
schools since it is a mandatory requirement for release of funds to schools. This was verified by the Joint
Evaluation Report. Scholarship funds are being channeled to schools as a part of SIP funding, on the basis
of enrolments of Dalits and girls, as well as other disadvantaged children depending on the district
situation. Funding for free text books for each child is also provided through the SIP mechanism.
However, the Joint Evaluation Report found that the use of SIPs for planning and budgeting is very
limited?. However, CMS personnel consulted reported that over time the process has become more
participatory. There are growing instances of the SMCs of CMSs holding consultation meetings with
community people to identify the needs of schools.




21
     Reported findings based on data from 71 schools in 15 districts


                                                           25
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

This economic analysis presents a retrospective assessment of benefits and costs associated with the
Nepal EFA Program using realized data at the end of the Program. Costs include EFA Program costs
(from both pooling and non-pooling sources) and private costs that comprise of direct household outlays
as well as opportunity costs. Benefits come from three sources: (i) number of primary school completers
who earn higher wages (relative to non-completers); (ii) increased quality of education resulting in higher
wage-premium for all primary school completers; and (iii) decreased wastage of public and private
resources as a result of reduced dropouts and repetitions. EFA implemented a wide range of demand and
supply side interventions to improve access, equity and efficiency while at the same time enhancing
quality of schooling through improved school-level and teacher-level sub-programs as well some
overarching policy/institutional reforms.

The cost-benefit analysis uses the following assumptions and data sources to arrive at the internal rate of
return (IRR) and the net present value (NPV) of Program benefits:

1. Enrolments in primary grades (1-5) for years 2004/5-2008/9 are from the EFA evaluation report and
   EMIS flash reports. We use community (eligible for public funding) school enrolment, comprising
   over 85% of all students, and exclude those private schools not eligible for such government funding.
   Annual primary level enrolments in community schools ranged from 3.6 million in 2004/5 to 4.3
   million in 2008/9.

2. Year-wise data on total number of primary school (grade 5) completers are derived from data from
   School Sector Reform Program (SSR) economic analysis carried out jointly by the government and
   development partners. The major component in the benefit stream comes from the number of primary
   completers. As seen in figure 1 below, at the end of the EFA program, it is estimated that more than
   2.1 million students, cumulatively, have graduated from grade 5.

3. EFA Program costs are actual (Department of Education, Government of Nepal). Five year
   expenditures (pooling and non-pooling) totaled about US$1,116 million in nominal terms, with an
   effective per student unit cost averaging around US$55.

4. Per student private household cost (of attending public primary school annually) is under US$10 as
   estimated using NLSS 2004 data. From the same data, opportunity cost (forgone earnings) per student
   per year while attending school is estimated to be US$30. We assume that only one-fourth of primary
   school students would have engaged in wage-labor activity had they remained not enrolled in schools.
   This results in total household outlays to be about US$160 million and the opportunity cost (forgone
   earnings) about US$600 million in nominal terms over the five year period.

5. Benefits from increased life-time earnings are estimated for primary school completers of five cohorts
   2004/5 through 2008/9 using NLSS wage-education profiles. Annual wage-premium for a primary
   school graduate (wage level for completer minus that for non-completer) is estimated to be US$140.
   Quality premium is assumed to be 5% over this wage-premium (we also use 3% for sensitivity
   analysis). The benefit stream accruing from life-time earnings for the five-cohorts is assumed to
   continue for 20 years (even though typical primary completer will earn beyond 20 years, “discounting?
   will make the values insignificant beyond this time period).

6. Savings due to reduced number of student-years to produce one (or so many) primary school
   completer are calculated accounting for both program as well as private (direct and indirect) costs.
   We estimate that the EFA Program produced a primary school completer with 1 fewer student-year
   (7.4 years during EFA vs. 8.4 years under no EFA).


                                                    26
7. A discount rate of 12% is assumed to calculate net present value of program benefits (same as in
   appraisal). In terms of employment of primary school completers, we assume two scenarios: 10%
   unemployment and 20% unemployment (to be on the conservative side).

Figure 1: Total number of community school students completing grade 5, 2004/5-2008/9
                   EFA Primary School Completers (Cumulative in '000)
 2,500

 2,000

 1,500

 1,000

   500

     -
               2004/5           2005/6           2006/7           2007/8           2008/9


IRR and NPV
Under the assumptions described above and actual data on enrolments and completions, the estimated
IRR is 21% and NPV of economic benefits is about US$992 million.

In table 1 below, we present a sensitivity analysis of IRR and NPV under different scenarios – allowing
for varying quality premium and unemployment rate. When the quality premium is 5 percent and
unemployment is 10 percent (our base case scenario), the IRR is 21% and NPV is US$992. As seen in the
table below, IRR varies between 17-21% and NPV between US$574-992 million.

Discounted present values (DPV) of each of the sources of the benefit and cost streams in the base case
scenario are shown in table 2 below. As expected, benefits accrue mostly from wage-premium for
primary school completers. It should be noted that benefits from reduced wastage (dropouts/repetition) for
five years is in the order of US$80 million – not an insignificant saving. In terms of costs, program costs
(government and development partners) constitute the largest category.

Table 1: Sensitivity analysis of IRR and NPV under multiple scenarios
                    Internal Rate of Return              NPV (US$ million)
                    Unemployment         Unemployment    Unemployment               Unemployment
                    High case (20        Base case (10   High case (20              Base case (10
                    percent)             percent)        percent)                   percent)
Quality premium 19%                      21%             773                        992
Base case (5%)
Quality premium 17%                      19%             574                        793
Low case (1%)

Table 2: Discounted Present Values of Benefits and Costs streams, EFA program 2004-2009
Category                                                          US$ million
Benefits due to primary completers wage premium                   1,971
Benefits due to education quality/relevance premium               248



                                                    27
Benefits due to savings from reduced internal inefficiency            81
Total Benefits                                                        2,300

Program Costs (pooling and non-pooling public resources)              771
Private Household Direct Costs                                        116
Private Opportunity Indirect costs                                    422
Total Costs                                                           1,308

Net benefits                                                          992
Note: Discount Rate of 12% is used in deriving the DPVs

Project ICR and Project Appraisal estimates
Compared to the economic analysis completed at appraisal, we note that both the IRR and the NPV have
increased at the ICR stage. A number of assumptions and projections made at project appraisal changed
by the end of the Program: (i) program costs (public resources) have increased due to more than expected
bulge in community primary school enrollment, and (ii) increased enrolment coupled with improved
internal efficiency has led to a large increase in number of students completing grade 5. The increase in
cost stream has been more than offset by a large increase in the benefit stream. Moreover, we are now
using better quality data on both physical (enrolment and completions) and financial aspects (actual data
on costs, wage premiums, etc.) of the completed EFA Program.

Summary
The above results, including the robustness analysis, with the IRR - ranging from 17% to 21%- and NPV
of benefits, ranging between US$574 million and US$992 million, clearly suggest that the EFA Program
has been a sound “investment?. In fact these are conservative lower -bound estimates, given we have not
yet accounted for externality benefits arising from healthier, more educated and a more
equitable/inclusive society. Also, we have not assigned additional benefits to those primary level
completers who would have gone on to complete even higher levels of education and receive “higher?
wage-premiums.




                                                   28
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                                Responsibility/
             Names                         Title                      Unit
                                                                                  Specialty
Lending
 Julie-Anne M. Graitge    Program Assistant                         SASHD
 Susan E. Hirshberg       Sr Education Specialist                   AFTED
 Rajendra Dhoj Joshi      Sr Education Specialist                   AFTED
 Chingboon Lee            Sector Manager, Education                 LCSHE
John Middleton            Consultant                              AFTH1 - HIS
 Sushila Rai              Program Assistant                         SASHD
Supervision/ICR
Mohan Prasad Aryal        E T Consultant                            SASHD
Kiran R. Baral            Sr Procurement Officer                    SARPS
Lynn Bennett              Consultant                                SASDS
Drona Raj Ghimire         E T Consultant                            SASDI
Julie-Anne M. Graitge     Program Assistant                         SASHD
Yuka Makino               Natural Resources Mgmt. Specialist        SASDI
Nagendra Nakarmi          Senior Program Assistant                  SARFM
Bigyan B. Pradhan         Sr Financial Management Specialist        SARFM
Sushila Rai               Program Assistant                         SASHD
Neena Shrestha            Procurement Assistant                     SARPS
Gajendra Man Shrestha     Consultant                                SASHD
Laxmi Prasad Subedi       Consultant                                SASDA
Venkatesh Sundararaman    Senior Economist                          SASED



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                            Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                            USD Thousands (including
                                        No. of staff weeks
                                                                  travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY03                                                                       105.55
  FY04                                                                       327.04
  FY05                                                                         3.68
  FY06                                                                         0.00
  FY07                                                                         0.00
  FY08                                                                         0.00
                          Total:                                             436.27
Supervision/ICR
  FY03                                                                         0.00
  FY04                                                                         0.00
  FY05                                                                        96.14


                                             29
FY06                  30.29
FY07                  35.56
FY08                  38.58
       Total:        200.57




                30
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

The following is an excerpt from the EFA Joint Evaluation Report commissioned by NORAD. It records
a district wise summary of the qualitative comments of the beneficiaries on access, equity and learning
outcomes in the either districts where the survey was carried out.

Jhapa
 Increased enrolments overall and as percentage, drop in out of school children.
 Much more increase in enrolment of girls, Janajatis and Dalits in EFA period than in previous BPEP-
    II period- but they still lag behind.
 Increased retention and completion to grade 5.
 Increase in knowledge about who is excluded and attitudes towards targeting and inclusion.
 ECD classes from 293 to 536 – but less evidence of targeting.
 Increased enrolment of disabled children in resource units, with disabled children now completing
    primary and SLC levels.
 Perception of improved learning outcomes
 Perception of improvements in key quality- inputs, including construction, instructional time, % of
    trained teachers, improved curriculum and textbooks and the learning environment.
 Many more women teachers overall, but these are concentrated in less remote schools.
 Remaining Out-of-School children are concentrated in three poor VDCs and mainly from
    disadvantaged Janajati groups. Mahottari
 Enrolment increase of both boys and girls.
 Enrolment increase of Dalit and other disadvantaged groups.
 Decline in drop out, but retention is still low.
 Continuing attendance issues, including seasonal non-attendance, particularly for poor and Dalit
    children.
 UNICEF estimate of 4800 children still out of school in the district - these are mainly Dalit and
    disadvantaged and also concentrated in Southern parts on Indian border.
 Perception of improvements in key quality- inputs, especially construction and facilities.

Siraha
 The overall number of students has increased.
 Enrolment has increased for both boys and girls.
 Enrolment has increased for Dalits and Disadvantaged Groups.
 However, around 24% still out of school, whilst for disadvantaged groups this figure rises to 30-40%.
    Out of school children concentrated in Dalit communities and to the South of the District on the
    Indian border.
 Perceived improvement in children’s reading and writing skills.

Dhanusha
 Big increase in overall student enrolment.
 Stronger awareness of the value of girls’ education and increase in girls’ enrolment.
 However, drop out remains high, especially for girls.
 Improved provision of quality inputs, especially classrooms and trained teachers.

Surkhet
 Increase in students in many schools- but in part related to conflict- caused migration into Surkhet
   valley and closure of private schools.
 Increase in enrolments for girls, Dalits and disadvantaged Janajatis.
 Disabled children being enrolled in resource classes.



                                                   31
   Slow changes in attitude towards education for girls.
   DEO estimates around 6% children remain out of school- more girls than boys, mostly from Dalit and
    disadvantaged Janajati groups.
   Improvement in some key quality inputs, especially classrooms and facilities, school management,
    curriculum and text books and classroom environment.

Dhading
 Increase in overall enrolments.
 Increase in enrolments of girls and Dalits.
 Reduced drop out (but this is still significant).
 Out- of school- children tend to be very poor children working to support their families.
 Increase in quality inputs, including availability and quality of textbooks and other earning materials,
   the school environment, teacher qualification and teacher attendance.

Mugu
 Much increased enrolment of girls, Dalits and other marginalised groups, including more than 25%
  increase in Dalit enrolment.
 Decrease in drop out.
 About 20% of children from Dalit and very poor families are still out of school. Rasuwa
 Increase in enrolment of vulnerable groups, especially Dalits and Janajatis.
 Increased enrolments in Grade One.
 About 12-15% children still out of school - among Dalits and Janajatis these are now mainly boys,
  whilst among BCN groups these are mostly girls.
 Increased enrolment of disabled children.
 Increased adult literacy.
 Much increased awareness and sense of entitlement to education/ education as human right.




                                                   32
     Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

     The Borrower provided a comprehensive evaluation of the EFA Program. Key messages from the report
     have been summarized below.

     Assessment of achievement of objectives: This section includes the highlights from the implementation
     of activities and success in meeting the objectives of the EFA Program.

I.       Ensuring access and equity in primary education:

     The programme was designed with a first objective of raising NER from 81% in 2001 to 96% by 2009.
     The key barriers to the achievement of this objective were assessed to be poverty and the costs of
     education (indirect and opportunity costs, health and nutrition). In response to the above barriers, the
     programme identified free primary education and incentives to overcome indirect and opportunity costs as
     the overall programme strategy. Salient features of the implementation experience of this objective
     included:
      Enrolment of Dalits and Janajatis increased substantially over the five years.
      Based on the current NER of 91.9% it is assessed that more than 8% of children remain out-of-school,
         and that slightly more of the out-of-school children are girls. In addition, although data is lacking, it is
         believed that the majority of these children live in hard-to-reach geographical areas and that many of
         them face additional difficulties in the form of disabilities, extreme poverty, child work, impact of
         conflict, migration or are affected by other difficult circumstances.
      Significant increases in GER indicate continued problems with substantial under- and over-age
         enrolment.
      Gender Parity Index (GPI) in primary education has improved from 0.83 in 2003 to 0.98 in 2008,
         indicating significant improvement in girls' access.
      GPI for Dalit- and Janajati girls show a similar and comparable trend. However, no clear target was
         set for this at the outset of the EFA programme.
      The Report from the Joint Evaluation of Nepal's Education for All 2004-2009 Sector Programme (in
         the following referred to as the EFA Evaluation Report) describe the set of strategies identified by the
         EFA program to enhance access to education as broad, comprehensive and addressing the barriers
         identified in the context of Nepal, and comparable with strategies implemented through similar
         education sector programmes in Asia. The Report also points out that direct strategies to address the
         impact of the conflict, as well as certain social issues, including migration and HIV/AIDS, were less
         strongly articulated than what could have been expected.
      The six main strategies were not applied with equal intensity and pre-programme preparation for each
         varied. Straight-forward strategies like the ‘Provision of incentives’ and ‘Improvement of the physical
         environment’ were applied heavily with a high degree of documented effectiveness. More
         complicated strategies like ‘Recruitment and re-deployment of teachers’ and ‘Expansion of ECD and
         pre-primary education’ have been applied less convincingly and with less documented effect.
         Although the number of teachers has increased considerably as have the number of established ECD
         centres, the experience indicates that these strategies needed more preparation, including stakeholder
         consultations and a certain degree of local ownership in order to be effective. It is assessed that the
         limited success in terms of re-deployment of teachers and ensuring that ECD centres are operating in
         accordance with agreed minimum standards to some extent can be attributed to poor pre-programme
         planning and in particular poor stakeholder consultation and ownership.
      Strategies like ‘Adoption of inclusive education methods’ and ‘Reducing adult illiteracy’ ap pear to
         have made little contribution towards the objective and there are indications that much still needs to
         be done in these areas. Indications are that pre-programme preparations were inadequate and that it
         has been difficult to adopt a more strategic approach during implementation.


                                                           33
  Based on the above, during the Programme Completion Workshop held on November 19, senior
  government officials concluded that the objective of raising NER to 96% has not been achieved. In this
  light it may be difficult to argue that overall progress against the original objective has been satisfactory.
  However, the education sector officials found that given that the 96% NER target perhaps was too
  ambitious (given the available resources and the significant difficulties in first raising the awareness of
  the need for and value of education among the more ‘difficult-to-reach’ groups, than reaching these
  groups with educational services, including the posting of qualified teachers) an argument can be made
  that achieving a 96% NER at this stage is indeed satisfactory; although it is less than expected at the very
  outset of the programme. The achievement in terms of a balanced and equitable approach between girls
  and boys and in terms of increasing enrolment of children from disadvantaged and vulnerable groups has
  been significant.

  Issues that have affected and still affect access and the achievement of both the access and equity
  objective include the composition, qualifications, size, and motivation of the current teaching force; the
  availability and quality of learning facilitation materials, including textbooks; and the availability of a
  basic enabling physical environment at schools, including access to toilets and safe drinking water. Some
  adjustments need to be made to the current set of strategies and implementation modalities, focusing on
  creating an enabling environment for results-oriented planning with targeted quality improvement
  initiatives as well as improving ways of holding implementers at all levels accountable for effective
  service delivery.

II.   Enhancing quality and relevance of primary education:

  The second programme objective was to enhance the quality of education in primary education so that by
  2009 grade 5 survival rate will have increased to 85%. Adult literacy will have reached 66%, and GPI will
  have reached 0.9. The Core Document identified deficiencies in the ‘five basics’ of 1) teachers; 2)
  textbooks/instructional materials; 3) Learning environment; 4) school improvement; and 5) management
  and capacity building; as the main cause for poor quality education. Main findings of assessment of
  activities under this component include:
   The EFA Evaluation Report states that direct statistical evidence of improved quality is less clear than
      for access. The selected key indicator of quality, namely student learning, is fine; but unfortunately
      there has been no measurement of student learning outcomes in a form that can provide a basis for a
      scientific judgement.
   Progress in improving literacy in the 15-24 age range suggests that primary education has had some
      impact in terms of improving basic literacy levels.
   The slight improvement in repetition and drop-out rates may also be taken as an indication of
      improved quality; but the fact that they remain high means a lot more needs to be done.
   It has been noted that there has been a gradual shift towards more focu s on ‘whole school’
      development, using the SIP as a vehicle for a more holistic development process, with an aim to
      ensure that teachers are teaching and students are learning and to develop a more child-friendly and
      inclusive environment.
   Although there has been progress in recruiting and posting new teachers, the EFA Evaluation Report
      assesses that close to 20,000 additional teachers are required in order to meet desired Student Teacher
      Ratios (STR). The population pyramid combined with increased enrolment rates means that in spite
      of an increasing number of teachers, the STR has gone up from 39.7:1 in the beginning to 43.8:1 in
      2008.
   The national average figures on STR may divert attention away from a significant problem with huge
      variations between districts and between schools within districts.




                                                       34
   According to the Status Report 2007/08 the ratio of female teachers to school has improved from 1.2
    per school in 2003/04 to 1.8 in 2008.
   A significant gap still exists between the qualification and skill levels of teachers across districts and
    between urban and rural areas.
   There has been considerable improvement in the curriculum and textbooks, as well as the availability
    of books and materials in schools. Although textbook delivery has improved over recent years,
    problems still remain and there are significant variations between districts.
   Based on information from DOE, progress has been good in terms of improving the physical
    environment as demonstrated by the construction of almost 20,000 new classrooms, the rehabilitation
    of about 15,000 old classrooms, and the improvement of the physical environment in about 8,000
    schools.
   Over recent years a number of creative pilot initiatives in inclusive and bi-lingual education have
    been initiated, but it appears that many expected changes still remain at the very early or ‘pilot’ stage
    and that real transformation of the teaching-learning process still has not picked up in most schools.
   With regard to the choice and implementation of strategies to address the identified problems and
    achieve quality, the EFA Evaluation Report says that they are all vital component and “it would be
    meaningless to pinpoint some strategies over others?.
   The Report points out that the relative lack of progress appears to be more linked with overall
    insufficient conceptualisation, prioritisation and resourcing for quality. The Report notes that:
    “Regarding quality there is little evidence that the strategies being implemented are yet producing the
    widespread quality improvement at classroom level or translating into visible and consistent
    improvements in learning outcomes.?
   The strategy to improve the teaching-learning process has been implemented and according to the
    latest data from NCED more than 98% of primary teachers now have been fully trained. However,
    evidence of the application of active and child-centred learning approaches in the field is not
    encouraging. Observations made by the EFA Joint Evaluation Team as well as the Mid-Term
    Evaluation Team indicate that progress have been uneven and incomplete. A CERID report (FRP 17)
    from 2007 on ‘Classroom Reformation for Better Conditions of Pedagogical Processes and Student -
    Centred Learning’ concludes that traditional teaching with rote learning is not fading although some
    new practices can be found. The EFA Evaluation Report suggests that the causes for the uneven
    progress is due to factors like over-sized classrooms, strengths and weaknesses of the teacher training
    system, variations in the frequency and perceived effectiveness of RP support visits to teachers and
    schools and the quality of school leadership. The Report also points out that teacher motivation and
    issues affecting teacher motivation, such as their professional status, development opportunities,
    terms and conditions are deeper explanatory causes. In addition there is growing recognition of the
    need to strengthen teachers’ performance accountability towards school management and parents, and
    link their performance evaluation process with students’ performance.
   In many documents and meetings the efforts to improve teaching-learning materials have been
    strongly associated with the approval and introduction of the new national curriculum framework.
    Although the curriculum framework has been long underway and only was ready for implementation
    in 2008, it has been praised by its efforts to consolidate integration of life skills and bilingual
    education. Much will now depend on how it will be interpreted and implemented in practice.
    Feedback from field visits carried out during the EFA evaluation indicates that the new curriculum
    framework has been well received and assessed as better related to the real context and more practical.
    Teachers and students referred to the new textbooks as more colourful and attractive and with
    interesting exercises. Implementing the new curriculum and book strategy is, however, emerging as a
    major challenge as many teachers have not seen the curriculum framework and others only have
    received a half-day orientation. Feedback from the field indicates that more training is required in
    order for field-level implementers to fully understand and be able to practice it. In terms of textbooks,
    the MTR noted that timely delivery has been a challenge. The EFA Evaluation Report concludes that



                                                     35
       this remains a serious issue and that the observation that in many schools the SIP funds barely cover
       the cost of basic textbooks.
      The strategy aimed at strengthening the monitoring and evaluation system at all levels has been
       applied with growing intensity since 2004; driven in particular by the need to produce the Flash report
       based on data directly from schools. Whereas central level stakeholders and Development Partners
       hold the Flash Reports in high regard (and rightly so when comparing it to other countries in the
       region) teachers at school level were reported in the EFA Evaluation Report as seeing little value of
       data collection and Flash Reports. This indicates possible problems from the central level in reporting
       back information based on the data collected, and partly inadequate facilitation of and technical
       backstopping for evidence-based school-level planning exercises.
      The strategy concerning the provision of funds for district-level research and development has not
       been applied in a systematic manner and there is little evidence of this strategy’s contribution towards
       the objective.

   In conclusion, although many good initiatives have been made, the overall progress when compared to the
   original objective has been less than satisfactory. This assessment is based on the achievement of only 1
   of the three outcome indicators for this component:
         Grade 5 survival rate currently stands at 58%, whereas the objective was to increase it to 85% by
            2009.
         Adult literacy rates (15+) currently stands at 56%, whereas the target was to raise it 66%.
         GPI currently stands at 0.97 in primary and 0.95 in basic, above the programme target of 0.9.

III.   Improving efficiency and institutional capacity.

   The third programme objective was to improve efficiency and institutional capacity. The indicators for
   this objective are the overall fund utilisation rate as well as the EFA indicators 7 (% of GNP channelled to
   the primary education sub-sector); 8 (% of total education budget channelled to primary sub-sector); and
   14 (Co-efficient of Efficiency). The Core Document does not identify barriers to the achievement of this
   objective, but points out that the management capacity at all levels will have a direct bearing on the
   success of the programme. It is also stressed that the education framework needs to embed mechanisms
   for building capacity at all levels to plan, implement, monitor and devise necessary adjustments for
   producing intended results from the education programmes. The Core Document states that; “Reforming
   the existing educational management structure and changing the culture at the work place in order to
   make it efficient, performance driven, and more accountable is a challenge that any programme in the
   education sector must address(CD p. 17). Hence, implicitly the Core Document recognises that there are
   weaknesses in the existing system that represents barriers to improved efficiency.

   In response to the above barriers, the Core Document listed four strategies:
       i.   Transfer school management to communities as a way of shifting from centralised management
            to community controlled and school-based planning and management.
      ii.   Use School Improvement Plans as a tool and process to strengthen bottom-up planning.
     iii.   Implement relevant activities from the Ministry’s HRD plan to improve efficiency and
            institutional capacity at all levels.
     iv.    Build partnerships with local bodies, I/NGOs, CBOs and the private sector to ensure their active
            involvement in educational development with defined responsibilities.
   Efforts towards this objective also included the finalisation and implementation of an HRD plan to help
   teachers and education personnel develop their competencies, involving stakeholders and the civil society
   for greater participation at all levels of planning and implementing educational reform activities, and
   improving administration with a focus on transparency, accountability and equity.




                                                       36
Progress:
 The strategy on transferring school management to communities has been applied with increasing
   momentum over recent years, and the EFA Evaluation Report summarises progress towards the target
   of “handing over? 8,000 schools as excellent. The Mid-Term Evaluation report noted a slowdown in
   the process in many districts due to teacher opposition. The EFA Evaluation Report documents that
   the transfer process gained speed after 2006, with a total of 3,261 schools handed over by 2007, and
   that the Tenth Plan target of transferring 8,000 schools is within range as a total of 7,444 schools had
   been handed over by end of 2008.
 However, a regional imbalance has been observed with slower progress in transferring schools to
   communities in the Mid-Western- and Far-Western regions.
 The strategy on transferring school management to communities is in keeping with Nepal’s wider
   policy of decentralisation as well as the logic that parents have their children’s best interest at heart
   and therefore are concerned with and inclined to work for improving schooling conditions and school
   performance when offered opportunities.
 The strategy of using School Improvement Plans (SIP) as a tool to strengthen bottom-up planning has
   been implemented heavily and re-enforced by making the release of funds conditional on the
   existence of the SIP. There are, however, serious issues regarding the process through which SIPs are
   prepared, the extent to which they are implemented by schools, and issues concerned with the
   monitoring and reporting on plan implementation and the results of the SIP.
 The strategy concerning the implementation of relevant activities from the Ministry’s HRD plan was
   supported by the Core Document’s assessment that the capacity to implement the EFA programme at
   the very outset was hampered by insufficient number of teachers, with only a minority of them being
   fully trained; weak technical units at central level; and low capacity at district level to support the SIP
   process. The BPEP II Evaluation (p. 52) supports this assessment to a large extent.
 The EFA Evaluation assesses the strategy aimed at building partnerships with local bodies is
   appropriate as many (I)NGOs , on their own initiative, have provided training to stakeholders at
   district and sub-district levels, particularly in relation to gender and child-friendly teaching/learning.
   The EFA Evaluation also recognises that NGOs have made contributions in areas such as adult
   literacy and ECD. The report, however, concludes that these contributions made by local bodies and
   (I)NGOs “does not begin to fill the gap between what the Districts can provide and the demand.?
 A CERID report (FRP 14 School Autonomy: A Study of Enabling Conditions for School
   Effectiveness, 2007) concluded that an unequal power distribution exists between the grassroots-level
   on the one hand and the centre on the other. The report points out that contrary to the spirit of the
   decentralisation policy, central level bureaucrats have retained power and people’s representative
   bodies, like the SMC and PTA only take on a support function with little freedom to make decisions.
 The EFA Evaluation Report refers to another CERID study from 2007, pointing out that
   decentralisation was practiced in some districts following various different approaches, but that this
   often happened in isolation and often was hampered by DEO staff having no clearly defined
   responsibilities, affecting the preparation of planning documents like the SIP and DEP.
 The district case studies carried out during the EFA Evaluation suggests that the composition and
   leadership of the SMC is an all important factor to its effectiveness.
 At the outset of the programme, key capacity gaps included: a) insufficient number of teachers, with
   only a minority of them fully trained; b) central level technical units require strengthening (BPEP II
   evaluation); and c) district level capacity to provide input to and technical backstopping for the SIP
   process is too weak.
 The EFA Evaluation Report’s states (p. 54) that the Core Document’s importance placed on the need
   to develop management and professional capacity at all levels, has not been adhered to as in practice
   capacity development has been in terms of long- and short term training, seminars and workshops,
   leaving out the need for taking a more comprehensive view involving institutional and systemic




                                                     37
    change. The exception is the development of the ASIP as a cross-cutting tool embracing both
    institutional capacity development as well as the enhancement of management efficiency.
   Based on discussions with school-level stakeholders, the EFA Evaluation Report summarises (p. 56)
    that capacity development at school level and in particular addressing key players like SMCs, HTs,
    PTAs and VDCs, has been low. The Report points out that there is a strong demand for training in the
    fields of school management in general, but also requests for training in specific topics like SIP
    preparation and financial management. This demand is further supported by the Performance Audit
    conducted by the Office of the Auditor General that recognises that there is a clear need for school
    record keeping training, possibly coupled with the development of a simple record keeping system.
   Although much of the capacity development efforts has been characterised as suffering from a lack of
    systematic focus, the EFA Evaluation reports recognises that the strengthening of the NCED system
    and the clearance of the backlog of un-trained teachers is a most significant achievement (p. 57).

The EFA Evaluation Report (p.61) states that the progress towards handing over 8,000 schools to the
communities is excellent; but also points out that it is likely that many schools will remain under DEO
management as the resource base and local leadership is not adequate for self-management. Hence, unless
SMCs are made more functional, there is a very real risk that the ‘handing-over’ process will grind to a
halt. The Report stresses that it is necessary to ensure the adequate capacity of the SMCs and that it has
adequate resources corresponding with their responsibilities. It also points out that it is necessary to
explore ways of ensuring that the composition of the SMC is representative and that members serve the
best interest of the students.

In spite of certain short comings, the EFA Evaluation Report states that: “The success of capacity
development efforts at central level is obvious to observers who report the vastly increased confidence of
officials at central level.?(p. 61) The Report, however, also points out that at lower levels capacity
building activities have not been as intensive and the strictures of the MTR report still apply. In brief the
EFA Evaluation Report concludes that: “The success of capacity building lie in the new manage ment
systems and tools, the increased numbers of teachers and the clearance of the backlog of untrained
teachers.? (p. 61)

The EFA Evaluation Report points out that some important challenges remain, including developing
monitoring tools which capture the intended changes in teachers’ teaching and students’ learning as well
as the tracking of the impact of interventions on students’ literacy levels.

Overall Rating:
Taking the above into considerations into account, senior education officials found that an overall rating
of satisfactory with minor problems and need for making adjustments is warranted. One of the lessons
learned and areas that needs further attention during the SSRP is the urgent need to develop successful
ways of reaching 'hard-to-reach' groups that include poor, vulnerable, disadvantaged and disabled
children as well as their parents.

Remaining Challenges:

During the Programme Completion Workshop senior education officials assessed that the following
outstanding issues need to be addressed during the SSRP:
 GER (Gr. 1) is increasing, suggesting that the problem of over- and under-age enrolment is getting
    worse;
 Repetition rates remain too high;
 Village Education Committees (VECs) are not formed and Village Education Plans not developed
    and implemented;



                                                     38
   There still is no clear definition of what is meant by 'quality education' and associated indicators;
   A full-fledged decentralised system needs to be established;
   There is a need to develop professional capacity at local levels;
   Access to education for the children that are difficult to reach needs to be improved;
   Monitoring and evaluation is insufficient and follow-up on information provided through M&E needs
    to be improved;
   There is uncertainty as to how many children are 'out-of-school' and how serious a problem child
    labour is;
   The lessons learned from the EFA programme need to be reflected upon and used actively for
    improving activities and results during the SSRP.

Risks to Development Outcomes:

The EFA programme was from the very outset (see Core Document p. 49) considered a 'high-risk'
programme with particular risks emanating from: (i) inadequate capacity on the part of the local
government; (ii) a weak fiscal base; and (iii) an unstable political situation. Whereas both inadequate
capacity and the continued political instability have affected progress, the weak fiscal base has not
affected the allocation of funds to the education sector. The EFA Evaluation Report (p.86) points out that
with an allocation to primary education that is more than the average proportion of GDP when making
international comparisons, the level of financing in Nepal has been good. The assessment that well-
functioning teams need to be established at all levels of the system in order for the EFA programme to be
successful has been a valid assumption. The EFA Evaluation report points out that in particular the
limited capacity at school and district level has affected the quality of educational services, which in turn
has affected the education sector performance in terms of cycle completion rates as well as the ability to
reach hard-to-reach children and reduce drop-out and repetition rates. This continues to pose a risk to
improvements in the sector.

Related to the problem of limited capacity has been the Core Document's mentioning of the risk of poor
retention of staff in their post for a reasonable number of years. Staff turnover continues to be high and as
more technical career paths are not considered as prestigious as administrative/management posts, it
continues to be difficult to retain technical proficient staff in positions where full advantage can be taken
of their specialised, technical skills and knowledge.

In spite of being labelled a 'high-risk' programme, EFA has been able to deliver significant results
working with communities and schools as well as development partners and political parties at central and
local levels.

Lessons Learnt:
During the Programme Completion Workshop a group of senior education sector officials pointed out the
following lessons learned:
 There needs to be consistency between the policy (free education) and the resources provided to
    implement the policy;
 The diversity of Nepal means that blanket approaches tend to be less effective. There is a need for a
    more decentralised approach, firmly grounded in the local context and taking local circumstances into
    consideration;
 Policy goals need to be defined, clearly communicated and translated into clear and unambiguous
    implementation plans;
 Related to the above, the policy goal of 'quality education for all' is an example of an area needing
    much more attention to achieve a common understanding and to facilitate effective planning and
    implementation. In order for the political commitment to quality to be implemented in practice, there


                                                     39
    is an urgent need to define what we mean by quality education in specific operational and measurable
    terms, so that we can monitor our progress and get reassurance that we are on the right track towards
    our objective;
   Much more can be done by the Government in taking a more holistic approach, mobilising I/NGOs
    and facilitating a coordinated approach that will align efforts and yield better results.
   Improved organisational management and strengthened relationships with development partners,
    reflects the growing confidence among senior managers in the Ministry.




                                                   40
Annex 7. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

The team had a roundtable with Development Partners supporting the EFA Program on June 14, 2010.
Representatives of DANIDA, NORAD, Finland and ADB participated in the roundtable to discuss DP
collaboration during implementation of the EFA Program. Key discussion points from the meeting are
summarized below. DANIDA, one of the cofinanciers of the Project also provided comments which are
included below.

   DPs noted the high level of ownership of the Program by the Government, which they felt was the
    strongest aspect of implementation.
   They commented on the success of the SWAp approach to align DP support to the sector for
    maximum impact.
   Community empowerment enabled through funding to schools through the SIP instrument was also
    noted as a contributing factor.
   Some challenges identified related to:
        o Weak collaboration of players at the central level
        o Inadequate focus on quality issues; focus had remained on the ‘quantitative’ aspects such as
            the handing over of schools to communities. Adequate support to local players to manage the
            process effectively and enhance focus on quality issues was often lacking.
        o Need for better planning at central level. For example, the enrolment drives that focused on
            demand side issues were not accompanied with adequate investment to address supply side
            issues.
        o While at the centre there was effective collaboration with NGOs, this was often not the case
            at the district level.
        o Use of data for effective resource planning needs to be strengthened.

DANIDA Comments: Denmark has appreciated working closely with World Bank and other donors in
implementing the EFA Project. It is our impression that our joint cooperation has contributed to the
positive development and results within primary education in Nepal.

The lessons learn from the EFA Project have been utilized and implemented in the new phase of support
to Nepal’s education sector – The School Sector Reform Plan (SSRP).

Where the previous education projects have given emphasis on getting as many children as possible into
the education system – and with positive results – the SSRP has as one of the major objectives of
improving the quality of education.




                                                  41
Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents


Project Documents

1. Project Appraisal Document, Report No. 27890, The World Bank, June 9, 2004
2. Development Credit Agreement between Kingdom of Nepal and International Development
   Association, The World Bank, August 12, 2004
3. Joint Financing Agreements for Education for All 2004-2009, September 24, 2004
4. Financial Agreement (EFA) between Nepal and International Development Association, The World
   Bank, April 30, 2007
5. Financial Agreement (Additional Financing for EFA) between Nepal and International Development
   Association, The World Bank, January 31, 2008
6. Project Paper on Proposed Additional Financing (Grant), Report No. 41346-NP, The World Bank,
   November 8, 2007
7. Implementation Status and Result Reports (ISRs) and Aide Memoires, IDA, 2004-2009

Project-Related Studies, Surveys, and Reports

1. NORAD, Joint Evaluation of Nepal’s the EFA 2004-2009 Sector Program, March      2009.
2. National Environmental Guidelines for School Improvement Facility Management in Nepal,
   Department of Education, January 2004.
3. Vulnerable Communities Development Plan for Education for All 2004-2009 Program, Department
   of Education, 2004.
4. Community Schools in the Process of Transformation, CSSP, May 2005.
5. Scholarship in Community Managed School Report, Office of the Auditor General, Government of
   Nepal, 2006
6. National Assessment of Grade 8 Students, Educational and Development Service Centre    (EDSC),
   July 2008.
7. Community Managed Schools in Nepal, A Trend in School Reform, Gajendra Man Shrestha, Agni
   Prasad Kafle, Arbinda Lal Bhomi, Sugam Bajracharya, December 2007.
8. A Country Case Study on “Improving Local Service Delivery for MDGs in Asia: Education Sector in
   Nepal?, undated.

Other Documents and Publications

1. Impact Evaluation for School-Based Management Reform, The World Bank, December 2007.
2. Project Paper on a Proposed Additional Financing (Grant) to Nepal for the Education for All Project,
   Report No. 41346-NP, November 2007.
3. Flash I 2008 Report, DOE
4. Unequal Citizens, Gender, Caste and Ethnic Exclusion in Nepal, Summary, The World Bank, 2008.
5. Nepal, Joint Bank Group Draft Interim Strategy Note, FY2010-2011, The World Bank Group, South
   Asia Region, February 2009.




                                                  42
                                 80°E                                                                      82°E                                                                                                                          86°E                                                          88°E
                                                                                                                                                                               84°E




                                                                       To
                                                                      Barga


                                                                                                 Simikot
                 30°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    30°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NEPAL
                                  To
                                Ranikhet                        L¯I
                                                     ¯i
                                                  ¯ al

                                                           ak
                                                    KA

                                                      ah
                                                  M
                                                                                                            H                                                                                   CHINA
                                                 HA



                                                                              Chainpur
                                        Baitadi
                                                                                                                       ¯ L¯
                                                                                                                   KARNA  I
                                              MA




                                                                         S E T¯
                                                                              I
                                                                       Silgadhi
                                                                                                                              i
                                            Dandeldhura
                                                      ¯                                                               Jumla

                                                                                   Ka
                                                                                     rn
                                                                                       ali
                                                                                                                                               m                      Mustan




                                                                                                                                                                      IR¯
                                                                                                                                                                        I
                                                                                                                                               Dunai

                                                                                                                                                              a




                                                                                                                                                                    G
                                                                                               B H E R¯
                                                                                                      I                                                                   Jomsom




                                                                                                                                                              LA
                                                           Dhangarhi              Birendranagar
                                                                                                                                                                            l




                                                                                                                                                           A
                                                                                                                                                           ¯
                                                                                                                                                                            G A N D A K¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        To




                                                                                                                                                        AW
                                                                                                                                                                                       I                                                               Xegar
                                                                                                                                                                                                a




                                                                                                                                                                  i
                                                                                                               Sallyan




                                                                                                                                                              K al
                                                                                                                                                       H
                                                                                                                                                         Baglung




                                                                                                                                                   D
                                                                                                                                                                                Pokhara
                                                                                                           Tulsipur                                                                                     y
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Mt. Everest
                 28°N                                                                          Nepalganj                ¯ P T¯
                                                                                                                       RA    I                                                                                           a                                                  (8848 m)                                     28°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Kodan
                                                     To
                                                                                                                                                                                                             ¯ G M A T¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                            BA        I
                       To                         Lucknow
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             s




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ¯T H ¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A
                  Shahajahanpur                                                                                                                                                                       Nuwakot
                                                                                                                                                       L U M B I N¯
                                                                                                                                                                  I                                                   KATHMANDU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      KATHMANDU
                                                                                                                                                               Butawal                    ani          Lalitpur
                                                                                                                                                                                   N   ary




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                RMA
                  This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                  The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                To
                                                                                             Faizabad
                                                                                                                                                   Bhairawa                                                        Bhimphedi                                                      Ar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     un
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             M E C H¯
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Taplejun
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               K O S¯
                  shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                                                                                                      Okhaldhunga
                  Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                    Hetauda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    I                                  To




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               SAGA
                  endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                                                      ¯ ¯YANI
                                                                                                                                                                                                    NARAYANI
                                                                                                                                                                                                    NARA
                                                                                                                                                                                                    NARAY  ¯                 Sindhulimadi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Ramechhap                                                               Saidpur


                                                                                                                                          To
                                                                                                                                       Faizabad                                                           Birganj
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               JANAKPUR                                                   Dhankuta
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              shi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Sun Ko                        Ilam
                                     NEPAL
                                                                Lucknow
                                                                                                                                                                           To                                          Gaur                                                               Dharan
                                                                                                                                                                        Faizabad
                                                                                                                                       INDIA                                                                                             Janakpur

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Rajbiraj
                                       Kanpur
                                      SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Biratnagar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 To
                                      ZONE CAPITALS                                                                                                                                                                             Baruni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     To
                                      NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                            Faizabad                   To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Baruni
                                      RIVERS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             26°N
                                                                                                   26°N
                                      MAIN ROADS                                                               0      25          50      75       100 Kilometers

                                      RAILROADS
SEPTEMBER 2004




                                                                                                               0           25              50            75 Miles




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IBRD 33455
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  To
                                      ZONE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Baruni                          To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Jangipur
                                      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                        82°E                                                                84°E                                                            86°E                                                              88°E
