Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3956-NEP 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Education for All Project) 
 
between 
 
KINGDOM OF NEPAL 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated August 12, 2004 
 
Page  2
2
2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 3956-NEP 
 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated August 12, 2004, between the KINGDOM OF NEPAL 
(the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received the following documents: (i) the 
Borrower's Education for All 2004-2009 Core Document, dated November 17, 2003; and 
(ii) the Borrower's Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS), which articulates the Borrower's 
objectives, policies and programs for the basic and primary education sub-sector to be 
supported through the Education for All Program (the two documents are collectively 
referred to hereinafter as the "EFA Program") and declaring the Borrower's commitment 
to the execution of the EFA Program;  
 
(B) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the EFA Program as described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project;  
 
(C) 
the Borrower intends to enter into agreements with: (i)  the Ministry for 
Foreign Affairs of Finland ("Finland"); (ii) the United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland, represented by the Department for International Development 
("DfID"); (iii) the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Denmark ("Denmark"); 
and (iv) the Royal Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Norway ("Norway"); 
(collectively referred to as the "Pooling Donors"), for grants in an approximate amount 
equivalent to one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000) (the Pooling Donors
’
Cofinancing Funds) to assist in financing part of the EFA Program on the terms and 
conditions set forth in an agreement  to be entered into between the Borrower and each of 
the Pooling Donors (the Pooling Donors’ Cofinancing Agreements); 
 
(D) 
the Borrower, the Association and the Pooling Donors have agreed to 
enter into a Joint Financing Arrangement (the "JFA"), making arrangements for the 
processing of applications for withdrawal of the proceeds of the financing to be provided 
severally by the Pooling Donors and the Association and providing for common 
procedures on procurement, disbursement, cooperation and exchange of information; and 
 
WHEREAS, on the basis of the foregoing, the Association has agreed to extend 
the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto, hereby, agree as follows: 
 
Page  4
-
2
-
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. 
The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 
2004) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.  
 
Section 1.02. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“AWPB” means an Annual Work Plan and Budget, an operational plan 
prepared every Fiscal Year ( as this term is hereinafter defined), under the EFA Program 
referred to in Recital (A) of this Agreement, and prepared and approved in accordance 
with Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
 “Basic Grants” means grants made by MOES (as this term is hereinafter 
defined) under Part E.1 of the Project to unaccredited schools; 
 
(c) 
 “DEO” means the District Education Office of the Borrower within 
MOES; 
 
(d) 
 “DOE” means the Department of Education of the Borrower within 
MOES; 
 
(e) 
 “EFA Procurement Manual” means the Borrower’s education for all 
procurement manual, based on the Borrower’s FAR (as this term is hereinafter defined), 
including 
inter alia
,
operational guidelines to staff responsible for procurement at the 
school, district and department levels; 
 
(f) 
“Environmental Assessment” means the Borrower’s environmental 
assessment, furnished to the Association in April 2004, including, 
inter alia
:
(i) the 
identification and assessment of the potential environmental impact of activities to be 
carried out under the Project; (ii) an evaluation of alternative measures; and (iii) the EMP 
(as this term is hereinafter defined) detailing the appropriate mitigation, monitoring, 
institutional and management measures required for the design and construction of 
classrooms; 
 
(g) 
 “EMP” means the Borrower’s Environmental Management Plan which 
sets out, 
inter alia:
 (i) key principles for environmental management of the Project; (ii) 
procedures to screen and process school construction for significant environmental 
impacts, and to assist its mitigating impacts; and (iii) procedures to ensure that these 
principles and procedures are properly applied; 
 
(h) 
 “FAR” means the Borrower’s procurement regulations called the 
Financial Administration Regulations, 1999, as amended; 
Page  5
-
3
-
(i) 
 “FCGO” means the Borrower’s Office of the Financial Comptroller 
General; 
 
(j) 
 “FE Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of this 
Agreement;  
 
(k) 
 
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the twelve (12) month period 
corresponding to any of the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period commences and ends 
in mid July of each calendar year; 
 
(l) 
 “Financial Monitoring Report” means each Financial Monitoring Report 
prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(m) 
 “Incentive Grants” means grants made by MOES (as this term is 
hereinafter defined) under Part E.4 of the Project to community-managed schools; 
 
(n) 
 “JFA” or “Joint Financing Arrangement” means the joint financing 
arrangement to be entered into between the Pooling Donors and the Borrower, providing 
for common procedures on monitoring, procurement, financial management, 
disbursement, auditing and reporting; 
 
(o) 
 “Level I Grants” means grants made by MOES (as this term is 
hereinafter defined) under Part E.2 of the Project; 
 
(p) 
 “Level II Grants” means grants made by MOES under Part E.2 of the 
Project; 
 
(q) 
 “MOES” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Education and Sports or any 
successor thereto; 
 
(r) 
 
“Nepal Rastra Bank” means the central bank of the Borrower 
established and operating pursuant to the provisions of the Borrower’s Nepal Rastra Bank 
Act, 2058 (2001); 
 
(s) 
 “Nepalese Rupee” and the sign “NRs” mean the currency of the 
Borrower; 
 
(t) 
 “Operational Manual” means the operational manual to be prepared by 
MOES and to be submitted to the Association pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3 
(c) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, which sets forth guidelines for administering School 
Grants (as this term is hereinafter defined) including the reporting, monitoring and 
accounting procedures, as the same may be amended from time to time in agreement with 
the Association; 
 
(u) 
 “PMC” means the committee to be established pursuant to paragraph 3 
of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(v) 
“Pooled Funds” means the Pooling Donors’ credits and/or grants; 
Page  6
-
4
-
(w) 
 “Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan, furnished 
to the Association on April 19, 2004 covering the initial eighteen (18) month period (or 
longer) of Project implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 
eighteen (18) month periods (or longer) of Project implementation; 
 
(x) 
 “Report Based Disbursements” means withdrawal of funds from the 
Credit Account using the method referred to in Part A.4 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(y) 
 “School Improvement Plan” means the plan referred to in Part F.1 of the 
Project;  
 
(z) 
“School Grants” means, collectively, Basic, Level I, Level II and 
Incentive Grants made out of the proceeds of the Pooled Funds; 
 
(aa) 
 “SMC” means a School Management Committee; and 
 
(bb) 
“VCDP” means Vulnerable Communities Development Plan furnished 
by the Borrower to the Association in April 2004, prepared by the Borrower in 
consultation with the local communities in the Borrower’s territory and describing a 
program of actions, measures and policies designed to maximize the benefits accruing to 
dalits,
 disadvantaged 
janajati 
(indigenous people) and other disadvantaged groups under 
the Project. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. 
The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirty four million five hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 34,500,000). 
 
Section 2.02. 
(a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: 
(i) expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit; or (ii) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so 
agree, to be paid) on account of withdrawals made by the Borrower to meet the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required to meet the Association’s share, as 
determined from time to time, under an AWPB; or (iii) amounts paid (or, if the 
Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) under School Grants to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit. 
 (b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a foreign exchange account in the name of FCGO (the FE Account) in Nepal 
Rastra Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the FE Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Part 
B
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Page  7
-
5
-
Section 2.03. 
The Closing Date shall be January 31, 2010 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. 
(a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to 
be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half 
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. 
The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. 
Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. 
(a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
June 15 and December 15 commencing December 15, 2014 and ending June 15, 2044.  
Each installment to and including the installment payable on June 15, 2024 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
Page  8
-
6
-
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit 
shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal 
amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date 
referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more 
after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of 
five (5) years on such repayment of principal. 
 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of          
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned      
repayment modification. 
 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 2.08.  
The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. 
(a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of 
the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project through MOES with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate educational, administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the relevant provisions of the JFA as applicable, 
the Operational Manual, the EMP, the VCDP, the EFA Procurement Manual and the 
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. 
(a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the  goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
Page  9
-
7
-
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
terms of reference acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the 
Association not later than twelve (12) months after the date of the preceding Procurement 
Plan, for the Association’s approval. 
 
Section 3.03. 
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to 
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year (or 
such other period agreed to by the Association), (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association), as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
Page  10
-
8
-
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.4 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements), the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such reports and statements of expenditures are 
included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed 
to by the Association) referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in Section 4.01 above, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the 
Association a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 (b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the first fiscal trimester 
after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first 
expenditure under the Project through the end of such first fiscal trimester; thereafter, 
each Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Association not later than 
Page  11
-
9
-
forty-five (45) days after each subsequent fiscal trimester, and shall cover such fiscal 
trimester.  
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Association 
 
Section 5.01. 
Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
that a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the EFA 
Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out; 
 
(b) 
the FAR shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to materially and adversely affect the carrying out of the EFA Program or 
the accomplishment of the objectives thereof; and 
 
(c) 
The Pooling Donors’ Cofinancing Agreements shall have failed to 
become effective by September 30, 2004, or such later date as the Association may agree; 
provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the EFA Program 
are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with 
the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement. 
 
(d) 
(i) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:  
 
(A) 
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of 
any grant or credit made to the Borrower for the 
financing of the EFA Program shall have been 
suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the agreement providing 
therefor; or 
 
(B) 
any such credit shall have become due and payable prior 
to the agreed maturity thereof. 
 
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:  
 
(A) 
such suspension, cancellation, termination or  
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower 
to perform any of its obligations under such agreement; 
and  
(B) 
adequate funds for the EFA Program are available to the  
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement. 
 
Page  12
-
10 -
 
Section 5.02. 
Pursuant to Section 7.01(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
the event specified in paragraph (b) of shall occur; and 
 
(b) 
the event specified in paragraph (d)(i)(B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (d)(ii) of 
that Section. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Termination 
 
Section 6.01. 
The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 
7.01.  The Secretary, Ministry of Finance of the Borrower, is 
designated as the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
Singha Durbar   
Kathmandu 
 
Nepal
 
Facsimile: 
 
(977-1) 4259-891  
 
Page  13
-
11 -
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS 
 
          248423 (MCI) or  
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
          64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Kathmandu, Kingdom of Nepal, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
KINGDOM OF NEPAL  
 
By /s/ Krishna Babu Tiwari 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Kenichi Ohashi 
Country Director, Nepal 
South Asia Region
 
Page  14
-
12 -
 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Category of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to such Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in the Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Credit Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) 
Eligible Expenditures    
34,500,000 
Such percentage 
 
under AWPBs 
 
of Eligible 
 
Expenditures as 
 
the Association 
may determine for 
 
any Fiscal Year 
 
___________ 
 TOTAL 
34,500,000 
 
=========== 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule the term "Eligible Expenditures" means School 
Grants made, and goods, works and services provided, under the Project, including 
recurrent expenditures covered by the EFA Program. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of  
SDR 2,000,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after July 15, 2004;  
 
(b) 
payments made for expenditures under any AWPB, until the annual 
allocation and disbursement targets for such AWPB shall have been agreed during annual 
reviews; 
 
(c) 
payments made for expenditures under the Project, unless the Borrower 
has prepared an Operational Manual, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association; 
 
(d) 
payments made for expenditures which have not been incurred in 
accordance with the terms and conditions and eligibility criteria specified in the 
Operational Manual; and
 
Page  15
-
13 -
 
(e) 
payments made for expenditures for goods, works or services supplied 
under a contract which the Association or any national or international financing 
institution or agency, other than the Pooling Donors, shall have financed or agreed to 
finance under any other credit or grant.  
 
4. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of reports specified in Part B.2 of this Schedule to be submitted to the 
Association, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, in accordance with the 
provisions of Part B of this Schedule (Report Based Disbursements).   
 
B.   
FE Account
1. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the FE Account 
has been opened in accordance with Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement, withdrawals 
from the Credit Account under Category (1) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule shall be deposited by the Association into the FE Account in accordance with 
the provisions of this Part B. 
 
2. 
Each request for withdrawal from the Credit Account shall be made on the basis 
of the reports referred to in Part A.4 of this Schedule, such reports to include the 
Financial Monitoring Report and other information as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower; provided, however, that in the case of the first request for 
withdrawal submitted to the Association, before any withdrawal has been made from the 
Credit Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Association only a statement with the 
projected applications of funds for the Project for the eight-month period following the 
date of such request.    
 
3. 
Upon receipt of each request for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the FE Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; or (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the reports 
referred to in Part B.2 of this Schedule applicable to such withdrawal request, is required 
to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the eight-month period 
following the date of such reports. 
 
4. 
Amounts deposited by the Association into the FE Account shall be used 
exclusively to make payments for Eligible Expenditures.  For each payment made by the 
Borrower out of the FE Account using Credit proceeds, the Borrower shall, at such time 
as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents 
and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.1 of this Schedule, the Association shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the FE Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Association, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to 
in Part B.2 of this Schedule adequately provide the information required for Report Based 
Disbursements;  
Page  16
-
14 -
 
(b) 
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the 
Credit Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of: (A) the records and accounts for the FE Account; or (B) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of 
Report Based Disbursements.  
 
6. 
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the FE 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.1 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in 
part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Association shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the FE Account may be 
made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify 
the Borrower of its determination. 
 
7. 
(a) 
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the FE 
Account using Credit proceeds was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible 
Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional 
evidence as the Association may request, or deposit into the FE Account (or, if the 
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of 
such payment.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the FE Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association determines at any time that any Credit proceeds on 
deposit in the FE Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible 
Expenditures during the six (6) month period following such determination, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
proceeds. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the Credit proceeds on deposit in the FE Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 7 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. 
Page  17
-
15 -
 
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) ensure access and equity in primary 
education; (ii) improve efficiency and institutional capacity; and (iii) contribute to 
sustainable socio-economic development and equity, through the enhancement of quality 
and relevance of basic and primary education to children and illiterate adults in the 
territory of the Borrower.   
 
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Expanding and Improving Early Childhood Development
Provision of goods and services, for a series of activities designed to establish 
about eleven thousand (11,000) new Early Childhood Development centers and operating 
about five thousand seven hundred (5,700) existing Early Childhood Development 
Centers. 
 
Part B:
Ensuring Access to Education for all Children
The carrying out of works and provision of goods and services for a series of 
activities designed to improve the access to education for children in primary schools 
through: 
 
1. 
Development of village education plans to promote social inclusion 
through partnerships with local organizations, and provision of School Grants.  
 
2. 
Construction and furnishing of about eight thousand (8,000) new 
classrooms, rehabilitation of about six thousand (6,000) classrooms, and improving site 
services in about five thousand (5,000) schools with special focus on drinking water 
facilities and 
school girls’ sanitation facilities. 
 
3. 
Construction of about one thousand (1,000) temporary classrooms. 
 
4. 
Construction of about eleven (11) DEO buildings and two hundred fifty 
 (250) Resource Center buildings. 
 
5. 
Supporting alternative schooling for children aged from five to seven 
years in very small or remote hamlets through the provision of about one thousand 
(1,000) school outreach programs; and provision of about eight hundred (800) flexible 
schooling programs for children aged from seven to thirteen years. 
 
6. 
Design and establishment of a conflict and disaster fund to support needy 
school children. 
 
Page  18
-
16 -
 
Part C
:
Meeting Learning Needs
Provision of goods and services for a series of activities designed to develop and 
implement:  
 
1. 
a pilot program to facilitate home-to-school transition in about fifty (50) 
schools serving predominantly non-Nepali speaking populations in five (5) 
districts and subsequent upscaling of the pilot program across the country; 
 
2. 
a
communication campaign for the EFA Program’s objectives and 
strategies; 
 
3. 
a primary education promotion strategy; and 
 
4. 
a curriculum update. 
 
Part D
:
Improvement of  Adult Literacy
Provision of goods and services to support the ongoing women’s literacy 
program and national literacy campaign through schools, local bodies and community 
groups and about two hundred five (205) community learning centers catering to newly 
literate adults. 
 
Part E
:
Eliminating Gender Disparity
1. 
The carrying out of a program for the provision by MOES of Basic 
Grants to unaccredited schools.  
 
2. 
The carrying out a program for the provision by MOES of Level I Grants 
and Level II Grants to Eligible Schools. 
 
3. 
Development and implementation of a framework to prevent 
discrimination against students from 
dalit, 
disadvantaged 
janajati
 and other 
disadvantaged groups. 
 
4. 
Provision of Incentive Scholarships to about one hundred (100) pre-
service female teacher trainees, 
dalit, 
disadvantaged 
janajati 
and other disadvantaged 
groups. 
 
Part F
:
Improving Education Quality 
1. 
Provision of services to support the development and carrying out of a 
School Improvement Plan (SIP). 
 
2. 
Purchase of materials for book corners in classrooms and the provision 
of services for research and development activities, including school-based action 
research, and piloting of computer education. 
 
Page  19
-
17 -
 
3. 
Provision of services and in-country training for capacity building of 
SMC members, including head teachers and community organizations. 
 
4. 
Strengthening and streamlining the education management information 
system through the provision of services. 
 
5. 
Provision by MOES of Incentive Grants to community-managed schools.  
 
6. 
The Carrying out of assessments and/or studies on the effectiveness of 
initiatives supported under the EFA Program, including, 
inter alia
:
(i) scholarships for 
girls, 
dalits
,
disadvantaged 
janajati
 and other disadvantaged groups; (ii) language 
transition for non-Nepali speaking children; (iii) alternative education; and (iv) adult 
literacy programs.  
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by July 15, 2009. 
Page  20
-
18 -
 
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I.
General
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree all goods, works and  services 
(including consultants’ services) shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
FAR and the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
Section II.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods 
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding.
Goods such as fabricated steel structures and corrugated galvanized roofing 
materials estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more per contract and vehicles 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more per contract shall be awarded on the 
basis of International Competitive Bidding in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated 
May 2004 (Procurement Guidelines). 
 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods such as fabricated steel structures and corrugated galvanized roofing 
materials estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract and vehicles 
estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national competitive bidding in accordance with the 
provisions of FAR and the following additional provisions:
 
Additional Provisions
1. 
Bid opening shall be at one place only; and immediately after the deadline for the 
submission of bids, bid opening shall not be mandatory but provided as an option only. 
 
2. 
Bidders for a works contract to be procured through International Competitive 
Bidding must work in a joint venture with a Nepali  construction company or a firm 
working in the Borrower’s territory. 
 
3. 
Institutions in which the Borrower owns 50% of more of the capital shall be 
exempt from furnishing bid and performance securities. 
 
4. 
Local bidders competing with foreign bidders under national competitive bidding 
procedures shall be granted preference in accordance with the provisions of FAR. 
 
5. 
Bidders qualification criteria shall be determined in accordance with the 
provisions of FAR. 
Page  21
-
19 -
 
Section III
.
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
A. Prior 
Review
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Borrower, 
the following prior review procedures shall apply: 
 
1. Goods 
and 
Works
The prior review procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Procurement Guidelines shall apply to each contract for goods, and works estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more.  
 
2. 
Consultants’ Services
The prior review procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
dated May 2004, shall apply to (i) each contract for consultants’ services provided by a 
firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more; and (ii) each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by a individuals estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$20,000 or more. 
 
B. Post 
Review
.
1. 
With respect to each contract for goods, works or services (other than 
consultants’ services) not governed by Part A of this Section, the post review procedures 
set forth in paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 to the Procurement Guidelines shall apply. 
 
2. 
With respect to each contract for consultants’ services not governed by Part A of 
this Section, the post review procedures set forth in paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  22
-
20 -
 
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Implementation Program 
 
Section I
.
Overall Project Implementation and Coordination
1. 
The Borrower shall vest responsibility for the implementation of the Project in 
MOES. 
 
2. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, DOE shall 
be responsible, at the central level, for the overall coordination, monitoring, evaluation 
and reporting on the Project, including, 
inter alia
,
overseeing the EFA Program, 
reviewing, approving, and coordinating, in consultation with the Pooling Donors, the 
implementation of the AWPB and the provision of the School Grants. 
 
3. 
The Borrower shall establish, not later than August 31, 2004 and thereafter 
maintain, a Program Management Committee (PMC) whose responsibilities shall include 
facilitating inter-ministerial coordination and overseeing preparation of the Annual 
Strategic Implementation Plan and the AWPB during Project implementation. 
 
4. 
The PMC shall be chaired by the Joint Secretary, MOES and shall consist of: (i) 
the Director General, DOE; (ii) the Director General, Curriculum Development Center; 
(iii) the Director, Planning and Administration, DOE; (iv) the Executive Director, 
National Center for Education Development; (v) the Director, Non-formal Education 
Center; (vi) the Joint Secretary, Ministry of Local Development; (vii) the Director, 
School Education Division, DOE; (viii) the Joint Financial Comptroller General, FCGO; 
and (ix) the Under Secretary, Ministry of Finance. 
 
5. 
The Borrower shall cause DOE to: (i) implement the Project in accordance with 
the arrangements and procedures set out in the Joint Financing Arrangement and the 
Operational Manual; and (ii) except as the Association shall otherwise agree, not amend, 
abrogate or waive any provision thereof which may, in the opinion of the Association, 
materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project.  
 
6. 
The Borrower shall cause the DEO to prepare annual District Education Plans, 
review school improvement plans, disburse School Grants, monitor school performance, 
and report semi-
annually on Project’s key outcome indicators and three (3) times 
annually on key output indicators. 
 
7. 
The Borrower shall, not later than October 15, 2005 cause schools receiving 
School Grants to have adequate records reflecting School Grant expenditures, and shall 
cause communities benefiting from School Grants to undertake annual social audits. 
 
8. 
The Borrower shall, not later than September 30, 2004, or such later date as the 
Association may agree: (i) maintain an adequate number of suitable staff;  and (ii) hire 
the required consultants with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the 
Association, in the Educational Materials Section of the DOE to manage the action plan 
for textbooks development, production and distribution to the private sector. 
Page  23
-
21 -
 
9. 
The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 2004, or such later date as the 
Association may agree, produce a list of pre-qualified NGOs/support organizations to 
deliver services to schools. 
 
10. 
The Borrower shall maintain, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, the VCDP, and implement it in accordance with the objectives, policies, 
procedures, time schedules and other provisions set forth therein, to ensure that 
dali, 
disadvantaged
 janajati 
and other disadvantaged groups in the Borrower’s territory shall 
benefit fully from the activities financed under the Project. 
 
11. 
The Borrower shall ensure that all work activities under the Project shall be 
carried out in accordance with the provisions of the EMP and not assign, amend, abrogate 
or waive the EMP or any provisions thereof if, such assignment, amendment, abrogation, 
or waiver will materially and adversely affect the implementation of the Project. 
 
Section II
.
Annual Work Plan and Budget (AWPB)
1. 
The Borrower shall, by no later than July 31, 2004, furnish to the Association, for 
review and comment, the first AWPB indicating detailed EFA Program of activities, 
including cost, output and performance targets. Thereafter, no later than three (3) months 
prior to the start of each Fiscal Year, the Borrower shall cause MOES to prepare and 
furnish to the Association, for review, the proposed AWPB for the following Fiscal Year. 
Each such AWPB shall: (i) have been prepared in consultation with and based on data 
collected from the various stakeholders of the EFA Program at various levels; (ii) include 
fully costed proposed AWPB activities for each output, linked with performance targets 
of the Project; (iii) include a detailed description of how proposed EFA Program 
activities shall be integrated into the existing structure and with ongoing activities at 
DOE, district, and school levels; and (iv) include allocation of adequate resources for the 
EFA Program. 
 
2. 
The Borrower shall, in conjunction with the Association and the Pooling Donors, 
jointly review the EFA Program implementation progress semiannually. The review 
shall
,
inter alia
:
(i) evaluate the effectiveness of the implementation mechanisms and the 
efficiency of the organizational development; (ii) assess EFA Program contributions to 
the improvement of the quality of primary education; (iii) assess implementation 
performance against agreed upon indicators in the program framework and adjust 
indicators as needed; (iv) identify primary education policy issues; (v) assess the 
effectiveness of EFA Program strategies for promoting greater participation of girls and 
disadvantaged groups; (vi) review the finding of the assessment studies referred to in Part 
F.6 of the Project; and (vii) assess progress on key EFA Program innovations as well as 
learning outcomes and quality of teaching. 
 
Section III
.
School Grants 
1. General
(a) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section I of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall cause DOE to administer School Grants, in accordance with the 
Page  24
-
22 -
 
provisions and procedures set forth in this Section III and in more detail in the 
Operational Manual. 
 
(b) 
The Schools accreditation system shall be based on a set of criteria agreed upon 
with the Association which include, 
inter alia
,
ascending benchmarks for the following 
indicators: (i) adequacy of physical facilities; (ii) teachers competence; (iii) 
accountability and transparency; (iv) school operation processes; (v) learning outcomes; 
and (vi) other outcomes.  
 
2. Procedures
(a) 
For the purpose of providing Level I Grants, a School should meet Grade-One 
benchmarks, as agreed upon with the Association and set forth in the Operational 
Manual. An additional bonus grant may be awarded upon meeting additional 
benchmarks.  
 
(b) 
For the purpose of providing Level II Grants, a School should meet Grade-Two 
benchmarks, as agreed upon with the Association and set forth in the Operational 
Manual. An additional bonus grant may be awarded upon meeting additional 
benchmarks. 
 
3. 
Terms and Conditions
(a) 
Each Basic Grant under Part E.1 of the Project shall be made by MOES to an 
unaccredited school to support non-salary recurrent expenditures including, 
inter alia
,
teaching materials, book corners, school office and cleaning supplies, basic maintenance 
of physical facilities and shall be approximately NRs 70 per student per year. 
 
(b) 
Each Level I Grant under Part E.1 of the Project shall be made by MOES to 
support expenditures of a Grade-One School so long as its accreditation is maintained. 
Bonus Grants shall be approximately NRs 100 per student per year. 
 
(c) 
Eligible Grade-One Schools shall be awarded a Bonus Grant of approximately 
NRs 100 per student per year. 
 
(d) 
Each Level II Grant under Part E.1 of the Project shall be made by MOES to 
support non-salary recurrent expenditures of Grade-Two Schools so long as such 
accreditation is maintained.  
 
(e) 
Eligible Grade-Two Schools shall be awarded a bonus grant of approximately 
NRs 150 per student per year. 
 
(f) 
Incentive Scholarships shall be provided to about a hundred (100) pre-service 
teacher trainees for undertaking a ten-
month teacher’s training course. 
 
Page  25
-
23 -
 
Section IV
.
Progress Reports and Mid-Term Review
The Borrower shall: 
 
1. 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on 
an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators agreed with the Association, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
2. 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association: (i) on an annual basis, commencing on or about March 31, 2005, reports 
on the progress achieved in the implementation of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; and (ii) on or about March 1, 2007 a report, to constitute the basis 
upon which the mid-term review shall take place, integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to sub-paragraph (i) of this paragraph and 
consolidating the results of the reports referred to under sub-paragraph (ii) of this 
paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
3. 
review with the Association, not later than April 15, 2007, or such later date as 
the Association shall reasonably request, the report referred to in paragraph 2 of this 
Section III, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
 
