Document of
The World Bank                  FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3125-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA
FOR THE
KANPUR URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
September 30, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(as of September 15, 1981)
Rs 1                  Paise 100
US$1.00               Rs 9.032827
Rs 1.00          =    US$0.110707
Rs 1 million    =    US$110,707
The US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change.
Conversions in the Staff Appraisal Report were, except
as otherwise noted, made at the rate of US$1 to Rs 8.0,
which represents the projected exchange rate over the
disbursement period.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
EWS             -        Economically Weaker Section
GOI              -       Government of India
GOUP            -        Government of Uttar Pradesh
HUDCO            -       Housing and Urban Development Corporation
KAVAL           -        Cities of Kanpur, Agra, Varanasi,
Allahabad, and Lucknow
KDA              -       Kanpur Development Authority
KJS              -       Kanpur Jal Sansthan (water and
sewerage authority)
KNM              -       Kanpur Nagar Mahapalika (municipal authority)
LIG              -       Lower Income Group
lcd              -       liters per capita per day
mld              -       million liters per day
UNICEF           -       United Nations Children's Fund



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
KANPUR URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                India, acting by its President (GOI).
Beneficiaries:           The Government of Uttar Pradesh (GOUP).
The Kanpur Development Authority (KDA).
The Kanpur Nagar Mahapalika (KNM).
The Kanpur Jal Sansthan (KJS).
Amount:                   SDR 22.2 million (US$25 million equivalent).
Terms:                   Standard.
Relending Terms:         From GOI to GOUP:  As part of Central assistance to
State development projects on terms and conditions
applicable at the time.
From GOUP to KDA, KNM, KJS for technical assistance:
Grants.
From GOUP to KDA, KNM, KJS for all other activities:
Loans at 7% p.a. interest over 25 years including
five years' grace. These agencies would on-lend to
the beneficiaries at not less than 12% per annum over
varying periods of time.
Project Description:    The project would support: (i) the development of
approximately 14,800 residential and 540 small
business plots on three sites covering 200 ha,
together with shelter loans and small business loans
and assistance; (ii) provision of basic
infrastructure, land tenure, and home improvement
loans to about 20,000 slum families; (iii) a broad
range of investments to improve trunk and branch
water supply, sewerage, and drainage infrastructure
in central Kanpur; (iv) the improvement of solid
waste collection and disposal, infrastructure
maintenance and traffic management in Kanpur; and
(v) consultant and advisory services for the purpose
of strengthening urban institutions in Kanpur and
Uttar Pradesh. The potential risks facing the
project relate to land acquisition for the slum
improvement program and to the implementation
capacity of key agencies.
This documnent has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Estimated Cost: a!
(US$ Millions)
Local      Foreign      Total
Sites and Services                      16.0         1.3         17.3
Slum Upgrading                            8.1        0.6          8.7
Supporting Infrastructure                 5.8       0.9           6.7
Maintenance Equipment                     0.9        0.1          1.0
Solid Waste Management                    1.0       0.3           1.3
Traffic Management                        0.8        0.1          0.9
Technical Assistance                     0.8        0.2           1.0
Design, Supervision and
Management                            3.5        0.4           3.9
Base Cost                       36.9        3.9         40.8
Physical Contingencies                    2.2        0.3          2.5
Price Contingencies                       7.5       0.9           8.4
46.6        5.1         51.7
Financing Plan:                                         (US$ Millions)
Local      Foreign      Total
IDA                           19.9        5.1         25.0
GOUP Loans and Direct
Expenditures              26.7         -           26.7
46.6        5.1         51.7
Estimated Disbursements:
(US$ Millions)
IDA-FY               FY82      FY83      FY84      FY85       FY86
Annual                 1.2      7.0        7.6       6.2        3.0
Cumulative             1.2      8.2       15.8      22.0       25.0
Rate of Return:           21% on 70% of total project cost for which benefits
are quantifiable.
Appraisal Report:         No.3504-IN, dated September 25, 1981.
a/   Including an estimated US$2.3 million in taxes and duties.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO INDIA
FOR THE KANPUR URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India for SDR 22.2 million (US$25 million equivalent)
on standard IDA terms, to help finance a project to provide improved shelter
and urban services in Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh, and to strengthen metropolitan
planning and management in Kanpur and other urban areas in the State. The
proceeds of the credit would be channelled to the Government of Uttar Pradesh
in accordance with the Government of India's (GOI's) standard terms and
arrangements for the financing of State development projects. The exchange
risk will be borne by GOI.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(3401-IN, dated April 15, 1981), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 16, 1981. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.      India is a large and diverse country with a population of about 688
million (in mid-1981) and an annual per capita income of US$190. Agriculture
continues to dominate India's economy, employing over two-thirds of the labor
force. However, the land base is not sufficient to provide an adequate
livelihood to all those engaged in agricultural activities, especially the
landless or nearly landless who have only an insecure grasp on the means of
existence. Over the past 30 years, the share of agriculture in GDP at factor
cost (measured in 1970/71 prices) has declined from 60% to about 40%, while
the share of industry has increased from 15% to about 24%. But
industrialization has not been rapid enough to absorb the growing labor
force, nor to bring about the economic transformation that has led to sig-
nificantly higher productivity in some other developing countries.
4.       Economic growth has been slow in the past, averaging about 3.5% per
annum over the past 30 years. Slow growth of value-added in agriculture --
2.1% per annum over the three decades -- has constrained overall growth, not
1/ Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I and II
of the President's Reports for the West Bengal Social Forestry Project
(No. P-3119-IN), dated September 15, 1981.



-2-
only because of the high share of agriculture in GDP but also because scarce
foreign exchange has often been required to import food. Industrial
value-added has grown more rapidly, at 5.4% per annum between 1950/51 and
1979/80. Over the same period, gross domestic savings more than doubled from
10% of GDP to 21.2%, while gross domestic investment rose from 10% of GDP to
just over 21.8%. Foreign savings have never financed a large portion of
domestic investment: a peak of about 20% was reached during the early 1960s;
by the end of the 1970s, the proportion had returned to below 3%. External
assistance has been low both as a percentage of GDP and in per capita terms.
Net external assistance has never risen above 3% of GDP, and was less than 1%
at the end of the 1970s.
5.      Over the past 30 years as a whole, India has placed relatively little
emphasis on exports and has tended to pursue a strategy of import substitu-
tion. The volume growth of exports between 1950/51 and 1979/80 averaged only
3.6% per annum, about the same as the volume growth of imports over the same
period. Between 1970 and 1977, however, India's terms of trade, which had
remained roughly constant during the 1960s, deteriorated sharply. In
response, the Government introduced various policy measures designed to
stimulate exports. The volume of India's exports grew on average about 9%
per annum between 1971/72 and 1976/77. Although export growth has slowed in
recent years, due in large part to domestic supply constraints, this
experience demonstrates that sustained rapid growth is possible. While
expanding world markets, particularly in the nearby Middle East, contributed
to this growth, liberalized access to imported inputs and more effective
export incentives played a major role.
Recent Trends
6.        Over the period 1975/76 to 1978/79, growth in real GDP (at factor
cost), agricultural value-added and industrial value-added averaged 5.4%,
3.1% and 7.9% per annum, respectively. These trends represent a substan-
tially better growth performance than the historical 30-year trends
(paragraph 4). However, GDP declined by about 4.5% in 1979/80 due both to
the severe drought which reduced agricultural production and to input con-
straints in other sectors. Agricultural output fell by about 16% in 1979/80.
Industrial production stagnated, largely due to shortfalls in the production
of major inputs such as coal, steel and cement, as well as infrastructural
constraints, notably in power and transportation. As a consequence of these
developments, the remarkable price stability that India had enjoyed after
1975 came to an abrupt end at the close of fiscal year 1978/79, with prices
increasing 21% during 1979/80.
7.        In 1980/81, the economy recovered substantially, so that real GDP
growth for the year was about 6%-7%. During the summer and fall of 1980
foodgrain prices rose, but more slowly than other prices and more slowly than
the drop in production in 1979/80 would have suggested. This was made pos-
sible through the drawdown of substantial buffer stocks built up by the
Government in years of good harvests. These stocks ensured adequate supplies
of grain to low-income groups in urban areas through the public distribution
system and also provided resources for a large-scale drought relief employ-
ment program for low-income groups in rural areas. Aided by a normal monsoon
in the summer of 1980, agricultural production rose by about 17%-19%. The
industrial sector recovered more slowly, with production in 1980/81 rising



-3-
only about 4% above the average for 1979/80, but output increased substan-
tially during the year so that production in April 1981 was about 9% higher
than in April 1980. The rise in prices slowed during the second half of
1980/81 so that by March 1981 the wholesale price index was 15.7% above its
level a year earlier.
8.         In agriculture the positive results of large investments and
appropriate policies in the past years are becoming increasingly apparent.
The rate of expansion of irrigation has increased significantly from 1.3 mil-
lion ha per year in the early 1970s to about 2.3 million ha in 1980/81.
Fertilizer use reached about 5.6 million tons of nutrients in 1980/81, more
than double 1974/75 levels. Over the decade before 1979/80, foodgrain
production grew at about 2.75% per annum -- sufficient to meet consumer
demand, to eliminate imports (which had averaged nearly 3 million tons per
year for the 15 years preceding 1976), and to reduce real foodgrain prices
for consumers. At the same time, India was able to build up substantial
foodgrain buffer stocks which made it possible to l-mnit the effects of the
1979/80 drought, and to export a modest amount of grain in 1980. While the
management of the foodgrain economy after the drought was a significant
achievement, the effect of the drought on production re-emphasized the con-
tinued importance of the monsoon in India's agriculture. The normal monsoon
of 1980/81 brought foodgrain production back to around the previous record
level of 132 million tons. While the performance of the recent past and the
probable future trends suggest that on average foodgrain supplies will exceed
demand, the balance remains delicate and the need for foodgrain imports to
maintain consumer supplies or adequate buffer stocks could arise from time to
time. For example, some wheat imports are likely in 1981/82 to ensure ade-
quate build up of stocks. Programs to expand irrigation, strengthen exten-
sion and encourage the efficient use of other agricultural inputs continue to
receive high priority.
9.         The Indian economy has shifted back from a situation of resource
surplus, which had been a temporary phenomenon of the late 1970s, to one of
resource scarcity. Investment has again overtaken domestic savings, and the
scope for further increases in the latter appears limited. Marginal savings
rates have recently been well above 30% in the household sector. Future
increases in savings will depend heavily upon the enhanced profitability of
public sector enterprises. Impending resource scarcity is even more apparent
in the foreign sector. Between 1975/76 and 1978/79, India's current account
deficit had remained comfortably small in relation both to GDP and to a
growing pipeline of aid commitments. This was due to favorable terms of
trade movements after 1977 and to rapidly growing workers' remittances as
well as to the growth of exports. In 1980/81, however, the balance of pay-
ments deteriorated sharply, with the current account deficit rising from
US$850 million in 1979/80 to nearly US$3.4 billion in 1980/81. In part this
was due to unique events during the year, such as the disruption of oil
production in the Northeast, which, though the flows resumed again in
February 1981, alone added over US$l billion to the oil import bill. Com-
bined with unprecedented oil price increases, this caused the oil import bill
to rise by over 75%, to a level equivalent to three-fourths of India's mer-
chandise export earnings. The deficit on current account rose to 2% of GDP.
India was able to finance this gap through a substantial drawing on IMF
resources (the Trust Fund and the Compensatory Financing Facility), and



-4-
through an increase in aid disbursements and a modest drawdown in foreign
exchange reserves.
10.       The trends in the volume and terms of India's trade indicate that
significant adjustments will need to be made in the economy to bring India's
external accounts into reasonable balance at a high level of growth. In
particular, there is a need to increase the growth of exports, to increase
production of commodities such as fertilizer, cement and steel which India
can produce efficiently in order to reduce imports of these items, to
moderate the rise in oil imports through greater domestic production and
slower demand growth, and to reduce the constraints in transportation and
other infrastructural facilities which are retarding growth in a wide range
of activities, including exports. It is encouraging that, in response to the
present balance of payments difficulties, the Government has not reacted by
placing more stringent controls on imports, but rather has left in place the
more liberal policies evolved in the past several years. Recent improvements
in the availability of power, a major constraint facing exporters, and the
adoption of several new export policy measures have improved the prospects
for accelerating export growth.
Development Prospects
11.       The experience of recent years illustrates that India does have the
capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace. Although the industrial
sector is small compared to the size of the economy, it nevertheless is large
in absolute terms and has a highly diversified structure, capable of manufac-
turing a wide variety of consumer and capital goods. Basic infrastructure --
irrigation, railways, telecommunications, the power grid, roads and ports --
is extensive compared to many countries, although there is considerable need
for additional capacity as well as improvement in the utilization of existing
capacity. India is also well-endowed with human resources and with institu-
tional infrastructure for development. Finally, India has an extensive
natural resource base in terms of land, water, and minerals (primarily coal
and ferrous ores, but also gas and oil). With good economic policies and
sufficient access to foreign savings, India has the capability for managing
these considerable resources to accelerate its long-term growth.
12.       A new Sixth Five-Year Plan (1980-85) was approved in February 1981.
The new Plan continues to assign priority to agriculture and power. Further-
more, the Plan reflects the Government's efforts to bring about the necessary
adjustments in the economy by emphasizing several priority areas. These
include: (i) expansion of exports and an investment program to support
increased production to replace imports of goods such as fertilizer, cement
and steel which India produces competitively; (ii) an investment program
and policy framework for more efficient development and use of energy resour-
ces; (iii) removal of bottlenecks in infrastructure and related constraints
on production of basic industrial inputs; and (iv) continuing emphasis on the
development of agriculture.
13.       The higher capital formation rates of the past few years augur well
for future income growth. However, there are signs that the past programs
and policies have led to relatively low growth in certain crucial sectors,
namely power, coal, transport services, steel and cement. Potential output
growth in sectors which have benefitted from large investments in the recent



-5-
past may not materialize unless these input bottlenecks are alleviated. In
the case of coal, steel and cement, domestic production appears to be clearly
justified on grounds of comparative advantage, indicating an a priori case
for policies to promote further investment. In 1980/81 these commodities
were not imported in sufficient amounts to eliminate the shortages; increased
short-term reliance on imports may be necessary to alleviate slowdowns and
dislocation in user industries. In the case of sectors in which there is
little scope to import the final product -- power and transportation -- the
planning of capacity expansion becomes even more crucial. Although there is
scope for improvement in thie short-run performance of these sectors, major
investments in balancing and modernization programs as well as in new
capacity are essential for adequate growth in the medium term.
14.       Despite the relatively large investment programs for the develop-
ment of domestic energy resources such as coal and hydroelectricity, and the
recent development of offshore petroleum resources, India has not been able
to eliminate the gap between its total energy demand and domestic production.
During the past year, India continued to face power and coal shortages, but
the situation improved substantially during the year so that power generation
in June 1981 was around 20% higher than a year earlier. India is entering
the Sixth Plan period with an ambitious energy production program backed by
substantial financial commitment. In the oil sector, GOI is now accelerating
its oil exploration capabilities and is opening up prospective areas for
exploration by foreign firms. Prices of petroleum products were raised
substantially in 1980 and again in July 1981 to bring domestic prices into
line with world market prices, to raise resources for further oil and gas
development and to encourage efficient use of energy. India is now committed
to an expanded power program that emphasizes exploitation of its large hydro
potential and development of its transmission and distribution system. In
the coal sector, a policy decision in favor of mechanization has been made in
order to achieve more rapid growth of coal production.
15.       Agricultural policies, development programs and secular trends all
seem favorable for sustaining the past agricultural growth during the 1980s.
India ended 1980 with grain stocks of about 12 million tons, without having
imported foodgrains during the year. This reflects the trends of the last
decade which point to an improvement in foodgrain availability in the
economy. Growing output, combined with the projected fall in the population
growth rate, suggest favorable long-run prospects for foodgrain supply and
demand balances. An occasional need to import grains, particularly wheat,
could arise, but if the efforts to develop agriculture over the past decade
are sustained and intensified, as suggested in the new Plan, persistent
shortage seems unlikely. This development could give rise to a range of
policy options including a slowly falling real price of foodgrains to
increase the affordability of foodgrains to low-income families, foodgrain
exports, and diversification to the production of other, higher-value crops.
16.       Foreign exchange reserves are providing a cushion that helps the
Government of India in short-term supply management. In March 1981, however,
gross reserves were $320 million lower than the level of a year earlier and,
in terms of import coverage, fell below the six-month level for the first
time since 1977. A much larger decline in the reserve level would have been
necessary in 1980/81 hiad IMF Trust Fund and Compensatory Financing
Facilities, amounting to over US$1 billion, not been available. India's



-6-
reserves provide some limited scope for narrowing the financing gap over the
next few years, but successful management of the balance of payments will
depend mainly on improved export performance, on import replacement, on the
maintenance of aid flows and workers' remittances, and on a moderation in
price increases for oil imports. While India's current account balance of
payments deficits are not expected to be large relative to the size of the
economy (e.g., on the order of two percent of GDP), the absolute amounts are
large and will necessitate external borrowing beyond levels expected to be
available from normal concessional sources. Accordingly, India has recently
begun to undertake substantial borrowings in the financial markets to help
finance selected major investment projects.
17.       India's medium-term development prospects are mixed.  Considerable
progress continues to be made, particularly in agriculture, but the economy
faces a period of difficult adjustments in the coming years. Investments
required to relieve short-term supply constraints must compete with
longer-term programs to accelerate growth and to develop India's considerable
physical and human resources. The balancing of these objectives will place a
difficult burden on those implementing India's Sixth Five-Year Plan. The
primary focus must be on the implementation of appropriate domestic adjust-
ment policies, although the aid community can and should play an important
role in ensuring that India's efforts do not fail due to inadequate foreign
resources.
18.       Preliminary results from the March 1, 1981 Census, combined with
1971 Census figures adjusted for under-enumeration, suggest that the popula-
tion growth rate declined from 2.3% p.a. in the late 1960s to about 2% at
present. The rate of increase of population is expected to continue falling
to around 1.8% by the first half of the 1990s. While the growth rate appears
to be declining slowly, the 1981 Census population estimate was substantially
higher than previous Government projections. The 1981 Census data are still
incomplete but preliminary reports indicate that the rise in life expectancy
was more than anticipated, suggesting that, on average, Indians can expect to
live five years longer than they did a decade ago. This no doubt reflects
improved availability of food and health services. This implies, however, an
even greater need to reduce the birth rate to bring about the needed reduc-
tion in the rate of growth of population. The Census results, therefore,
re-emphasize the need for continuing efforts to strengthen a broad range of
family planning activities to develop a wider clientele and to provide that
clientele with a professional, technically competent advisory service which
can provide the full variety of available birth prevention methods. The new
Plan continues the high priority given to these efforts in earlier Plans.
The ambition of its targets - implying a rise in the proportion of protected
couples in the reproductive age group from its present estimated level of
about 23% to over 35% by 1984/85 - seems fully justified.  Such targets imply
a serious long term commitment to moderating the population growth rate
through an improved family planning program.
19.       Reduction of poverty remains the central goal of Indian economic
growth. More than one-third of the world's poor live in India, and more than
80% of the Indian poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers
and small farmers. About 51% of the rural population and 38% of the urban
population subsist below the poverty line (estimated at about US$114 and
US$132 per capita per year for rural and urban areas, respectively).



-7-
Improvements in the living standards of the poor will depend to a large
extent on the overall growth of the economy; the circumstances require
increases in agricultural production and employment, in non-farm rural
employment, and also in employment opportunities in urban areas. These
developments will have to stem in large part from market forces which,
however, must be encouraged and reinforced by appropriate Government policies
and the strengthening of basic services and infrastructure. The declining
trend in real foodgrain prices between 1970 and 1979 reflects such develop-
ments. There is also a role for direct Government action in faster implemen-
tation of land reform (though the scope for significant reduction in poverty
through land redistribution is quite limited in India), in increasing the
supply of credit available to small farmers and rural artisans, and finally
in broadening the provision of those services which enhance the human capital
of the poor and improve living standards. Many of the latter are elements of
the Minimum Needs Program, which has been an integral part of Indian planning
for the past decade. Progress has been slow but steady in the expansion of
primary education, the extension of rural health fac&lities and the provision
of secure village water supplies. Innovations such as the community health
volunteer program and the national adult literacy campaign provide encourag-
ing evidence that well-targetted, relatively low-cost programs can lead to
enhanced prospects for India's poor.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
20.      Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 61 loans and 141 development
credits to India totalling US$2,833 million and US$9,323 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,168 million had been
repaid, and US$4,494 million was still undisbursed as of June 30, 1981. Bank
Group disbursements to India in fiscal year 1981 totalled US$962 million,
representing an increase of about 32% over the previous year. Annex II
contains a summary statement of disbursements as of June 30, 1981, and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
21.      Since 1959, IFC has made 24 commitments in India totalling US$148.7
million, of which US$22.2 million has been repaid, US$27.7 million sold and
US$7.5 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$91.3 million, US$82.3 million
represents loans and US$9.0 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of June 30, 1981, is also included in Annex II (page 4).
22.      In recent years, Bank Group lending has emphasized agriculture.  The
Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor irrigation and
other on-farm investments through agricultural credit operations and in
providing direct support to major and medium irrigation. Marketing, seed
development, agricultural extension, dairying, and forestry are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. The Bank Group has also been active in supporting infrastruc-
ture development for power, telecommunications, and railways. Family plan-
ning, water supply development, urban investments and the development of oil
and natural gas have also received Bank Group support in recent years.



-8-
23.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, power, water supply and other infrastructure
sectors remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs, particularly water and
credit for on-farm investments, will continue to receive emphasis.   Improved
water management and intensification and streamlining of extension systems
form an important institution-building aspect of the Bank Group's program
for the next several years. Special emphasis will be given to projects
benefitting small farmers. The Bank Group's continuing role in the fer-
tilizer sector assists India in the more efficient provision of another key
input in the agricultural growth process. Projects supporting water supply,
sewerage, urban development and investments in the petroleum sector also form
an integral part of the Bank's lending strategy to India for the next several
years. Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will
focus on those subsectors which have recently emerged as key constraints on
India's overall growth, primarily power and transportation.
24.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in part to the response of the aid community, India successfully
adjusted to the changed world price situation of the mid-1970s. However,
there is now a need for increased foreign assistance to adjust to an even
greater deterioration in balance of payments anticipated during the 1980s by
augmenting domestic resources and stimulating investment. As in the past,
Bank Group assistance for projects in India should aim to include the financ-
ing of local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods
because of the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods
industry. Consequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small
in most projects. This is particularly the case in such high-priority sec-
tors as agriculture, irrigation, and water supply.
25.       India's poverty and needs are such that whenever possible, external
capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue
to be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can
reasonably be allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs
for external support. Therefore, India should be eligible and regarded as
creditworthy for some supplemental Bank lending. The ratio of India's debt
service to the level of exports was about 10% in 1980/81 and is projected to
remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of June 30, 1981, outstanding loans to
India held by the Bank totalled US$1,742 million, of which US$874 million
remain to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding of US$868 million.
26.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements, and
12% of net disbursements as compared with 49%, 36% and 44%, respectively, in
1980/81. On March 31, 1981, India's outstanding and disbursed external
public debt was about US$17 billion, of which the Bank Group's share was
US$6.2 billion or 36% (IDA's US$5.3 billion and IBRD's US$0.9 billion).
Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the form of IDA
credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In 1980/81, about
18.0% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.



-9-
PART III - UTTAR PRADESH AND KANPUR
Uttar Pradesh
26.     Uttar Pradesh, located inland in north central India, is India's most
populous State, with an estimated 1981 population of 110.8 million (provisional
1981 census figures). Were Uttar Pradesh an independent nation, it would be
the eighth most populous in the world, after only China, the USSR, the United
States, Japan, Indonesia, Brazil, and the rest of India. One of India's
poorest States, Uttar Pradesh had an estimated per capita income in 1977/78 of
Rs 817 (US$98), significantly below the national average of Rs 1,189 for that
year. The State has the highest birth and death rates among the States of
India, the highest urban and second highest rural infant mortality rates in the
country, and the second lowest life expectancy (43 years). Uttar Pradesh's
economy is dominated by agriculture, which employs 75% of the labor force and
accounts for over 50% of total output. Per hectare yields of major foodgrains
in Uttar Pradesh are above the all-India average; however, due to the relative
density of population in the State, the value of output per person in the rural
disricts is 18% below the national average. Within Uttar Pradesh's relatively
small industrial sector (12% of State income in 1977/78), agricultural process-
ing industries are dominant, although non-traditional industries such as light
engineering and chemicals have been growing more rapidly than the average in
recent years.
27.     The 1981 census indicated that 18% of Uttar Pradesh's population
resided in urban areas, the urban population having grown an average of 4.9%
per year over the period 1971-81, up from a 2.7% annual growth rate during the
preceding decade. It is estimated that approximately 40% of the recent growth
has taken place in cities whose populations exceed 100,000, the five principal
cities in this size class being Kanpur (1.7 million), Agra (1.0 million),
Varanasi (0.8 million), Allahabad (0.8 million), and Lucknow (0.7 million). 1/
While relatively little emphasis has been placed on urban infrastructure in the
State Government's past and current investment plans (2.8% of the current plan
having been allocated to urban investment), the serious service deficiencies in
Uttar Pradesh's major cities and the associated need for ameliorative measures
and improved urban management have been recognized by the Government and have
prompted new initiatives in recent years in water supply and sanitation, shel-
ter and slum improvement.
Kanpur
28.     The Economy.  Kanpur, the eighth largest metropolis in India, is Uttar
Pradesh's largest city and chief industrial center. The city's industrial
base, established in the mid-1800s, centers around cotton and wool textile
mills and leather-tanning and processing factories. In the early 1970s, the
Kanpur district accounted for 70% and 41% of net value added in the State's
cotton textile and leather industries, respectively. In addition to these
1/   These five cities are referred to collectively as the KAVAL cities.



-10-
industries, Kanpur supports a large fertilizer plant and several armament
factories and a wide variety of small-scale industries, principally light
engineering concerns and manufacturers of agricultural implements, bicycles,
chemicals, paints and varnish. While industrial growth has been slow in Kanpur
in the post-war period, in 1977 the city accounted for about 16% of the total
employment and output in the State's organized manufacturing sector.
29.      The 1971 census indicated that 35.5% of Kanpur's working population
was employed in industry and more than 60% in trade, commerce and other serv-
ices. Kanpur's annual per capita income was estimated at Rs 860 (approximately
US$104 equivalent) in 1978. Approximately 45% of the city's population is
composed of households which fall into what is known as the "economically
weaker section (EWS)", defined as households having monthly incomes of Rs 350
(US$44 equivalent) or less.
30.      Urban Administration.  The Kanpur Nagar Mahapalika (KNM), or municipal
authority, was created in 1959, under the State Department of Local Self
Government, as an autonomous body to be responsible for municipal administra-
tion in Kanpur. While KNM was initially intended to oversee both the develop-
ment and the operation and maintenance of urban service systems, its functions
have been eroded over the years, transforming it into largely an operation and
maintenance organization responsible for solid waste management, sanitation,
street lighting, city roads, traffic management, and, to some extent, education
and maternal and child health care. 1/ Since 1974, the KNM has had no elected
council, and has been run by an Administrator appointed by the State Govern-
ment. Its chief sources of internally generated revenue are the octroi, a tax
on goods entering the city, which constitutes about 45% of total revenues, and
property taxes, which account for an additional 20% of total revenues. In
addition, about 20% of KNM's funds are obtained through State Government loans
and grants. 2/
31.      In 1974, the development wing of KNM was separated from the
municipality, transformed into the Kanpur Development Authority (KDA), and
given responsibility for planning, land development, and development control in
the greater Kanpur area, which covers nearly four times the area of the
municipality itself. The KDA's activities are directed by a Board of Direc-
tors, chaired by the State's Secretary for Housing, under whose Ministry the
KDA falls. The Vice-Chairman of the Board is the chief executive officer of
the KDA, managing a staff of approximately 1,100 and an annual investment
program that reached Rs 62 million (approximately US$7.8 million equivalent)
in 1980/81. The principal components of KDA's capital works program are the
acquisition and development of land for residential and commercial purposes and
the construction of housing and commercial and industrial estates. Over the
years, the proportion of KDA's investments earmarked for shelter has increased
1/   Actual construction of infrastructure has been taken over by various State
and local agencies, such as the Kanpur Development Authority, the Uttar
Pradesh Jal Nigam (a water supply and sewerage development corporation),
the Departments of Health and Education, and the Kanpur Electricity Supply
Administration (see paragraphs 31-32 below).
2/   Alternative sources of revenue generation are to be studied under the
proposed project (see paragraph 47).



-1 1-
markedly, from 24% in 1978/79 to 78% in 1980/81.  Along with this increase has
come a shift in the composition of shelter investments in favor of programs to
benefit the "economically weaker section". The primary sources of funds for
KDA's investment program are sales of serviced land and buildings, rents and
loan charges, loans (from the State Government and GOI's Housing and Urban
Development Corporation), and State Government grants.
32.     Responsibility for the planning and execution of water supply and
sewerage works in Uttar Pradesh was centralized in 1975 under a State-wide
water supply and sewerage development corporation, the Jal Nigam. At the same
time, provision was made for the establishment of local water and sewerage
authorities (Jal Sansthans) to take charge of operation and maintenance of
water and sewerage systems. In April 1980, the Kanpur Jal Sansthan (KJS)
effectively took over operation and maintenance of water supply works from the
KNM, and in April 1981, KJS took over sewerage works as well.
33.     The agencies active in the Kanpur metropolitan area exhibit a number
of weaknesses in administrative capability and financial management. The
Government has engaged consultants for KDA and KNM to study their organiza-
tional structure, systems and procedures, and resource mobilization. This is
the first step toward a program of institutional strengthening for Kanpur, to
be undertaken in conjunction with the proposed project (see paras 47-50 below).
34.     Environmental Conditions and Urban Services.  Health and environmental
conditions in Kanpur are widely regarded as among the worst in the major cities
in India. Infrastructure facilities, which proved inadequate to cope with the
rapid growth of the city during the Second World War, have not been sig-
nificantly expanded, nor adequately maintained, since. About 47% of Kanpur's
households live in overcrowded and unhygienic slum areas and "ahatas", 1/ with
virtually no access to basic sanitation. These areas are characterized by a
high incidence of waterborne and communicable diseases, such as gastroen-
teritis, cholera, hepatitis, and tuberculosis. Indeed, Kanpur has the highest
reported incidence of tuberculosis in India, with an estimated 60% of slum
children affected by the disease. While recent infant mortality figures are
not available, 1965 data indicate a very high infant mortality rate of 249 per
1,000 live births, 2/ and it is judged unlikely that the situation has improved
in the years since 1965. Thirty percent of the slum population has been class-
ified as being "continuously sick" and it is estimated that the average absen-
teeism among industrial workers runs as high as 60 days per worker per year.
35.     The main features of key service sectors in the Kanpur metropolitan
area are as follows.
a. Shelter. A recent survey indicated that about 67% of total
households in Kanpur live in single rooms. Of a total of about 340,000
households, an estimated 160,000 live in slum conditions, with minimal or no
access to basic services. Estimates indicate a shelter backlog in Kanpur of up
1/   Privately-owned slum compounds.
2/   According to the 1980 World Development Report, Upper Volta exhibited the
highest reported infant mortality rate, with 1960 data indicating a rate
of 263/1,000.



-12-
to 60,000 units, with a rate of new household formation of approximately 10,000
per year, half of these EWS households. Existing rent and development control
regulations act as disincentives to private investment in shelter, which is
minimal in general and virtually non-existent for very low income groups.
Thus, the burden of shelter investment continues to fall on the public sector,
which does not have the physical or financial capacity to meet projected
demand. The KDA, the principal residential developer in the city, currently
has over 5,000 new units under construction and, by 1980, had developed a
program to deliver approximately 1,800 new units per year to EWS households.
Under the proposed project, KDA's capacity would be significantly increased,
with approximately 14,800 new units (10,000 EWS) to be constructed over a
four-year period. Nevertheless, clearly KDA's efforts will have to be supple-
mented by private sector investment if the projected growth of the city is to
be adequately accommodated.
b.   Water Supply.  About 50% of Kanpur's households are served by
direct water connections, the remainder receiving water from public standpipes
and, to a limited degree, shallow wells. Public standpipes are shared, on
average, by about 50 families who receive an estimated 30 liters of water per
capita per day (lcd), compared to a city-wide average consumption from
all sources of 125 lcd. The existing production capacity of approximately
270 million liters of water per day (mld) will be augmented to about 385 mld
under the IDA-supported Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project (see
para 37 below). However, extensions to the distribution network and improve-
ments to reduce wastage and leakage will be required to achieve a broader
distribution of water and to improve system reliability and efficiency.
c. Sewerage. No central sewage treatment facilities exist in Kanpur.
Raw sewage is either discharged directly into the River Ganga or mixed with
river water for use on one 3,100-hectare sewage farm. While the existing trunk
sewer network covers the central area of Kanpur, branch sewers cover only about
40% of the municipal area and serve only about 180,000 people. Of the
remainder of the population, about 400,000 people are served by septic tanks,
about 580,000 by bucket latrines, and the rest (about 600,000) are dependent
on badly maintained public conveniences or have no means of sanitation at all.
Existing branch sewers are old and partially blocked with silt and solid waste,
largely due to inadequate flows. However, additional connections are dis-
couraged by relatively high hook-up charges combined with weak enforcement of
sewerage regulations. Of the estimated 375,000 liters of human waste generated
daily in unsewered areas of the city, only about 15,000 are collected by KNM.
A further 190,000 liters per day are collected from bucket latrines by private
sweepers and deposited at authorized collection points. An estimated 85,000
liters per day, collected from bucket latrines, are dumped by private sweepers
and householders into open drains, while another estimated 85,000 liters per
day from households with no toilet facilities at all are deposited in open
areas and drains.
d. Solid Waste Management. About 30% of the estimated 900 tons of
refuse generated in Kanpur per day goes uncollected, principally in the central
city area. This refuse combines with uncollected nightsoil to litter drains
and open areas. Of the solid waste collected, a portion is treated in a
recently commissioned composting plant, which is working up to its design
capacity of 350 tons per day. The remaining collected refuse is dumped in
depressed areas at the periphery of the city without the benefit of proper
sanitary landfill procedures.



-1 3-
e. Drainage. While the design capacity of the main drainage outfalls
for Kanpur appears to be adequate, lack of maintenance, blockage by silt and
refuse, and insufficient provision of collector drains in developed areas has
reduced the efficiency of the drainage system, leading to flooding of some
low-lying areas during the monsoon. Desilting, widening of drains in selected
places, and expansion of the collector system is a clear priority.
f. Roads and Traffic Management. While the road network in Kanpur
is reasonably adequate and comparatively well maintained, sidewalks and
road-side drains are poorly maintained. This poor maintenance, combined with
encroachment on sidewalks by hawkers and vendors, forces many pedestrians into
the carriageway, where they compete with unmotorized and motorized vehicles.
Thus, improved maintenance and traffic management are clearly called for.
Bank Group Activities in Uttar Pradesh and Kanpur
36.     In keeping with the State's largely agricultural character and its
serious deficiencies in terms of health and population control, the Bank
Group's activities in Uttar Pradesh have been primarily focussed on projects in
the agriculture/rural development and health/population sectors. Chief among
these are the First and Second Population Projects (Cr. 312-IN of June 14, 1972
and Cr. 981-IN of April 14, 1980), the Uttar Pradesh Tubewell Irrigation
Project (Cr. 8-IN of September 6, 1961) and the Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells
Project (Cr. 1004-IN of May 12, 1980), the Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit
Project (Cr. 392-IN of June 8, 1973), and the Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry
Project (Cr. 925-IN of June 21, 1979). In addition to these activities, and in
view of the significant coal resources in Uttar Pradesh, the Bank Group has
financed two large power projects in the State, the First and Second Singrauli
Thermal Power Projects (Cr. 685-IN of April 1, 1977 and Cr. 1027-IN of June 5,
1980), which will benefit Uttar Pradesh as well as several other States in the
northern region. Finally, and of most direct relevance to the proposed credit,
the Bank Group is participating in the Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage
Project (Cr. 585-IN of September 25, 1975), designed to alleviate the serious
deficiencies in the availability of safe water and proper sanitation in both
urban and rural areas.
37.     It was in conjunction with the Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage
Project that the Jal Nigam and the Kanpur Jal Sansthan were created. Moreover,
the project supports a number of sub-projects in Kanpur 1/ as well as in the
other KAVAL cities and in some 2,000 villages. Physical performance under the
project has been quite good, although some delays have been experienced on
on-going sub-projects, due primarily to slow sub-project initiation and to a
shortage of cement which has affected civil works throughout India. However,
all sub-projects are now underway and materials procurement is functioning
well; thus, it is estimated that the on-going sub-projects will be completed,
within appraisal cost estimates, by July 1982. Progress in the institutional
development program incorporated in the project has been uneven. The Jal Nigam
1/   Sub-projects in Kanpur focussed on augmentation of water supply (through
construction of tubewells and distribution mains) to new areas of the city
and provision of water meters. These works do not benefit the central
city slum areas nor prospective sites and services areas to be served
under the proposed project.



-14-
and Regional Jal Sansthans (covering rural areas) have developed into
reasonably well-functioning bodies, staffed and organized as recommended by
project-financed management consultants, although the Regional Jal Sansthans
still experience financial difficulties due to unavoidable revenue deficits in
poor rural areas. The KAVAL Jal Sansthans, however, have lagged behind expec-
tations. Recommended accounting systems have been introduced, billing and
collection performance has improved, and tariffs and revenues have been
increased over the project period. However, further improvements are required
if the Jal Sansthans are to achieve the financial and operational objectives
set at appraisal, and are the focus of continuing discussion between IDA and
the Government of Uttar Pradesh (GOUP).
38.     The Kanpur Jal Sansthan has encountered particular difficulty.  It has
only recently become a functioning entity, and has suffered from weak manage-
ment; inadequate monitoring of operational parameters, such as wastage and
leakage, supply, and consumption; poor accounting, billing, and collection; and
lack of an effective meter connection, repair, and disconnection (in case of
payment arrears) program. As a result of these deficiencies, the KJS has not
been able to achieve the financial rate of return requirements incorporated as
covenants in the credit agreements for the water supply project, nor is it
likely to be able to achieve these target rates of return in the near future.
In recognition of the weaknesses in KJS, GOUP has taken a number of steps over
the past year to strengthen the organization. These include: (i) appointment
of a new general manager for KJS; (ii) strengthening of middle-level management
through the creation and filling of incremental posts; (iii) completion of new
water meter repair facilities; (iv) stepping up of the billing and collection
program, which has resulted in a 67% increase in collections in 1980/81 over
the preceding year; (v) introduction of increased water and sewerage taxes; and
(vi) introduction of an accrual accounting system. These improvements have
enabled KJS to collect revenues adequate to cover its operational costs in
1980/81. Nevertheless, further improvements are critical if KJS is to achieve
the operational and financial objectives set for it at the time of appraisal of
the water supply project. Therefore, as an integral part of the proposed urban
project in Kanpur, KJS would introduce further operational reforms, working
toward a set of agreed operational and financial targets (see para 48-49
below), the achievement of which would move the KJS into a position of finan-
cial solvency.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.     The proposed project was appraised by a mission which visited India
in February 1981. A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report, Kanpur Urban
Development Project" (No. 3504-IN, dated September 25, 1981) is being dis-
tributed separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in
Washington in August/September 1981. The Governments of India and Uttar
Pradesh were represented by a delegation coordinated by Mr. S. Kaul, Deputy
Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs, Government of India (GOI). A Sup-
plementary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.
Project Description
40.      The proposed project would support the reorientation of shelter and
infrastructure investments in Kanpur to make them more responsive to the press-
ing needs of the city's low-income groups. It would do this by financing a
program of investments which would provide basic services and residential and



-15-
commercial/industrial plots to low-income beneficiaries and would address the
worst-environmental conditions prevailing in the central core of the city. A
second and equally important objective of the project would be to strengthen
key urban institutions in Kanpur, with emphasis on their capabilities in the
areas of management, finance, and maintenance of urban service systems.
Finally, the project would support the development of a State-wide strategy for
fostering urban development and improving urban management. The project would
be carried out over the period April 1981-June 1985 and would consist of the
following components.
41.     Sites and Services (US$17.3 million) 1/  -  Three sites, located within
3.5 to 6.0 kilometers of the city center and covering a total of 200 hectares,
have been selected for development under the project on the basis of their
proximity to employment opportunities, existing residential development, and
available trunk infrastructure. All three sites have already been acquired.
Approximately 14,800 residential plots 2/ and 540 small industry plots would be
developed on these sites, which would be provided with access roads and foot-
paths, water supply, sewerage, drainage, street lighting, and facilities for
individual power connections. A variety of plot sizes and options in terms of
on-plot super-structure (from an un-roofed sanitary core alone to a complete
sanitary core and one-room shelter) would be provided to suit the varying needs
and repayment capacities of a range of income groups. Optional shelter con-
struction loans for beneficiary households with incomes under Rs 600
(US$75)/month and building construction loans for purchasers of small industry
plots (which would have no on-plot development) would be provided under the
project. 3/ In addition, the Directorate of Industries would provide technical
assistance to small industry owners to upgrade their skills and would operate
a common facilities center (constructed under the project) at two of the sites,
which would rent equipment and tools and offer quality control assistance to
small entrepreneurs unable initially to purchase their own equipment. Finally,
each site would be provided with commercial areas, schools, a health center and
a community hall, and two of the sites would be provided with police posts and
post offices.
42.     Slum Upgrading (US$8.7 million) - About 20,000 households in slum areas
located in the central core of the city and in pockets within and adjacent to
the sites and services areas would be provided with basic infrastructure, land
tenure, and home improvement loans under the project. Infrastructure provided
would include pedestrian access, drainage, street lighting, landscaping, water
supply and sewerage networks designed to permit individual connections, and
public standpipes and latrines for households who cannot afford individual
facilities. Two types of optional loans would be offered -- a home improvement
loan for additions or structural improvements to dwellings and a loan for the
construction of a sanitary core, including water and sewerage connections. 3/
1/   Figures in parenthesis are estimates of the total cost of each component,
exclusive of contingencies and design and supervision costs.
2/   Of which approximately 290 would be residential-cum-business sites.
3/   Terms of these loans as well as arrangements for leasehold sale of serv-
iced land in upgraded slums and sites and services areas are discussed in
paras 54-58 below.



-16-
It is estimated that about 30% of beneficiaries will opt for a home improvement
loan and about 50% for a sanitary core loan. While no health or community
facilities will be provided under this component of the project, the slum areas
will be served by three mobile medical units recently introduced in Kanpur and
will benefit from a number of community development programs and facilities to
be provided in conjunction with a UNICEF-sponsored Community Development
Project. 1/ In addition, provision has been made for the construction of one
common facilities center for small industries in the central city slum area,
provided space for such a facility can be found.
43.     Supporting Infrastructure (US$6.7 million) - In order to extend serv-
ices to the slum areas to be upgraded, certain basic trunk and branch
infrastructure must be extended or improved. Therefore, the project would
support investments to: (i) augment the water supply to the center city slum
areas and commence a wastage and leakage reduction program to identify water
losses in the system and take measures to reduce those losses; (ii) install
approximately 30,400 meters of new sewer lines in the slum areas, replace sewer
lines which have deteriorated beyond repair or require upgrading to accommodate
increased flow (approximately 30,800 meters), and desilt about 53,000 meters of
blocked sewer lines; and (iii) augment drainage networks, connect slums to be
upgraded to existing outfall drains, and desilt and remodel 13 existing outfall
drains to restore them to design capacity. Detailed work programs for these
physical works will be formulated and agreed with IDA annually as acquisition
of slum areas progresses and the phasing of slum upgrading is determined (Sec-
tion 2.07, Project Agreement).  A significant part of the sewerage problem in
Kanpur up to the present has been caused by inadequate flows in the sewerage
system. New branch sewers to be installed under the project will have the
capacity to serve a wider population than just the slum households likely to
take sewer connections in upgraded areas. Therefore, in addition to the loan
funds to be provided to households in upgraded slums for sewer connections,
the project will include a Rs 10 million (US$1.25 million equivalent) revolving
fund to provide loans, for sewer connections to households outside the slums to
be upgraded. The revolving fund will be adequate to finance approximately
20,000 sewer connections during the project period. 2/ In order to ensure that
the rate of sewer connection is in fact increased, GOUP has prepared and sub-
mitted to IDA a program for improved enforcement of existing by-laws regarding
sewer connections. Uttar Pradesh would ensure that the terms and conditions of
sewer connection loans would be satisfactory to IDA (Section 3.05, Project
Agreement).
44.     Solid Waste Management (US$1.3 million) - In order to effect environ-
mental improvements and safeguard existing and new infrastructure against
blockage by refuse and nightsoil, the project would provide vehicles, equipment
and minor civil works to improve refuse and nightsoil collection and disposal.
1/   The UNICEF program will also serve project-supported sites and services
areas.
2/   On average, recipients under this program would provide 50% of the cost of
sewer connections themselves and receive a loan for the remaining 50%.
Loans would be provided at an interest rate of not less than 12% p.a. for
a period of four years.



-1 7-
Acquisition of sweeper carts, masonry bins, and various vehicles (jeeps, tipper
trucks, bulldozers, etc.), complemented by improvements to existing workshops
and to the city's composting facility, would enable the KNM to collect and
transfer about 90% of the refuse generated and to begin sanitary landfill
operations in place of current unsatisfactory dumping techniques. The provi-
sion of nightsoil carrier trucks, carts, and collection vessels for
house-to-house nightsoil collection will expand nightsoil collection con-
siderably, thereby reducing the human waste which is dumped in open drains. To
support these investments, KNM has included in the terms of reference of con-
sultants engaged to do an overall organization and management study for the
municipality (see para 47 below), a review of the organization of solid waste
management operations, responsibility for which is currently shared by a number
of municipal departments. Appropriate organizational changes will be effected,
after discussion of the results of this study with IDA, by April 1, 1983 (Sec-
tion 3.10, Project Agreement). To complement investments in nightsoil collec-
tion equipment, KNM has developed a program to expand and streamline its own
nightsoil collection effort, and to encourage the expansion of private
nightsoil collection, register private collectors, and improve enforcement of
regulations regarding nightsoil collection and disposal.
45.     Traffic Management (US$0.9 million) - While traffic management is
deficient in Kanpur, no traffic management or engineering expertise exists in
the KNM. The project would thus support the establishment of a Traffic
Engineering and Management Cell in the KNM, and would provide Rs 7.3 million
(US$0.9 million) to fund initial, low-cost traffic management schemes, focuss-
ing on such measures as intersection improvements, channelization, provision of
cycle tracks, and regulation of pedestrian movement in central city areas. The
Traffic Engineering and Management Cell would be established with adequate
staff by April 1, 1982 (Section 3.09(i), Project Agreement). All traffic
management schemes to be supported by the project prepared by the Cell would
be agreed between GOUP and IDA prior to implementation (Section 3.09(ii),
Project Agreement).
46.     Maintenance (US$1.0 million) - A considerable maintenance backlog has
built up in Kanpur due primarily to poor operation and maintenance procedures
and inadequate plant and equipment for maintenance. As part of the institu-
tional strengthening program begun by KNM (see para 47 below), consultants have
been engaged to study KNM's maintenance activities and recommend
improvements, 1/ including the identification of equipment required to meet
current maintenance responsibilities and the added requirements to be generated
by project-supported investments. A budget of Rs 8.1 million (US$1 million
equivalent) has been included in the project to meet initial equipment require-
ments identified by the study. Investments under this component will be
selected after mutual agreement on the basis of a joint (IDA/KNM/KJS) review of
the consultants' recommendations (Section 3.11, Project Agreement).
1/   While KNM has recently handed over responsibility for sewerage operation
and maintenance to KJS, the study will cover sewerage maintenance
deficiencies and requirements. Any equipment to be procured for sewerage
maintenance will be provided to KJS.



-18-
47.     Technical Assistance and Institutional Strengthening (US$1.0 million) -
A considerable effort would be made under the project to strengthen KDA, KNM,
and KJS and to further develop State-level urban planning and management
capabilities. KDA has already commenced a 47-man-month consultancy study
covering organization and management systems and methods and accounting sys-
tems, particularly project cost accounting, charging and collection.
Similarly, KNM has initiated three studies, with consultant assistance, focuss-
ing on: (i) institutional strengthening -- the identification of potential
improvements in organization, accounting, management information systems,
stores operation, property assessment, revenue collection, and project cost
accounting; (ii) financial strengthening -- investigation of alternative sour-
ces of revenue and imDrovements to the existing system of revenue generation;
and (iii) means of improving KNM's maintenance of urban service systems. The
terms of reference for all of these studies have been reviewed and approved by
IDA and provision has been made for follow-up consultancy assistance (including
staff training) during implementation of appropriate reforms. KDA and KNM
would introduce improved accounting systems, designed on the basis of the
consultants' findings, which would be fully operational by April 1, 1983 (Sec-
tion 3.06, Project Agreement). Following review of the relevant consultants'
recommendations and consultation with IDA, KNM would also introduce, by
April 1, 1983, measures satisfactory to IDA to increase municipal revenues
(Section 3.12, Project Agreement).
48.     Technical assistance to KJS would focus on developing a billing manage-
ment program in order to improve KJS's collection of current and past due
receivables. In addition, Uttar Pradesh would ensure to introduce a new
accounting system in KJS, to be fully operational by April 1, 1982 (Sec-
tion 3.06, Project Agreement), and has begun a consumer survey, to be completed
by March 1982, to collect essential data on water usage, consumption, and the
number, type (e.g., commercial, industrial, domestic) and status of all water
connections. In order to overcome the operational problems which have arisen
due to a shortage of working capital (and as required under the Uttar Pradesh
Water Supply and Sewerage Project), GOUP has provided a term loan of Rs 12.5
million (US$1.56 million equivalent) to KJS for working capital. Finally,
during the course of project implementation, KJS would take the following steps
to improve operating efficiency and financial performance:
(i) implement, by April 1, 1982, a water wastage and leakage detection
program, including production metering and area-wise bulk metering
(Section 3.07(i), Project Agreement);
(ii) develop and implement, by September 30, 1982, on the basis of the
findings of the wastage and leakage detection effort, an action
program to reduce water wastage and leakage to a level, and in
accordance with a time schedule, acceptable to IDA (Sec-
tion 3.07(ii) and (iii), Project Agreement);
(iii) initiate an accelerated water connection program, to achieve not
less than 80,500 billable connections (compared to approximately
45,000 at present) by March 31, 1985 (Section 3.08(a)(i), Project
Agreement);



-19-
(iv) introduce quarterly water meter reading and semi-annual billing
for all connections during fiscal year 1981/82, progressing to
quarterly billing with effect from fiscal year 1982/83 (Sec-
tion 3.08(a)(ii), Project Agreement);
(v) improve its meter repair and replacement capability, through the
provision of adequate staff and spare parts, to ensure that not
less than 75% and 90% of installed meters are fully functional in
each quarter with effect from the quarters beginning on January 1
and October 1, 1983, respectively (Section 3.08(a)(iii), Project
Agreement);
(vi)  improve collection procedures, including procedures for disconnec-
tion in the event of payment default, to achieve cash collections
of not less than 60%, 65%, 70%, 75%, and 80% of the current year's
receivables during fiscal years 1981/82, 1982/83, 1983/84,
1984/85, and 1985/86, respectively (Section 3.08(a)(iv), Project
Agreement).
49.     The operational improvements included in the project are expected to
help improve revenue generation of KJS significantly. Uttar Pradesh would
cause KJS to generate adequate revenues, through operational improvements and,
if necessary, tariff revisions, to cover not less than 75% of the costs of
operation, maintenance and debt service for its water supply operations for
the fiscal year beginning April 1, 1982, 100% of the costs of operation, main-
tenance and debt service for its water supply operations for the fiscal year
beginning April 1, 1983, and 100% of the costs of operation, maintenance and
debt service for its water supply and sewerage operations for each year with
effect from the fiscal year beginning April 1, 1984 (Section 3.08(a)(v),
Project Agreement).
50.     At the State level, the Town and Country Planning Department (in the
Department of Housing) would receive assistance to enhance its economic and
spatial planning capabilities, and thus its capacity to develop a State-wide
urban development strategy, and to enable it, in cooperation with the Depart-
ment of Urban Development, to assist local development authorities in carrying
out their planning function and in improving urban management and finance
within their jurisdictions.  A particular focus of the effort to develop a
State-wide urban development strategy would be the identification of incentives
for and methods of private sector participation in land and shelter develop-
ment.  Assistance to the Town and Country Planning Department would include
local consultancy for specific studies; equipment, including mapping and photo
interpretation facilities; training; and establishment costs for the expansion
of the specialist staff.
Project Implementation
51.     Project execution would be coordinated and monitored at the working
level by KDA, which would prepare monthly progress reports on the basis of
information supplied by each executing agency. These reports would be sub-
mitted to the Project Management and Monitoring Committee, which would oversee
project coordination and address any problems which arise in implementation at
the local level. Established in April 1981, this Committee consists of the
Secretaries of Housing and Urban Development, the Chief Town Planner, the



-20-
Vice-Chairman of KDA, and the Administrator of KNM. In addition, an execu-
tive-level Steering Committee, chaired by the Chief Secretary of Uttar Pradesh
and consisting of the senior officials of all relevant agencies, which was
formed during project preparation, will continue to meet periodically to
provide project-related policy guidance.
52.     Primary responsibility for individual project components would be
assumed by the following agencies:
Sites and Services and                  KDA
Slum Upgrading
Supporting Infrastructure               KJS/KNM
Solid Waste Management                  KNM
Traffic Management                      KNM
Maintenance                             KNM/KJS
Technical Assistance and                KDA/KNM/KJS/Department of
Institutional Strengthening             Town and Country Planning,
Directorate of Industries
(GOUP)
Project Costs and Financing
53.     The total cost of the project is estimated at US$51.7 million, of which
US$5.1 million, or about 10% of total project cost, represents foreign exchange
costs. Cost estimates are based on final engineering designs for all three
sites for the sites and services component, on final engineering designs for
ten representative slum areas for the slum upgrading component, and on prelimi-
nary engineering designs for the remaining civil works. Costs for consultant
and advisory services, all of which would be locally procured, have been
estimated at Rs 8,500 (US$1,063 equivalent) per man-month. Physical contingen-
cies of 10% have been applied to civil works for which detailed engineering has
been completed and of 15% for civil works estimated on the basis of preliminary
engineering. Price contingencies have been estimated at 9%, 8.5%, 7.5% and
7.5% per year for the fiscal years 1981/82-1984/85, respectively.
54.     The proposed credit of US$25 million would finance about 50% of project
cost net of taxes and duties, which are estimated at US$2.3 million equivalent.
Retroactive financing of up to US$250,000 would be provided to KDA and KNM for
expenditures made after October 1, 1980 for consultant services required for
project preparation, with an additional US$250,000 in retroactive financing to
be made available to KDA for expenditures incurred after April 1, 1981 for
preliminary civil works. The Government of India would make the proceeds of
the credit available to COUP on the standard terms and conditions for State
development projects.  GOUP would, in turn, provide funds equivalent to the
proceeds of the credit, together with the balance of project costs, to the
implementing agencies on the terms and conditions indicated below.



-21-
Financing Plan (US$ Millions)
Primary
Implementing       Direct GOUP                        Total
Component                 Agency(ies)       Expenditures 1/       Loans 2/      Cost
Sites and Services             KDA                1.6              23.1          24.7
Slum Upgrading                KDA                0.1               11.1         11.2
Supporting Infrastructure
Water Supply               KJS                 -                 0.9          0.9
Sewerage                   KJS                 -                 7.2          7.2
Drainage                   KNM                 -                 2.4          2.4
Solid Waste Management        KNM                 -                 1.5           1.5
Maintenance                  KNM/KJS               -                 1.2          1.2
Traffic Management             KNM                -                 1.4           1.4
Technical Assistance        KDA/KNM/
KJS/GOUP             1.2                 -           1.2
TOTAL                                    2.9              48.8          51.7
1/   Passed directly from GOUP to the budgets of State Government departments,
KDA, KJS and KNM for community facilities, small industry centers and
skills training, and technical assistance.
2/   At 7% per year over 25 years including five years' grace, in accordance
with current State Government practice.
Cost Recovery
55.     Strong emphasis has been placed on cost recovery under the proposed
project, in order to ensure the long-term replicability of the service programs
supported so that these programs can be expanded to respond to the growing
service needs of Kanpur's population. Moreover, it is hoped that the cost
recovery experience in Kanpur will serve as an example to other cities in the
State to encourage the expansion of low-cost, cost-recoverable service
programs. It has been estimated that about 66% of the total project costs
would be directly recovered from the beneficiaries. Cost recovery measures to
be taken under the direct service components are outlined below. The terms and
conditions for on-lending to beneficiaries under the shelter components are
significantly more stringent than under existing Government programs and are
expected to be positive in real terms. They should be evaluated against a
background of overall price stability in India over the period 1974/75-1978/79.
Although consumer prices in 1979/80 and 1980/81 rose at a rate of about 12% per
annum, the average annual rate of inflation over the project period is expected
to be under 9%.
56.     Sites and Services.  Approximately 86% of total component cost is
attributable to directly chargeable costs (land, site preparation, on-site
infrastructure, on-plot development, and shelter loans), which would be fully
recovered through plot sales and loan repayments. Prices of residential plots
would reflect differences in plot size, infrastructure levels, on-plot develop-
ment, and location, as well as a degree of cross-subsidy across income groups.
EWS plots would be priced at less than average square meter cost, while prices
for plots for higher-income groups and for commercial and industrial users



-22-
would be set above average cost to offset the subsidy to the poorest
beneficiaries. Plots would be sold with 90-year leasehold titles. The terms
and conditions of lease and mortgage and accompanying loans would be acceptable
to IDA (Section 3.04, Project Agreement), and would include: (i) for residen-
tial plots and shelter loans designated for EWS and LIG (Lower Income Group) 1/
households, payment by beneficiaries of a 10% down payment on the price of the
plot, 2/ with the balance of plot price and loan amount (if any) to be repaid
at not less than 12% per annum interest over 20 years; (ii) for other residen-
tial and industrial and commercial plots, payment by beneficiaries of a 25%
down payment on the price of the plot, with the balance of plot price to be
repaid at not less than 12% per annum interest over 10 years; and (iii) for
small industry loans, repayment at not less than 12% per annum interest over
20 years. For dwellings falling below the property tax threshold (due to
phased house construction), a maintenance charge ranging from Rs 2.5/month to
Rs 30/month (depending on plot type) would be charged and passed to KNM to
finance infrastructure maintenance until property tax payment begins. Settler
selection criteria would be satisfactory to IDA (Section 3.04(i), Project
Agreement) and would be based primarily on income, in order to ensure that
various plot size and design alternatives are reserved for intended income
groups.
57.      The remainder of the cost of the sites and services component is
accounted for by land, buildings and equipment for community facilities (5%),
off-site infrastructure (7%), and the small industry assistance program (2%).
The cost of off-site infrastructure would be partly recovered through user
charges, the application and collection of which should be improved through the
project-supported institutional strengthening program. The cost of community
facilities and small industry assistance would be largely unrecovered, with the
exception of partial recovery of the cost of land for community facilities
(through plot charges) and of the cost of small business common facilities
centers (through user charges for equipment).
58.      Slum Upgrading.  About 99% of the cost of this component is accounted
for by directly chargeable costs (land, on-site infrastructure, loans for home
improvement), which would be fully recovered through land and improvement
charges and loan repayments. Tenure to improved land would be provided to
beneficiaries through 90-year leasehold titles. Terms and conditions of leases
and home improvement loans would be satisfactory to IDA (Section 3.05(i),
Project Agreement), and would include payment by beneficiaries of a 5% down
payment against the price of the serviced land, with the balance of the plot
charge and home improvement loan amount (if any) to be repaid over 20 years at
not less than 12% per annum interest. Repayment would be made in monthly
installments ranging from approximately Rs 13 to Rs 50, depending on the size
of the serviced plot. 3/ In addition, a maintenance charge of Rs 2.5 for
1/   Households with monthly incomes in the range of Rs 350-600.
2/   With the exception of EWS I (the lowest income group) beneficiaries, who
would be required to pay only a 5% down payment.
3/   These amounts are estimates, pending final acquisition of slum areas to be
upgraded (see para 67 below).



-23-
smaller plots and Rs 5 for larger plots would be charged and passed to KNM to
support service maintenance.
59.     The remaining 1% of component cost is accounted for by the proposed
common facilities center for small industries, the cost of which would be
partially recovered through charges levied for the use of the facilities.
60.     Supporting Infrastructure, Solid Waste Management, Traffic  Management,
and Maintenance. The costs of water and sewerage works would be partially
recovered through user charges, which by the fiscal year beginning April 1,
1983 would cover the entire costs of operation, maintenance, and debt service
for water supply and by the fiscal year beginning April 1, 1984 would cover the
entire costs of operation, maintenance, and debt service for sewerage (see
para 49 above). The solid waste management, traffic management and maintenance
components would be financed by KNM out of general revenues. While no specific
charges for these services would be introduced under the project, 1/ steps
would be taken by KNM (see para 47 above) to increase the municipality's
revenue base and to improve revenue collection.
Procurement and Disbursement
61.     The total estimated value of civil works contracts under the project
is approximately US$25.3 million equivalent. 2/ The largest of these works
are the civil works for the Barra and Gujaini sites and services developments
(the value of works on the two sites totalling US$7.6 million and
US$4.5 million, respectively), the slum upgrading works (totalling
US$4.6 million) and construction of branch sewers (US$4.7 million). Contracts
for works on the two larger sites and services developments and for branch
sewers will be let on a "slicing and packaging" basis after all-India competi-
tive bidding among pre-qualified bidders in accordance with procedures satis-
factory to the Association. A technical consultant, experienced in the
administration of large civil works contracts, will be hired by KDA to assist
in contract award and administration (Section 2.02(i), Project Agreement).
Design objectives for the sites and services works call for the use of simple
labor-intensive technology and easily available local materials (e.g., brick,
lime, and fly-ash, as opposed to less accessible cement, steel, and stone
aggregate), in order to minimize cost, maximize employment of local labor and
facilitate compatible self-help additions to initial structures. In view of
the need to coordinate with the phasing of the slum upgrading program, branch
sewer construction will be done under annual contracts averaging only about
US$0.8 million. Thus, neither of these categories of works would attract the
interest of foreign contractors.
62.     The slum upgrading works would be distributed over nearly 90 slum
areas, progressing slum-by-slum as lands are acquired. Thus, individual con-
tracts would be very small, and would be let on the basis of local competitive
bidding in accordance with procedures satisfactory to IDA. The remaining civil
works, totalling US$3.9 million (for water supply, sewerage and drainage works,
1/   With the exception of the maintenance charges in sites and services and
upgraded slum areas (see paras 56 and 58 above).
2/   Costs cited in this section are exclusive of contingencies.



-24-
site preparation, and the Pokharpur sites and services area) would be
individually small and scattered and would also be let on the basis of competi-
tive bidding following local advertisement in accordance with procedures satis-
factory to IDA.
63.     Plant, equipment, and vehicles valued at about US$2.4 million equiv-
alent would be procured under the project. Contracts totalling approximately
US$300,000 equivalent would be awarded on the basis of international competi-
tive bidding in accordance with IDA guidelines. Contracts, for equipment
totalling about US$1.9 million would be let on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Associa-
tion. This equipment, will be procured in stages through small contracts
covering about 25 different categories (such as refuse carts, maintenance tools
and vehicles) involving a large number of manufacturers and would not attract
interest of foreign suppliers. Also included are equipment for which local
availability of spare parts and maintenance facilities is important. The
remaining equipment (total value US$200,000), to be procured under the project,
would involve small contracts (under US$50,000) for items which would be
procured through normal commercial channels after obtaining quotations from at
least three suppliers.
64.     The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed against: (a) 100% of
foreign expenditures for directly imported plant and equipment, and 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory) for locally manufactured plant and equipment,
procured through international competitive bidding; (b) 55% of expenditures for
plant, equipment, and vehicles procured through local competitive bidding or
prudent shopping; (c) 55% of expenditures on contracts for civil works; (d) 70%
of expenditures on loans made for home construction or improvement, for sewer
connections, or for small industry construction; and (e) 100% of expenditures
for technical assistance and training. Disbursements against expenditures made
in respect of shelter, sewer connection, or small industry loans would be made
on the basis of certified statements of expenditure. Disbursement requests for
all other items would be fully documented.
Benefits and Risks
65.     The principal benefits of the proposed project would be to redirect
a significant proportion of public investment in shelter and infrastructure
in Kanpur toward low-cost, replicable programs which would benefit low-income
groups, to expand the capacity of local and State-level institutions to plan
for urban growth and manage urban services, and to introduce the concept of
full cost recovery by supporting affordable responses to the needs of
low-income households. It is hoped that, through the involvement of
State-level institutions, the experiences in Kanpur will serve as an example
for cities throughout Uttar Pradesh.
66.     The sites and services developments would serve 14,800 households, 74%
of whom would fall below the estimated urban poverty level, providing them with
shelter, basic services, primary and secondary education, and health care. The
average per-household cost of the land and services provided would be Rs 10,850
(US$1,360 equivalent). The economic rate of return of the sites and services
component is estimated at 18%. This estimate is based only on the estimated
increase in rental value of the developed land and structures to be con-
structed, and does not take into account the significant health and education
benefits likely to be realized. The slum upgrading program would provide basic



-25-
infrastructure and sanitation to approximately 20,000 households, 87Z of wh-iom
fall below the urban poverty threshold and many of whom have at present no
access to even the most rudimentary sanitary facilities. The average
per-household cost of the services provided would be Rs 3,900 (US$490 equiv-
alent) and the estimated economic rate of return of the program is 26%, once
again based only on the forecast increase in rental value created by the
proposed infrastructure investments. The supporting investments in off-site
trunk and branch infrastructure (water supply, sewerage, and drainage) serving
slum areas would benefit a much wider population of approximately 200,000
people, as significant benefits would accrue to households outside the slum
areas selected for full-scale upgrading under the project. The solid waste
management program to be undertaken would result in much-improved environmental
conditions, and thereby significantly reduced health risks, for an estimated
100,000 households in the central core of the city. And finally, traffic
management and maintenance investments would improve capacity utilization in
existing service systems, potentially benefitting the entire population of the
city.
67.     The primary risk to the project relates to land acquisition for the
slum improvement program. At present, 28 slum areas housing approximately
8,700 households, equivalent to the first two years' work on the component, are
already in the possession of the Government. Of the remaining 61 slum areas to
be acquired, notification of the intent to acquire has been published in
respect of 40 areas and will be published shortly in respect of the remaining
21. However, the acquisition of these areas is being carried out under an
acquisition act never before applied in the State. As a result, litigation
over the compensation formula is likely, and thus the final cost of acquisition
will not be known for some time. Straightforward application of the compensa-
tion formula specified in the Act (100 times monthly property rental value)
would result in an average cost of acquisition of Rs 20/m .  In view of2
increases which may arise out of litigation, an average cost of Rs 31/m  has
been used in calculating the costs and thus the affordability of the planned
service program to potential beneficiaries. If the average costs of acquisi-
tion substantially exceed this figure, a range of options will be considered,
including deletion of the more expensive slum areas (with possible substitution
by other slums on public lands), further reduction of infrastructure standards,
or subsidies against the cost of the land.
68.     The second main risk relates to the capacity of the principal
implementing agency. For KDA, the project would involve a significant increase
over current expenditure levels. However, the bulk of the expenditure would be
carried out under relatively few contracts, which represents a major advance in
terms of ease of administration over the current practice, which has favored
multiple small contracts. This factor, coupled with the assistance of a tech-
nical consultant experienced in contract administration (see para 61 above) and
KDA's ability to draw additional staff, as needed, on secondment from a
centralized pool, should guard against significant implementation delays.



-26-
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the Associa-
tion, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the State of
Uttar Pradesh, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
70.     Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
71.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
September 30, 1981



ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVRAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND Sq. KM.)                                                      MOST RECENT ESTIMATE-
TOTAL           3281.6                                 MOST RECENT       LOW INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL    1809.5              1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   ASIA 6 PACIFIC            ASIA 6 PACIFIC
FNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  60.0        100.0     190.0             232.3                  1136.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     111.1        152.5     241.8             499.4                 1150.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUS.)  434850.0    547569.0  659217.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 17.9         19.7      22.0              17.3                   40.8
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      974.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       1621.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2115
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      132.3        166.6    200.5              153.6                  373.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    246.7       308.0      355.8             360.3                 2382.8
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         40.1        42.4       41.1              37.4                   39.8
15-64 YRS.                         56.8        54.7       56.0              59.2                   56.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   3.1          2.9       2.9               3.5                    3.5
PCPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.8         2.3        2.1               2.1                    2.3
URBAN                              2.5          3.3       3.3               3.4                    3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    44.2          40.3      34.0              27.7                   29.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     22.7         17.4      13.5              10.2                    7.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.1          2.8       2.3               2.5                     1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)    64.0       3782.0    5619.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..         12.0      22.6              20.4                   44.1
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          98.0       102.0       93.0             107.1                  123.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   93.0        92.0       91.0              98.6                  112.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          52.0        51.0       50.0              56.9                   62.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       17.0         15.0      13.0              14.2                   19.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     27.1         20.4      14.8              14.6                    4.8
IHEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   42.2         47.5       51.9              57.7                   64.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             ..        134.0     125.0              89.1                   50.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                         17.0       33.0              30.1                   45.9
URBAN                               ..        60.0       83.0              65.8                   68.0
RURAL                               ..         6.0       20.0              20.1                   34.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         19.0      20.0              17.6                   53.4
URBAN                               ..        85.0       87.0              71.0                   71.0
RURAL                               ..          1.0       2.0               4.8                   42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          4850.4/c    4889.0   3617.4              3857.7                 4428.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     9630.d7O    8296.5    6429.4             6411.8                 2229.7
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2149.0/d    1612.9    1311.1             1132.8                  588.5
URBAN                               ..          ..      363.5             322.3                  579.6
RURAL                               ..          ..   10429.1             5600.5                 1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.2          5.6       5.2
URBAN                              5.2         5.6        4.8
RURAL                              5.2          5.6       5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              2.6         2.8
URBAN                              2.6         2.8
RURAL                              2.6         2.8
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..         ..
URBAN                               ..          ..         ..
RURAL                                ..         ..         ..



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
INDIA                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MOST RECENT         LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC               ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:      TOTAL                  61.0         73.0       79.0                85.9                    99.8
MALE                   80.0         90.0       94.0                94.4                   100.6
FEM4ALE                40.0         56.0       63.0                64.5                    98.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   20.0         26.0       28.0                38.0/aa                 53.5
MALE                   30.0         36.0       37.0                34.6laa                 58.4
FEtlALE                10.0         15.0       18.0                18.0/aa                 48.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)   8.0             1.0        1.0                 3.8                    21.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIM1ARY                             29.0         41.0       41.0                32.8                    34.2
SECONDARY                            16.0         21.0         ,,                19.9                    31.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          28.0         33.4       36.0                52.8                    86.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            0.7          1.1        1.3                 1.7                    12.7
RADJO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            4.9         21.5       32.5                35.3                   174.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            0.0          0.0        1.0                 3.7                    50.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                    11.0         16.0       16.9                14.6                   106.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  4.0             6.3        3.8                 3.4                     4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)   189761.4    220670.5  256699.4
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     31.2         32.4       31.9                29.3                    37.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                74.0         74.0       71.0                69.8                    50.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   11.0         11.0       11.0                14.1                    21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                  43.6         40.3       38.9                39.7                    40.2
MALE                                   58.0         52.6        51.3               51.5                    49.8
FEMALE                                 28.2         27.1       25.7                23.3                    31.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  1.0          1.1        1.1                 1.1                     1.1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGhEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.1            26.3/e    22.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.7            48.9/e    49.4
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.1             6.7Te      7.0
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.6            17.2Te    16.2
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..      132.0               134.1                   248.6
RURAL                                  ..           ..      114.0               111.6                   193.7
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URbAN                                  ..           ..         ..                  ..                   249.8
RURAL                                  ..           ..         ..                  ..                   234.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                  ..           ..       40.3                41.7                    21.2
RURAL                                  ' '                   50.7                51.7                    32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
Ja   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
amcng the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/aa  China included in total only.
/b   Unless Itherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1962;  /d 1958;  /e 1964-65.
May, 1981



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DtFylOlhS oP SOCIAL INIICATORO
.ho  .......c.  .ray   too  JIt)o   eectctyi  o f the n-hj -t  c-unr  cod l2lIa.o.ttn    gruI                     lbaeca   rgeaeaaiim    hntettet   ta
inhrnton igro  dt  th"nI         ao  ecypuah         n'agte    nt.toIen :. nI H Seth  ndEta' I            t.ed I.ho.. otf -bot
n.ontlnyichcoonr'aaItanott  handat            d.ottha  onl I_o   -  Ince tttoeaeltot'a   on thledmaosdpdeniba ilbit odaa
acdncotttion.  ntio   nottononoan    tnrlelntoah te   Pt.ldtrccaoht                                    hecnnten               htintonl., onoonparttnbeaace  o
ntetadcancnot atlcanotthoctttthyad-eleonn   .troupe.ll!                                                                                               -l1i1.l
!ATli.   'thotc. a....n.)                                                 S'e"atcyrmnloltd-tta    ra .odn.a.-PyIa InIoa
-chl-Tt          -locacaco   eCnclnaa                    cclndooeohtedoaittehther.otntseabeochd
T-olayt  in o' f-an   oenntt               1-ht  oi  to-hAno - 91-nh  ha:li9h                          n   atn    etr   otpreetyeafdb       hsee h..at- byda
lIii   n   99ot,                                                                                     cdIolaasn             oea    ldafe  ate.)wihofrO-eteeo
feheptala dtode  by thd  -e nbeof  bade. N             -e
-d                    ......oT  itiec_)toao-st-   I  c   oi      nc,chy   and iiih                     -d-000..0101.:~ _"
amend coononien . 19h. 1970, acd hill daa,                                           the bonne70ld foeenottetdoal parpeses
ncdeletion yeeircttocn                                                  Anernee comber of nercoes nor roes- Intel. arbee. and roral - toorega Ode-li..dh..pi,,,  ,, 1
locol.  andfecolo lon ronootaon nootiloning at  7.0 yenta   Cite raco    Canceottnal deellAge n.th  leottit                            _-y-On il_tg q-arte-
roteo  ft  lecoity nte-loc hone  t     fce  i-oe.lnnteoa- eol-lia   c                     of tct.1el,dnar   e  nrir delitceeeeyenitcelye.
dfen..tll fltcocioictenccco               ly11,1 ltolcdotielnlancctgynnnoantannn.l.A  .ld,    J&--    --                                                             b  ..Idi
andfeto It ci-iyret00n io  rC--eto pponycti-  1..-                .:Ad.jos 98                        .lftd     . tnotet Pl-iattbe             -       .1ldp              1
hc -ttcnono rura lattIIoOo-po                  l pplaoc-toa   nc   noeohn?tnrcnbole    ocl,mlean   telt-ilne   onl,eiean   eml
th ...nc..nt   .ia  .c ..eoi--edeo       iro he-a-d lyotieogntnetanre                            cccotnnfllgecthptetleectprcntgs  fnepoio
no] to nccncnct .  Ty. on ochiocad cal yften  fnntii inc eatn bunco  to    petnany7   chcol dt     ..y I Liotoo 9 ....c..oply taiitde1oyt.d.e.. o.ed.. -l
ont -nnedont-itniclhf         noncodyouc-           ne- oalnteontlnin                              tdcEnnro   ncyRaiosn  ee    ricte   fiiitclt.
ontheaunlhi.  oocccnne  -doolooeifatlllyncntc'-lac..-                           isod ,ctool -rot                ancd faecle     oynda   hc;aodn
thoion       t   i   ,lle~~                                                                                        'I-. fo   tonntbhd.ee.apcllciynreO yote l'e-1dnoonatt   oeal
lopoatoc_t---t  nh.otldodnId. I _I   ....I-'  '                                                                                                  lyl,             "I-      e
Pe    jjn        i-ca le  cacf c he  tqtc   hlroa    fluIereo                            Lttoa          d tent lernn-  el   _ e      tcndec -ffeat0 cal  nattI        c
1.tetl  -a,L-2.h, 19- ad h 11r)   dnta Ioc-cdoocfncctI.Ityocrnol ,-c  other ynCinotohn tcn--n IIdynd
nro2t.ani- itrlIcA-ecnda    iniccntloulo                                                          Icloodptrettot ecdann-oYeatc.t--d_o
ocly, 1h1, 191 cod 17d dot -                                           n'tnl-ttncrc conI-cc iern. andenoundnit-Tefl otodont ontlled  I
noctoni ho...   ooelrrst  - Ct 7dhn  y0-lh-nonl o-nihno-aty                   Cl)-                 nidtn  and                              ..edr   aoi  te  lhinteac rocaith
year  eonit   e  17-i    th-1  anI97-
latco    1on  960-t, 19th0 D   aod 197 1-9                                                     nocenor  orn(yn  ahoad-pclanOe"tr   - Pa,ene   ai   oncu hee
Mypelate 0o 191,970, and 11979 dcna.                                                                                                                     T-nilotany ct0tole
Crudeloathhatn  ion ccoena)    Ahoal deoh  pnriua doe(0daartde14L y-)ettotn orltto   011 nypon of  otN.ionr   for  adi
yoylaior.c 19 t0  . 1970,   cod 1 979   dan-                                                         endettrn1erLi citoye  cooan   of nedoOatbot   not -odnI  o-l
Croon lecrodocfco taco- Inacot coin hoc ofdaoohteeo --oe tal   hant In-               lIcen    eanin            to  ootnoerandin yent  nhnngnna  o  o   ot
Il  t  cnn 1950a60y loan-n,eon acegr9      ndn7   t   90,_9f  on   97.nat v eocrtt- Oho-th..An  l.c....caing...
ofd tnb-conl  elr   ndre-  ...on.  of lieic -a thboom                   plnn  J--nen                 .nna  p.....  Ire  h-einchd poultin;            enos.  c  con   i   ornr
C,onDe.f cncd-ra<t  ago)l-nA c..rel  oneIh eat h;n--tdntfoid-olen-eterrcCtilto   oentu    otholAi ll>  Shout nel     acne   o- r
oil- ao-ne   196dt  197entndta 9e       let........ .uaiof'ei   genera. ct.IeI eannyt- e'',aii                                                                        -  I'pnlldnca
C_e  - A111se                                                               '1--ed~~~~~~~~~~~~ye ico'o   Orcndotonl   t   eod ic ec.. ral. reit.ti- iconn_idr
he,0 li -i_i ......li -AiOii                               ~                                          to-  - ho'dol'  ci Onf-    aptn tlat  four tin           be no.....l
lidec   rd rdoinpa   aie39h-1li                          ldnfecolocol                            Cneahna n_oao   o  Cet   o   ea-an    nth   ohno
Irdtlno   i  odteoitcn    rdcInecoe   ee   n   edadnno                                                        d    unn    b   nr,ldddgoeitln   tdiaottsa
onunelendayncnhaeo. Ceratdlnlncoca    ptr.tryg     ,dn(... ntona--ndo ieocotIo                                      i
pm  day.  icootable  nonrilat tunonoan  Aosotit needonnoon, inponte tent_nercnyarlily c 19t_i 1911Inod 1979 data 
FODAnopeURIte.adcino ictc.htepitonldocalfd.edo                                                     Pnltiencdail) If Pnif  p--te   l-tt cc    tincnen  cI  toallhk.arr
Inq.eoctFtle  Tur   n  odnncnltnt. and ieae0  cc d.                  e  -t pilton .tqor--        leC__eAt..o IpecoA          Yote-oceI   ortt - Bn-td y d hunting  el
fIllnneetocedh P-h,-itmend  ,en y-tfi-ogltel need dfo              feedu  a -d              TiaI-  ot   necan  7e ycc-t i-aitrfne  i-hI-  191  cd  1979- data.
-centeid ifnca9 ;  9h1-hO   1970, aned 1971 i dt..i9.h_ond 1979 data.
nspI          p-fodoerdpny-  -etohlncl1961 d65 7o19       nrdonhno.n-otooItyab                             nnnF ooononh da...cl,nole-tdi-npel--oe-lnd-g
coloePt-en   ton ni  calorties  othfho   rOI  pr-nidr lee nileo                                    ...nnefnnaga   - of .totl,rine   . nd-ilsa-e reuan_    of     -idg-.eynlne
dilcannAeoflbmn    lctlrl                npndnodll__neiohoi_tlen--nd                           110.9A,odh7dca                  Thoonnitoedo  toy7totyotocnta
unial  rocin  0 ofacttd   Pedie    aid, I     rnnd_ hibt11Ic theqcinA-ootA tf, lpnde'tcie                                   fatio of, ocoltonodet  and .i. nod. toot
Iod dochenn IAt-0    -97an  197 dta                                                            tt1 tihe  '1g   Iot   icn,a_ %
-ton      -.nc    ni eltcd bc, ooo FAO on pr  doy;'i" I9_1-i,1971and 197 dora            ctcnmw,10?h'i(nld
Chod -lne    -i   Ite  c  ot(e   h ad) .1- hIco Idaf  pan f ihotndi                              Penen ,t ..po-. ty, -3 coon  SIc  In -fn. c              t.ol3-R'otc'n  n
_0cdeaeor  nt  loft 1a970, -  19t7171 d     n- 197  data.                                7f hnhido.t
an nrthlyhf, 1971d    197 d ote                                                                 and-ahoct-dhe onf-erotod oitooontdenniebaotcon
lnlocniiernallotoht(ecnnitoonodl-Acnoulioithtclolnntnocden    nnyrer  tntlc.andchnnlorePoanec IrconcLentO  Ilty erntcoeotorh.rtaodnInly
ofngn   nethoeandlir   hortiN.                                                              nelgyco            int-ent lonlaonlrneoolaloho                          eiii
h..nuinna   fo  phoectndt5tnhe          __o I p-l-e - ad 23g eniannlna                     enntn-on-rpoen I          rooso---l  i--       -h-     dicehrncnt
panenngnnt  he......        ntIo   chelu_tdna      ...in.on uncutFA inooehI                        pn_   enlnncnro-iecon- R               eincleofirtde,cc  fe on rit  rural
trtrtoccottuci coor~~~~~~~cot ot92jy,c_o...tt-tenb,,h'i   -nhuc                                                               k,.d n-ra          b,-
perecncdc Otthnc henpot.. IOtleiert  teI Pto   dtncenalnoyinclc-,d-ns   2     --,   d                                                                                0
theelo_     ooc_dt     fcn.oooonIchc9et                - cc 979an   dohoaottc,P
lAoioanzra~-na   -in onoch to                      b-rn   n   ian If yIn crotf   and~ - t-                                                  oceo  adScalIt  lcn
ione inntaljly_aolunn.l                         1  -h    1             ..--           1                   hl           1p-e    ih    _I-l                  ratl -o
Pofolute9pe t_7h- eicrIf- becoloho-        lin    ycncoo   rtohgpyf
tOctcolfthdnoa- dooinhe--             oenontfrfct
beolo oni7f       yrt """   i'nr en       ..ecnc   itnod-  --,ctto  bel p-a -tgc_0     d
n  -,pdtolygadaanron   p-ndc ronundalonetena



Annex I
P.ge 4 of 5
ECQONMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
a/
GNP PER CAPIrA IN 1979   USS190
GROSS NATIONAL PROWXCT IN 1979/80                                                               ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTNi (M. constant prices) 
USS Bln.         %           1955/56-1959/60   1960/61-1964/65    1965/66-1969/70    1970/71-1974/75    1975176-1978/79
GNP at Market Price.                   134.16        100.0               3.7                3.6                 3.6                 2.8                 4.5
Gross Domestic Investment               25.24         21.8
Gross National Saving                   28.55         21.3
Curreot Account B.1ance   d/            -0.85        - 0.6
OUTPUT, IABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Val.e Added (-t factor cost)          Labor For-e             V.A. Per Worker
US$ RI..             %             M-.       %                USS        % of National Average
Agriceulture                        39.8               39.6           181.3     71               220               56
Ind.stry                            25.5              25.3            20.1      11              906               230
Services                            35.3               35.1           46.0      18-              767               195
Total/average                      170.6              100.0          255.4    100                394              100
GOVERN0MENT PINANCE
General Goverosent                                           Central Govermnent
Re. BIn.            7. of GDP                                Rs. Bln.            % of GDP
1979/80      1979/80   1975/76-1979/80                        1979/80      1979/80    1975/76-1979/80
Current Receipts                   208.18         19.2           18.9                            108.96         10.0           10.6
Current Expendictre-               206.44         19.0           17.7                            117.67         10.8           10.6
Current S.rplus/Deficit              1.74          0.2            1.2                            - 8.71        - 0.8             -
Capital Expenditures   f/           81.81          7.5            7.4                             56.93          5.2            5.1
Exterogl Aseistance (net)  d/        7.97          0.7            0.9                              7.97          0.7            0.9
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES            1970/71     1973/74      1974/75     1975/76      1976/77      1977/78     1978/79      1979/80      December 1979      December 1980
(R. Rillion outstanding at end of perion)
Money and Q.asi Mooey                109.6       175.7        194.6       222.9         272.8       329.1        398.9        468.2            448.3            521.7
Bank Credit to Govern.ent (oet)      52.6         87.3         95.3       101.1         110.2        134.7       153.9        192.2            176.4            231.4
Bank Credit to Co_erci-l Sector    64.6          107.0        126.7       153.9         185.0       212.2        253.5        306.5            294.7            335.9
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                                                           April-Dec 1979    April-Dec 1980
Mosey and Qoasi Money aa 7. of GDP   27.2         29.8         27.9        30.2          34.0         36.5        40.8         43.1
Wholeale Price Index
(1970/71 - 100)                   100.0        139.7       174.9        173.0         176.6       185.8        185.8       217.6            212.2            253.5
Anneul percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                  7.7        20.2         25.2       - 1.1           2.1          5.2          -          17.1             14.6             19.5
Rank Cradit to Covernment (net)       10.8        12.3          9.2         6.1           9.0        22.2         14.3         24.9             24.9  A/        31.2  9/
Rank Credit to Cq_erci.l Sector    19.4           22.6         18.4        21.5          20.2        14.7         19.5         20.9             17.5  j/        14.0  _/
gJ  The per capita GNP estimate  is *t mrket prices, calculated by the conversion technique uoed in the World Bank Atles, 1979.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
J  Quick Estiates.
C/ Conputed from trend line of GNP At factor cost series. including one observation before first year and one observation
After last year of listed period.
d/  Wotld BSnk estimtes; not necessarily consistent vith official figures.
E/ Transfers betveen Centre and States have been netted out.
fj  All loan.  and advances to third parties have been netted out.
gj  Perceot.ge change from end-December 1978 to end-December 1979.
hJ  Percentage change from end-Deceaber 1979 to end-December 1980.



Annex I
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PA'MENTS                     1977/78     1978/79    1979/80    1980/81              MERChANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1976/77 - 1979/80)
USS HMln        %
Exports of Goods                        6,315        6,978       7,958       8,998             Engineering Goods             768 1/       11
Imports of Goods                       -7,188       -8,519    -11,249    -15,624               T..                           462           7
Trade Balance                           - 873       -1,541    - 3,291    - 6,626               Gems                          605           9
NFS (net)                                  691         773         633         463             Clothing                      460           7
Leather and Leather
Resource Balance                        - 182        - 768    - 2.658    - 6,163                      Products               425           6
Jute MAnufactur.s             284           4
Interest Payments (net)  i|              - 89         - 35         350         303             Iron Ore                      298           5
Other Factor Payments (net)                 -           -           -           -              Cotton Textiles               289           4
Net Transfers al                        1,077        1,216       1,458       2,462             Sugar                         132           2
Others                      3,028          45
Balance on Current Account                 806         413       - 850      -3,398
Total                       6.751         100
Official Aid
Disbursements                        1,628        1,695       1,891       2,389             EXTERNAL DEBT, MARCH 31. 1980
Amortization                         - 645        - 702       - 676       - 707                                                  USS billion
Transactions with DUF                    - 330       - 158         -         1,035             Outstanding and Disbursed                  15.6
All Other Items                           617          286       - 143         133             Undisbursed                                 5.7
Outstanding, including                     21.3
Increase in Reserves (-)               -2,076       -1,534       - 222         548                 Undisbursed
Gross Reserves (end year)               5,823        7,357       7,579       7,031
Net Reserves   (end year)  /            5,668        7,357       7,579       6,691             DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1979/80  h/R/  10.4 per cent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                     IBRD/IDA LENDING. DECEKBER 31, 1980
Imports                                 1,811        2,043       3,977       7,012                                                   US$  illion
of which:  Petroleum                 1,811        2,043       3,977      7,012                                               IERD         IDA
Exports                                    32           24          26         n.a.            Outstanding and Disbursed         806         4,895
Undisbursed                       572         3,547
Outstanding, including          1,378         8,442
Undisbursed
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971           US$1.00 - Rs 7.5
Re 1.00 - US$0.133333
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972       US$1.00 - Rs 7.27927
Re 1.00 - US$0.137376
After end-June 1972                      Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1979              US$1.00 = Rs 7.907
Re 1.00 - US$0.126
Spot Rate end-December 1980              US$1.00 - Rs 7.930
Re 1.00 - US$0. 126
_ Estimated.
/  Figures given cover all investment income (net).  Major payments are interest on foreign loans
and charges paid to IMW, and major receipt is interest earned on foreign assets.
j/  Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance, which is
included within official sid disbureements.
f 8xcludes net use of IMH credit.
If  Figure for 1979/80 is estimated.
S/  Amortisation and interest payments On foreign loans as a percectage of exports of goods and services.
April 1981






ANNEX II
Page 1 of 18
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of June 30, 1981)
US$ million
Loan or                                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.   Year    Borrower        Purpose                        Bank        IDA    Undisbursed
44 Loans/                                                          1,422.2          -
71 Credits fully disbursed                                              -    4,023.4
342-IN    1972  India   Education                                      -        12.0          3.23
378-IN    1973  India   Karnataka Agricultural Markets                 -          8.0         0M06
456-IN    1974  India   HP Apple Processing & Marketing                -        13.0          5.24
1011-IN    1974  India   Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD                      52.0          -         10.51
482-IN    1974  India   Karnataka Dairy                                 -       30.0         15.86
502-IN    1974  India   Rajasthan Canal CAD                            -        83.0         28.53
521-IN    1974  India   Rajasthan Dairy                                -        27.7         12.37
522-IN    1974  India   Madhya Pradesh Dairy                           -         16.4         4.82
1097-IN    1975  ICICI   Industry DFC XI                              94.6         -           0.79
541-IN    1975  India   West Bengal Agric. Development                 -        34.0          1.29
585-IN    1975  India   Uttar Pradesh Water Supply                     -        40.0         13.73
598-IN    1975  India   Fertilizer Industry                            -       105.0         21.37
604-IN    1976  India   Power Transmission IV                          -       150.0        43.24
609-IN    1976  India   Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.                   -         4.0          1.51
610-IN    1976  India   Integrated Cotton Development                  -         18.0        10.23
1251-IN    1976  India   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation                   145.0          -         77.09
1260-IN    1976  India   IDBI II                                      40.0         -          10.94
1273-IN    1976  India   National Seeds I                             25.0          -         21.86
1313-IN    1976  India   Telecommunications VI                        80.0         -          18.25
1335-IN    1976  India   Bombay Urban Transport                       25.0          -          7.72
680-IN    1977  India   Kerala Agric. Development                      -        30.0         22.98
682-IN    1977  India   Orissa Agric. Development                      -        20.0          7.93
685-IN    1977  India   Singrauli Thermal Power                        -       150.0         37.72
687-IN    1977  India   Madras Urban Development                        -       24.0          4.57
690-IN    1977  India   WB Agric. Extension & Research                 -        12.0         12.00
1394-IN    1977  India   Gujarat Fisheries                            14.0          -          7.75
712-IN    1977  India   Madhya Pradesh Agric. Development              -        10.0          5.35
720-IN    1977  India   Periyar Vaigai Irrigation                      -        23.0         13.68
728-IN    1977  India   Assam Agricultural Development                 -          8.0         5.64
736-IN    1977  India   Maharashtra Irrigation                         -         70.0        30.33
737-IN    1977  India   Rajasthan Agric. Extension                     -        13.0          7.29
740-IN    1977  India   Orissa Irrigation                              -        58.0         29.65
1475-IN    1977  ICICI   Industry DFC XII                             80.0          -         10.36



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 18
US$ million
Loan or                                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.   Year    Borrower        Purpose                        Bank         IDA    Undisbursed
747-IN    1978  India   Second Foodgrain Storage                       -       107.0         79.00
756-IN    1978  India   Calcutta Urban Development II                  -        87.0         19.11
761-IN    1978  India   Bihar Agric. Extension &
Research                                  -         8.0         7.11
1511-IN    1978  India   IDBI Joint/Public Sector                     25.0          -         17.49
1549-IN    1978  TEC       Third Trombay Thermal Power               105.0          -         62.96
788-IN    1978  India   Karnataka Irrigation                           -       117.6         77.28
793-IN    1978  India   Korba Thermal Power                            -       200.0        128.89
806-IN    1978  India   Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture                     -        14.0         13.75
808-IN    1978  India   Gujarat Irrigation                             -        85.0         63.60
815-IN    1978  India   Andhra Pradesh Fisheries                       -        17.5         14.52
816-IN    1978  India   National Seeds II                              -         16.0        15.21
1592-IN    1978  India   Telecommunications VII                      120.0         -          53.14
824-IN    1978  India   National Dairy                                 -       150.0       130.60
842-IN    1979  India   Bombay Water Supply II                         -       196.0        183.12
843-IN    1979  India   Haryana Irrigation                             -       111.0         43.66
844-IN    1979  India   Railway Modernization
& Maintenance                              -       190.0       148.97
848-IN    1979  India   Punjab Water Supply & Sewerage                 -        38.0         21.46
855-IN    1979  India   National Agricultural Research                 -        27.0         25.41
862-IN    1979  India   Composite Agricultural Extension               -        25.0         16.54
871-IN    1979  India   NCDC                                           -        30.0         15.55
1648-IN    1979  India   Ramagundam Thermal Power                     50.0          -         50.00
874-IN    1979  India   Ramagundam Thermal Power                       -       200.0       171.17
889-IN    1979  India   Punjab Irrigation                              -       129.0        100.81
899-IN    1979  India   Maharashtra Water Supply                       -        48.0         44.85
911-IN    1979  India   Rural Electrification Corp. II                 -       175.0        108.09
925-IN    1979  India   Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry                  -        23.0         18.47
947-IN    1979  India   ARDC III                                       -       250.0        64.73
963-IN    1979  India   Inland Fisheries                               -        20.0         19.64
954-IN    1979  India   Maharashtra Irrigation II                      -       210.0        174.13
961-IN    1979  India   Gujarat Community Forestry                     -        37.0         30.31
981-IN    1980  India   Population II                                  -        46.0        45.44
1003-IN    1980  India   Tamil Nadu Nutrition                           -        32.0         30.87
1004-IN    1980  India   U.P. Tubewells                                 -        18.0         16.95
1011-IN    1980  India   Gujarat Irrigation II                          -       175.0        165.00
1027-IN    1980  India   Singrauli Thermal II                           -       300.0       279.15
1012-IN    1980  India   Cashewnut                                      -        22.0         21.75
1028-IN    1980  India   Kerala Agricultural Extension                  -        10.0         10.00
1033-IN    1980  India   Calcutta Urban Transport                       -        56.0         56.00
1034-IN    1980  India   Karnataka Sericulture                          -        54.0         52.85
1046-IN    1980  India   Rajasthan Water Supply



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 18
US$ million
Loan or                                                               (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.   Year    Borrower       Purpose                        Bank        IDA    Undisbursed
and Sewerage                              -        80.0        77.22
1843-IN    1980  ICICI   Industry DFC XIII                          100.0         -         77.97
1887-IN    1980  India   Farakka Thermal Power                       25.0         -         25.00
1053-IN    1980  India   Farakka Thermal Power                         -       225.0       201.16
1897-IN    1980  India   Kandi Watershed and
Area Development                        30.0         -         29.01
1072-IN    1980  India   Bihar Rural Roads                             -        30.7        30.30
1078-IN    1980  India   Mahanadi Barrages                             -        72.8        72.80
1925-IN    1980  India   Bombay High Offshore
Development                          400.0          -       393.42
1082-IN    1981  India   Madras Urban Dev. II                          -        37.5        37.50
1108-IN    1981  India   M.P. Medium Irrigation                        -       129.6       129.60
1112-IN    1981  India   Telecommunications VIII                       -      290.4       268.70
1116-IN    1981  India   Karnataka Tank Irrigation                     -        50.1        50.10
1135-IN*   19d1  India   Maharashtra Agr. Extension                    -        21.7        21.70
1137-IN*   1981  India   Tamil Nadu Agr. Extension                     -        26.3        26.30
1138-IN*   1981  India   Madhya Pradesh Agr. Extension II              -       34.9        34.90
1146-IN*   1981  India   NCDC II                                       -       117.1       117.10
Total                                               2,832.8   9,322.7
of which has been repaid                         1,090.2        77.7
Total now outstanding                             1T742.6   7,245.0
Amount Sold                        133.8
of which has been repaid        133.3                 0.5         -
Total now held by Bank and IDA 1/                   1,742.1   9,245.0
Total undisbursed (excluding*)                        874.3   3,620.0
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
*   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 18
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of June 30, 1981)
Amount (US$ million)
Year                     Company                         Loan      Equity    Total
1959             Republic Forge Company Ltd.               1.5         -        1.5
1959             Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                0.9         -        0.9
1960             Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                    1.4         -        1.4
1961             K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                         0.2         -        0.2
1963-66          Precision Bearings India Ltd.             0.6        0.4       1.0
1964             Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.              0.8        0.4       1.2
1964-75-79       Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.            11.8        1.3      13.1
1964             Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                1.0        0.3       1.3
1967             Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                   1.1        0.1       1.2
1967             Indian Explosives Ltd.                    8.6        2.9      11.5
1969-70          Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                15.1        3.8      18.9
1976             Escorts Limited                           6.6         -        6.6
1978             Housing Development Finance
Corporation                              4.0        1.2       5.2
1980             Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.          7.5        1.0       8.6
1981             Coromandel Fertilizers Limited           15.9                 15.9
1981             Tata Iron and Steel Company Ltd.    38.0              -       38.0
1981             Mahindra, Mahindra Limited               15.0         -       15.0
1981             Nagarjuna Coated Tubes Ltd.               2.9        0.3       3.2
1981             Nagarjuna Signode Limited                 2.3         -        2.3
1981             Nagarjuna Steels Limited                  1.5        0.3       1.8
TOTAL GROSS COMMITMENTS          136.7       12.0    148.7
Less:   Sold                            26.0        1.7      27.7
Repaid                         22.2         -       22.2
Cancelled                       6.2        1.3       7.5
Now Held                       82.3        9.0       91.3
Undisbursed                    79.3        1.5      80.8



ANNEX It
Page 5 of 18
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below.
The level of disbursements was US$962 million in FY81, compared to
US$729 million in the previous year, representing an increase of about 32%.
The undisbursed pipeline of US$4,494 million as of June 30, 1981, reflects
the lead time which would be expected given the mix of fast- and
slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 1097 Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$100.0 million loan of April 2, 1975; Effective
Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1475 Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977; Effective
D)ate: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1843  Thirteenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of May 16, 1980; Effective
Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export-oriented.
Disbursements under both loans 1475 and 1843 are ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Loan No. 1511 IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date-
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 is designed to assist the Industrial Development Bank of
India in promoting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening
the State Financial Corporations involved. Loan 1511 is designed to
encourage the pooling of private and public capital in medium-scale joint
ventures. The project also assists IDBI in carrying out industrial sector
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They slhould be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 18
investment studies and in strengthening the financial institutions dealing
with the state joint/public sector.
Cr. No. 947   Third Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
Project; US$250.0 million credit of August 20, 1979;
Effective Date: January 2, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Refinancing of lending to farmers has been progressing very well.
Cr. No. 747   Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Satisfactory progress is being made in the construction of bag
storage warehouses, despite problems of land acquisition at some sites.
However, construction of flat bulk warehouses and port silos is not expected
to be completed until 1984, as a result of delays in the employment of con-
sultants and the longer time required for the preparation of technical
specifications and tenders and the construction itself. In view of the high
increases in bulk storage construction costs, the Government is proposing to
reduce the bulk storage component of the project in favor of additional bag
storage capacity; this proposal is currently under consideration by the
Association.
Cr. No. 456   Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13.0 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project encountered prolonged initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems. These problems have been largely resolved, but
construction progress remains slow due to material shortages and severe
winter conditions. Initial packing house operations were undertaken in the
last two seasons with favorable response from farmers. The project is
scheduled for completion by December 1981.
Cr. No. 806   Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$14.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The principal executing agency, J&K Horticulture Produce Marketing
and Processing Corporation, is under strong management and rapid progress has
been made in start-up operations with only minor slippage. The project's
research activities, however, are behind the original schedule due to poor
organization.
Ln. No. 1313  Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan of
July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Ln. No. 1592  Telecommunications VII Project; US$120.0 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 18
Cr. No. 1112  Telecommunications VIII Project; US$314 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: June 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Loans 1313 and 1592 are progressing satisfactorily, although as of
June 1981, when they were last reviewed, imports of electronic switching
equipment for the projects were behind schedule, resulting in a reduced
growth rate for the installation of direct exchange lines. Institutional
improvements envisaged under the projects have been achieved, and the finan-
cial situation of the Posts and Telegraphs Department remains sound.
Credit 1112, which became effective in June 1981, provides for the continued
expansion, over a three-year period, of the Indian telecommunications net-
work, particularly in rural areas. It also provides for the modernization
and upgrading of three existing telecommunications equipment factories, and
the establishment of three additional ones. Initial implementation and
procurement actions are proceeding on schedule.
Cr. No. 598   Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit of Decem-
ber 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976; Closing Date: June
30, 1982
Credit 598 is designed to increase the utilization of existing fer-
tilizer production capacity. The project has encountered delays in
sub-project preparation and investment approvals by the Government. Further,
some of the sub-projects identified earlier have not materialized because of
reconsideration by the Central and State governments. IDA has agreed to a
list of sub-projects to replace the ones that have been dropped. Because of
the above, the project completion date has been delayed.
Cr. No. 342   Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project involves the development of the agricultural universities
in Assam and Bihar. The primary aim of the AUs project is to improve the
quality and practical training of undergraduates and so the spectrum of their
employment opportunities; and to strengthen university structure to enable
it to give an impetus to agricultural and rural development. Considerable
progress has been made in achieving the latter objective; but achieving
educational objectives is more slowly attainable, constrained by traditional
attitudes and structures where consistent effective leadership falters.
Changes to a more functional orientation are now planned. The Project Direc-
tor and others responsible are aware of the constraints and are supporting
efforts to remove them.
Cr. No. 842   Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: June 12,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 848   Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38.0 million credit
of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 18
Cr. No. 899   Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 1046 Rajasthan Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$80 million
credit of June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980;
Closing Date: September 31, 1985
Implementation of Credit 842, a second stage of the recently com-
pleted first Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Credit 390), is
proceeding to schedule. Preliminary work in connection with implementation
of Credit 848 has been completed but subsequent procurement delays and slow
release of construction funds are likely to delay the project by about 12
months and result in cost increases. Physical progress under Credit 899 is
satisfactory. Initial delays in implemention of institutional arrangements
and tariff measures proposed for the project are now being overcome. Project
progress in this area is being closely monitored. Implementation of Credit
1046 is proceeding satisfactorily. Detailed construction programs have been
prepared for rural schemes, and preparation of tender documents for urban
schemes have been completed.
Cr. No. 585   Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0 million
credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date: February 6, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation of
technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the engage-
ment of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements have been made
to closely supervise and coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 756   Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project is proceeding quite well in most sectors, in spite of
country-wide materials shortages and serious Statewide electric power
shortages. Procurement is generally on schedule for equipment and consult-
ants' services, though somewhat behind for larger civil works contracts.
Staff shortages in some of the implementing agencies continue, although more
extensive use of consultants has to a great degree alleviated this problem.
Cr. No. 687   Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
With respect to the first Madras project, physical progress is
generally satisfactory and costs are within appraisal estimates on most
components. However, land acquisition problems and consequent delays in
construction on one of the three sites and service areas will result in about
15 months delay in the completion of the final sections of these areas.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 18
Increased attention should be turned to the financial analysis and marketing
strategies required to ensure that anticipated cost recovery in the sites and
services and slum upgrading components and thus replicability is actually
achieved. Technical assistance is being sought to strengthen financial
management and analysis.
Cr. No. 1082 Second Madras Urban Development Project; US$42.0 credit of
January 14, 1981; Effectiveness Date: March 2, 1981;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986.
With respect to the second project, only recently signed and
declared effective, early project implementation is proceeding satisfac-
torily, with evidence that the lessons learned under the first project are
being heeded.
Cr. No. 482   Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521   Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522   Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824   National Dairy Project; US$150.0 million credit of June 19,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These four credits, totalling US$224.1 million, support dairy
development projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy
cooperative scheme in Gujarat State. More than 2,100 dairy cooperative
societies (DCS) have been established under the three state projects (Kar-
nataka-923, Rajasthan-926, Madhya Pradesh-272). Farmer response has been
excellent and project authorities are under considerable producer pressure to
speed up the establishment of DCS. Profitability in almost all of the DCS
is good and construction of dairy and feed plants is now proceeding at a
satisfactory pace. Limited milk processing capacity has been the major
constraint to DCS formation in all three projects. Under the National Dairy
Project, three subprojects with an estimated total cost of approximately
Rs 1,000 million have been appraised by the Indian Dairy Corporation and a
further eight subprojects are in various stages of preparation and appraisal.
Advance procurement of dairy equipment is well underway though disbursements
have been slow, mainly as a result in the start of project operations.
Ln. No. 1011 Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 18
Cr. No. 502   Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83.0
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1251  Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)       Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window) of
June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720   Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million credit of
June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736   Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740   Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11, 1977;
Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788   Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808   Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$85.0 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1984
Cr. No. 843   Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111.0 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978; Closing
Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889   Punjab Irrigation Project; US$120.0 million credit of March 30,
1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
Cr. No. 954   Second Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$210 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 6, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 1011  Second Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$175 million credit of
May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
April 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1078  Mahanadi Barrages Project; US$83 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: February 11, 1981; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
Cr. No. 1108  Madhya Pradesh Medium Irrigation Project; US$140 million credit
of March 26, 1981; Effective Date: May 13, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1987
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 18
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects is
generally satisfactory.
Cr. No. 682   Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690   West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712   Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 728   Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 737   Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective Date:
February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761   Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2, 1978;
Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862   Composite Agricultural Extension Project, US$25.0 million credit
of February 16, 1979; Effective Date: December 14, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1028 Kerala Agricultural Extension Project; US$10 million credit of
June 25, 1980; Effective Date: August 18, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
Cr. No. 1137 Tamil Nadu Agricultural Extension Project; US$28 million credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
Cr. No. 1135 Maharashtra Agricultural Extension Project; US$23 million credit
of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 18
Cr. No. 1138  Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension Project; US$23 million
credit of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: July 22, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1987
These eleven credits finance the reorganization and strengthening of
agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive research
capabilities in twelve States in India. In areas where the reformed exten-
sion system is in full operation, field results have been very good, both in
terms of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of increased crop
yields. In Rajasthan, Assam, Madhya Pradesh and Orissa, in particular,
significant gains have been made under the projects. In West Bengal, where a
change in government brought a review of the organizational principles under-
lying the new extension system and an accompanying hiatus in project
implementation, a Cabinet decision has reaffirmed the State Government's
commitment to the project, revised implementation plans have been prepared,
and project activities are resuming. In Bihar, staff shortages, particularly
in supervisory and managerial posts, have hampered project implementation,
although progress in areas where regular extension visits are being made
attests to the efficacy of the system itself. In Gujarat, Haryana and Kar-
nataka, all covered under the Composite Agricultural Extension Project,
important early administrative and financial steps have been taken to pave
the way for effective operation of the reorganized extension system and field
work is off to a good start.  In Kerala, project implementation has begun in
three of eleven districts after some initial start-up delays. Early progress
on civil works and initiation of the program in the remaining eight districts
will be required to regain the initial implementation schedule. In Tamil
Nadu and Maharashtra, project implementation has just begun, as these credits
became effective only recently. Early project review missions are scheduled
to assist in project initiation.
Cr. No. 855   National Agriculture Research Project; US$27.0 million credit
of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22, 1979; Closing
Date: September 30, 1983
While the initial sanctioning of research subprojects under this
project was somewhat slower than expected, due to staff shortages in the
Project Unit, the pace has picked up considerably in recent months. Commit-
ment of funds to research subprojects is proceeding satisfactorily, although
corresponding disbursements may lag somewhat behind the original estimates.
Additions to the staff of the Project Unit have been made to expedite further
progress under the project.
Cr. No. 526   Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
Overall progress of this project continues to be satisfactory.
Implementation of most components is proceeding well. Dairying and dryland
farming components show particular promise for the drought-prone areas.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 18
Cr. No. 680   Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1985
Project implementation started slowly due to initial staffing and
funding delays. The project has now gained momentum and the planting opera-
tions, which were one season behind original schedule, have been rephased
to make up for lost time.
Cr. No. 871   National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$3G.0 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing date: December 31, 1984
Cr. No. 1146  Second National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC)
Proje t; US$125 million credit of July 21, 1981; Effective
Date (expected): October 21, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
As of October 1980, when Credit 871 was last reviewed, and according
to quarterly reports through March 1981, construction of godowns was
progressing well in the States of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, although some
delays had occurred in the State of Orissa. Consultants had been recruited
to assist NCDC and State Cooperative Banks in strengthening their institu-
tions, although some consultants were yet to be recruited in Haryana. Dis-
bursements have been progressing well and are ahead of the appraisal targets.
Credit 1146, which was signed in July 1981, provides credit for the construc-
tion of cooperative godowns and cold-storage and marketing facilities to
support the pre- and post-harvest supply and markting requirements in nine
States; promote the development of cooperative institutions in these States;
and expand cooperative subproject preparation and appraisal activities within
the cooperative sector. Preparatory implementation work is well advanced in
most of the participating States.
Cr. No. 844   Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190.0 million
credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date: January 10, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce manufac-
turing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and to improve
their performance and availability. Project implementation is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 609   Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date:
May 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
A feasibility study financed under this Credit and completed in
November 1979 has recommended the establishment of two mills, one for
sawnwood and one for pulp, as the basis of the development of a forest-based
industry in Bastar district.
Cr. No. 925   Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23.0 million credit
of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 18
Cr. No. 961   Gujarat Community Forestry Project; US$37 million credit of
April 14, 1980; Effective Date: June 24, i980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
These projects, designed to expand the social forestry program in
Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, to provide a source of energy to the villages, and
to supply raw materials to cottage industries, are proceeding well. The
projects provide for large-scale tree plantations on public lands, primarily
along roads, rails and canals, on village common lands and on degraded forest
reserves.
Cr. No. 610   Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million credit of
February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project's progress remained very disappointing in all areas until
the 1978 season, resulting in negligible disbursements. Due to renewed
interests from GOI and the States, the project has now started to progress
well. Short-term credits are increasing significantly, new processing units
are being established in Haryana and Maharashtra, and plant protection
activities have started progressing well.
Ln. No. 1273 National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 816   Second National Seed Project; US$16.0 million credit of July 17,
1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
These projects were designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States (four by Ln. 1273-IN and
five by Cr. 816-IN). The first project started slowly due to organizational
difficulties and is almost two years behind schedule. Progress in the second
project States is more satisfactory. The role of various organizations
(National and State) in the production and processing of seed is being
reviewed.
Ln. No. 1335 Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 1033 Calcutta Urban Transport Project; US$56 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The bus procurement program supported by the Bombay project
(Ln. 1335) has proceeded on schedule, with all 700 bus chassis and bodies
having been ordered and 672 already in service. Total fleet strength has
increased from 1,530 buses at the inception of the project to 1,935 buses in
September 1980, in accordance with appraisal estimates. Depot capacity
expansion has lagged somewhat behind fleet expansion, but caught up in Novem-
ber 1980. However, delays in construction of new workshop facilities have
been more substantial and wilL not be fully recoverable. As a result, the



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 18
loan closing date has been extended by three years. Traffic management civil
works are also somewhat behind schedule, although now proceeding satisfac-
torily. Implementation of works under Cr. 1033 is proceeding satisfactorily,
a good start having been made on the important early procurement steps.
However, fnancial and managerial performance is lagging somewhat behing
expectations and must now receive project authorities' full attention if
physical and financial performance targets are to be achieved.
Cr. No. 1072 Bihar Rural Roads Project; US$35.0 million credit of December 5,
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Cosing Date:
June 30, 1986.
Bids have been invited for the first year program of rural road
construction to allow work to start following the monsoon. The whole project
aims to construct or rehabilitate 700 km of rural roads and to improve main-
tenance of the rural road network in Bihar as part of the State's overall
rural development efforts. Equipment has been ordered and is starting to
arrive.
Ln. No. 1394 Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and       million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective date: July 19, 1977;
Cr. No. 695   Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 815   Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984
As of October 1980 when the first of these projects was last
reviewed, the harbor construction works at Mangrol and Veraval in Gujarat had
encountered delays, although the problem with shortages of cement supplies
had been overcome. In Andhra Pradesh, the harbor works at Visakhapatnam,
Kakinada and Nizampatnam are progressing satisfactorily following the resolu-
tion of design problems. The road component is also progressing satisfac-
torily.
Cr. No. 963   Inland Fisheries Project; US$20 million credit of January 18,
1980; Effective Date: May 5, 1980; Closing Date: September 10,
1985
This project, which is the first of its kind in India, is designed
to increase carp production in five states--West Bengal, Bihar, Orissa,
Madhya Pradesh, and Uttar Pradesh--through the construction of hatcheries,
improvements to fish ponds, strengthening of extension services, and the
establishment of training centers. The project became effective in May 1980.
The initial implementation tasks, primarily involving the establishment of
State Fish Seed Development Corporations and Central and State project
monitoring units, are progressing satisfactorily. However, hatchery planning
has been delayed as a result of a delay in the establishment of the engineer-
ing cell within the Central Project Unit.
Cr. No. 685   Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983



ANNEX II
Page 16 of 18
Cr. No. 793   Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of May 12,
19/8; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
Ln. No. 1549  Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648  Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50.0 million loan and
and Cr. 874   US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 22, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Cr. No. 604   Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 1027  Second Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$300 million credit
of June 5, 1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1988
Ln. No. 1887  Farakka Thermal Power Project; US$25 million loan and
and        US$225 million credit of July 11, 1980; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 1053  December 10, 1980; Closing Date: March 31, 1987
Credits 685 and 1027 assist in financing the 2,000 MWI Singrauli
development, which is the first of four power stations in the Government's
program for the development of large central thermal power stations feedingc
power into an interconnected grid. Credit 793 supports the construction of
the first three 200 MW generating units at the second such station, at Korb-,
together with related facilities and associated transmission. Loan 1648/
Credit 874 support similar investments at Ramagundan., and Loan 1887/
Credit 1053, at Farakka. The National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) has
been carrying out construction and operation of these power stations.
Loan 1549 is supporting the construction of a 500 MW extension of the Tata
Electric Companies' station at Trombay, in order to help meet the forecast
load growth in the Bombay area.  AlL these large-scale thermal power projects
are progressing satisfactorily.  For Singrauli and Korba, construction works
are on or ahead of schedule, although some slippage has occurred in the
implementation schedule for the Ramagundam project.
Cr. No. 911   Rural Electrification Corporation II Project; US$175.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project is progressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1925 Second Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$400.0 million
loan of December 11, 1980; Effective Date: February 24, 1981
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project is progressing satisfactorily.



ANNEX II
Page 17 of 18
Cr. No. 981   Second Population Project; US$46 million credit of April 14,
1980; Effective Date: June 26, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1985
The project has as its major objectives the lowering of infant and
child mortality and morbidity, the improvement in the health status of
mothers and children and the lowering of fertility. Implementation works
have started in both project States--Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh.
Cr. No. 1012 Cashewnut Project; US$22 million credit of June 10, 1980;
Effective Date: September 3, 1980; Closing Date: September 30,
1985
Implementation has started on this project which is designed to
expand cashewnut p;roduction in the States of Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra
Pradesh and Orissa.
Cr. No. 1003  Tamil Nadu Nutrition Project; US$32 million credit of May 12,
1980; Effective Date: August 5, 1980; Closing Date: March 31,
1987
First year's implementation in one test block is proceeding according
to schedule.
Cr. No. 1004  Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Project; US$18 million credit
of May 12, 1980; Effective Date: June 27, 1980; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Initial procurement delays having now been overcome, implementation
is proceeding satisfactorily on this project. However, project completion
will likely be delayed by approximately six months due to the initial delays.
Ln. No. 1897 Kandi Watershed and Area Development Project; US$30.0 million
loan of September 12, 1980; Effective Date: November 18, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1986.
Contract for the construction of Dholbaha dam has been awarded.
Progress in other components are satisfactory.
Cr. No. 1034 Karnataka Sericulture Project; US$54 million credit of
October 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 18, 1980
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Overall progress in project implementation is satisfactory. Minor
start up delays in staffing are being corrected.



ANNEX II
Page 18 of 18
Cr. No. 1116 Karnataka Tank Irrigation Project; US$54 million credit of
March 26, 1981; Effective Date: May 5, 1981; Closing Date:
March 31, 1986
The project is designed to finance the construction, over a four-year
period, of about 160 tank irrigation schemes throughout the State of Karnataka.
Start-up activities have commenced.



ANNEX III
Page I
INDIA
KANPUR URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:       Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
18 months.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
The Government of Uttar Pradesh.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Association and
date of first mission to consider the project
March 1979; July 1979.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
February 1981.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
September 8, 1981.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
I February 1982.
Section II:      Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III:    Special Conditions
(a) Detailed annual infrastructure work program to be
agreed with IDA (para 43).



-2-.
(b) Terms and conditions of sewer connection loans to be
acceptable to IDA (para 43).
(c) Organizational changes to be made in solid waste
management operations by April 1, 1983 (para 44).
(d) Traffic Engineering and Management Cell to be set up
by April 1, 1982 (para 45).
(e)  KDA, KJS and KNM to introduce improved accounting
systems (paras 47, 48).
(f) KNM to introduce measures to increase revenues by
April 1, 1983 (para 47).
(g) KJS to meet agreed operational and financial targets
(para 48).
(h) Terms and conditions of lease and loans under sites
and services and slum upgrading components to be
satisfactory to IDA (paras 56, 58).
(i) Beneficiary selection criteria under sites and serv-
ices component to be satisfactory to IDA (para 56).



IBRD 15671R
INIDIA
\   SEPRO3SERV1.ESREZ WAOT  E OUND,AORTANEA    -- -ZBTRE                                                                            KANPUR    URBAN     DEVELOPMENT    PROJECT
\     SLUM                    r    WALI bFTIFICFlON UMBFR            .  .:SEASFrn                                                      LOCTIO               SLU                        ANDAG           ANDF9GX1
\OIRAI -  -   OENTRA LOCONEBOU3 DAR~    '...CARTONM T ANEA -   C3NANiLS                                    LOCATION  OF  SLUM    UPGRADING  AND  SITES  AND  SERVICES
KIL-   .
3              AeDI                  -~    MNIIP3rE. .      _ .
|  __  <_ J ,/ .- ___ - ~ _ * _ __ . _ Z    _    _    L    >    f    f    C693    9   r    _   _
S C :; f P 3 ~~~~/                                                                                                 (
SE3TEMBER 1981



