Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.  3 504-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
KANPUR URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
September 25, 1981
South Asia Projects Department
Urban Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =        Rupees (Ks)
Rs 1                 =       US$0.125
US$1                         R Rs 8.00
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)            =     39.37 inches
1 meter (m)      2    =       3.28 feet
1 square meter (I)   =       10.76 square feet
1 cubic meter (m )   =       35.31 cubic feet
1 kilometer (km)              0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)         =     2.47 acres or 10,000 square meters
1 liter (1)            =     1.06 quarts liquid or
0.26 gallons
lcd                    =     liters per capita per day
mld                    =     million liters per day
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DOI        =     Directorate of Industries
EWS        =     Economically Weaker Section
GIC        =     General Insurance Corporation
GOI        =     Government of India
GOUP       =     Government of Uttar Pradesh
RIG        =     High-Income Group
HUDCO      =     Housing and Urban Development Corporation
KAVAL      =      [a group of towns]:  Kanpur, Agra, Varanasi,
Allahabad, Lucknow
KDA        =     Kanpur Development Authority
KESA       =     Kanpur Electricity Supply Administration
KJS        =     Kanpur Jal Sansthan (city water and sewerage
authority)
KNM        =     Kanpur Nagar Mahapalika (municipal authority)
KUDP       =     Kanpur Urban Development Project
LIC        =     Life Insurance Corporation
LIG        =     Low-Income Group
MIG        =     Middle-Income Group
UNICEF     =     United Nations Children's Fund
UP         =     Uttar Pradesh
UPJN       =     Uttar Pradesh Jal Nigam
(State water and sewerage authority)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
KANPUR URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND .........                    ............... .                   1
A.  Urbanization Trends in India and Uttar Pradesh.                         1
B.  Urban Policies and Programs in India and Uttar Pradesh                  2
C.  Bank Group Role and Strategy in India's Urban Sector                    3
D.  Kanpur . ..........                    .... .   ,    .........          4
II.  THE PROJECT .....       .. ....................  .........                  9
A.  Objectives .... ..                     ..      ....... .........        9
B. Main Features ..                                                         9
C.  Project Description ...................... ..... .....                 11
III. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING .. . .. ...  23
A.  Cost Estimates .       .............................                   23
B.  Financing ..................................                          25
IV.  PROJECT MANAGEMENT, ORGANIZATION AND FINANCE   .. ...........              26
A.  Project  Management ...         .. .       ............ .. ....        26
B. Kanpur Development Authority.                                          27
C. Kanpur Nagar Mahapalika .          . .......................            29
D. Kanpur Jal Sansthan ................       .......................      31
E. Financial Statements                   .....35
V .   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ... .. .. .. ....................... .             36
A. Execution                  .....................   36
Be Implementation Schedule                  ......                         37
C.  Procurement and Disbursement                   ... . .37
D.  Accounts and Audits .      .      ......................    .40
E.  Monitoring and Evaluation.. .......                                    40
F.  Supervision . ........... ..           .. .......... ...........       40
VI.  COST RECOVERY, PRICING AND AFFORDABILITY          ..40
A. Cost Recovery ......                                                    40
B.  Pricirng   .      .     .     ................................................  43
C.  Affordability .............................................            44
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Kanpur in February 1981. The mission comprised Messrs. C. Godavitarne,
K. Willen (IDA), A. Bertaud and G. Sengupta (Consultants).
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of I
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii 
Table of Contents (Continued)                                           Page No.
VII.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION  ..             ....       ...............     46
A. Economic Evaluation ,... .. .                ...................    46
B. Risks .....@                 ...........,........ .    ....    48
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .......................       49
TABLES
2.1   Main Project Components and Costs ......................           10
3.1   Summary Costs .................... ............. .........    24
3.2   Financing Plan .................................                   25
3.3   Annual Capital Expenditure Plan ..........................         26
5.1   Estimated Disbursement Schedule ... .........................,     39
6.1   Sites and Services:  Plot Options, Costs,
Indicative Charges, and Affordability ...........                45
6.2   Slum Upgrading:  Plot Sizes, Costs, Indicative Charges,
and Affordability          ............ OO  ..... ............   45
ANNEXES
I    Summary of UNICEF-sponsored Urban Community Development Project
Table 1:  Projected Urban Population Growth in Uttar Pradesh
2    Table 1:  Sites and Services:  Summary of Land Use (Percentages)
Table 2:  Sites and Services:  Residential Plot Distribution
Table 3:  Sites and Services:  Standards and Specifications for
Infrastructure
Table 4:  Sites and Services:  Details of Small Industry Plots
Table 5:  Solid Waste Management Component:  Detailed Cost Estimates
Table 6:  Details of Technical Assistance
Table 7:  Sites and Services:  D'etailed Cost Estimates
Table 8:  Slum Upgrading:  Detailed Cost Estimates
Table 9:  Environmental SanLitation, Maintenance and Traffic
Management Measures: Detailed Cost Estimates
Table 10: Technical Assistance and Institutional Strengthening:
Detailed Cost Estimates
Table 11: Urban Poverty Impacts
Chart 1   Slum Household Income Distribution
Chart 2   Project Impact on Growth of Unserviced Households in Kanpur
Chart 3   Flow of Funds
Chart 4   Project Implementation Schedule
Sketch:   Sites and Services:  EWS Plot Options



- iii -
ANNEXES (Continued)
3    Kanpur Development Authority - Organization Chart
Kanpur Nagar Mahapalika - Organization Chart
Kanpur Jal Sansthan - Organization Chart
Table 1: Kanpur Development Authority: Statement of Receipts and
Payments (with Projections)
Table 2: Kanpur Nagar Mahapalika: Statement of Receipts and Payments
Table 3: Kanpur Jal Sansthan: Statement of Receipts and Payments
Table 4: Kanpur Development Authority: Capital Investments
4    Tables 1-4:  Kanpur Jal Sansthan:  Operational Targets
5    Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
MAP S
1   IBRD 15671K:  Location of Slum Upgrading and Sites and Services
2   IBRD 15672R:  Barra Sites and Services - Layout
3   IBRD 15673R:  Pokharpur Sites and Services - Infrastructure Details
4   IBRD 15674R:  Typical Slum Upgrading Layout:  Gwaltoli No. 12/480






STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
KANPUR URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Urbanization Trends in India and Uttar Pradesh
1.01      India is primarily an agricultural country with about 80% of its
people living in rural areas. Total population is estimated at 683 million
according to provisional 1981 census figures. Due largely to migration, the
urban population, over the period 1971-1981, has been growing at a higher
annual rate (3.3%) than the general population (2.2%). About 4.5 million
people per year are being added to urban areas, creating demands for shelter,
infrastructure services, and employment. About 50% of the urban population
live in the more than 135 medium-sized cities with populations between 100,000
and 1 million, while about 25% live in ten cities with more than 1 million
people each. Urban growth is more pronounced in the medium-sized cities,
averaging about 6% annually, and by the year 2000 more than 40 cities in India
are expected to exceed 1 million in population. According to IDA estimates,
the absolute urban poverty income level was about Rs 88/capita/ month in 1980
in India (Rs 485 or about US$61 equivalent per month per household). About
41% of urban households had incomes below this level.
1.02      Uttar Pradesh (UP) is India's most populous state, with an estimated
population of about 110 million according to the provisional 1981 census. It
is also one of India's poorest states, with an annual per capita income of
about Rs 1,000 (US$125), which is about 30% below the average for India. The
1971 census indicates that agriculture dominates the UP economy, with 86% of
the population residing in rural areas, 75% of all workers engaged in agricul-
ture, and over 50% of total output arising from agriculture. Industry accounted
for less than 12% of state income in 1977-78. In terms of output and employ-
ment, agricultural processing industries remain the state's most important
industrial sector, followed by the engineering and textile industries. Despite
the slow growth in traditional industries, light engineering and chemicals
industries have been growing much more rapidly than the average and now account
for a significant proportion of output and employment in the UP organized
sector.
1.03      Urban growth in Uttar Pradesh has gained momentum in the last two
decades. The 1971 census indicated an urban population of 12.4 million, or
14% of the total state population. The growth rates of urban population during
the decades 1951-61 and 1961-71 were 0.9% and 2.7%, respectively, and this
trend is continuing. The provisional 1981 census indicates that 18% of the UP
population lived in urban areas, reflecting an urban population growth of 4.9%
per year for the period 1971-81. The 1971 figures show that, out of a total
of about 290 cities and towns distributed fairly evenly throughout the state,
22 cities had populations of 100,000 or more. The projected growth in urban
population is unevenly distributed, with over 40% going into cities with
populations of 100,000 or more (Annex 1, Table 1). The urban migration is



- 2 -
typically by low-income agriculture groups, primarily because of fragmentation
of rural holdings, surplus rural labor force, and fluctuations in agricultural
production. Approximately one-third of Uttar Pradesh's urban population is
concentrated in the five largest cities, Kanpur, Agra, Varanasi, Allahabad
and Lucknow, referred to as KAVAL towns, with 1981 populations conservatively
estimated at 1.7, 1.0, 0.8, 0.8 and 0.7 million, respectively.
B. Urban Policies and Programs in India and Uttar Pradesh
1.04      While responsibility for formulation and implementation of urban
development programs in India rests with state governments and local bodies,
overall development policies and strategies are influenced by objectives laid
down in the national five-year plans. Planned urban development did not
receive any particular attention by the Government of India (GOI) until the
1960s. The Third and Fourth National Five-Year Plans, 1961-66 and 1969-74
were aimed at control of urban land values, land use planning, standards for
housing and other services, and strengthening of municipal administrations.
The Fourth National Plan recommended the enactment by state governments of
comprehensive Town and Country Planning Acts. Also, it stressed the need for
positive steps to prevent unrestricted growth of metropolitan areas, by a
balanced regional approach to urbanization. These objectives were further
emphasized in the Fifth National Five-Year Plan, 1974-79, and the need for
integrated development of urban settlements and of improving the housing con-
ditions of the urban poor was highlighted. The Sixth National Five-Year Plan
(1980-85) stresses the need for providing affordable shelter to the urban
poor, safe water supply and adequate sanitation. To achieve these objectives,
particular attention would be given to, inter alia, modification of existing
by-laws, land use controls and minimum plot size requirements. Efforts would
also be made to address problems of slums by improvement and upgrading rather
than by relocation, to maintain easy access to employment centers and avoid
destruction of existing housing stock, however substandard it may be. Con-
tinuing efforts would also be made to curb migration from rural areas to large
cities, by distribution of economic and job opportunities in such a way that
expansion takes place in medium-sized cities and small towns. Various plan
objectives reflect a growing concern about achieving consistent urban policies
at the national and state level,
1.05      In terms of central funding of urban programs, GOI made a serious
effort in the early 70s to begin tackling urban deterioration in larger metro-
politan areas, by direct financial assistance to Calcutta. Similar efforts
in Bombay and Madras followed. Also, a National Minimum Needs Program was
introduced under the Fifth National Plan, including emphasis on provision
for improvements in the environment of urban slums. Mention should also be
made of the Housing and Urban Development Corporation (HUDCO), a Government
of India (GOI) enterprise set up in 1970. HUDCO is funded by GOI allocations
and market borrowings mainly from the Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) and the
General Insurance Corporation (GIC). Its mandate is to advance loans to state
government undertakings for housing and urban development programs. Through
FY1979/80, total HUDCO loan commitments were about Rs 5,550 million (US$694
million), corresponding to, inter alia, a nationwide sanction of about 620,000
residential dwellings and about 31,600 sites and services plots.  About 65% of



- 3 -
houses sanctioned by HUDCO are for Economically Weaker Section (EWS) families
with incomes less than Rs 350 per month, and another 32% are for Low Income
Group (LIG) families with incomes between Ks 350 and Ks 600 per month. Total
loan sanctions in FY1980/81 are expected to be about Ks 890 million (US$111
million). About Rs 6,000 million (US$750 million) would be available from
HUDCO in the 1980-85 plan period for urban development.
1.06      Successive Uttar Pradesh (UP) State plans have stressed the impor-
tance of power, rural development and agriculture sectors. The 1978-83 UP
State Plan provided a modest 2.8% (Rs 2,160 million) of the total Plan's
allocation of Rs 77,500 million (US*9,688 million) for urban investments,
comprising Rs 1,510 million for water supply and sewerage, Rs 350 million
for other infrastructure and Rs 300 million for housing. HUICO funding of
housing programs is classified as non-plan expenditure.
1.07      The relatively low priority accorded to urban development at the
national and state level results from the policy of encouraging rural develop-
ment, with the growth of small- and medium-sized towns and the creation of
industrial centers in special growth zones identified as a means to contain
urban migration to large urban areas. Heanwhile, urban service delivery
continues to deteriorate, creating adverse effects on the urban economy and
on the welfare of the population, especially for the urban poor. The absence
of shelter and other urban services affordable to the poor has created new
pressures requiring the adoption of hitherto unconventional approaches.
The effects of rent control and the Urban Land Ceiling Act have severely
constrained private sector participation in development. The fiiiancial
resources of municipalities are inadequate to provide a reasonable level of
services, which continue to deteriorate. Urban management is so weak that
while current fund allocations are inadequate to respond to actual urban
needs, the absorption capacity for increased allocation is limited.
1.08      However, there is now wide recognition among national policy makers
and those in UP of the need to strengthen urban management and finance and
reorient investments to benefit the majority of the urban poor. In UP, new
initiatives have been adopted to provide minimum basic needs through slum
improvement, water supply and sanitation and sites and services developments
and EWS shelter programs with HUDCO's assistance.
C. Bank Group Role and Strategy in India's Urban Sector
1.09      In India, there are six urban projects assisted by the Bank Group.
The First Calcutta Urban Development Project (Cr 427-IN, 1973/74-1978/79,
US$35 million) supported a broad program of urban infrastructural works to
meet the most urgent needs of the metropolis, and measures to begin urban
institutional and financial reform. The Second Calcutta Urban Development
Project (Cr 756-IN, 1977/78-1981/82, US$87 million) covers a large number
of sectors, including components directly aimed at low-income groups such
as area development, slum improvement, primary education, health care, and
small-scale enterprises. It also continues the support of institutional and



- 4 -
fiscal reform, and lays the foundation for formulation of a long-term urban
developmenit plan for Calcutta. The First Madras Urban Development Project
(   68711N. 1977/78-1981/82, US$24 million) supports strengthening of metro-
polLtan planning and capital programming, and includes low-cost investments
in shelter and infrastructure services. The Second Madras Urban Development
Pro!ect (Cr 1982-IN, 1980/81-1984/85, US$42 million) supports continued
re-orientation of shelter and infrastructure investments for the benefit of
the urban poor, and provides continued support for effective metropolitan
planning. The latter two projects include rather substantial support of
.llrbani transport, which also is the direct focus of the Bombay Urban Transport
Proiect (Ln. 1335-IN, 1977/78 - 1982/83, US$25 million) and the Calcutta Urban
Transport Project (Cr 1033-IN, 1980/81-1983/84, USE56 million). These projects
assist in improving the quality and quantity of mass transport services in
Bombav (buses), Madras (buses), and Calcutta (buses and trams), by providing
for investments in public transport facilities and traffic engineering measures,
and supporting institutional and productivity improvements. Finally, in the
speciFic context of UP, the Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project
(Cr 585-1N, 1977/78-1981/82, US$40 million), now nearing completion, supports
water supply and sewerage schemes in the five KAVAL towns, as well as about
300 subproiects in rural areas.
1.10      The Bank Group's strategy in the urban sector, as reflected in the
design of all these projects, has been to support GOI's and state governments'
recognition of the need for the rapid expansion of service programs which
maiDly focus on improved efficiency in the urban economy and on the needs of
urban low-income groups and the continued reorientation of these programs
toward low-cost replicable service systems. The strategy also focuses on
strengthening of local institutions, in support of their efforts to sustain
and expand their programs.
D. Kanpur
Perspective and Economy
i.1.1     With an estimated 1981 population of about 1.7 million, Kanpur
is the eighth largest metropolis in India, and Uttar Pradesh's largest and
most important industrial city.  The population increased in the 1970s at a
decennial rate of 32.2% (2.8% p.a.), against 25.8% (2.3% p.a.) in the district
an2 19.8% (1.8%o p.a.) in the state.  The K2npur district area is about 6,12U
km   of which Kanpur occupies about 300 km . The district's total population
is estimated at about 4 million, of which 58% live outside the city in 2re-
dominantly rural areas. Population density is about 490 persons per km in
the dilstrict and 4,300 in the city.
1.JL 2anpur's industrial base was laid in the mid-1800s with the estab-
listymeut of cotton and wool textile mills.  Leather tanning and leather making
industries followed. World War II caused a large increase in demand for
Kanp-ur's products. After Independence, a large fertilizer factory and several
af-oaments factories were added.  Light engineering such as rerolling, casting,



- 5 -
manufacture of agricultural implements, bicycles, chemicals, paints, varnish
and other miscellaneous items dominate Kanpur's small-scale sector. In the
early 1970s, the Kanpur district accounted for 70% and 41% of the net value
added in the cotton textile and leather industries in the state, respectively.
Overall industrial growth has declined in the post-war period, yet in 1977
Kanpur accounted for about 15% of the total employment and output in the
state's organized manufacturing sector, as well as a significant proportion
of the informal small-scale production sector.
1.13      Economic conditions continue to remain stagnant, reflecting national
trends for the traditional industries. The very slow growth in UP's agricul-
tural sector contributes to the lack of a buoyant market for consumer goods
such as textiles and leather products. Successive state plans stress the
importance of small-scale and "tiny" enterprises, generally in the informal
sector. Their contribution to employment is clearly significant, though their
share of total industrial output is less than 30% in UP.
1.14      According to the 1971 census, 35.5% of the working population of
approximately 380,000 in Kanpur was employed in industry and more than 60% was
employed in trade, commerce and other services. The annual per capita income
of Kanpur was estimated at Rs 860 (US$104 equivalent) in 1978 compared with
Rs 817 (US$98) for the state as a whole. About 45% of Kanpur's population,
or about 800,000 persons, belong to households in the economically weaker sec-
tion, with a monthly income of Rs 350 (US$44) or less per household in 1979.
Institutions
1.15      The main agencies responsible for urban services are the Kanpur
Development Authority (KDA), the municipal authority or the Kanpur Nagar
Mahapalika (KNM), the water and sewerage authority or the Kanpur Jal Sansthan
(KJS) and the Kanpur Electricity Supply Administration (KESA).
1.16      KDA's investments have been steadily increasing over the past years
to about Rs 40 million in 1979. Over the years, the functions of KNM have
been pruned, transforming it largely into a maintenance organization. State-
wide planning and execution of water supply and large sewerage works was
centralized in 1975 under a State Water Supply and Sewerage Corporation, UP
Jal Nigam (UPJN), supported by Cr 585-IN (para 1.09). Corresponding respons-
ibilities for operation and maintenance were then successively transferred
from local bodies to local water and sewerage authorities, Jal Sansthans.
KJS is one of the five Jal Santhans. KDA lacks the capability for financial
analysis, cost control of projects and forward planning and budgeting. KNM
operations currently suffer from many organizational and financial problems.
KJS is operating under severe constraints resulting from inadequate staffing,
operating funds, accounting, billing and collection. Further details of KDA,
KNM and KJS are given in Chapter IV.
1.17      KESA is responsible for electricity generation and distribution in
Kanpur. Unreliability and frequent interruptions to the supply have resulted
in some larger industries either generating their own power or having standby
facilities. The present consumption pattern indicates that 75% of power
generated by KESA is used by industries.



- 6-
Environmental and Health Conditions
1.18      Environmental and health conditions in Kanpur are widely regarded
as much worse than in other cities in the state, and indeed in India. Infra-
structure facilities have not been significantly expanded in the recent decades,
and poor maintenance of existing infrastructure has rendered much of existing
services unusable. About 47% of Kanpur households live in slum areas and
"ahatas"--which are privately owned slum compounds--in extremely overcrowded
and unhygienic conditions, with virtually no access to basic sanitation.
The health of the population, especially in slum areas, is at a low level,
with a high incidence of waterborne and communicable diseases, such as gastro-
enteritis, cholera, hepatitis and skin, eye and throat ailments. Kanpur has
the highest incidence of tuberculosis in India with an estimated 60% of
children in slum areas affected by the disease. The 1965 figures indicate
an extremely high infant mortality rate, 249 per 1,000 live births. 1/ Smoke
and gas emissions from factories and the discharge of toxic effluents from
tanneries and textile mills may have a direct connection to the malaise.
Thirty percent of the slum population has been classified as being "con-
tinuously sick" and it is estimated that the average absenteeism among indus-
trial workers runs as high as sixty days per year per worker.
Status of Basic Urban Services
1.19      Housing.  Migration of labor to Kanpur has generated housing demands,
particularly in the two last decades, which have not been adequately met. Of
about 340,000 households in Kanpur, about 160,000 are estimated to be living
in slum conditions. A recent survey indicates that about 67% of total house-
holds live in single rooms. Many people live in crowded conditions in rented
rooms in ahatas (slums on privately owned land) that are small in area and
volume, have limited access to water, and lack basic sanitation and other
services. About 30,000 households living in slums on publicly-owned land have
received basic services under the GOI-initiated 'minimum needs program' com-
menced in 1972. This is a grant program with no tenure or cost recovery, and
the improved slums quickly fall back to their original state due to lack of
maintenance. The ahatas in the central core have received no services, due to
legal restrictions of entering upon private land. Yet people have continued to
crowd into existing substandard dwellings under extremely unhygienic conditions.
1.20      The ahatas are on well located land, and starting in 1968 the then
development wing oF the KNM acquired a number of ahatas with a view to redevel-
oping them as commercial areas. However, due to difficulties of relocation,
these plans have not been implemented. Owners of ahatas have little incentive
to upgrade or redevelop them. The UP Slum Areas (Improvement and Clearance)
Act 1962 provides protection to tenants against eviction. Private sector
investments in shelter are generally minimal and nonexistent for low cost
shelter. The Rent Control Act and the Urban Land Ceiling Act act as disincen-
tives to private sector shelter investments. Planning regulations discriminate
1/   Upper Volta had the highest infant mortality rate of 263/1,000 in 1960,
according to World Development Report, 1980.



against private developers, especially with regard to minimum plot sizes,
permissible under the public sector schemes. The burden of shelter provision
continues to rest in the public sector schemes. Within the resources available
to the public sector, there is little hope of meeting this demand. Any long-
term effort at solving the shelter problem should count on private sector par-
ticipation, and this will only occur when sufficient incentives are provided.
1.21      New household formation in Kanpur is estimated at about 10,000
families per year of which about 50% are EWS households. Previous efforts
mainly by KDA to increase the supply of adequate shelter for various economic
groups have been insufficient. Since its establishment in 1974, KDA has
provided about 6,400 new housing units, of which about 3,300 were for the
EWS group. An additional 5,400 units are currently under construction. KDA
took significant initiatives in 1978 to correct the serious imbalance in the
provision of shelter for low-income groups, increasing the proportion of
investments in shelter for this group. With the assistance of the state and
HUDCO, the delivery by KDA of shelter to EWS households was increased to about
1,800 annually by 1980, compared to an annual demand estimated at 5,000 new
units for this income range.
1.22      KDA has completed a pilot sites and services scheme comprising 860
plots. This scheme was developed with financial assistance from HUDCO. Two
other sites and services projects comprising about 1,220 plots, also assisted
by HUDCO, commenced in late 1979, one of which is nearing completion. The
pilot scheme has been popular and has been completed at an average cost of
Rs 2,700 (US$340 equivalent) per plot including a core unit. These schemes
are specifically designed to meet the needs and affordability of EWS. Until
the inception of these programs, any housing project aimed at EWS families
had to be heavilv subsidized. The new concept of incremental housing through
sites and services has been accepted by the state, and KDA plans to increase
its investment in sites and services. However, the gap between annual formal
sector shelter delivery and new household formation is about 7,000 units.
Growth of EWS households is estimated at an annual rate of about 5,000 house-
holds.  Substantial expansion in the program would be required to accommodate
growth and to eliminate the shelter backlog estimated at about 60,000 units.
1.23      Water Supply.  About 80% of present water production for domestic
requirements is drawn from the River Ganga, and the balance from tubewells.
During the past year a 20-22 hour supply has been maintained for some zones.
Total production averages about 230 mld. The water distribution network, which
is mostly over 50 years old, has incomplete coverage and is inadequate for
current demands. Unaccounted for water is estimated at about 40%. About 50%
of Kanpur's population is served by direct water connections. The remainder
depends on water supplies from about 2,500 public standposts, and to a lesser
extent on shallow wells. About 50 households share supplies from each stand-
post at an average consumption estimated to be about 30 lcd, compared to a
city-wide average from all sources of about 125 lcd. Under the UP Water Supply
and Sewerage Project (Credit 585-IN), 42 new tubewells would be installed to
increase the installed capacity to about 385 mld by 1982. However, additional
improvements to the zonal pumping stations, the distribution network and



- 8 -
reduction of wastage and leakage will be required to achieve an equitable
distribution of the improved water supply in Kanpur and would have priority
over further capital investments in sources of supply.
1.24      Sewerage.  No central sewage treatment facilities exist in Kanpur.
Raw sewage is either discharged directly into the Ganga, or mixed with river
water for irrigation on a sewage farm of about 3,100 ha.  The existing trunk
sewer network covers the central area of Kanpur, but is underutilized al-
though branch sewers cover about 40% of the municipal area.  Actual connec-
tions serve only about 10% of the total population. Trunk sewers as well as
branch sewers are old, and the latter are partly blocked with silt and solid
wastes and have inadequate flows. Additional connections take place only
to a limited extent because of high hook-up charges and lack of efficient
enforcement. Thus, about 600,000 persons depend on badly maintained public
conveniences or have no means of sanitation. About 400,000 persons depend
on septic tanks, and about 580,000 persons are served by bucket latrines.
1.25      Stormwater Drainage.  Thirteen main drainage outfalls (nallas) take
stormwater north to the River Ganga and three south to the River Pandu (Map
IBRD No. 15671R). These nallas also carry considerable amounts of sullage
and sewage. Design capacity of all the outfalls is sufficient, but lack of
mainteniance has reduced their efficiency, requiring desilting, regrading,
and widening in places. Collector drains in developed areas are inadequate
in number and not functional due to blockage by silt and garbage. Slum areas
without proper stormwater drainage become essentially flood storage basins
during the monsoon, since many dwellings are constructed out of excavated
earth from within the plinth area.
1.26      Solid Waste Management including Night Soil Collection.  Refuse
collection in Kanpur is generally satisfactory, except in the central area.
About 900 tons of refuse is generated daily, of which about 30% is not
collected. About 5% of refuse comprises food, leaves, vegetables and other
organic matter which provides food for cattle and dogs that roam the streets.
The remainder of uncollected refuse litters slum areas, drains and backyards,
where people pick recyclable material. Part of the collected refuse is
treated in a composting plant commissioned in 1980, with a design capacity
of about 350 tons per day, and the balance is dumped and spread in depressed
land areas near the outskirts of the city, in a highly unsatisfactory manner.
Night soil collection in the city is also inadequate. It is estimated that
only about 15,000 liters out of 375,000 liters of human waste generated daily
from unsewered areas of the city are collected by KNM. A further 190,000
liters are collected by private sweepers and deposited in authorized collection
depots. An estimated 85,000 liters/day of night soil from bucket latrines are
dumped by private collectors and householders in open drains, while another
85,000 liters/day from households with no toilet facilities are estimated to
be found in open areas. Seventeen pail depots exist, but nightsoil is ille-
gally dumped in open channels and down manholes. The inadequate collection
of refuse and night soil seriously affects the proper functioning of storm-
water drains and sewers in the central area of the city.



-9-
1.27      Roads, Traffic Management, and Street Li.ght:ing- Kanpur has a reason-
ably adequate road network, constituting about 12%0 of the developed areas of
the city. Two-hundred-and-fifty kilometers of the ci-ty-roads are surfaced; a
further 350 km consist of narrow roads with various standards of construction,
mainly used for pedestrian access. While roads proper are comparatively well
maintained, drains and sidewalks are not fully functional. They are poorly
maintained, with manhole covers and pavement slabs often missing, and encroach-
ments by hawkers with temporary structures are common. Such conditions often
make the use of sidewalks impossible, and pedestrians generally use the
carriageway, in competition with other modes of traffic.
1.28      Bicycles are the dominating mode of traffic, representing over
75% of all vehicles on Kainpur roads and about 50% of the peak hourly volume.
The total slow moving vehicles--including also cycle rickshaws and hand and
ox-drawn carts--comprise about 90% of traffic and 83% of peak traffic, not
considering the spillover into road space of pedestrians. Existing traffic
problems in Kanpur, particularly in the central area, are characterized by
conflicts between fast and slow moving modes of traffic, exacerbated by undis-
ciplined road user behavior, encroachment, and inadequate traffic enforcement
and management.  A first step solution should focus on enhanced enforcement
and development of improved traffic management and circulation schemes; yet
no traffic management and engineering function exists in the Kanpur Nagar
Mahapalika.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
2.01      The main objective would be to increase the supply of serviced land
to the poor through the provision of low-cost serviced residential and small
business plots and to address the worst environmental conditions prevailing
in the privately-owned ahatas and other slum areas in and around the central
core of the city. Transfer of land ownership to beneficiaries and the phased
construction of dwellings would be a cornerstone of this approach. The reduc-
tion and elimination of direct subsidies inherent in the ongoing "minimum
needs program" and other shelter programs would be pursued. Full cost recovery
of allocable costs in the sites and services and slum upgrading components
would be aimed at, to enable replication of project features. The second
objective of the project would be to strengthen key urban institutions in
Kanpur, particularly management and financing of service delivery. The third
objective would be to develop a strategy for state-wide urban development and
management. Implementation of the recommendations of already initiated insti-
tutional and financial studies for KNM and KDA early in the project implemen-
tation period is envisaged.
B. Main Features
2.02      The main project components and costs are as shown in Table 2.1.



- 10 -
Table 2.1: MAIN PROJECT COMPONENTS AND COSTS
(March 1981 Prices, US$1 = Rs 8.0)
Rs         US$
Million    Million
A. Shelter
(i)   Sites and Services:  about 14,800 residential plots,
core housing, shelter loans, community facilities
and 540 serviced small business plots at three sites
totaling about 200 ha and benefiting about 83,000
residents                                                  138.3      17.3
(ii) Slum Upgrading: upgrading ahatas and other slum
areas comprising about 20,000 households on about
105 ha, including grant of tenure, improved infra-
structure services, home improvement and sanitary
core loans, community facilities and small business
support, benefiting about 112,000 residents               69.4         8.7
B. Environmental Sanitation, Maintenance and
Traffic Management
(i)   Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage:  measures to
maximize use of existing trunk infrastructure in
central Kanpur, and extension to water supply,
sewerage and drainage networks directly affecting
proposed shelter components, and a sewer connection
loan program                                              53.5         6.7
(ii) Solid Waste Management: improved facilities for
collection and disposal of refuse and night soil,
and workshop and depot improvements                        10.4        1.3
(iii) Maintenance: equipment and tools for improving
the cleaning, repair and maintenance of roads,
sewers and drains                                          8.1         1.0
(iv)  Traffic Management Measures:  low-cost measures to
improve traffic flows in areas adjacent to proposed
shelter components and for enforcement of traffic
regulations                                                 7.3        0.9
C. Technical Assistance and Institutional Strengthening
Consultant and advisory services and training for state-
and local-level agencies.                                         8.0         1.0
Base Costs       295.0        36.9
Physical Contingencies                            20.1         2.5
Design, Supervision and Management                31.2         3.9
Price Contingencies                               67.2         8.4
TOTAL            413.5        51.7



1 Ii -
2.03      Total average costs per household, includiing costs for community
facilities, on- and off-site irnfrastructure, building materials/home improve-
ment loans, design, supervision and management charges and physical contin-
gencies for the sites and services aInd slum upgrading components would be
Rs 10,850 (US$1,360) and Rs 3,900 (US$490), respectiveljl.
2.04      The annual supply of affordable EWS shelter through the sites and
services program would increase from about 1,800 to 2,500 units per year. The
slum upgrading program would affect about 5,000 households per year. Together,
the two programs would help contain the growth of slums during the project
period (Chart 2, Annex 2). By continuation and expansion of the programs
further reduction of slum areas could be achieved. The institutional
strengthening programs commenced under the project would enable KDA, KNM and
KJS to better service the needs of Kanpur residents.
Community Development
2.05      UNICEF would collaborate with GOUP and IDA for implementation of
a valuable and essential support activity of the project, namely, community
development. UNICEF has reachled agreement with GOI and the Government of
Uttar Pradesh (GOUP) for assistance for the Urban Community Development
Project (Kanpur) to be implemented concurrently with the proposed project. It
will provide education, health, nutrition, employment generation and community
development facilities in the project areas with emphasis on women and children,
The project cost is estimated at about Rs 3.5 million (US$0.4 million equiva-
lent). IDA has collaborated with UNICEF in the preparation of this project
through joint missions, and coordination throughout project execution will be
maintained. Further details are given in Annex 1.
C. Project Description
Sites and Services
2.06      Three sites located within 3.5 km to 6 km of the city center (Map
IBRD 15671R) would be developed to provide about 14,780 residential plots
and about 540 small-business plots. They are Barra (8,359 plots), Gujaini
(5,658 plots) and Pokharpur (760 plots), totaling about 200 hectares. Sites
have been selected on the basis of proximity to employment opportunities,
availability of trunk infrastructure, existing residential development and
status of land acquisition. The sites are also within a 20 minute cycling
distance of the city center--an important consideratiorn in view of the
dominant role of the bicycle and cycie rickshaw as popular modes of trans-
portation in Kanpur. All land for the component has been acquired.
2.07      The Barra site (187 ha), located south of the city, is 5 km from
the city center.  Only 123 ha would be developed in the first phase under the
project. The Guja.ini site (74 ha) is within 1 km of Barra and located 3.5 km
from the city center, Both sites have access to existing roads and would
have access in future to the city bypass under construction, Power supply is
available and adjacent to both sites. City water and sewer networks are not



- 12 -
available to serve the two sites. The Pokharpur site (6 ha) is located east
of the city center close to the tanneries. Water, sewer and electricity
networks are available adjacent to the site.
Site Layout and Land-use
2.08      Layouts for the three sites have been finalized.  The design ensures
the most effective use of land and infrastructure (see IBRD Maps 15672R and
15673R). Most of the smaller residential plots would have pedestrian access
only. Vehicular access would be limited to primary and secondary roads,
providing access to within about 60 m of every plot. Plots are distributed in
such a manner that the larger residential plots, commercial and small-business
plots would have vehicular access. The locational and service advantages of
these plots would be taken into account for differential pricing of land. A
typical cluster type layout has been adopted giving an average net density of
about 800 persons per ha. About 66% of the land would be marketable, about
25% would be allocated to circulation, and about 9% to open space as indicated
in Annex 2, Table 1.
Plot Sizes and Plot Development
2      2      2        2
2.092    Five residential plot sizes of 37 m , 58 m , 81 m , 180 m2 and
300 m , would be provided. The residential plot distribution by site is shown
in Annex 2, Table 2. About 68% of the residential plots in Barra ayd Gujaini
and 75% of residential plots in Pokharpur would constitute the 37 m plot size,
designed for families with incomes les2 than Rs 350 per month (EWS). Four
options would be available in the 37 m plot based on varying on-plot develop-
ment. There will be no on-plot development on the low-income group (LIG),
middle-income group (MIG) anj higher-iecome group 2HIG) plots. LIG plots
would be of two sizes:  58 m  and 81 m . The 58 m  plots would have locational
advantages such as being corner plots facing open spaces and fronting 4.5 m
and 7.5 m roads.
2.10      On-Site Infrastructure:  Due to existing soils conditions and the
large number (70%) of small plots, low-cost sanitation systems are not suit-
able. Water and sewer networks would be laid to the boundaries of all plots
at the time of initial construction. This approach would avoid costly and
destructive road cuttings, and encourage maximum utilization of the installed
networks, 1/ Water and sewer connections would be made to the sanitary cores
on the EWS plots only, with two plots sharing one inspection chamber. Owners
of other plots would effect connections, which do not form part of the project,
by application to KJS.   Most smaller plots would face 3.5 m and 4.5 m walkways
surfaced with brick-on-edge pavements. 2/ Larger plots would face rights-of-
way ranging from 7.5 m to 18 m which would have a single lane 3.7 m wide with
1/   One of the reasons for the constant blockages in the Kanpur sewer system
is the lack of sufficient flows to effect adequate self-cleansing of pipes.
2/   Stone aggregate is not available in the Kanpur areas.  Brick is mostly
used due to the abundance of clay.



- 13 -
bituminous macadam surfacing. For rights-of-way (ROW) greater than l m con-
stituting a main access, spine road or bus route, two-lane surfaced carriageways
would be provided. Street lighting would be provided throughout accessways
and bus routes. Electricity networks to permit individual domestic supply
would be provided under the project, but connections would be made by Kanpur
Electricity Supply Administration at the request of beneficiaries and would
not be included in the project. Concrete refuse bins would be located on
access ways within easy reach of all plots. Tree planting would also be under-
taken. Service standards for infrastructure are given in Annex 2, Table 3.
2.11      Off-Site Infrastructure:  Both Barra and Gujaini would be provided
with independent water supply and sewage disposal facilities. Barra would be
provided with five on-site tubewells each about 300 m deep, along with two
service reservoirs. Gujaini would be provided with three on-site tubewells of
about the same depth, with one service reservoir. Both will operate indepen-
dent of the city water supply system. Each site will have stabilization ponds
for sewage treatment. The ponds will discharge to the river Pandu.
2
2.12      The smallest plot of 37 m  alone would be provided with four alter-
native on-plot developments. The options range from a bare plot with a
sanitary core, to a completed room with sanitary core, courtyard walls ana
shelter loans as indicated in Sketch, Annex 2.  The provision of courtyard
walls facilitates quick and simple expansion of dwellings to suit individual
requirements.  Plot options in the EWS category would be as follows:
EWS 1:    Plot with sanitary core without roof.  optional
shelter loan of Rs 1,500 I/ for self-help first
room construction for all beneficiaries.
EWS 2:    Plot with  anitary core without roof, common walls
for 21.8 m room with no roof or shutters, and
courtyard walls. Optional shelter loan of Rs 90U 1/
for roof construction and shutters for all bene-
ficiaries.
EWS 3:    Plot with sanitary core with roof, common walls
including roof for 21.0 m room with no shutters,
and courtyard walls. Optional shelter loan of
Rs 500 I/ for 25% of beneficiaries.
EWS 4:    Completed sanitary core and 21.0 m2 room with
shutters, and courtyard walls. Optional shelter
loan of Rs 500 1/ for 25% of beneficiaries.
Optional shelter loans of Rs 3,000, Rs 3,500, Rs 4,000 and Rs 4,UO 1/ would
be provided for the LIG 1, LIG 2, LIG 3, and LIG 4 plots, respectively at
an estimated 25% rate of uptake. Loans would be administered by KDA.
1/   Loan amounts are in 1981 prices.



- 14 -
2.13      Plot options, costs, indicative charges and affordability, in
March 1981 prices, are set out in Table 6.1. Prices of the EWS options with-
out shelter loans would be Rs 2,160, Rs 4,230, Rs 7030 and Rs 8,500, after
differential pricing (para 6.08 and Table 6.1).
Community Facilities
2.14      The layouts provide all land requirements for community facilities.
The project would provide the initial requirements of buildings that are con-
sidered essential for the community and for marketability of plots, and hence
avoid delays in beneficiary settlement. A UNICEF-assisted Community Develop-
ment Project would provide additional support during the project period.
2.15      The project would provide 18 primary schools and 3 high schools
having 5 and 7 classrooms per school, respectively. The above provision is
based on the following average enrollment rates for Kanpur: 65% and 25% in
primary and high schools, respectively, with 40 students per class. Over 50%
of the schools are expected to be operated by private organizations, as is
done traditionally.
2.16      Three health centers, two at Barra and one at Gujaini, operated
by KNM would be provided to serve a total population of about 72,000. Each
center, for 24,000 people, would have a six-bed ward, one labor room and
ancillary facilities. The health centers would primarily serve EWS families
and would provide curative, maternal and child, and preventive medical
facilities.
2.17      Two sub-post offices would be provided, one each for Barra and
Gujaini. One police post and one police/fire station would be provided in
Gujaini and Barra, respectively. Additionally, three multi-purpose community
centers would be provided, two at Barra and one at Gujaini. The community
centers would consist of a hall, library, stores and offices. The UNICEF-
assisted Community Development Project would provide equipment for the
community halls. KDA would operate the community centers, which would be
available to the public on a rental basis for social occasions.
Small-Scale Industry and Commercial Activities
2.18      Economic activities including retail trade and small-scale business
would be permitted on household plots, provided that they are not noxious
trades or activities that constitute a nuisance to the community. Consultants
engaged by the Directorate of Industries (DOI) have conducted a comprehensive
survey in 1980 of formal and informal business activity in Kanpur. The study
indicates that considerable economic activity takes place in low-income resi-
dential areas. The demand for business plots, training and common facilities
centers is based on this study.



- 15 -
2.19      Small-Scale Industry:  The project would provice a total of b30
plots for small-scale business activities under the sites and services com-
ponent. The 2b8 plots in the Pokharpur site would be residential plots of thle
EWS and LIG types, on which small business activities would,be carried out by
beneficiaries.  A further 542 open plots of bO m  and 120 m  would be provided
in Barra and Gujaini for resiaential-cum-small business activities. The DOI
would select beneficiaries for the 830 plots and 1QA would offer the lease and
administer building loans as for the residential plots. Plots not taken up
for business purposes will be offered for residential use. Of the 26b plots
in Pokharpur, 237 would be of the EWS 1-4 types. EWS 1-3 types may be upgraded
to the EWS 4 type, by KDA, at the request of the beneficiaries, for which an
amount of Rs 0.5 million has been provided. The other plots would have no
on-plot development, but an amount of Rs 2.U 1/ million would be provided for
loans for building construction or extension. Loans for machinery and working
capital would not be provided under the project. Plot details for residential-
cum-small-business activities are given in Annex 2, Table 4.
2.20      DOI would provide assistance to small businesses in project areas
to improve skills and expand operations as part of the technical assistance
under the project. This program (base cost is 0.5 million, US*0.06 million
equivalent) would comprise: (a) identification of small entrepreneurs;
(b) providing training for skills upgrading and apprising them of existing
schemes and facilities for expansion; and (c) assisting and arranging contact
between beneficiary and banks and UP Finance Corporation (where applicable)
for credit facilities for equipment and working capital.
2.21      Two common facilities centers (base cost is 0.67 million, USE0.08
million equivalent) would be constructed, one each at Barra and Pokharpur,
and operated by DOI. The centers would provide equipment, tools and quality
control facilities for small businesses unable to afford high initial invest-
ments. Upon selection of beneficiaries, DOI would equip the centers with
tools and equipment that would be in greatest demand. A charge to cover use
of equipment and tools will be levied. Except for the EWS plots, all other
plots are priced at market prices, higher than cost. Profits generated from
plot sales would be used to reduce plot prices for low-income households.
2.22      DOI would use the services of the state industrial agencies to carry
out the above program and private dealers for operation of marketing outlets.
The project would also provide for monitoring, follow-up and post implementa-
tion counseling to beneficiaries. DOI is capable of handling the program
with some consultant assistance provided under the project.
2.23      Commercial Activities:  The sites and services areas would have
about 6.6 ha (4.4%) of land for convenience shops and for commercial purposes.
Plot sizes, distribution and layouts would be prepared based on demand. Plots
would be fully serviced but will have no on-plot aevelopment. Commercial
plots would be auctioned and profits generated would be used to reduce plot
prices for low-income households.
1/   Loan amounts are in 1981 prices.



- 16 -
Slum Upgrading
2.24      Eighty-nine ahatas located in the central core of the city would
be priority areas for upgrading under the project (Map IBRD No. 15671R).
These ahatas contain about 20,000 households.
2.25      Twenty-eight ahatas comprising 7,070 households are in the posses-
sion of KDA, having been acquired at various times commencing 1968. Acqui-
sition of the remainder started in March 1981 with the publication of the
notice of 'Intention to Acquire' in respect of the first group of 40 ahatas.
Acquisition is being carried out under the provisions of the UP Slum Areas
(Improvement and Clearance) Act 1962, applied for the first time in the state.
Physical works in the ahatas could commence only after the 'right of access'
stage of the acquisition process is reached--estimated to take not less than
one year. In order to provide sufficient areas in which upgading could proceed
without interruption, four abadis (villages) located within and adjacent to
the three sites and services project sites, comprising 1,650 households, have
been included. Abadis are former villages now within the city boundary, where
residents have traditional land ownership rights but have no formal title.
Abadis lack basic services and conditions are similar to other slum areas.
The total number of slum households thus immediately available (8,720) would
be sufficient for two years' upgrading work commencing April 1981.
2.26      Ahatas are located on potentially valuable land in and around the
central commercial area. The Act specifies the formula for compensation (100
times monthly rental income), but litigation over this issue is likely, and
the final cost of acquisition will not be known for some time (para. 6.09).
Some ahatas are likely to be excluded from the program if the cost of acqui-
sition or the cost per capita for services becomes prohibitive. If it becomes
apparent that not all of the ahata acquisition program is likely to succeed,
additional slums on public land (outside the central core) will be substituted
for the ahatas.
2.27      The slum upgrading process would comprise provision of basic infra-
structure services, home improvement loans, grant of tenure to the present
occupiers of the land and recovery of costs of land and improvements from
beneficiaries. Displacements and demolitions would be kept to a minimum,
limited to requirements of essential infrastructure. Due to high densities
prevailing, lack of space and soil conditions, low-cost sanitation systems
are not appropriate for the ahatas. Waterborne sanitation has been adopted
in view of the availability of trunk sewer capacity. Education in the use
of facilities and the need for flushing will be emphasized through community
development.
2.28      Layouts would take regard of existing land-use patterns based on
densities and community preferences. Where space is available, additional
(infill) plots would be created. Most ahatas would be provided with internal
pedestrian access only, as they have access to existing external roads.
Commercial and small business plots would be created, when feasible, near
access points to ahatas. Land provision for community facilities except for
small community rooms would be minimal due to space constraints. Densities
in layouts already prepared range from about 400 to 2,100 persons per ha.



- 17 -
2.29      The average plot size would be about 25 m2 and conforms to the
curr2nt average lang occupancy in ahatas.  Plot sizes would vary from about
15 m  to about 80 m . Price of plots will be differentiated based on plot
size, with smaller plots being sold at less than the cost of development
and the larger plots at higher than cost. This measure would discourage
larger plot sizes, encourage plot exchanges and subdivisions, and above
all enable accommodation of poorer beneficiaries.
2.30      Detailed upgrading proposals have been prepared for ten typical
ahatas and component costs have been based on the average cost for the ten
ahatas. A scheme for a typical ahata is indicated in Map IBRD No. 15674.
The upgrading of one ahata (Rolling Mill ahata) was taken up in late 1980 as
a pilot project, using criteria proposed for the project. It was success-
fully completed in March 1981. A key factor in the smooth implementation
of the project has been the community involvement and understanding of the
objectives of upgrading by residents. Infrastructure services proposed would
include brick-paved pedestrian access, water supply and sewerage networks
sized to permit individual connections, drainage, landscaping and street
lighting. Surveys have indicated that about 70% of beneficiaries would wish
to obtain individual water and sewer connections. Facilities for refuse
collection would also be provided.
2.31      The following service levels would be provided where possible:
(a) Circulation: Pedestrian access lanes, about 2 m wide, to
all dwellings and vehicular access to within about 75 m
in the larger ahatas.
(b) Water Supply: One standpipe and one bathing facility for
35 persons, for the estimated 30% of all households that
will have no individual facilities.
(c) Sewerage: Facility for individual connections to most dwellings.
For residents that remain unconnected (about 30%), one toilet
per 35 persons.
(d) Street Lighting: One security light per 40 m.
2.32      Two types of optional loan schemes would be provided for beneficia-
ries in the upgraded areas. A home improvement loan of Rs 500 1/ per house-
hold to supplement the beneficiaries' own efforts on additions or improving
the dwelling structurally would be provided by KDA based on an estimated 30%
rate of uptake. A second loan of Rs 1,000 1/ per household would be provided
by KDA for construction of a sanitary core incluoing the water and sewer
connections for 50% of the beneficiaries. The two loan schemes would cater
for those households wishing to have individual connections, estimated at 70%
from surveys, and able to afford the loans. The home improvement loan would
be given in cash and/or building materials, to permit beneficiaries the option
of paying artisan fees. The construction of the sanitary core comprising
the seat, including connections, and the water point would be carried out
by KDA as part of the project.
1/   Loan amounts are in 1981 prices.



- 18 -
2.33      No community facilities would be provided under the project in the
upgraded ahatas mainly due to space constraints. Residents would largely
depend on existing city facilities in their neighborhood. The UNICEF-sponsored
Community Development Project (Annex I) would provide a number of community
facilities particularly for women and children. Small plots for multi-purpose
community halls would be provided in ahatas, where space permits. The three
mobile health clinics recently introduced in Kanpur provide preventive and
primary health care for residents of ahatas. Space permitting, one common
facilities center would be provided for use of small businesses in ahatas
(base cost Rs 0.33 million (US$0.04 million equivalent)).
2.34      The upgrading proposals would be affordable to about 90% of the
ahata population. The r2mainder rould also be accommodated where possible,
on very small plots (7 m to 10 m ) as was done in the pilot upgrading scheme.
It may not be possible, however, to accommodate households below the 7th
percentile of the Slum Household Income Distribution, who would be forced
to continue as renters. Seventy percent of slum households in Kanpur have
incomes less than Rs 350 per month, as indicated in the Slum Household
Income Distribution (Annex 2, Chart 1). Approximate plot sizes, indicative
charges and affordability, in 1981 prices, are set out in Table 6.2. The
average cost of upgrading is Rs 2,725, representing about Rs 1,200 for land
and Rs 1,525 for improvements, excluding shelter loans.
Environmental Sanitation, Maintenance and Traffic Management
2.35      Investments under this component during the project period would
comprise provision of: (i) off-site infrastructure improvements in water
supply, sewerage and drainage to serve slum areas; (ii) drainage of the
Latouche Road - Cooper Ganj - Bansmadi area; (iii) desilting and remodeling
of existing drainage outfalls (nallas) in Kanpur; (iv) improved solid waste
management, including night soil collection on a citywide basis; (v) improve-
ments in maintenance; and (vi) traffic management measures. KNM would also
receive assistance in studies and equipment related to its maintenance func-
tions and reorganization of the solid waste management service (paras 2.50
and 2.51).
Off-site Infrastructure: Water Supply
2.36      KJS assisted by the UP Jal Nigam has prepared a scheme that would
augment water supply to 88 ahatas identified for upgrading under the project.
The basis for design is 135 lcd. A total of about 26,000 m of pipes would be
installed comprising about 1,340 m of cast-iron pipes, 7,450 m of asbestos
cement pipes, and 17,400 m of pvc pipes. In addition, about 155 sluice valves
would be provided, as well as necessary interconnections between existing and
new mains. Base cost for above works is estimated at Rs 3.7 million (US$0.4
million equivalent).
2.37      A wastage and leakage program would be commenced to assess losses
and to implement measures to reduce losses to reasonable limits. Production
metering and area-wide bulk metering would be commenced, and category-wise
consumption would be established as a matter of priority. Base cost for
meters and other equipment for the above program have been estimated at
Rs 0.5 million (US$0.06 million equivalent).



-_ 19 -
Off-site Infrastructure: Sewerage (Base Cost Rs 37.6 millions US$4.7 million
equivalent)
2.38      KNI'1 has prepared a scheme aimed at providing offT- site sewerage Lo
all the ahatas identified for upgrading under the project. The total design
population is about 60,000 households, of which about 20,000 1ive in the
ahatas proper, and about 40,000 in the immediate neighborhoods. Most of the
latter are "on-line" with sewer lines from the ahatas to cornecting trunk
sewers.  A total of about 30,400 mr of new sewer lines would be installed, in
diameters ranging from 150 mm to 300 mm. In addition, based on a thorough
survey by KhM, about 30,800 m of existing sewer lines in the 250-300 mm range
would be replaced. They are either blocked beyornd salvage because of ingress
of solid wastes and silt or require upgrading to accommodate increased design
flows. Finally, about 53,000 m of existing blocked sewer lines that are
salvageable--in the range of 150-600 mm--would be desilted, to obtain design
flows. Base cost of civil works is Rs 27.6 million (US*3.5 million equivalent).
2.39      Justification of the above investments in off-site sewerage is
dependent on reliable measures to prevent further blockages by ingress of
solid wastes, and to maintain necessary design flows. Introduction of an
efficient solid waste management system in Kanpur would greatly reduce the
occurrence of sewer blockages. Maintenance of adequate flows requires a
sufficient degree of household connections to the sewerage system. In Kanpur,
household connections have been lagging, due to weak enforcement of existing
bylaws, and inadequate incentives to encourage connections. The Government
of Uttar Pradesh (GOUP) introduced and funded a one-off program to encourage
connections several years ago, which was completed in 1979. It provided
assistance on the basis of a 25% subsidy of the connection cost, and albout
2,000 connections were made.
2.40      GOUP has agreed that further measures are required to ensure adequate
utilization of sewer lines in Kanpur, particularly those to be constructed
under the proposed project. With regard to ahata households, Rs 10 million
(US$1.25 million equivalent) 1/ has been provided for optional connection of
about 10,000 households, at an estimated cost of about Rs 1,000 i/ per. house-
hold, which would be recovered through their mortgage payments. Similarly,
GOUP has decided to set up, under the project, an Rs 10 million 1/ revolving
loan fund, that would be administered by KJS, to assist households outside the
ahatas proper to obtain connections. Concurrently, KJS will take effective
enforcement measures to obtain connections as provided for under its Act,
Sewer connection loans to beneficiaries would be made at an interest rate
of not less than 12% p.a. to be repaid over not more than 4 years. It has
been established through a household survey that there is adequate demhand for
connections.  On the basis of an average 50% loan to households, the loan fund
would, during the project period, finance about 20,000 households, which have
relatively higher incomes than average ahata households and would be able to
contribute half the cost of connection= Up to 75% of the cost of a connection
would be advanced under the loan scheme. Inicluding sites and services, the
project would provide loan funds for over 40,000 sewer connections, over the
next four years.  It is expected that additional connections would result from
the enforcement of bylaws on the relatively better off households. Beyond the
1/   Loan amounts are in 1981 prices.



20 -
project period, KJS will continue the enforcement measures and the loan
program (until it is depleted) and achieve not less than 15,000 connections
during 1985/86 through 1989/90.
Off-site Infrastructure: Drainage
(Base cost Rs 11.8 million, US$1.5 million equivalent)
2.41      KNM assisted by the UPJN has prepared a scheme for draining the
slum areas to be upgraded under the project. Each slum would be connected
to existing outfalls by a stormwater drain, average length about 130 m, and
designed to accommodate rainfalls on a two-year frequency basis.
2.42      Annual Work Program:  Off-site Infrastructure.  As pointed out in
para 2.25, about 60 ahatas comprising 11,270 households have yet to be acquired
for slum upgrading. For various reasons, some of these ahatas may not become
available, and other slums already on public land could be substituted. Addi-
tionally, after more detailed investigations, the extension of sewers to some
ahatas may have to be reconsidered in view of possible high unit/capital costs,
which would adversely affect affordability. Since the above three offsite
infrastructure programs are subordinated to slum upgrading, they would then
have to be adjusted to provide infrastructure services only to those ahatas
acquired. However, the volume of works related to already acquired ahatas is
sufficient to provide for at least a one-year work program starting April 1981.
It has been agreed that the annual work programs of off-site water supply,
sewerage and drainage should be mutually agreed between GOUP and IDA annually,
starting by April 1 of each year.
2.43      Drainage of the Latouche Road-Cooper Ganj - Bansmadi Area.  This
thickly populated area in the central core includes a large slum population,
and a hospital. During the monsoon it is badly waterlogged. To remedy this
situation the KNM would implement an 1,800 m drainage system, connecting to
the existing Sisamau nalla. It would be provided as a stormwater sewer, with
gully gratings, since heavy traffic conditions in the area prevent construc-
tion of an open or covered stormwater drain proper. The basis of design is
rainfalls on a two-year frequency basis.
2.44      Desilting and Remodeling of Existing Drainage Outfalls (Nallas).
While the design capacity of existing outfalls is sufficient to dewater
respective catchment areas during the monsoon, disrepair and silting has
reduced actual discharge capacity. Under the project, KNM would undertake
repair and desilting of 13 existing stormwater drains, which drain slum areas.
The volume of works represented by this backlog is too large for KNM's regular
maintenance staff to handle, and will be carried out by contractors.
Solid Waste Management
2.45      Refuse Collection and Disposal,  (Base cost Rs 8.1 million, US$1.0
million equivalent). This component is designed to assist KNM to improve and
extend refuse collection and disposal within the city, particularly in the
central core of the city where most ahatas are located. The project would
provide sweeper carts, masonry bins, trucks, frontend loaders and other equip-
ment (see Annex 2, Table 5). Depot and workshop facilities would be improved
to better utilize vehicles and plant. At present fuel supply for all KNM



- 21 -
vehicles is available at one point, leading to considerable idle time for
refuse vehicles. The sweeper carts, trucks, and other plant provided would
facilitate better collection especially in the area of the central core and
commencement of sanitary landfill. The project would also provide for intro-
duction of a night soil digesting facility at the composting plant and tech-
nical assistance for evaluation of the composting operation.
2.46      While some vehicles would replace old vehicles, the net increase
in the fleet would enable KNM to transfer about 90% of the refuse generated.
Further improvements would be achieved through increased productivity.
2.47      KNM's present management system for solid waste collection is not
fully efficient, because responsibilities for collection workers, transfer
workers and vehicles, and disposal workers and facilities are split between
the Corporation's Health, Public Works and Mechanical Engineering Departments.
Consultants employed by KNM for the organization and management study are
expected to recommend a consolidated and improved management structure for
solid waste management in KNM (para 2.51). GOUP has undertaken to ensure
that KNM would carry out the necessary organizational changes in the solid
waste management service no later than April 1, 1983.
2.48      Night Soil Collection and Disposal.  (Base cost Rs 2.2 million,
US$0.3 million equivalent). Despite extensions to the sewer system proposed
under the project, a considerable number of people would remain without
adequate sanitation, and the night soil collection service is expected to
continue for many years. Substantial expansion in the night soil collection
service is required to reduce the existing health risks. The project would
provide assistance to KNM to expand the service by the provision of 10 night
soil carrier trucks and 150 carts, 400 drums (20-30 liters) and 400 buckets
(5-10 liters). The objective would be to collect waste from bucket latrines
that now end up in open drains amounting to about 85,000 liters/day (para
1.26), through KNM and private collectors. KNM would operate the night soil
carrier trucks to transfer night soil from designated collection points to
the points of disposal. Buckets will be issued to private collectors.
KNM will register private collectors, issue basic regulations and supervise
collections. It is therefore necessary for KNM to develop comprehensive
proposals for the reorganization and expansion of the collection service
through its own staff and private collectors, providing additional super-
visory staff and means to control private collectors, and enforcement of
sewer connections (para 2.40).
Traffic Management Measures
2.49      The project would assist KNM in establishing a Traffic Engineering
and Management Cell (TEMC), and provide funding for low cost traffic manage-
ment schemes (base cost Rs 7.3 million, US$0.9 million equivalent). The Cell,
to be headed by a qualified traffic and transportation engineer, would over
the first four years focus on intersection improvements and road safety
measures such as signalization, channelization, provision of cycle tracks,
pedestrian movements and enforcement. GOUP has undertaken to ensure that a
Traffic Engineering and Management Cell will be set up in KNM no later than
April 1, 1982 and schemes for implementation will be agreed between GOUP, KNM
and IDA prior to implementation.



- 22 -
Maintenance (Base cost Rs 8.1 million, bS1.0 million equivalent)
2.50      Over the years, a considerable backlog of deferred maintenance of
services has built up within KNH's jurisdiction, particularly for sewerage,
drainage, roads and street lighting. The reasons for this situation are poor
operation and maintenance procedures, and inadequate plant and equipment.
Consultants employed by KNM1 (para 2.51) will recommend, among other things,
appropriate equipment for coping with this backlog and with additional main-
tenance requirements caused by added investments under the project. It is
expected that the consultants will propose equipment for patch repair of roads
and sidewalks (such as road rollers, tar boilers, and trucks), for cleaning
of sewers (such as rodding machines, sewer cleaning machines, and gully pit
emptiers) and for general maintenance works (such as concrete mixers and
vehicles). Equipment relating to sewer cleaning would be provided to KJS
since the responsibility for sewerage now rests with KJS. GOUP has agreed
that procurement of equipment and plant will be done after KNI1, KJS and IDA
have jointly reviewed the recommendations of the maintenance study and agreed
on the course of action to be taken and plant and equipment to be procured.
Technical Assistance and Institutional Strengthening
2.51      Technical assistance and training would be included in the project
to support the strengthening of KDA, KiNM and KJS. KDA has commenced a 47
man-month consultancy study to assist in improving its overall performance in
the delivery of shelter and related services. The study covers the specific
areas of organization, systems and methods, collection system, accounting
system, project cost accounting and management. The strengthening of KNM
will be tackled on three broad fronts, given its importance in the provision
and maintenance of services. KNI1 has retained consultants for: (a) an insti-
tutional strengthening program covering organizational analysis, accounting
systems, management information system, stores operation, revenue collection
and the property assessment system and project cost accounting (60 man-months);
(b) a financial strengthening program to improve the existing system of
revenue generation and identify alternative sources of revenue (60 man-months);
and (c) a study of its maintenance activities to improve citywide maintenance
services (20 man-months). KJS has obtained about 4 man-months of consultancy
assistance to commence a billing management program in order to administer
more effectively its past due receivables. All the above studies were ini-
tiated between December 1980 and harch 1981 using local consultants. Terms
of reference for the consultancy studies for KDA, KNM and KJS were agreed with
IDA. Finally, the project would provide start-up costs to KNI to help estab-
lish the traffic engineering and management cell.
2.52      The state level component would assist the Departments of Housing
(formerly Housing and Urban Development) and Urban Development (formerly
Local Self-Government) to develop a strategy for statewide urban development
and strengthen urban management and finance. A new division would be estab-
lished in the Department of Town and Country Planning (T&CPD) which will
develop programs in coordination with the Department of Urban Development.
This unit will receive assistance to further develop economic, spatial and
strategic planning capabilities of T&CPD with particular emphasis on the



- 23 -
methodology and incentives for private sector participation in land and
shelter development. The assistance would comprise start-up costs for estab-
lishment of additional specialist staff, local consultancy assistance for
specific studies, equipment, specialized services and training. Based on
the institutional and financial strengthening program now being developed for
KNM, the unit would introduce and implement similar appropriate strengthening
programs in the other four KAVAL towns to strengthen management and finance.
Details of the proposal are yet to be finalized.
2.53      The total consultant staff-months for the institutional strengthen-
ing programs for both KDA and KNM include staff training provision over and
above the training they would receive on the job during the design and imple-
mentation phases of these studies. Additionally, agency staff would receive
specific short-term training locally, as appropriate.
2.54      betails of costs are provided in Annex 2, Table 10.
III. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
3.01      Total project cost, including contingencies, is estimated at
Rs 414 million (US$51.7 million). The foreign exchange component is Rs 40
million (US$5 million) or about 10% of project costs with Rs 18 million
(US$2.3 million) estimated as taxes and duties. Land acquisition costs are
estimated at Rs 51 million (US$6.4 million). Summary cost estimates are
given in Table 3.1 and detailed cost estimates for each component are given
in Annex 2, Tables 7-10.
3.02      Base cost estimates are in March 1981 prices.  Cost estimates
for the sites and services component are based on final engineering design
for all three sites (Barra, Gujaini and Pokharpur). Cost estimates for slum
upgrading are based on final engineering for 10 typical ahatas representing
varying densities, locations and physical conditions, and costs derived from
the pilot upgrading scheme at Rolling Mill ahata commenced in late 1980.
Cost estimates for environmental infrastructure improvements are based on
preliminary engineering designs for civil works. Recent quotations from
suppliers for materials, vehicles and equipment have been used to compute
costs for the solid waste management and maintenance subcomponents. Average
staff-month costs for consultant and advisory services are estimated at
Rs 8,500 for locally procured services. No foreign consultancy services will
be required. Physical contingencies have been estimated at 10% for civil
works with detailed engineering and 15% for civil works with preliminary
engineering. No physical contingencies have been applied to land, vehicles,
equipment, shelter loans and technical assistance. Price contingencies have
been estimated at 9%, 8.5%, 7.5% and 7.5% for FY82 through FY85 for both local
and foreign costs, except for land.



Table 3.1; SUMIARY COSTS
Rupees (million)                  US$ million (US$1 = Rs 8)         Foreign      of
Local   Taxes   Foreign   Total   Local   Taxes   Foreign   Total   Exchange  Total
Shelter
Sites & Services                      122.7      5.3     10.3    138.3   15.33       0.67      1.29   17.29         8       47
Slum Upgrading                         63.1      1.9      4.4      69.4    7.89      0.23      0.55    8.67         7       24
185.8     7.2      14.7    207.7   23.22       0.90      1.84   25.96
Environmental Sanitation, Mainte-
nance & Traffic Management
Water Supply                            3.5      0.2      0.4       4.1    0.43      0.03      0.06    0.52        12         1
Sewerage                               30.6      1.9      5.1      37.6    3.82      0.24      0.64    4.70        14       13
Drainage                               10.3      0.3      1.2      11.8    1.29      0.04      0.15    1.48        10         4
Maintenance                             6.5      0.4       1.2      8.1    0.81      0.05      0.15    1.01        15         3
Solid Waste Management                  6.2      1.6      2.6      10.4    0.78      0.20      0.32    1.30        25         3
Traffic Management Measures             6.2      0.4      0.7       7.3    0.77      0.05      0.09    0.91        10         2
63.3     4.8      11.2      79.3    7.90      0.61      1.41    9.92
Technical Assistance & Institu-
tional Strengthening
Consultant and Advisory
Services,Training, etc.                 6.2      0.2      1.6       8.0    0.77      0.03      0.20    1.00        20         3
Total Base Costs              255.3    12.2      27.5    295.0   31.89       1.54      3.45   36.88                100
Physical Contingencies                 16.9      0.9      2.3      20.1    2.11      0.12      0.28    2.51        11
Design, supervision, management        26.4      1.5      3.3      31.2    3.29      0.18      0.42    3.89        11
Price Contingencies                    56.6      3.3      7.3      67.2    7.08      0.41      0.91    8.40        11
Total Project Costs           355.2    17.9      40.4    413.5   44.37       2.25      5.06   51.68



- 25 
B. Financing
3.03      The proposed IDA credit of US$25 million would finance about 50% of
total project costs net of taxes and duties. The credit would cover 100% of
the estimated foreign exchange costs (US$5 million) and 45% of local costs.
The credit would be made available to GOI, which will pass it on to GOUP on
its standard terms and conditions as part of the central government assistance
to the state. GOUP would make all project funds available to implementing
agencies on terms and conditions indicated in Table 3.2. The terms and
conditions conform to current practices. Flow of funds is indicated in
Annex 2, Chart 3.
3.04      Retroactive financing would be provided as follows:  (a) not exceed-
ing US$250,000 to KDA, KNM and KJS for expenditures made after October 1,
1980 for consultant services required for project preparation; and (b) up to
US$250,000 to KDA for expenditures incurred after April 1, 1981 for civil works.
Table 3.2: FINANCING PLAN (US$ million)
Principal Direct GOUP  Loans   Total    of which
Agency  Expenditure             Cost    IDA Funds
/a         /b
A.  Sites and Services            KDA        1.6      23.1      24.7      12.30
B.  Slum Upgrading                KDA       0.1       11.1      11.2       4.30
C. Environmental Sanitation,
Maintenance and Traffic
Management
Water Supply              KJS                   0.9      0.9        0.40
Sewerage                  KJS                   7.2      7.2        3.70
Drainage                  KNM                   2.4      2.4        1.20
Solid Waste Management   KNM                    1.5      1.5        0.95
Maintenance               KNM/KJS               1.2       1.2       0.55
Traffic Management
Measures                KNM                   1.4      1.4        0.40
D.  Technical Assistance and    KDA/
Institutional Strengthening KNM/KJS/
T&CPD/DOI 1.2                  1.2       1.20
TOTAL                                   2.9       48.8      51.7      25.00
/a   Passed directly from GOUP to budgets of state departments for schools,
health centers, police stations, post offices, community halls, common
facilities centers and for state- and local-level agencies for insti-
tutional strengthening and training.
/b   GOUP loans to agencies at interest rate not exceeding 7% p.a. to be
repaid over 25 years, which includes a five-year grace period.
3.05      Projections of annual expenditures during the project period are
indicated in Table 3.3.



- 26 -
Table 3.3: ANNUAL CAPITAL EXPENDITURE PLAN
(Rs million)
1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85   TOTAL
A.  Sites and Services               30.9     69.9      63.0      33.9    197.7
B.  Slum Upgrading                   11.8     31.0      31.3      15.6     89.7
C. Environmenal Sanitation,
Maintenance & Traffic
Management Measures
Water Supply                  1.0      1.9       2.6      1.2       6.7
Sewerage                     7.8      15.3     20.1      14.5      57.7
Drainage                     2.6       8.3       7.0      1.1      19.0
Solid Waste Management       6.9       4.4      0.7        -       12.0
Maintenance                  2.3       4.9       2.6       -        9.8
Traffic Management Measures 1.0        4.4       4.7      1.3      11.4
D.  Technical Assistance and
Institutional Strengthening    2.9        2.8       2.5      1.3       9.5
TOTAL                          67.2    142.9    134.5       68.9    413.5
IV.  PROJECT MANAGEMENT, ORGANIZATION A4D FINANCE
A. Project ianagement
4.01      A state-level steering committee formed during project preparation
will continue during implementation and will provide guidance on policy and
project-related matters. This committee, chaired by the Chief Secretary,
includes secretaries of other state departments, chief town planner, and
senior officials from relevant organizations such as Jal Nigam, KDA, KNM and
KJS. The support and commitment of the State Government to the project has
been consistently expressed, during project preparation, through this steering
committee. It has provided a forum at the highest level of government for
discussion, for the project preparation team and IDA. It has lent support
to resolving problems, changing policies and procedures and adopting new
ideas.
4.02      A Project Management and Monitoring Committee was established in
April 1981 to perform the functions of coordination, monitoring and problem
solving related to project implementation at the local level. It will report
to the Steering Committee and IDA. The committee comprises the Secretaries
of Housing (formerly Housing and Urban Development) and Urban Development
(formerly Local Self-Government), the Chief Town Planner, Vice-Chairman of
KDA, the Administrator of KNM, and Chairman of KJS.



- 27 -
4.03      The Kanpur Development Authority (KDA) will have overall responsi-
b:litv for coordination of project execution at the local level.  The two
other agencies directly involved in implementing the project are the Kanpur
Nagar hahapalika (KNM) (municipal authority) and the Kanpur Jal Sansthan
(KJS) (city water and sewerage authority). The Project Management and Moni-
toring Committee will receive monthly control and activity reports from KDA,
as the coordinating agency, containing progress, status and current problems
relating to each component. The information required for these reports will
be obtained from the relevant departments of KDA, KNM and KJS and processed by
the Organization and Methods (O&M) Officer of KDA. All involved agencies will
submit information to the O&M officer on the basis of an agreed format and
frequency. Project activity data will originate from the various functional
departments of the executing agencies--such as planning, engineering, sales,
finance, accounting, etc.
4.04      In varying degrees, serious shortcomings exist in the three local
agencies. However, the Kanpur Development Authority has gradually succeeded
in improving its operational and management performance. Over the past two to
three years, it has increased the shelter program and commenced a sites and
services program to reorient shelter investments to the poorer sections of
the community. Assisted by KNMi and KJS it has done an excellent and thoroughly
professional job of project preparation, completed the upgrading of one ahata
as a pilot project and demonstrated innovativeness. About 75% of the total
project costs will be directly expended by KDA. Despite their weaknesses, KNIM
and KJS have recently begun to show improved performance. They now recognize
their weaknesses and support the objectives of the institutional strengthening
program in the project. The State Government has given unqualified support
to the institutional strengthening program, the recommendations of which may
be adopted in other KAVAL towns and perhaps elsewhere. An action program to
improve operational efficiency of the agencies has been identified. The
project would address organizational improvements, systems and procedures,
accounting, billing, collection, revenue generation and management control
systems.
B. Kanpur Development Authority
4.05      The Kanpur Development Authority (KDA) was carved out of the
development wing of the municipal authority in 1974 to undertake develop-
ment work and to exercise planning and development control functions over
a large area. The KDA is constituted under the provisions of the UP Urban
Planning and Development Act 1973. Its functions include: (a) acquisition
and development of land for residential and commercial purposes; (b) con-
struction of housing as well as commercial and industrial estates; (c) manage-
ment of land and buildings inherited from KNM and those developed by itself;
and (d) regylation of private building activity.  The area of jurisdictio"  of
KDA (969 km ) is about four times that of the municipal authority (262 km ).



- 28 -
4.06      The State Secretary for Housing (formerly Housing and Urban
Development) is the Chairman of the KDA board that directs its activities
through the chief executive officer--the Vice-Chairman. The Vice-Chairman
is assisted by a Secretary who has direct responsibility for the planning
and engineering departments. The sales, stores, accounts and administration
departments are directly responsible to the Vice-Chairman. The total estab-
lishment of KDA numbers about 1,100.  For physical execution of works, there
are at present six engineering divisions headed by a chief engineer. An
architect/planner deals with planning and development control. Two other
departments deal with general administration and accounts. While the plan-
ning and execution functions are managed efficiently, the accounts department
has few qualified staff. The organization chart of KDA is shown in Annex 3.
4.07      Land, residential and commercial development comprise the bulk
of KDA's capital works. The proportion of investments in shelter has been
increasing over the years and in 1979/80 about 3,200 units were constructed,
as indicated in Annex 3, Table 4. The proportion of investments for EWS
shelter has also been increasing steadily, reflecting the government's changing
priorities.
4.08      As an executing agency, KDA has demonstrated the capability for
effective physical execution of projects. It does not, however, have the
financial and accounting capability to undertake appropriate financial
analyses and cost control of projects, and forward planning and budgeting.
Methods for accountability of funds are inadequate. The project accounting
system lacks: (a) internal controls; (b) uniformity in data between operating
and accounting departments; and (c) appropriate and timely financial informa-
tion for effective management control.
4.09      KDA's expenditures for 1979/80 were about Rs 67 million.  Receipts
and payments since 1977/78, given in Annex 3, Table 1, indicate a steady
growth. The primary sources of funds are sales of serviced land, buildings
and public facilities, rents and loan charges, and loans and grants. During
fiscal year 1979/80, the total available funds of KDA amounted to about
Rs 92 million, of which about Rs 58 million (63%) were loans from Govern-
ment and HUDCO, and the remainder, Rs 34 million (37%), was generated from
internal operations. Capital investments reached about Rs 40 million in
1979/80 and were about Rs 60 million in 1980/81. As of March 1980, KDA's
outstanding debt obligations were approximately Rs 145 million with an
average annual debt service of Rs 14 million. In recent years, debt service
has been in the range of 14%-22% of gross funds disbursement.
4.10      KDA's ongoing projects, comprising about 5,400 housing units,
are expected to be completed in the next two years. The proposed project
would be handled as part of KDA's normal operations; and the level of annual
capital expenditure is expected to almost double over the next two years
from about Rs 50 million to about Rs 100 million. Past trends indicate that
expansion of KDA activities to this level in two years would be feasible.
KDA will increase its staff to cope with the expanded operation as indicated
in the organization chart (Annex 3). A full-time land acquisition officer



- 29 -
has been employed and one additional chief engineer will be appointed. Under
his direction, the engineering staff will be gradually built up to handle the
increasing workload. It is expected that up to eight engineering divisions
will eventually be added, starting with four becoming operational in the first
year. A town planner, sales staff, accounting staff and an organization and
methods officer would also be added to cope with the project functions. Most
of the staff will be drawn from the centralized services cadre.
4.11   The area of greatest need for improvements in KDA is administrative
and financial management. This would be addressed as part of the project.
Consultants have been employed by KDA since April 1981 to design and imple-
ment an appropriate accounting system, including training KDA personnel, and
effect improvements in the general systems and procedures. Specifically the
study will cover organization and methods, collection systems, accounting
system, project cost accounting and management, and internal controls for
management. The new accounting system would be introduced by April 1982 and
would be fully operational by April 1983 (para 4.36). Consultancy assistance
would be provided to follow up implementation. As a matter of priority, the
consultants will set up a project cost accounting system for use in the
project. The program would be completed by March 1983.
C. Kanpur Nagar Mahapalika
4.12      The Kanpur Nagar Mahapalika (KNM), the municipal authority, was
established under the Nagar Mahapalika Act 1959 to perform functions of
civic administration as an autonomous body. The KNM has had no elected
council since 1974. It is run by an Administrator appointed by the Depart-
ment of Urban Development (formerly Department of Local Self-Government).
4.13      KNM is responsible for solid waste management, sanitation, street
lighting, traffic engineering, city roads, and to some extent, maternity and
child health, and education. Its duties are mainly operation and maintenance
of the facilities, but it also undertakes some new works in roads and street
lighting. The functions of the municipal authority have gradually been eroded,
firstly by creation of.KDA (para 4.05) and recently by the decision to separate
the water supply and sewerage operations into the Kanpur Jal Sansthan (KJS)
(para 4.20). The sewerage functions were transferred to KJS on April 1, 1981.
4.14      Departmental organization is vague.  Based on the current organiza-
tion chart (Annex 3), there appears to be six operational departments. They
are administration (including stores), taxes, accounts and audits, health,
education arid engineering. However, there are considerable functional over-
laps between the departments. Solid waste management, education and accounts
functions are split between departments and responsibilities are inadequately
defined. The current organization set-up contributes to inadequate control
by management.



- 30 -
4.15      The low and deteriorating sanitary conditions prevailing in most
of Kanpur are ample evidence that the KNM has not been able to cope with
the city's needs. During fiscal year 1979/80 about Rs 33 million (31%)
of expenditure was allocated to conservancy and drainage, which together
constitutes the largest expenditure category. 1/ A further Rs 6.5 million
(6%) is allocated to capital expenditure, virtually all of which was for
sewerage. KNM's budget in the fiscal year 1979/80 was about Rs 104 million.
Statements of revenues and expenditure from 1977/78 onward are given in
Annex 3, Table 2. About 20% of KNM's funds was derived from government and
the remaining funds, generated internally. Government grants for recurrent
expenditure in 1979/80 amounted to Rs 18 million, or about 17% of total
receipts. About 25% of this amount (Rs 4.5 million) comprised a grant for
health and education facilities operated by KNM.
4.16       The major source of revenue is octroi--a tax levied on goods enter-
ing the city, which constitutes about 45% of the total. Property tax forms
about 20% of total revenue, a portion (7.5%) of which was water and sewer tax.
Most other categories of revenue have fallen as a proportion of total revenue
in recent years, due to the increase in the octroi tax.
4.17      The total property tax levied in 1980/81 was 22% of assessed
annual rental value of properties, out of a legal maximum of 25%. However,
from April 1981 the water and sewerage tax portion of the property tax is
collected directly by KJS. With the separation of the water and sewerage
tax portion (7.5%), the KNM portion of tax will now amount to only 14.5%
of assessed annual rent values. This permits KNM to progressively increase
the property tax from the present 14.5% to 25% and to achieve a significant
increase in its property tax revenues. The rental basis of property tax
assessment and the existence of rent control tends to keep the assessed
rentals artificially low, depriving KNM of much potential revenue. The
project would develop options for generating additional property tax revenues
(para 4.19).
4.18       The share of KNM's capital expenditure under the project will be
limited to drainage, solid waste management, maintenance and traffic management
measures. KDA would, however, execute the drainage components on behalf of
KNM with additional staff mobilized from the centralized services for physical
execution of works (para 4.10). The additional costs to be incurred by KNM
in respect of the services expanded under the project would amount to Rs 2
million annually. The maintenance charges from beneficiaries under the
project would amount to Rs 1.2 million annually. Additional property taxes
will accrue from the MIG, HIG and commercial and industrial properties.
The various options for raising additional revenue will be addressed through
the resource mobilization study under way (para 4.19).
1/   A major portion of the recurrent expenditure relates to cleaning of
sewers. With the improved solid waste management and increased sewer
connections planned under the project (para 2.40), this expenditure
should reduce substantially in future years, due to reduced blockage.



- 31 -
4.19      As part of project preparation, GOUP and KNM have taken action to
effect necessary organizational and financial improvements, with consultant
assistance. KNM engaged consultants in December, 1980 for a comprehensive
institutional strengthening program to address, specifically, improvements in
the organizational structure, systems and procedures for various functions of
KNM, design and implementation of an appropriate accounting system, including
training KNM personnel in the system. The above program is being developed
and is expected to be completed by March 1983. The above engagement provides
for consultant assistance to follow up implementation. A resource mobilization
study has also commenced in April 1981, with consultant assistance to identify
and implement measures to improve the resource base of KNM by: (i) improving
internal efficiency; (ii) improving tax assessment and collection machinery;
and (iii) tapping additional resources in the city. Following submission of
an interim report by consultants, a program for the study will be agreed.
GOUP has agreed that following review of the recommendations of the resource
mobilization study, due for completion in December 1981, by GOUP, KNM and
IDA, GOUP will cause KNM to adopt suitable measures to increase its revenues,
satisfactory to GOUP and IDA, no later than April 1, 1983. A third study
started in February 1981 to strengthen maintenance is being developed by
consultants. It is expected that the recommendations of the study, due about
September 1981, would, among other things, include provision of additional
plant, equipment and tools to KNM, clearing of the backlog of maintenance
services and the adoption of maintenance schedules consistent with current
and projected revenues.
D. Kanpur Jal Sansthan
4.20      In 1975, the State Government created the Jal Nigam (state-level
water and sewerage authority) to handle capital investments in the water
supply and sewerage sector and Jal Sansthans (city water supply and sewerage
authorities) to handle operation and maintenance. The Kanpur Jal Sansthan
(KJS) was legally set up in 1976 by separating the water supply functions
from the municipality. Effective operations in water supply by KJS did not
commence until April 1980 and the sewerage function was transferred from KNM
to KJS only on April 1, 1981. The departmental responsibility for water
supply and sewerage within GOUP was transferred from the then Department of
Local Self-Government (now Department of Urban Development) to the Department
of Housing in April 1980. The Chairman of KJS is also Administrator of KNM.
A General Manager is responsible for the operations of KJS. The organiza-
tional chart for KJS is shown in Annex 3.
4.21      Through the UP Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Credit 585-IN),
it was intended to create an autonomous and financially viable water supply
and sewerage authority for Kanpur. The project included urgently needed
investments such as tubewells, extensions to distribution networks, metering,
a meter repair program and important institutional and financial improvements.
4.22      The civil works for Kanpur under the above project are nearing
completion. Due to problems inherited from the time of its formation, KJS's
operational and financial performance has, however, been poor. It is in
default of the rate of return covenants agreed for 1978 and 1980 under the



- 32 -
UP Water Supply and Sewerage Project (Credit 585-IN). In 1978/79 and 1979/80,
only about 73% of KJS's operating expenditures (excluding debt service) were
covered by self-generated revenues. 1/ Shortage of trained staff, a lagging
metering program, faulty water meters, water leakage and difficulties with
billing and collection are among the principal reasons for this situation.
Quite substantial water tariff increases have been implemented since appraisal
of the UP Water Supply and Sewerage Project, but they have not had the expected
impact on KJS's financial performance, mainly due to the operational problems
cited above.  The most recent water tariff increase, averaging 150%, took
place in November 1979, bringing:  (a) do3estic tariffs up to Rs 0.50 per m
and non-domestic tariffs to Rs 1.50 per m for metered connections; and (b)
fixed domestic "tap charges" up to Rs 10 to Rs 30 per month depending on pipe
diameter. The water tax was doubled as of April 1981, from 6.25% to 12.5% of
annual assessed rental value.
4.23      Since early 1980, increasing emphasis has been given to attempts
to improve the operational performance of KJS and a rolling action program
has been regularly discussed with IDA in the course of the preparation of
the proposed urban project. Significant progress has already been achieved
and the proposed project will support further improvements. Specific opera-
tional and financial performance targets have been discussed and agreed (see
para 4.32 and Annex IV). Status of the main issues is summarized in paras
4.24-4.31.
4.24      Staffing.  In August 1980, a new middle-level staffing plan for
KJS was adopted, with 27 posts. Eighteen appointments had been made as of
June 1981 and the remaining nine appointments would be made by October 31,
1981. In February 1981, KJS also created the following additional lower-
level posts: 6 accountants, 52 tubewell operators, 40 meter inspection and
repair staff, and I public relations officer. Recruitment for these positions
is underway. A new General Manager of KJS was appointed in February 1981.
4.25      Metering.  During the period October 1980-June 1981, about 3,000
faulty meters were replaced, as compared to about 50 meters during the 12
months prior to October 1980. An estimated further 12,000 faulty meters need
to be replaced and this backlog would be eliminated by April 1, 1983. The
conversion of unmetered connections to metered has commenced only recently.
Over the past few years, only some 1,500-2,000 new metered connections have
been installed annually. Meter installation would increase to an average of
about 10,000 annually during the project period (about 13,500 conversions of
unmetered connections and about 25,000 new connections). The cost effective-
ness of the metering program will be closely monitored from the outset to
assess whether adjustments in this program should be made. Unmetered connec-
tions with fixed tap charges may be more appropriate in areas of low consump-
tion, intermittent supply, etc. Households with unmetered connections are
the water tax 2/, and the "tap charge" (para 4.22). Production and area bulk
1/   Excluding expenditures and revenues for sewerage which remained with
KNM during this period.
2/   No tax is payable for properties with assessed rental value less than
Rs 500 per year.



- 33 -
meters would be provided under the project to help improve current estimates
of production, consumption and leakage with a view to instituting further
measures to increase the proportion of water produced that is actually billed
(para 2.37).
4.26      Billing.  By mid-1981, KJS had become reasonably current in its
billing of non-domestic and bulk consumers. The situation is less satis-
factory with regard to domestic consumers (currently about 45,000 consumers,
representing about 37% of potential revenues), where lack of basic information
and effective procedures prevented KJS from starting its billing on a signifi-
cant scale until mid-1980. At that time, KJS had completed the preparation of
provisional consumer registers from KNM property tax registers. By March 1981,
billing for about 40% of due receivables for the period April 1977 to December
1980 had been completed with emphasis on the early part of this period. Many
of these bills are being contested, due to incorrect consumer records, faulty
meters, time lag, etc. To deal more effectively with domestic billing, KJS has
taken the following initiatives: (a) current billing on a six-monthly basis
has been initiated as of April 1, 1981, with billing for previous consumption
and arrears to continue separately; and (b) consultants have been engaged to
analyze the data base on past consumption and arrears and to develop a cost-
effective strategy for arrears collection. Quarterly meter reading commenced
April 1, 1981 and from April 1, 1982, billing will be quarterly instead of
semi-annually. From April 1, 1981, KJS has taken over from KNM the billing
for water and sewer taxes, which will allow better billing coordination by KJS
and simplify controls. Furthermore, to improve its data base, KJS in October
1980, commenced a survey to provide more reliable information on the number
and the status of water connections (metered, unmetered, and illegal, by type
of consumer). The survey and related data processing was about 25% complete
by June 1981 and will be fully completed by March 1982.
4.27       Collections.  Due largely to the stepped up billing program, cash
collections have recently improved from Rs 11 million in 1979/80 to about
Rs 20 million in 1980/81 - just sufficient to cover operating expenditures
for water supply, excluding debt service. The billing delays and previous
lack of enforcement of collection through disconnection of defaulting consumers
have led to public indifference which has seriously affected KJS's collections.
KJS commenced some disconnections of large consumers in early 1981, and will
initiate more systematic enforcement in parallel with the improvements in
the data base and in billing procedures.
4.28      Working Capital.  KJS was established without provision for adequate
working capital. As required under the UP Water Supply and Sewerage Project
(Credit 585-IN) and in view of the continuing financial difficulties of the
agency, GOUP has, in August 1981, given an Rs 12.5 million (US$1.56 million
equivalent) loan for working capital to KJS. The loan will be repaid over
7 years, which includes a two year grace period, at an interest rate of 10%
per annum.
4.29       Sewerage.  The transfer of the sewerage function to KJS on April 1,
1981, will negatively affect KJS's financial performance. In spite of an
increase of the sewer tax from 1.25% to 3% of annual assessed rental values
from April 1, 1981, sewer revenues are unlikely to cover more than 25% of
operating expenditure for sewerage in 1981/82. This would improve during the



- 34 -
project period as the number of connections would increase from about 7,000
to about 50,000 with only limited capital expenditure (the capacity of major
portions of the network is currently only about 20% utilized due to lagging
connections). Projections are shown in Annex IV, Table 5.
4.30      Accounting.  An accrual based accounting system for KJS has been
prepared by consultants financed under the UP Water Supply and Sewerage
Project (Credit 585-IN). Expenditures are accounted for on an accrual basis
starting April 1, 1981 and the full system will be in operation from April
1, 1982. The value of KJS fixed assets is being assessed. This will be
completed by April 1, 1982, and by March 31, 1983 it should be possible to
prepare proper balance sheets for KJS and to properly determine the finan-
cial rate of return on its operations.
4.31      Credit 585-IN provides that KJS (including both water and sewerage
operations) shall earn rates of return on its net fixed assets of not less
than 2%, 4% and 6% at March 31, 1978, 1980 and 1984, respectively.  For
reasons given above, the first two of these targets have not been achieved.
Until better data are available, including revised fixed assets values, it
is difficult to assess the likelihood that the 1984 target can be achieved.
KJS is now focusing on operational efficiency targets and cash flow targets
which would be consistent with the 1984 rate of return target. This will be
further assessed over the next 18 months as improved data become available.
4.32      Conclusion.  Through on-going works, the installed water production
capacity is being increased substantially. It is important that KJS: (a)
makes effective use of this capacity, and of existing sewer capacity; (b)
improves its internal efficiency; and (c) improves its revenue generation.
The actions outlined above have been analyzed in some detail to assess their
likely impact on various operating and financial indicators and to help estab-
lish realistic targets for the future. This analysis, which has been discussed
with KJS, UPJI and GOUP, is presented in Annex IV. The analysis suggests that
if the rate of progress achieved in 1980/81 can be maintained, KJS would cover
its operating expenditure and debt service starting with FY1983/84 (water sup-
ply only) and 1984/85 (water supply and sewerage). This would require, in
addition to operating improvements, tariff and tax increases, averaging 30%
for water supply and 100% for sewerage. To achieve this cash flow objective,
tariff and tax increases would have to be correspondingly higher if operational
improvements fail to materialize as projected.
4.33      Accordingly, agreement was reached with GOUP at negotiations that it
will cause KJS to:
(a) initiate, by April 1982, a wastage and leakage detection pro-
gram, including production metering and area-wise bulk metering;
develop by September 30, 1982, an action program to reduce
wastage and leakage to a level acceptable to IDA; and thereafter
implement such action program in accordance with a time schedule
acceptable to IDA;
(b) initiate an accelerated water connection program, to achieve
not less than 80,500 total water-connections by March 31, 1985;



- 35 -
(c)  introduce quarterly water meter reading and semi-annual bill-
ing during 1981/82, progressing to quarterly billing with
effect from 1982/83;
(d)  strengthen its meter repair and replacement capability, through
the provision of adequate staff and spare parts, to ensure that
not less than 75% and 90% of installed meters are fully func-
tional in each quarter with effect from the quarter beginning
January 1 and October 1, 1983, respectively;
(e)  improve its collection procedures, including procedures for
disconnection in the event of payment default, to achieve cash
collections of at least 60%, 65%, 70%, 75% and 80% of the cur-
rent year's receivables during fiscal years 1981/82, 1982/83,
1983/84, 1984/85 and 1985/86, respectively; and
(f)  generate sufficient revenues, through operational improvements,
and if necessary, tariff revisions, to cover not less than (i)
75% of the operation and maintenance costs and debt service
requirements for its water supply operations for the fiscal
year beginning April 1, 1982, (ii) 100% of the operation and
maintenance costs and debt service requirements for its water
supply operations for the fiscal year beginning April 1, 1983,
and (iii) 100% of the operation and maintenance costs and debt
service requirements for its water supply and sewerage opera-
tions for each year commencing with the fiscal year beginning
April 1, 1984.
4.34      A program to increase sewer connections under the project is discussed
in para 2.40.
E. Financial Statements
4.35      KDA, KNM and KJS keep their accounts in a rudimentary cash form,
with little meaningful analysis. Although some attempt is made, in each case,
to separate capital transactions from current transactions, these separations
are arbitrary and do not strictly follow any standard accounting logic. It
would have been helpful, had these separations been made, to have had separ-
ately balancing statements for capital, current and special funds. In present
circumstances, such an attempt at sophistication would be pointless. Instead,
in Annex 3, simple statements of receipts and payments are given, categorized
in the best manner possible from available information. No balance sheets are
shown, because assets and liabilities remain to be authentically established.
This in itself will be no easy task, even with the assistance of consultants.
4.36      GOUP has undertaken to ensure that adequate accounting systems will
be fully operational for KDA and KNM by April 1983 and for KJS by April 1982.
In the meantime, adequate arrangements will be in force for the safe and
efficient handling of project funds and for the full and proper accounting
thereof.



- 36 -
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Execution
5.01      Responsibility for execution of the major portion of the project
falls on the Kanpur Development Authority. Responsibilities are:
1.        Sites and Services and Slum Upgrading
-  Overall responsibility         KDA
-  Land acquisition               KDA
- Site development, on- and
off-site infrastructure
and core housing               KDA
-  Common facilities centers      Directorate of Industries
-  Schools                        Department of Education
-  Health centers                 KNM
-  Police stations                Department of Home
-  Community centers              KDA
- Community development
activities and training a/  KNM/KDA
-  Beneficiary selection          KDA (Directorate of Industries
for small-business plots)
-  Issue of leases                KDA
-  Collection of charges          KDA
2.        Environmental Sanitation, Maintenance and Traffic Management
-  Water supply                   KJS (executed by Jal Nigam)
-  Sewerage                       KJS (executed by KDA)
-  Drainage                       KNM (executed by KDA)
-  Solid waste management         KNM
-  Maintenance                    KNM
-  Traffic engineering measures  KNM
3.        Technical Assistance and Institutional Strengthening
-  Development of a strategy      Departments of Housing and Urban
for statewide urban devel-   Development, b/ GOUP through Town
opment and management         and Country Planning Department
- Consultant services for
organizational management
and financial studies         KDA, KNM and KJS
-  Training and other services   KDA, KNM, KJS, DOI, T&CPD
a/   UNICEF would provide assistance to KDA and KN1* under the UNICEF-sponsored
Community Development Project for Kanpur.
b/   The former Department of Local Self-Government responsible for local
authorities has been recently renamed the Department of Urban Development.



- 37 -
5.02      KDA will implement the shelter components and some of the major
off-site infrastructure components of the project as part of its regular
activities. For the project period, KDA will increase its staff to cope with
the additional workload. KDA will obtain the necessary staff largely from the
centralized services on secondment. In addition to implementing the shelter
components, KDA will execute the off-site sewerage works or behalf of KJS and
the drainage works on behalf of KNM. Off-site water supply will be executed
by UP Jal Nigam on behalf of KJS. KNM will implement the solid waste manage-
ment, maintenance and traffic management components.
5.03      UP Jal Nigam has undertaken the design of water supply works and the
Latuche Road-Cooper Ganj-Basmandi storm sewer for the project. The remaining
off-site works of drainage and sewerage, comprising secondary and tertiary
networks, have been designed by KDA on behalf of KNM.
B. Implementation Schedule
5.04      The project would be implemented over the period, April 1, 1981
to June 30, 1985. An implementation schedule is shown in Annex 3, Chart 4.
Final engineering designs for all three sites and services sites have been
completed. Bid documents for the two larger sites and services areas have
been prepared and reviewed by IDA. Bids for 15 ahatas have been received and
awards are to be made soon. A pilot upgrading project has been completed in
April 1981 (Rolling Mill ahata). All land for sites and services has been
acquired. Twenty-eight ahatas, sufficient for two years work, are in the
possession of KDA. Thus far, the preparation team has done an excellent job.
GOUP attaches great importance to this project, and has assured every assis-
tance in project implementation, including the supply of cement, which is in
somewhat short supply in India. Disbursements are expected through March 31,
1986 and the closing date would be June 30, 1986 (para 5.13).
C. Procurement and Disbursement
Procurement
5.05      Procurement of plant, equipment and vehicles under the project
totals about US$2.4 million equivalent, exclusive of contingencies, including
an estimate for equipment to be procured for the maintenance component by KNM
and KJS, which must await the outcome of the study referred to in para 2.51.
Contracts totaling about US$1.9 million equivalent will be awarded on the basis
of competitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance with procedures that
are acceptable to IDA. The items, to be procured in stages, are varied, small
in number and involve a number of manufacturers, and would not attract the
interest of foreign manufacturers. It was also recognized that local procure-
ment had the important advantage of allowing project authorities to benefit
from existing repair and spare parts facilities in the State. Contracts
for about US$300,000 equivalent would be awarded on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. A margin of preference
of 15% or the applicable customs duties, whichever is lower, will be applied
to domestic bidders offering domestically manufactured goods.



- 38 -
5.06      The remaining equipment to be procured under the project (total
value US$200,000) would involve small contracts (under US$50,000) for items
normally procured without competitive bidding, which would be procured
through normal commercial channels after obtaining quotations from at least
three suppliers.
5.07      The total estimated base cost value of civil works contracts under
the project is about US$25.3 million equivalent. Larger works comprise
sites and services at Barra (US$7.6 million) and Gujaini (US$4.5 million),
slum upgrading (US$4.6 million) and off-site branch sewers (US$4.7 million).
The smaller works include off-site water supply (US$0.5 million), drainage
(US$1.5 million), sites and services at Pokharpur (US$0.4 million), sites
preparation for sites and services (US$0.6 million) and traffic management
measures (US$0.9 million).
5.08      Concerning the sites and services works, design objectives point
to unsophisticated and India-specific construction methods: (a) the use of
brick, lime and fly ash to minimize the use of cement, steel and stone aggre-
gate (the latter unavailable in Kanpur); (b) the use of material and technology
that is simple, flexible and familiar to beneficiaries to permit re-use of
material and to facilitate simple additions; and (c) the use of labor-intensive
technology. Slum upgrading is distributed over about 90 slums on private land,
of which so far 28 have been acquired. The works will have to be carried out
on a slum-by-slum basis. As for the branch sewer works, they are subordinated
to slum upgrading, and have to be implemented under annual contracts--averaging
about US$0.8 million--in step with finalization of the slum acquisition program.
The remaining civil works are small and scattered. Because of their numbers,
size, nature and staggered implementation phases, civil works contracts would
not attract interest from foreign contractors.
5.09      The contracts for sites and services at Barra and Gujaini (totaling
US$12.1 million) and for off-site branch sewers (US$4.7 million) will be based
on "slice-and-packaging," and will be awarded following competitive bidding
among prequalified contractors on an all-India basis. The other contracts
will be awarded following competitive bidding advertised locally in Uttar
Pradesh.
5.10      The decision of GOUP and the agencies to execute the major civil
works through large contracts represents a major advance from current prac-
tices. Apart from reducing delays and the burden of administering a large
number of small contracts involving materials supply, the new conditions
of contract make contracting less of a gamble for contractors. On large
contracts, only cement will be supplied to contractors. GOUP and KDA have
agreed that a technical consultant, experienced in the administration of
large civil works contracts, will be engaged prior to the bid evaluation for
the larger contracts.
Disbursement
5.11      Disbursement of the proceeds of the IDA Credit would be as follows:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditure of directly imported plant, equipment, and
vehicles, and 100% of local expenditure (ex-factory) of locally manufactured
plant, equipment and vehicles procured through international competitive



- 39 -
bidding; (b) 55% of expenditure on contracts for plant, equipment and vehicles,
which will be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally
and through local shopping; (c) 55% of expenditure on contracts for civil
works; (d) 70% of expenditure on loans made to beneficiaries for home construc-
tion or improvement; (e) 70% of expenditure on loans made to small businesses
for construction or extension of buildings; (f) 70% of expenditure on loans
made to beneficiaries for sewer connection loans; and (g) 100% of expenditure
on technical assistance.
5.12       Disbursements for (d), (e) and (f) above will be made against state-
ments of expenditure and the executing agency will retain supporting documents
for inspection by supervision missions. All other expenditures would be fully
documented.
5.13      A schedule of disbursements of the IDA credit is shown in Table 5.1.
The region-wide sectoral disbursement profile for the Urban Sector indicates
that disbursements would cover a six-year period.  In this project, however,
the disbursement period is estimated at five years as: (i) all land for
sites and services has already been acquired; (ii) land for 28 out of about
90 slums designated for upgrading has already been acquired; and (iii) sites
and services and branch sewer contractors would be prequalified with large
contracts being awarded on a "slice and package" basis. The resultant
contracts would be fewer in number and easier to administer.
Table 5.1: ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
Cumulative
IDA Fiscal Year       Quarter Ending         Disbursements         Disbursements
(US$'000)             (USS'000)
1982          September 30, 1981
December  31, 1981             -                      -
March     31, 1982              400                   400
June      30, 1982             800                  1,200
1983          September 30, 1982            1,600                 2,800
December  31, 1982           1,600                  4,400
March     31, 1983           1,800                  6,200
June      30, 1983           2,000                  8,200
1984          September 30, 1983            2,000                10,200
December  31, 1983           2,000                 12,200
March     31, 1984            1,800                14,000
June      30, 1984           1,800                 15,800
1985          September 30, 1984            1,700                17,500
December  31, 1984           1,600                 19,100
March     31, 1985           1,500                 20,600
June      30, 1985           1,400                 22,000
1986          September 30, 1985            1,200                23,200
December  31, 1985           1,000                 24,200
March     31, 1986              800                25,000



- 40 -
D. Accounts and Audits
5.14      KDA, KNM and KJS will separately identify project-related trans-
actions within their normal accounting and financial reporting systems.
Consultant studies currently underway at KDA and KNM have been deliberately
designed to improve internal controls and accounting systems. KJS is imple-
menting similar systems as part of the UP Water Supply and Sewerage Project.
It has been agreed that the three agencies will complete the annual accounts
promptly and that they will employ independent auditors acceptable to IDA to
audit their financial accounts and statements for each fiscal year. No later
than nine months after the close of each financial year, the agencies will
submit to IDA audited financial statements and auditor's report together with
an evaluation of the internal controls and financial management of the agencies
accompanied by recommendations for improvements, if deemed necessary.
E. Monitoring and Evaluation
5.15      Throughout project preparation, KDA performed excellently in sub-
mitting succinct progress reports, monthly to GOUP and quarterly to IDA.
KDA will continue to produce monthly summary status reports of all activities
and submit such reports to the Project Management and Monitoring Committee,
with recommendations for corrective action. The Project Management and
Monitoring Committee will prepare quarterly reports on the progress of the
project toward its physical, financial and programmatic goals and submit
these reports to IDA within one month of the expiration of each quarter.
F. Supervision
5.16      About 70 staff-weeks of IDA supervision would be required over the
project implementation period spread evenly.
VI. COST RECOVERY, PRICING AND AFFORDABILITY
A. Cost Recovery
6.01      The basic premise of the project is to maximize recovery of
investment costs in order to ensure financial replicability of the program,
as indicated below and in Annex 2, Chart 3.



- 41 -
Expenditure Item                 Means of Cost Recovery
1. Shelter
(a) Sites and Services
Land                             Plot charges
On-site infrastructure           Plot charges
Off-site infrastructure          Water and sewerage
partly recovered
through user charges
On-plot development              Plot charges
Shelter loans                    Loan charges
Community facilities             Partly recovered (half cost
of land for schools and land
for community centers)
Small business loans             Loan charges
(b) Slum Upgrading
Land                             Plot charges
On-site infrastructure           Plot charges
Home improvement loans           Loan charges
Sanitary core loans              Loan charges
2. Environmental Sanitation, Maintenance and Traffic Management
Infrastructure                   Water supply and sewerage
partly recovered through
user charges
Sewer connection loans           Loan charges
Solid waste management           Not recovered directly
Maintenance                      Not recovered directly
Traffic management measures      Not recovered directly
3. Technical Assistance and Institutional Strengthening
Consultant and advisory
services, training and
start-up costs for state-
and local-level agencies         Not recovered
Sites and Services
6.02      About 86% of component cost is for directly chargeable cost items
(land, site preparation, on-site infrastructure, on-plot development and
shelter loans) and would be fully recovered through plot sales and loan
repayments. Five percent of component cost is for community facilities
(land, infrastructure, buildings and equipment) which would not be directly
recovered, except for half the cost of land for schools and full cost of
land for community centers, which will be recovered through plot charges.
Off-site infrastructure comprising about 7% of component cost would be
partially recovered through user charges. About 2% is for small-business,
which is fully recovered except for the costs of common facilities centers,
which are partially recovered.



- 42 -
6.03      Beneficiary selection will be mainly based on income.  Additional
eligibility criteria include residency in Kanpur and no claim to ownership
of other properties in the Kanpur district. Income declaration will be
based on sworn affidavits by beneficiaries. EWS beneficiaries will be free
to construct incremental shelter without the requirement of building permits,
subject only to setbacks at the front and rear of the plot and maximum site
coverage of 66%. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that benefi-
ciary selection criteria would be satisfactory to IDA.
6.04      Residential plots would be sold with 90-year leasehold titles.  All
EWS (except EWS 1) and LIG plots would require a down payment of 10%, and the
balance would be repaid at not less than 12% interest per annum over not more
than 20 years. EWS 1 plots would be sold at the same terms except that the
down payment would be only 5%. All other plots, including commercial and small
business plots, would require a 25% down payment, with the remainder being paid
over not more than 10 years at not less than 12% interest p.a.   Due to the
phased construction of dwellings by beneficiaries, the assessed rental value
of dwellings may fall below the threshhold (Rs 500 per year) below which
property tax is not chargeable. To assist KNM to maintain the newly developed
areas, maintenance charges of Rs 2.5 per month for EWS, Rs 5-11 per month for
LIG plots and Rs 30 per month for MIG plots will be levied in the interim
period, and would be added to the monthly payment (Table 6.1). Maintenance
charges would cease when beneficiaries become eligible for payment of property
taxes. KDA will pass on maintenance charges collected, to KNM. Beneficiaries
may not sell their plots for a period of 5 years without giving KDA first
option to purchase and set the sales price. Thereafter, plots could be freely
sold by title holders upon payment of the outstanding principal and interest.
Optional shelter loans of Rs 1,500, Rs 900, Rs 500 and Rs 500 would be provided
for purchasers of EWS 1, 2, 3, and 4 plot options, respectively, and Rs 3,000,
Rs 3,500, Rs 4,000 and Rs 4,000 for purchasers of LIG 1, 2, 3, and 4 plot
options, respectively, to construct or expand homes. These loans would be at
an interest rate of not less than 12% p.a. over not more than 20 years. Build-
ing construction/expansion loans for small businesses would be provided at an
interest rate of not less than 12% p.a. over not more than 20 years. No loans
would be provided in the project for MIG and HIG households who would obtain
housing finance from commercial banks, cooperative societies and other sources.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that conditions of lease and mort-
gage and terms and conditions for loans for beneficiaries in sites and services
would be on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
6.05      The interest rate of not less than 12% p.a. adopted for plot charges
and loans reflects a substantial increase from the 4%-6% p.a. interest rates
adopted for EWS and LIG housing under the State and HUDCO-funded schemes. The
commercial interest rate for middle and upper income housing is about 14% p.a.
currently, and the inflation rate for India is expected to be about 9% p.a.
over the project period.
Slum Upgrading
6.06      About 99% of the component cost is for directly chargeable costs
(land, on-site infrastructure, and funds for home improvement) which would be
fully recovered through improvement charges and loan repayments. The remaining
1% of component cost is for the common facilities center which would be partly



- 43 -
recovered through charges levied for use of the facilities. The cost of land
for the small multi-purpose community rooms would be recovered from benefi-
ciaries. Off-site infrastructure for slum upgrading is included in the
environmental sanitation component, and would be partly recovered through
user charges.
6.07      The cost of land and improvements would be recoverej in monthly
payments by hoyseholds ranging in amounts from Rs 13 for 15 m plots to
Rs 52 for 45 m plots, over 20 years. A 5% down payment would be required.
A monthly maintenance charge of Rs 2.50 for plots below 45 m and Rs 5 for
all other plots will also be charged from beneficiaries (Table 6.2) and passed
on to KNM. Repayment of the plot charges and home improvement loans would be
at not less than 12% interest p. a. over not more than 20 years. Prepayment
of the loans for land and improvement would be permitted at any time without
penalty. Resale of the plots would be allowed on full payment of principal
and interest due on land, infrastructure and home improvement loans. However,
beneficiaries may not sell their plots for a period of 5 years without giving
KDA first option to purchase and set the sales price.   Beneficiaries on
plots less than 60 m will be free to construct or improve houses without
the requirement of building permits subject only to minimum setbacks. Land
tenure would be provided to the beneficiaries through 90-year leasehold
titles. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that conditions of lease
and mortgage and terms and conditions of loans for slum households would be
on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
B. Pricing
6.08      Sites and Services.  Prices of residential plots would reflect
differences in infrastructure levels, on-plot development, location, accessi-
bility and plot sizes. As a result, the EWS plot options would be priced
at less than average square meter cost, while prices of LIG, MIG, HIG and
the commercial and small industry plots would be set at above average costs.
Overall, full cost recovery would be achieved. Current market prices charged
for commercial and small-business plots are estimated at Rs 200 and Rs 100
per square meter, respectively. The actual selling price would be determined
at time of offering, with-the commercial plots generally offered for sale by
auction. The sale of commercial plots will not be limited to any income
group. Based on current practice, half the cost of land for schools will
be charged to the Department of Education. Land for community centers and
multipurpose community rooms will be borne by beneficiaries.   Price of land
for other public and community facilities would be set at cost, and charged
to the budgets of the respective government departments.
6.09      Slum Upgrading.  The ayerage cost of acquisition of the already
acquired ahatas is about Rs 25/m gross. They had been acquired under the
provisions of the Land Acquisition Act. The compensation formula for acqui-
sition under the Slum Areas (Improvement and Clearance) Act, under which the
remaining ahatas will be acquired, provides for 100 times monthly rental
including all buildings. From the rent information available at the municipal
authority, the likely cost of acquisition. of ahatas under the latter Act has



- 44 -
been computed and averages2about Rs 18/mr  gross.  Including management costs,
it would amount to Rs 20/mr  gross.  The compensation provision is likely to
be subject to litigation and the final cost of acquisition will not be known
for some time. However, in the computation of affordability a gross square
meter cost of Rs 31 has been used, providing a cushion of about 55%.
Stamp Duty
6.10      All property transactions attract stamp duty and charges based
on the selling price. Minimum per square meter costs based on location are
used by the Registrar of Deeds to check evasion of duty. In the case of plot
purchase over an extended period, the sum total of the payments (including
interest charges) is usually considered as the "selling price." The stamp duty
and charges amount to about 11% of the "selling price." In the case of the
project, this amounts to about 26% of the price of the option. This amount
is required to be paid upfront in one payment. Low income households would
face serious problems raising this cash payment. The transfer of title takes
place soon after beneficiary selection and the title is then held by KDA until
all outstanding payments are made.
6.11      The State Government has agreed to proposals to alleviate the impact
of stamp duty especially for the EWS and LIG beneficiaries. Transfer of title
for the land only on the basis of the differential pricing system adopted will
be done at the outset soon after selection of beneficiaries. This sale of
land only will be treated as an outright sale, and KDA will use the down
payment from beneficiaries toward stamp duty payments. A separate agreement
will be effected between KDA and the beneficiary for the remainder of the
outstanding debt. This arrangement will bring the stamp duty and charges to
about Rs 230 for the EWS 1 plot option and Rs 360 for the LIG 3 plot option.
Stamp duty and charges for the slum upgrading areas would be computed on the
basis of selling price for land only, taking account of the differential
pricing mechanism. The total down payments will be sufficient to meet stamp
duty and charges for the agreement. GOUP has approved these procedures to be
followed by the Registrar of Deeds with respect to the imposition of stamp
duty on sites and services and slum upgrading beneficiaries.
C. Affordability
6.12      About 68% of all plots in the sites and services area would be
affordable to EWS households with incomes less than Rs 350 per month, which
corresponds to about the 45th percentile of the Kanpur urban household income
distribution.  The2monthly cParges for upgraded areas would be about Rs 12
and Rs 21 for 15 m and 25 m plots respectively, exclusive of home improvement
loans. For households with incomes of Rs 150 and Rs 200 per month, the above
monthly charges represent 8% and 10.5% of income toward shelter. About 70% of
ahata beneficiaries are estimated to have incomes below Rs 350 per month. The
differential pricing mechanism would provide beneficiaries with choices for
adjustment of2plot sizes, exchanges within the ahata and further subdivisions.
Plots of 15 m would be affordable to the 10th percentile of the Kanpur Slum



- 45 -
Income Distribution (Annex 2, Chart 1). Flexibility in the determination of
a minimum plot size would ensure that even poorest households would be accom-
modated, as demonstrated in the pilot upgrading scheme ai Rolling Mill ahata,
where the smallest plot size comprised one room of 7.5 m for a single person.
Affordability analysis for sites and services and slum upgrading is given
in Tables 6.1 and 6.2, respectively.
(reduced Tables 6.1, 6.2 to be inserted here)
Table 6.1: SITES AND SERVICES: PLOT OPTIONS, COSTS, INDICATIVE CHARGES, AND AFFORDABILITY
(March 1981 prices)
EWS1     EWS2      EWS3      EWS4      LIGI      LIG2      LIG3      LIG4        IIIG    'dG
Plot Size (m 2)                                36.75    36.75    36.75    36.75    57.75    57.75    57.75              81         180      300
Number of Plots                                1,456    5,000    1,856    1,800          203       612       350    1,620        1,696      184
Percentage of Plots                             9.85    33.84    12.56    12.18         1.37      4.14      2.37    10.96        11.48    1.25
Land & Infrastructure Price (Rs)                 975       976    1,085    1,085    4,394    4,652    4,824    6,615            17,424  37,831
Superstructure Costs (Rs)                        952    2,949    5,549    6,963
Stamp Duty & Bond (Rs)                           231       306       400       456       344       361       361       /a          /a       /a
Total Price of Option (Rs)                     2,158    4,231    7,034    8,504    4,738    5,013    5,185    6,615             17,424  37,831
Down Payment (Rs)                                100       200       350       450       439       465       482       661       4,356   9,458
Recovery Period (years)                           20        20        20        20        20        20        20        20          10       10
Monthly Payment (Rs) /b                        22.66    44.38    73.60    88.68    47.34    50.07    51.78    65.56             187.49  407.07
Monthly Maintenance Charge (Rs)                 2.5       2.5       2.5       2.5       5.00      6.00      7.00    11.00          /c    /c
Total Monthly Payment (Rs)                     25.16    46.88    76.10    91.18    52.34    56.07    58.78    76.56             187.49  407.07
Optional Building Loans                        1,500       900       500       500    3,000    3,500    4,000    4,000             -        -
Monthly Payment on Building Loans (Rs)         16.52      9.91      5.51      5.51    33.03    38.54    44.04    44.04
Total Monthly Expenditure (Rs)                 41.68    56.79    81.60    96.69    85.37    94.61   102.82   120.60            187.49  407.07
Monthly Income (Rs)                             200        250       300       350       400       450       500       600       1,500   2,500
Percent of Income on Shelter: Minimum /d   12.58    18.75    25.37    26.05    13.08    12.46    11.76    12.76                  12.50   16.28
Maximum /d   20.84    22.72    27.20    27.63    21.34    21.03    20.56    20.10               12.50   16.28
/a  Beneficiaries of LIG4, MIG and HIG plots will be required to provide stamp duty and and bond charges, in addition to down
payment, at transfer of title.
/b  Recovery of plot charges and loans will be at an interest rate of not less than 12% per annum.  Plot charges include physical
contingencies, design, supervision and management and interest during construction.
/c  MIG and RIG will qualify for property tax from the outset.
Id Minimum and maximum expenditure relates to without and with building loans, respectively.
Table 6.2:  SLUM UPGRADING:  PLOT SIZES, COSTS, INDICATIVE CHARGES, AND AFFORDABILITY
(March 1981 prices)
Plot Size    15m2        20m2       252        30m2       452        6Om2        80m2        100m2
Number of Plots                                 3,647      4,348      3,597      3,230       2,260      1,273        981        526
Percentage of Plots                             18.36      21.89      18.11      16.26       11.38       6.41       4.94       2.65
Land & Infrastucture Price (Rs)                    898     1,299      1,951      2,603      4,231       6,339     9,615    13,618
Stamp Duty & Bond (Rs)                            142        176        235        316         481       /a          /a         /a
Total Price of Option (Rs)                      1,040      1,475      2,186      2,919      4,712       7,076    10,743    15,285
Down Payment (Rs)                                   52         74        109        146        236        354        537        764
Recovery Period (years)                             20         20         20         20         20         20         20         20
Monthly Payment (Rs) /b                         10.88      15.43       22.87      30.53      49.29      74.02    112.38    159.89
Monthly Maintenance Charge (Rs)                  2.5        2.5        2.5         2.5        2.5        5          5          5
Sanitary Core Loan (Rs)                         1,000      1,000      1,000      1,000      1,000      1,000      1,000       1,000
Monthly Payment on Construction Loan (Rs)   11.01          11.01      11.01       11.01      11.01      11.01      11.01      11.01
Hone Improvement Loan (Rs)                        500         500        500        500      1,000      1,000        -          -
Monthly Payment on Building Loan (Rs)            5.51        5.51       5.51       5.51      11.01      11.01        -          -
Monthly Expenditure (Rs) Minimum                13.38       17.95      25.37      33.03      51.79      79.02    117.38    169.89
Maximum              29.90      34.45      41.88      49.55      73.81    101.04    128.39    187.90
Monthly Income (Rs)                                150        200        250        300        400        550        650        900
Minimum Percentage of Income                      8.92       8.96      10.15      11.01      12.95      14.37      18.06      18.32
Percent of Income with Construction Loan    16.26          14.47      14.55      14.68       15.70      16.37      19.75      19.52
Building Loan          19.93      17.22      16.75      16.52      18.45      18.37      19.75      19.54
/a  Beneficiaries of plots greater than 50 m  will be required to provide stamp duty and bond charges, in addition to down pay-
ment, at transfer of title.
/b Recovery of plot charges and loans will be at an interest rate of not less than 12X per annum. Plot charges include
physical contingencies, design, supervision and management and interest during construction.



- 46 -
VII. JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Economic Evaluation
General
7.01      The shift in investments to low-cost shelter, commenced in 1978
in Kanpur, would be given greater momentum through the project. The project
would also be instrumental in shifting an increased proportion of GOUP Plan
funds to urban development. Institutional weaknesses identified would be
addressed on a broad front, through strengthening organization and management,
financial management and accounting, resource mobilization and collection.
In varying degrees these efforts would affect KDA, KNM and KJS. Experiences
of the institutional improvement program would be used to improve the urban
agencies in the other KAVAL towns. The adoption of full cost recovery,
realistic interest rates and affordable solutions would influence the State
Government to expand these measures and thus reduce subsidies to urban areas.
The state-level program would develop a strategy for statewide urban develop-
ment and management based on the above measures and additional programs
introduced under the project.
Sites and Services and Slum Upgrading
7.02      Estimates of economic benefits of the sites and services component
are derived from imputed rental values of similar serviced residential plots
based on recent sample surveys by KDA, and market value of serviced commercial
and small-business plots. The costs include shelter loans and all directly
chargeable costs of land and on-site infrastructure and maintenance costs of
2-1/2% and excludes taxes, costs of schools, health centers, other community
facilities. On the above basis, the economic rate of return for the sites and
services component is estimated at 18%.
7.03      The economic benefits of the slum upgrading components are estimated
on the basis of the increase in imputed rental value created by infrastructure
and service improvement. Costs, net of taxes, include all directly chargeable
costs of land, on-site infrastructure, home improvement loans and maintenance
costs of 2-1/2%. The economic rate of return on this basis is estimated at
26%.
7.04      Rates of return were not computed for other project components due
to difficulties of quantifying their benefits. However, various qualitative
benefits are discussed below.
7.05      Health and educational benefits would accrue to 75,000 persons and
43,000 primary and high school students, respectively, through the health
centers and schools provided under the project. The general improvements in
shelter and health facilities would generate many unquantifiable benefits,
particularly reduction in the incidence of tuberculosis and infant mortality.
The small-scale business program in the project would improve artisan and
entrepreneurial skills of small business persons and lead to increased incomes.



- 47 -
Environmental Sanitation
7.06      Though primarily designed to cater for the project slum areas, the
benefits of the environmental sanitation subcomponent would accrue to a much
wider population, estimated at more than double the direct project benefi-
ciaries, or about 200,000 people.
7.07      The program to expand the sewer system, the connection program
and its enforcement would achieve a wide health and environmental impact
in the central core of the city where almost 50% of the population resides.
Generation of sufficient flows in the sewers would reduce the current annual
expenditure on clearing blocked sewers, amounting to about 20% of the KNI
budget, according to estimates. Extensions to the tertiary sewer system would
achieve greater utilization of the trunk sewers installed sometime ago, but
currently utilized at only about 20% capacity. The loan scheme for sewer
connections and the enforcement program would ensure that these benefits would
be realized.
7.08      The solid waste management program would primarily benefit over
100,000 households in the central core where the ahatas are located. Refuse
collections would be introduced in this area in a systematic manner where
up to now only a skeletal service exists. Improvements to the nightsoil
collection and disposal would reduce the serious health risk that now exists
for the residents of the slum areas. In addition to expanding the collection
of nightsoil, measures would be taken to prevent human excreta from ending
up in neighborhood open drains through control over private collectors.
Urban Poverty Impact
7.09      The main thrust of the project would be to provide benefits to the
urban poor. Eighty-seven percent of the upgrading beneficiaries or 18,000
households are in the urban poverty group. In the sites and services compo-
nent, 74% of the plots are affordable by the urban poor. About fifty percent
of the environmental sanitation component would benefit the urban poor. Of
the total project cost of US$51.7 million equivalent, 69% or US*35.9 equivalent
is attributable to the urban poverty group. IDA estimated urban poverty
threshold is US$132 per capita per year or Rs 485 per household per month (5.5
persons per household).
7.10      The urban poverty impacts are tabulated in Table 11, Annex 2 and are
summarized below:
(a) about 74% of residential plots in the sites and services areas
are affordable by the urban poor (11,000 out of 15,000 plots);
(b) about 50% of the annual demand for new shelter by the
urban poor will be met by this project during the project
period;
(c) about 87% or 18,000 households in the upgrading areas are
in the urban poverty group;



- 48 -
(d)  about 45% of the benefits of the off-site water supply,
sewerage and drainage are expected to accrue to the
urban poor;
(e)  solid waste management improvements will accrue mostly to
the low-income areas and about 70% of benefits are expected
to accrue to this group; and
(f)  traffic management measures are concentrated in the densest
areas of the city and about 45% of the benefits are expected
to accrue to the urban poor.
B. Risks
7.11      The main risk in the project relates to land acquisition of the
ahatas. The ahatas are well located in the central area of the town and the
chances of success of the acquisition under the UP Slum Areas (Improvement and
Clearance) Act 1962 are uncertain, as the Act is yet to be tested in the State.
Some of the ahatas, however, could be substituted with slums on public land.
If the compensation payable substantially exceeds the provisions of the Act,
there may come a point at which slum upgrading in the central area with full
cost recovery would not be feasible. A margin of about 55% has been allowed
in the gross selling price for ahata land, yet in the absence of previous
experience, the risk remains. If the average costs of acquisition were to
exceed the estimates substantially, a number of options would need to be con-
sidered, including the deletion of the more expensive ahatas, reduction of
infrastructure standards and a subsidy on the cost of land.
7.12      The second set of risks relates to the capacity of the agencies
to implement the project in the project period. For KDA, the project would
almost double annual expenditures from current levels. Following completion
of ongoing works, KDA will need to carefully assess execution capacity before
undertaking additional investments. KDA has, however, in the recent years
successfully expanded its investment activities without undue strain. The
bulk of the civil works would be carried out under large contracts and would
considerably ease the burden of administering a large number of small con-
tracts. However, KDA would obtain the major portion of staff on secondment
from the centralized services. This arrangement will permit KDA to easily
adjust its staff strength so that its activity can be most easily ta4lored
to fit future availability of funds and to rapidly scale down if such funds
are not available. Additionally, supply constraints in materials such as
cement and steel constitute risks for timely completion of the works. The
steel supply situation has eased, but cement supply and distribution is
strictly controlled. KNM and KJS will need to expand its maintenance cap-
ability to serve the additional areas developed under the project.



- 49 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, the following principal agreements were reached:
(a)  GOUP would ensure that, not later than April 1, 1983, the
KNM would make such organizational and operational changes
in its solid waste management service as would be agreed upon
between IDA and the KNM, based on the recommendations of the
study being conducted by the consultants on the organization
and management of the KNM (para 2.47).
(b)  GOUP would ensure that KNM would (i) establish, by April 1,
1982, a Traffic Engineering and Management Cell with adequate
staff, and (ii) implement such low cost traffic management
schemes as would be agreed upon between KNM and IDA (para
2.49).
(c)  GOUP would ensure that only such investments for maintenance
improvements would be undertaken as would be agreed between
IDA, KNM and KJS based on the recommendations arising from
the study now being carried out of the maintenance functions
of the KNM and KJS (para 2.50).
(d)  GOUP would cause KNM to implement, not later than April 1,
1983, such measures to increase its revenues as would be
agreed upon between GOUP, KNM and IDA on the basis of recom-
mendations arising from the resource mobilization study,
presently being carried out by consultants (para 4.19).
(e)  GOUP would cause KJS to take steps to improve its operating
efficiency and financial performance through: (i) a wastage
and leakage program to commence by April 1, 1982, including
production and bulk metering; (ii) an accelerated connection
program to achieve not less than 80,500 total water connec-
tions by March 31, 1985; (iii) more frequent meter reading
and billing commencing in the fiscal years 1981/82; (iv) an
effective collection program to achieve cash collection
targets for the fiscal years 1981/82 through 1985/86; (v)
revenue increases to cover fully the costs of operation, main-
tenance and debt service for the water supply operation in the
fiscal year 1983/84 and the water supply and sewerage opera-
tions for each year with effect from the fiscal year beginning
1984/85 (para 4.33).
(f)  GOUP would cause to be taken all such action as may be
necessary to introduce accounting systems, in respect of the
KDA, KNM and KJS, satisfactory to IDA and to ensure that said
accounting systems shall be fully operational in respect of
the KJS by April 1, 1982 and in respect of the KDA and the
KNM by April 1, 1983 (para 4.36).



- 50 -
(g)  GOUP would ensure that KDA, KNM and KJS would (i) have
their accounts and financial statements audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and (ii) furnish to
IDA, no later than nine months after the close of each fiscal
year, certified copies of their financial statements and the
auditor's report in such scope and detail satisfactory to IDA
(para 5.14).
(h) GOUP would ensure that in respect of the sites and services
to be developed by the KDA: (i) the beneficiary selection
criteria, (ii) the terms and conditions of lease and mortgage;
and (iii) the terms and conditions of shelter construction
and small business loans to the beneficiaries, shall all be
satisfactory to IDA (paras 6.03-6.05).
(i) GOUP would ensure that, (i) the terms and conditions of
lease and mortgage, and of improvement loans, to the benefi-
ciaries of slum upgrading (para 6.07) and (ii) the terms and
conditions of the sewer connection loans (para 2.40) shall
all be satisfactory to IDA.
8.02      On the basis of the above agreements, the project would be suitable
for an IDA credit to GOI of US$25 million.



- 51 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDIA
KANPUR URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY OF UNICEF-SPONSORED URBAN COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Objectives
1.        The objectives of the project would be to:  (a) encourage community
participation in the planning, provision and maintenance of urban services,
(b) develop an awareness of civic responsibilities, (c) provide assistance
to beneficiaries to gain access to basic water supply and sanitation, (d)
enhance planning and implementation capacities of urban agencies, partic-
ularly KNM, to provide basic services to children, women and the urban poor
generally, through the provision of programs in health, nutrition, education,
income generation, recreation and assistance with shelter improvement; and
(e) provide technical assistance and training to agencies and staff of KDA
and KNM.
Organization
2.        The UNICEF inputs will initially be over a three-year period 1981-83.
Subject to review and mutual agreement, the program will be extended through
1985. Initial responsibility for the program would be with KDA so that
activities could be carried out in parallel with the Kanpur Urban Development
Project. Eventually, KNM will take over full responsibility for supervision,
implementation, monitoring and evaluation, with a 75% state support for its
continuation.
Components
3.        Project components will include:
(a) community participation in physical improvements in the
neighborhood;
(b) environmental improvements;
(c) health, nutrition and educational programs;
(d) pre-school and literacy programs;
(e) social, cultural and recreational programs;
(f) income increasing programs and skills training; and
(g) technical assistance and training.



- 52 -
ANNEX I
Page 2
Costs
4.        Project costs over the three-year period are estimated at Rs 3.48
million, with a UNICEF grant of Rs 2.44 million, and the balance shared
between GOUP, KNM and KDA, as indicated below:
UNICEF    GOUP    KDA    KNM      Total
--------------Rs '(O,000--------------
Staff Costs
Supervisory and Field Staff    7.50                               7.50
Other Staff                               1.65    0.28   0.28    2.21
Program Costs                   9.50                     2.25   11.75
Equipment                       1.50                              1.50
Transport                       2.08                              2.08
Training                        1.00                              1.00
Community Halls                 1.50              3.00   3.00    7.50
Freight                         0.30                              0.30
Monitoring and Evaluation       1.00                       _      1.00
Total                      24.38      1.65    3.28   5.53   34.84
Table 1: PROJECTED URBAN POPULATION GROWTH IN UTTAR PRADESH
(Population in millions)
UP Towns and Cities            Cities with Populations of 100,000 and hore
Population Growth in Decade
Year/     Total Pop-  Population Growth  No. of   Popu-                     % of Total
Decade     ulation        in Decade        Cities   lation    Millions    Urban Growth
1971         12.38                           22      7.07
1971-1981                    4.79                                2.16          45
1981         17.17                           26      9.23
1981-1991                    6.44                                2.99          46
1991         23.61                           29     12.21
1991-2001                    8.61                                3.47          40
2001         32.22                           36     15.68
Source:   GOUP Town and Country Planning Department.



- 53 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
Table 1: SITES AND SERVICES: SUMMARY OF LAND USE (Percentages)
Barra   Gujaini  Pokharpur   Average
A.   Marketable Land (to which
costs are allocated)
Residential                           49.89    49.10       55.16        51.38
Commercial-cum-Residential             4.39      2.37       2.99        3.25
Small Business-cum-Residential         3.13      1.79        -          1.64
Educational                            8.05      9.44       6.44         7.98
Health                                 0.81      1.21        -           0.67
Community Center & Post Office         0.77      0.90       0.24         0.64
Police Station                         0.66      0.51        -          0.39
Subtotal                  67.70    65.32       64.83       65.95
B.   Non-marketable Land (to which
costs are not allocated)
Parks and Open Spaces                  9.28    10.07        8.59        9.31
Circulation                           23.02    24.61       26.58       24.74
Subtotal                  32.30    34.68       35.17       34.05
TOTAL                     100.0    100.0       100.0       100.0
Table 2: SITES AND SERVICES: RESIDENTIAL PLOT DISTRIBUTION
Plot Size      Barra             Gujaini       Pokharpur             TOTAL
Plot Type       m2        No.      %        No.      %     No.      %         No.       %
EWS 1         36.75       924   11.1        458    8.1      74    9.7       1,456      9.9
EWS 2         36.75    2,745   32.8    1,974   34.8    281   37.0           5,000    33.8
EWS 3         36.75    1,029   12.3         712   12.5    115   15.2        1,856    12.5
EWS 4         36.75       945   11.4        762   13.4      93   12.3       1,800    12.2
Subtotal              5,643   67.6    3,906   68.8    563   74.2    10,112    68.4
LIG 1         57.75       147    1.8         51    0.9        5    0.7        203      1.4
LIG 2         57.75       394    4.7        179    3.2      39    5.1         612      4.1
LIG 3         57.75       195    2.3        127    2.2      28    3.7         350      2.4
LIG 4         81.00       791    9.5        737   13.0       92   12.1      1,620    11.0
Subtotal           1,527   18.3    1,094   19.3    164   21.6          2,785    18.9
MIG          180.00    1,043   12.5         624   11.0       29    3.8      1,696    11.5
HIG          300.00       132    1.6         52    0.9        -     -         184      1.2
Subtotal            1,175   14.1       676   11.9       29    3.8       1,880    12.7
TOTAL              8,345  100.0    5,676  100.0    756  100.0    14,777   100.0



- 54 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
Table 3: SITES AND SERVICES: STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR INFRASTRUCTURE
Water Supply
Standards: Design consumption 150 lpd; peak factor of 2.0; supply
for 24 hours per day; four service connections per ferule; one fire
hydrant per 250 m radius (average).
Source: 300-400 m deep tubewells with overhead reservoirs for Barra
and Gujaini, independent of city system; Pokharpur connected to
city network.
Network: 300 mm cast-iron mains, 250 mm-40 mm CI and asbestos cement
secondary mains and 12 mm GI service connections.
Sewerage
Standards: Designed for average flow of 110 lpd. with a peak factor
of 3; rain-water infiltration at 175 I/sec per hectare allowed; minimum
flow velocity of 0.75 m/second; sewage treatment in ponds to remove
80% BOD (biological oxygen demand)
Network: 150 mm-450 mm concrete pipes and/or vitrified clay.
Disposal: Pokharpur site to city sewer system; Barra and Gujaini to
stabilization ponds nearby and then to River Pandu.
Drainage
Drains designed for a 2-year storm frequency; curb and channel drains
and open masonry drains with outfalls.
Roads
Major through Roads: For the 36.0 m (oil pipeline reserve) and 24 m
right-of-way 7.1 m wide bitumen macadam surfacing with 2.5 m brick
edging and drains both sides; construction depth 28 cm.
Main Roads: For the 18 m and 12 m ROW, 3.7 m wide bitumen macadam
surfacing with single brick edging and drains both sides; construction
depth 28 cm.
Collectors: For the 12 m ROW, 3.7 m wide bitumen macadam surfacing
with single brick edging; construction depth 20 cm.
Pedestrian ways: 3.5 m and 4.5 m ROW with brick-on edge paving, with
curb and channel drains; 3.5 m pedestrian way has curb and channel
drains on one side only.
Street Lighting and Electricity: Street lighting comprising tube lights
spaced 33 m apart with provision for individual connections.



- 55 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
Table 4: SITES AND SERVICES: DETAILS OF SMALL INDUSTRY PLOTS
Land
plot            Plot         Ar2a                          On-plot         Pric 
Type         Category          m       No. of Plots      Development       Rs/m
A            EWS 1         36.75            29         Sanitary core        35
B            EWS 2-4       36.75          208          Sanitary core
+ room            35
C            LIG 1         57.75             2         None                 70
D            LIG 2         57.75             5         None                 80
E            LIG 3         57.75            13         None                 85
F            LIG 4         81.00           31          None                 90
G                          80.00          242          None                100
H               -         120.00          300          None                100
Table 5:  SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT COMPONENT
Detailed Cost Estimates (March 1981 Prices)
Rs '00,000
1.   Refuse removal and disposal
750    Refuse carts and tools                                         3.75
50    Masonry bins                                                   1.00
15    Tipper trucks (8 cu.m.)                                       30.00
4    Tractor/trailers (35 BHP)                                      4.00
1    Excavator cum payloader (90 BHP)                               5.00
4    Payloaders (frontend, 49 BHP)                                 11.50
2    Dozers (49 BHP)                                                5.00
6    Two-ton tipping vehicles                                       3.60
2    Jeeps                                                          1.60
1    Recovery vehicle                                               1.00
2    Motorcycles                                                    0.20
Night soil digesting facility                                  4.00
Improvements to workshops                                      5.00
Subtotal                        75.65
2.     Night soil collection and disposal
10    Night soil carrier trucks                                     17.50
150    Night soil carts, 400 drums and 400 buckets                    1.50
Protective Wear                                                0.85
Construction of collection points                              1.00
20.85
Total base cost   (October 1980 prices)                            96.50
Total at March 1981 prices (x 1.075)                              103.74



- 56 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4
Table 6: DETAILS OF TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
(March 1981 prices, Rs '00,000)
State Level
1.   T&CPD
Support for statewide urban development and management strategy    20.00
2.   KDA
(a)  Institutional strengthening program                                5.75
.(b)  Technical consultant                                              0.25
(c)  Project preparation costs                                         11.50
3.  KNM
(a)  Institutional strengthening program                                8.00
(b)  Resource mobilization study                                        6.00
(c)  Maintenance study                                                  6.00
(d)  Start-up costs for traffic engineering and management cell         4.00
(e)  Feasibility study of ongoing composting operations                 0.20
4.  KJS
Analysis of data base for arrears collection                            0.10
5.  DOI
Entrepreneur identification, skills upgrading and monitoring /a         5.00
6.   Training and Other Services                                               18.20
Total Base Cost                             85.00
/a   This item is included in Table 7, Annex 2 under "small business" in the
Sites and Services Component.



INDIA
KANPUR URBAN DEVELOPME1NT PPOJECT
Table 7: SITES AND SERVICES: DETAILED COST ESTIMATES
(Rs '00,000, MARCH 1981 PRICES)
YEAP I              _EAX 2                                          Y_AR _                            YE&  & _f_T
LOCAL  TAXES  FOREIGN   TOTAL   LOCAL  TAXES  FOREIGN   TOTAL   LOCAL  TAXES  FOREIGN   TOTAL   LOCAL  TAXES  FOREIGN1  TOTAL             LOCAL  TAXES  FOREIGN       TOTAL
SITES AND SERVICES
A. LAND                             160.45      -         -  160.45   53.48                 -   53.48        -      -         -        -       -       -         -       -    213.93       -         -    213.93
8. SITE PREPARATION                  25.01      -      0.53   26.34   25.01       -      0.53   26.34        -      -         -        -       -       -         -              51.62       -     1.06      52.68
C. ON SITE INFRASTRUCTURE            53.81   3.06      7.56   64.43  165.55   9.43    23.27  198.25  124.16   7.07    17.45  148.68   70.36   3.99           9.90   84.25    413.88  23.55    50.18    495.61
-_-      _ _ -----_---- ---_------_---- --  - ----_------  --- - --  ------_-----  -------  _--- ---  ------         --- ----  ------_-- ------ _-_- -_-_ _ -_-__ -_-_  _ -_ -
ROADS                             13.42   0.7Y      1.58   15.79   41.30   2.43       4.86   48.59   30.97   1.82       3.64   36.43   17.55   1.03       2.07   20.65    103.24   6.07    12.15    121.46
DRAINAGE                           6.93   0.24      0.80    7.97   21.32   0.74       2.45   24.51   15.99   0.55       1.84   18.38    9.07   0.31       1.04   10.42       53.31   1.84      6.13      61.28
SENERAGE                          17.89   1.12      3.35   22.36   55.04   3.44    10.32   68.80   41.28   2.58         7.74   51.60   23.39   1.46       4.39   29.24    137.60   8.60    25.00    172.00
ELECTRICITY                        7.72   0.45      0.91    9.08   2376   1.40        2.80   27.96   17.82   1.05       2.10   20.97   10.10   0.59       1.19   11.8e       59.40   3.49      7.00      69.89
WATER SUPPLY                       6.54   0.38      0.77    7.69   20.11   1.18       2.37   23.66   15.08   0.89       1.77   17.74    8.54   0.50       1.01   10.05       50.27   2.95      5.92      59.14
LANDSCAP. i REFUSE BINS            1.31   0.08      0.15    1.54    4.02   0.24       0.47    4.73    3.02   0.18       0.36    3.56    1.71   0.10       0.20    2.01       10.06   0.60      1.18      11.84
D. OFF SITE INFRASTRUCTURE           13.18   0.79      1.83   15.80   48.34   2.90       6.71   57.95   26.37   1.58       3.66   31.61        -       -         -       -      87.89   5.27    12.20    105.36
WATER SUPPLY                       9.18   0.54      1.08   10.80   33.68   1.98       3.96   39.62   18.37   1.08       2.16   21.61        -       -        -        -      61.23   3.60      7.20      72.03
SEWERAGE                           4.00   0.25      0.75    5.00   14.66   0.92       2.75   18.33    8.00   0.50       1.50   10.00        -                                26.66   1.67      5.00      33.33
E. ON PLOT DEVELOPMENT                   -      -         -       -  112.50   6.25       6.25  125.00  126.55   7.03       7.03  140.61   42.19   2.34       2.34   46.87    281.24  15.62    15.62    312.48
ESWl (1456U. t 764)                   -      -         -       -    4.01   0.22       0.22    4.45    4.50   0.25       0.25    5.00    1.50   0.08       0.08    1.66       10.01   0.55      0.55      11.11
EWS2 (5000U. * 2365)                  -      -         -        -   42.57   2.37      2.37   47.31   47.89   2.66       2.66   53.21   15.97   0.89       0.89   17.75    106.43   5.92        5.92    118.27
EHS3 (1856U. t 4450)                  -      -         -       -   29.74   1.65       1.65   33.04   33.45   1.86       1.86   37.17   11.15   0.62       0.62   12.39       74.34   4.13      4.13      82.60
ESW4 (1800U. t 5584)                  -      -         -       -   36.18   2.01       2.01   40.20   40.71   2.26       2.26   45.23   13.57   0.75       0.7S   15.07       90.46   5.02      5.02    100.50
F. SHELTER LOANS                         -      -         -       -   13.03   0.58       0.87   14.48   34.76   1.54       2.32   38.62   39.11   1.74       2.61   43.46       86.90   3.B6      5.80      96.56
G. COMMUNITY FACILITIES                  -      -         -        -   11.90   0.70      1.39   13.99   29.72   1.75       3.50   34.97   17.81   1.05       2.11   20.97       59.43   3.50      7.00      69.93
PRIMARY SCHOOLS                       -      -         -        -    9.50   0.56      1.12   11.18   23.76   1.40       2.80   27.96   14.25   0.84       1.68   16.77       47.51   2.80      5.60      55.91
HEALTH CENTERS                        -      -         -       -    0.37   0.02       0.04    0.43    0.92   0.05       0.11    1.08    0.55   0.03       0.07    0.65        1.84   0.10      0.22       2.16
HIGH SCHOOLS                          -      -         -        -    1.28   0.08      0.15    1.51    3.20   0.19       0.38    3.77    1.92   0.11       0.23    2.26        6.40   0.38      0.76       7.54
POLICE POSTS                          -      -         -       -    0.19   0.01       0.02    0.22    0.46   0.03       0.05    0.54    0.27   0.02       0.03    0.32        0.92   0.06      0.10       1.08
POST OFFICE                           -      -         -        -    0.19   0.01      0.02    0.22    0.46   0.03       0.05    0.54    0.27   0.02       0.03    0.32        0.92   0.06      0.10       1.08
COMMUNITY HALLS                       -      -         -       -    0.37   0.02       0.04    0.43    0.92   0.05       0.11    1.08    0.55   0.03       0.07    0.65        1.84   0.10      0.22       2.16
H. SMALL BUSINESS                     1.17   0.03      0.30    1.50    5.61   0.25       0.65    6.51   12.84   0.59       1.22   14.65   12.03   0.55       0.96   13.54       31,65   1.42      3.13      36.20
BUILDING LOANS                        -      -         -        -    3.31   0.15      0.22    3.68    8.83   0.39       0.59    9.81    9.94   0.44       0.66   11.04       22.08   0.98      1.47      24.53
COMMON FACILITIES CENTER              -      -         -       -    1.13   0.07       0.13    1.33    2.84   0.17       0.33    3.34    1.70   0.10       0.20    2.00        5.67   0.34      0.66       6.67
SKILLS UPGRADING I MONITORING    1.17   0.03        0.30    1.50    1.17   0.03       0.30    1.50    1.17   0.03       0.30    1.50    0.39   0.01       0.10    0.50        3.90   0.10      1.00       5.00
BASE COSTS                          254.42   3.88    10.22  268.52  436.22  20.11    39.67  496.00  354.40  19.56    35.18  409.14  181.50   9.67    17.92  209.09  1.226.54  53.22   102.99  1.382.75
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                9.28   0.39      0.99   10.66   30,90   1.62       3.51   36.03   24.64   1.42       2.8s   28.91   11.10   0.64        1.34   13.08      75.92   4.0'      8.69      88.68
DESIGN. SUPERVISION MOMT             15.34   0.64      1.65   17.63   59.54   3.16       6.28   68.98   50.40   2.87       5.24   58.51   21.72   1.23       2.40   25.35    147.00   7.90    11.57    170.47
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                  10.57   0.44      1.13   12.14   84.96   4.47       8.85   98.28  115.63   6.43    11.60  133.66   79.15   4.27         7.98   91.40    290.31  15.61    29.56    335.48
TOTAL                               289.61   5.35    13.99  308.95  611.62  29.36    5B.31  699.29  545.07  30.28    54.87  630.22  293.47  15.81    29.64  338.92  1.739.77  80.80   156.S1  I19P7.38



INDIA
KANPUR URB3AN DEVELOP14ENT PROJECT
Table 8: SLUM UPGRADING: DETAILED COST ESTIMATES
(Rs '00,000, MARCH 1981 PRICES)
YEAR                                                               YEYEAR 2  YEAR 3                   YER 4                               TOTAL
LOCAL  TAXES  FOREIGN   TOTAL   LOCAL  TAXES  FOREIGN   TOTAL   LOCAL  TAXES  FOREIGN   TOtAL   LOCAL  TAXES  FOREIGN   TOTAL             LOCAL  TAXES  FOREIGN       TOTAL
SLUh UPGRADING
A. LAND ALREADY ACQUIREB             46.20      -         -   46.20   30.S0       -         -   30.80        -      -         -       -        -      -         -        -     ?.o         -        -      77.30
LAND TG BE ACOUIRED                   -      -         -       -   87.56       -         -   37.56  109,45       -         -  109.45   21.89       -         -   21.89    21E.90        -         -    218.-70
B. SITE PREPARATION                   0,59      -     0.01    0.60    1.17        -      0.02    1.19    1.36       -     0.03    1.39    0.78        -      0.02    0.80       3.90       -     0.08       3.99
C. ON SITE INFRASTRUCTURE            27.17   1.5?      4.07   3,3.51   74.99   4.25    10.99   90.23   68.56   3.87    10.05   82.48   42.84   2.43          6.27   51.54    214.26  12.12    31.38    257.7t-
ROADS I DRAINAuE                   4,49   0.15     0,52    5.16   12.08   0.42       1.39   13.89   11.04   0.38        1.27   12.69    6.90   0.24       0.7?    7.73      34.51   1.19      3.97      39.67
SEWERAGE                         11.64   3.73      2.18   14.55   31.34   1.96       5.88   39.18   28.65   1.79       5.37   35.81   17.90   1,12        3.36   22.38      89.53   5.60    16.79    111.92
WATER SUPPLY                      4.27   0.25      0.50    5.02   11.48   0.68       1.35   13.51   10.50   0.62        1.24   12.3t-   6.56   0.39       0.77    7.72      32.81   1.94      3.86      38.61
LANDSCAP. I REFUSE BINS           0.62   0.04      0.07    0.73    1.67   0.10       0.20    1.97    1.52   0.09       0.18    1.79    0.95   O.06        0.11    1.12       4.76   0.29      0.56       5.61
STREET LIGHTING                    4.27   0.25     0.50    5.02   11.48   0.68        ;.35   13.51   10.50   0.62       1.24   12.36    6.56   C.39       0.77    7.72      32.81   1.94      3.86      38.61
PUBLIC LATRINES                   2.58   0.15      0.30    3.03    6.94   0.41       O.82    8.17    6.35   0.37       0.75    7.47    3.97   0.23        0.47    4.67      19.84   1.16      2.34      23.34
D. LOANS                             16.83   0.93      1.77   19.50   33.60   1.86       3.54   39.00   39.20   2.17       4.13   45.50   22.40   1.24       2.36   26.00    112.30'   6.20    11.80    130.00
SANITARY CORE LOANS               12.75   0.75      1.50   15.00   25.S0   1.50      3.00   30.00   29.75   1.75       3.50   35.00   17.00   '.00        2.00   20.00      85.00   5.00    10?00    100.00
BUILDING LOANS                    4.05   0.18      0.27    4.50    8.10   0.36       0.54    9.00    9.45   0.42       0.63   10.50    5.40   0.24        0.36    6.00      27.00   1.20      1.80      30.00               co
E. COMNON FACILITIES CENTER              -      -         -       -    0.53   0.03      ?.10    0.66    1.06   0.07        0.20    1.33    1.06   0.07       0.20    1.33       2.65   0.17      0.50       3.32
F. COMMUNITY CENTERS                  0.56   0.03     0.07    0.66    0.13   ..05       0.10    0.98    0.83   0.05        0.10    0.98    0.56   0.03       0.07    0.66       2.78   0.16       0.34      3.28
BASE COSTS                           92.02   2.53      5.92  100.47  229.48   6.19    14.75  250.42  220.46   6.1l    14.51  241,13   89.53   3.7?           8.92  102.22    631.49  18.65    44.10    694.24
PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                4.27   0.24  9.61    5.12   11.51   0.64           1.67   13.82   10.64   0.59       1.54   12.77 t.71   0.37          0.97   .805       33.13   1.84       4.79     39.76
DESIGN, SUPERVISION MGNT              5.25   0.29      0.74    6.28   13.90   0.77       1.99   16.66   13.01   0,72       i.8,   15.58    8. I6   0.45      1.16    9,77      40.33   2.23       5.73     40.29
PRICE CONTINGENCIES                   4.98   0.28     0.65    5.91   24.58   1.37       3.31   19.26   36.36   2.02        4.03   43.21   30.53   1.70       4.09   36.32      96.45   5.37    12.88    114.70
TOTAL                              106.52   3.34      7.92  117.78  279.47   8.97    21.72  310.16  280.48   9.49    22.72  312.69  134.93   6.29    15.14  156.36    801.40  28.09    67.50    896.99
N.



INDIA
KANOPUR URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 9: ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION, MAINTENANCE AND TRAFFIC MANAGEXENT MEASURES: DETAILED COST ESTIMATES
(Rs o00,000, MARCH 1981 PRICES)
YEAR I                        YEAR 2                         YEAR 3                         YEAR 4                           TOTAL
LOCAL TAXES FGREIGN  TOTAL  10oa. TAXES FOREIE   TOTAL  LOCAL  TAXES FONEIX-   TOTAL  LOCAL TAXES FOREIGN   TOTAL    LOCAL TAXES FOREIGN              TOTAL
ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATIDN,
MAINTENANCE I TRAFFIC NGNT
VATER SFPLY                       6.21  0.37    0.73   7.31  1o.45   0.70    1.33   12.48  12.75  0,09    1.66   15.30    5.41  0.37    0.70   6.48    34.02  2.33            4.42    41.57
CIVIL WORKS                    6.21   0.37    0.73   7.31    S.32   0.55    0.10  10.97   10.87   0,64    1.28  12.79   4.66   0.27    0.55    5.40        31.06   1.83    3.66     36.55
WASTAGE I LEAKAGE REDUCTION       -      -       -       -   1.13   0.15    0.23    0.51    1.80   0.25     0.38    2.51    0.75  0,10    0.15   0.00       3.76   0.50     0.76     5.02
SEKOAGE                          44.16  2.76    8.20  55.20  83.24  5.14   04.42  002.0  02.78  6.33    07.49  126.60  75.62  4,57   10.21  91.40    305.00  10.00   51.40    376.00
-- --   ----   - - -- - -- -  - --- -  - --   - ---  -  -   --   - -- -   ---   ---- -   ----   - -- -   ---   -----   ----   ----- ---    ----  ---------
CIVIL WORKS                   44.16  2.76    8.20   55.20   66.24   4.14   12.42   82,80  77.28   4.83    14,49  96.60  33,12  2,07    6.21  41.40    220.80  13.0    41.40    276.00
CONNECTION LOANS                  -      -       -       -  17.00   1.00    2.00   20.00   25.50   1,59     3.00   30.00  42.50  2.50    5.00   50.00    85.00  5.00    10.00    100.00
ORAINAGE                         15.43   0.53    1.77   17.73  46.29   1.60    5.32   53.21  36.00  1024    4.14   40.39    5.14   O.I    0.59   5.91    102.87   3.55    11.02   010.24
MAINTENANCE                      16.20   1.01    3.04  20.25  32.40  2.03       6.08  40.51  16.20   1,01    3.04   20.25        -      -        -      -    64.80   4.05    12.16    01.01
SOLID WASTE OAAGE00NT            37.34   9.34   15.56  62.24  21.79   5.45    9.08  36.32   3.11   0.78    1.30    5.19          -      -        -      -    62.24  15.57    25.94   003.75
TRAFFIC NANAGOENOT HEASURES       6.21   0.37    0.73   7.31  24.82   1.46      2.02   29.20   24.02   1.46    2.92   29.20   6.21  0,37    0.73    7.31      62.06   3.66     7.30    73.02
BASE COSTS                      125.55  14.30   30.11  170.04 210.99 16.30   39.05  274.52  195.67  11.71   30.55  237.93  92.30   5.49   13.23  111.10   632.59  47.96   113.04    n3.59
FHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES           10.40   0.59    1.69   12.76  20.93   1.12    3.15  25.20  21.30   1.19       3.33   25.90    7,17   0.44    1.20   S.80     59.96   3.34     9.37    72.67
BESIGN. SrIPERVISIO0 lGHT        13.44  0.90    2.36   16.70  26.74   1.52    4.11  32.37  26.73   1.56        4.13  32.36   9,40   0.56      1.51   01.47    76.31   4.40    12.11    92.90
PRICE CONTINGENCIES              13.45   1.43    3.07   17.95   40.00  3.42    0,35   59.77   65.02   3,89   00.26   79.07  40.31  2.40    5.90  40.61   067.50  01,14   27.s5   206.30
--  -- ---  - -----  - - --- ----  -----  ----  ---- ----  ------  ------  -- - _-  ---  -----   -----  - -- ----  --- -,-----   - - -- --
TOTAL                           162.92  17.30   37.23  217.45 314.66  22.44   54.76  391.06  309.60  18,29    40.27  376.16  149,26   8.89    21.84  179.99   936.44  66.92   162.10 10165.46
Table 10:  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND INSTITUTIONAL  STRENGTHENING: DETAILED COST ESTIMATES
(Rs 00,000, MARCH 1981 PRICES)
YEAR I                        YEAR 2                         YEAR 3                         YFAR A                           TOTAL
LOCAL TAXES FOREIGN  TOTAL  LOCAL  TAXES FOREIGN  TOTAL  LOCAL TAXES FOREIGN  TOTAL  LOCAL  TAXES FOREIGN  TOTAL    LOCAL  TAXES FOREIGN    TOTAL
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE 1
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
STATE LEVEL                       4.68  0.12     1.20   6.00   4.60   0.12      1.20    6.00    4.60   0,12    1.20    6.00    1,56  0.04     0.40   2.00     15.60   0.40     4.00    20.00
KDA                               5.46  0.14    1.40    7.00   4.10   0.11    1.05   5.26    2.73   0,07       0.70    3.50    1.37  0.04    0.35    1.76     13.66   0.36     3.50    17.52
K0N                               7.55   0.19    1.94    9.60    5.66   0.05    1.45    7.26    3.78  0,10    0.97    4.05    1.09   0.o5     0.48    2.42    18.00   0.49     4.84    24.21
KJS                               0.02      -    0.01   0.03   0.02       -    0.1   0.03    0.02       -        -   0.02    0,02      -        -   0.02      0.00      -    0.02      0.10
TRAINING                          2.73   5.10    0.73   3.64   4.10   0,27    1.09    5.46    4.10   0.27      1.09   5.46   2.73  0.10       0.73   3.e4     13.66   0.90     3.64    18.20
BASE COSTS                       20,44   0.63    5.20   26.35   00.56   0.65    4.80   24.01   15.31   0.56    3.96   19.3   7,57  0o31    1.96   9.84    61,88  2.15    16.00    00.03
PRICE CONTINGENCIES               1.,4   0.06    0.40    2.30    3.34   0.12    0.06    4.32    4.13   0.15    1.07    5.35   2.80  0.11    0.73    3.64      12.11  0.44      3.14    15.69
TOTAL                            22.28  0.69    5.76  20.73   21.90   0.77      5.60  20.33   19.44   0.1    5.03  25.10   10.37  0.42      2.69  13.48    73.99  2.59    19.14    95.72



INTDIA
KANPUR UR3AN DEVELOPMENT  'RO.JECT
Table 11:  URBAN POVERTY IMPACTS
Component    % Spent  Amount         Total Number  UP Cost       UPP Bene-  Urban Poor  Urban Poor
Cost         on Poor  Spent on       of Benefi-    Per Capita  ficiaries  in Need of  yet to be
Poor          ciaries                                 Services    Served
US$ million            US$ million                  US$
Sites & Services                 24.7         74       18.3         83,000            300        6z1,000      110,000      49,000
Slum Upgrading                   11.2         37         9.7       115,000            100       100,000       300,000    700,000                
Environmental Sanitation,
Maintenance and Traffic
Management Measures
(Water Sipply, Sewe-
rage, Drainage, Solid
Wa3te Management,
Maintenance and
Traffic Management
Measures)                      14.6         50         7.3        800,000            20       400,000       300,000    400,000
Technical Assistance              1.2         50        0.6
TOTA-L                51.7         69        35.9
==  _=                                                                            w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



- 61 -                                                                   ANNEX 2
Page 9
INDIA
KANPUR URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CHART 1: SLUM HOUSEHOLD INCOME DISTRIBUTION*
Household                                              (1980 Prices)
cumulative
Percentile
100                                                                                            ....    _
90
80                                        7  /_____
.--IDA ESTIMATED*
POVERTY THRESHOLD
70 1            A______
60                                                                      _ _ _ _
:--MAXIMUM INCOME*
EWS HOUSEHOLDS
50      on 1     u      f     0     h     o     K
40                                           _ _4_                                               _  _ _
30
20                                    _ _                                                                  _  _ _ _
10                                           _ _  _  _ _
100        200        300        400         500        600        700         g00        900        1000
MONTHLY HOUSEHOLD INCOME (Rupees)
'Based on 1980 Survey of 27,000 slum households in Kanpur
-IDA estimated poverty threshold (1980 prices) is Rs 88 per capita per month (or Rs 485 per household).
World Bank-22709



- 62 -
ANNEX 2
INDIA                                         Paee 10
KANPUR URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CHART 2: PROJECT IMPACT ON GROWTH
UNSERVICED HOUSEHOLDS IN KANPUR
550,00O
Based On: Annual Population Growth Rate = 2.6%
Natural Growth Rate      =1.9%
500.00                Migration                = 0.6%
Base Year: 1971  268.500 HousehoWds IHH)
POTENTIAL
KANPUR URBAN
HOUSEHOLDS
460,O
400,OO -
360,0010 -                                             
u)
030
I
'U
0
itMPOTENTIAL SLUM
w                                                                    HOUSEHOLDS
300,000
z
250,000 -
IMPACT DUE TO SITES AND SERVICES
COMPONENT (15,000 HH)_     -- 
IMPACT DUE TO SLUM UPGRADING
COMPONENT (20.000 HH)
200,OO0
PERIOD
100,00(   I   I           ~~~I                            N II
1 970         11975            1980            1985           1990            1995            2000
YEARS
World Bank - 22778



INDIA
KANPUR URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CHART 3: FLOW OF FUNDS (RUPEES MILLIONS)
INTERNAT..IONA RVELOOEENT
GOVERNMENTOF IN=IA
1 97                                          a,                                          2                           5         22                                                  13r
ADSERVCES                                  UFRADIN.                                    AIITSWAESALYMNEACENDONNECTION
NOT DIRECTLY                NO DECTLY                                                     NOT RECOVERE
LOANS                             I ~~WRK  LANS                      A      NED L TDALOL.
G       LINDTITOIONSISENEEICIARIES NORES
RESIOENT AL / \ ,                                                                                    S(UMP I / \ I /  11 OPROJQ                                                                                   OT COMPONENTS
SUALL-ESLINESS                                         L                                                                                                                                                         O             COVERY MECRANISM
I  \   I   LITY                     )   CHARGES                       PARECOVERI                                                                                    LOAN CRARGES
)                         F~~~~~~~LOT AND                             THRGUG
IOT AN.                                            LOAN                                     .IRE CHARGES
LOAN                                              CAGES
GEAR DES
'011                                                                                                                                                                                W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ld B-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 22189~~~~~~~~~~~~WODRRE  25



- 64 -
ANNEX 2
Page 12
INDIA
KANPUR URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CHART 4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
19S1                  1982                   1983                   1984                   1985
3         2    3     4- -1    2    3-4             _        2            1     2          4
1. SITES AND SERVICES'
Detailed Design
Bid Document Preparation
Biddtng and Award
Or-site  ,f rastructu.d
Off-site I nfrastructure
On-plct Developr,meti __t51  l l wl wl_
Beneficiary Selection -i_
Schools Construction- 
Health Centers
Police Station and Post Offices
Phased Settlement
Shelter Loans                                   i                                                                                 ........
Co-munity Develcpment
Comnr Facilities CDnters
Small-business Loans
2, SLUM UPGRADING
Land Acquisition
Community Preporar on r
Detailed Design
Bid Document Preparatio
Biddighan dAwa ,
infrastructure Construction-
Transfer of Land Ownership
Shelter Loans
Sanitary CDre Loans
Common Facilities Center
Community Developmrnr
3. ENVIRONMENTALSANITATION,
MAINTENANCE AND TRAFFIC MANAGEMi--NT
Water Supply
Sewerage - Civ Work
-Loans {||TT     
Drainagei                                                                                                           i                 _
Solid Waste Managemnt|
Maintenance
Traffic Management Measures -                                        _
4. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
(a) Kan,,r Da-elopme-t Authority
Institutional and Financial
Strengthening Study
r|plementati-n
(b) Kanpur Nagar Mahapaiika
(1) Institutional and Finoncialo
Strefgthesing Study
rImplementation
(2) Resource Mfobilization Study
Implementati-o
(3) Maintenance StudVl
Implementation
1(4 Traffice Engineering an  Management Ca,.
(c) Kanpur Jal Sansthran
Anelysis of Arrears Bllingl
AWestage and Leakage Reduction
Id) State Level Assistance
Urban Strategy Development
lel Other Services and Training
m1 _  Activity at 8arra                                                                                                                             World Bank-22849
. Activity at Gu.aini
_  _           _  _  Activity at Pokharpur



OPTION -1C36.75.2                                      OPTION - 2 36 75m2                                      OPTION - 3 36.75m2                                      OPTION  4 36.76m2
SANITARY CORE ONLY                                      AS IN OPTION- 1. BUT                                   VV.C., ROOM/KITCHEN COVERED                             AS IN OPTION -3, BUT
VVALLS OF ROOM/KITCHFN AND                             WITH R C C. SLAB WITH SPOUTS,                           WITH ALL SHUTTERS
CO URTYARD VVALLS.                                     AND WITHOUT SHUTTERS
INDIA: KANPUR URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                  o 
SITES AND SERVICES                                      :
EWS PLOT OPTIONS 
World B..k-22710






|g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-- ------~
r-----s  L  _    ,  _, J  _~~~r-- - --- --
&rY1
ifi 
1~~~~~ ~ ...
t{Xe~~~~~
12O1~~~~~~~~~~~~~L___   
0~ ~ ,                  1.- 
e-z                         H       ___  _
2'           . _  _L __ 






ORGANIZATION CHART
I                           I             I               |   ATIR (T  MACAP    I  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
ILS1IET3I[XI    1TT  il  [XM 1  1 1 [tH t [X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T1"






KANPUR JAL SANSTHAN                                                                                                        ANNEX III
ORGANIZATION CHART                                                                                                         Page 3
PEA REMAN.
ISREIERAL MANAGCS
E T O AMAMANAQER         MANAGER                                            MANAGER                                             MANAGER
ESEASLS RMENE  EMANAG6        WAhS5STE    E  A ffAGER   | E GASS                                          S{g   A       i   i    R     NUIPPEENT  EQUIPMENT  M   WASTE PREVENTION  MANAGER  R I   ASO                 AUDI I
OFFIE        ACE             TUIS            TETETADAO NPLANT( II                                AND PLANT (11)            CIToRTOLA  DETECT O                                   SEWERS                  COLLECTION                 OFIFICER
POLLUTION CONTROL                                                          CO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NTROLANGO METERG
ASSISTNNT heANAGFR       S        -ISTART MANAGER  |ASSiTANT MANE6FEW                               ASSISrANT MAR ASS         ASSISTANT MANAGERAASSISTANT MANAGEA                             I
ASSISTANT MANAGER        ASSSTNT SIANAGER'"T ' 
ST RAWAfER PUMPfING             7ONAL PIMPINGANi AN    *                                                                                  BILRLTLON  ER    MET DVTE ATI|O  SEW RAND CLEAI  |
NINNCE ANS ACCOUNTS1         TREATMENT                                                                 GITIRESATIEAO  EAISOUPNOSATNCOLLECT ION                                                             PO 
ASSIST~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~AS~ANT MANAGEFR                                      ASSISTATANTA EKAASTRE   ANAGER                     ASSIS ES   AAE  SITANT MANAGER
CHIEF IHLMIST  QLEAR WATER PUMPiNG    ~SSISTANT MANAGER
GRATUITY  ROVIGENT CRIEF CHEIST  CIEA!REAEEA PMPING  ZINAL ROMPIG AGE         IEA$RiRuTIN tIo)       MElIER REMOVAL GNU          GRAPE CLEANING
PESO  AND PENSION                                      S ATIONR              TUEEWELLS A1                                        N ISTAILATION          AND MAINTENANCE
ASSISTANT MANAGER 
DISTRIBUTION 111 I
INDEX
E POSTS CREATED AND FILLED
E  POSTS CREATED OUT NOT FILLED
WOEI R-1, - 227R8






INDIA
KANPUR URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 1:   KANPUR DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY: STATEMENT OF RECEIPTS AND PAYMENTS (With Projections)
(Rs 00.000)
Four Years of History                         Vour Years of RUDP Period                 Four Years of Projections
Actual    Actual    Actual   Estimated Estimated Estimated Estimated Estimated Estimated Estimated Estimated Estimated
1977-78   1978-79   1979-80   1980-81   1981-82   1982-83   1983-84   1984-85   1985-86   1986-87   1987-88   1988-89
RECEIPTS
A.  Revenue Account
(1) Ongoing Operations:
- Lease & Rental Income           143        122        115        120        125        125        125        125        125        125        125        125
- Sale of Buildings                44         38         35         20         10         -          -          -          -          -          -           -
- Mortgage Receipts                11          8          9         10         10         20         40         60         80        160        250        300
- Interest Income                  22         17         13         15         20         25         40         30         15         10         10          10
- Others                           30         21         15         20         20         20         20         20         20         20          20     _  20
250       206        187        185        185        190        225         235        240        315        405        455
(2) KUDP Operations:
- Downpayments                     -          -          -          -         138         10         13          8         -          -           -          -
- Mortgage Receipts                -          -          -          -           5         26         89        172        209        209        209         209
-Loan Payments                     -          -          -          -           1          5         15         26         31         31         31          31
- Maintenance Charges              -          -          -                                 2          6         12         13         14          16         17
- Sale of Industrial &
Commercial Land                  -          -          -          -           9         20         47        133        101         -          -           -
-         -          -          -         153         63        170        351         354        254        256        257
TOTAL:  Revenue Account                250        206       187        185        338        253        395         586        594        569        661        712
B. Capital Account
(1) Ongoing Operations:
- Government Grants                12          3         -                                -          -          -           -          -          -          -
- Government Loans                 70         97        434        100         -          -          -         200        500       1000         900       1000
- HUDCO Loans                      30         92        148        150         -          90        220        200        500       1000       1000        1100
112       192        582        250          -         90        220        400        1000       2000       1900       2100
(2)  KUDP Operations:
- Government Grants                -          -          -          -          13         10          8           4         -          -          -          -
- Government Loans                 -          -      _              -         582        834        891        446         -          -           -                   >
-          -         -          -         595        844        899        450          --  2
TOTAL:  Capital Account                112        192        582        250        595        934       1029        850       1000       2000       1900       2100    a z
C.  Deposit & Suspense Account         118        138        151        160        170        180        190        200        210        220        230        240
TOTAL RECEIPTS                         480        536        920        595       1103       1367       1614       1636       1804       2789       2791       3052



TAblpa 1:. (Continued)
Four Years of History                  Four Years of KUDP Period                       Four Years of Projections
Actual    Actual    Actual        Estimated Estimated Estimated Estimated Estimated Estimated Estiimated Estimated Estimated
1977-78   1978-79   1979-80        1980-81   1981-82   1982-83   1983-84   1984-85   1985-86   1986-87   1987-88   1988-89
EXPENDITURES
A.  Revenue Account
(1)  Ongoing Operations:                   41         45          52          57          61         66         71          76         81          87         93         100
- Establishment                         74         77          87         100        110         115        120         125        130         150        160         170
- Debt Service to State
Government                            68         44         32           33         40          50         60          60         60          70         80          90
- Debt Service to HUDCO
- Maintenance & Other                   20         19           7          10          15         17         20          23         26          30         34          40
203        185        178          200        226        248         271        284         297        337         367        400
(2)  KUDP Operations:
- Project Preparation                   -          -           -           20           5         -          -
- Establishment                         -          -           -           10          18         40         42          33         34          35         38          41
- Stamp Duty & Bond Fees                -          -           -           -           33         26         42          30          -          -          _           -
- Transfer and Maintenance
Charges                               -          -           -           -           -           1          4          10         12          13         14          15
- Debt Service:
:Principal                  -          -          -            -          -           -          -          -           -         184         184        184
:Interest                   -          -          -            -          -           -          -           -                     590        180        167
-          -          -            30         56         67          88         73          46        822         416        407
TOTAL: Revenue Account                      203        185        178          230        282         315        359         357        343        1159        783         807
G
B.  Capital Account
(1) Ongoing Operations
- Land Acquisition                     128          21         24           10         20         20          30        100         200        250         280        320
- Infrastructure Works                  98          98        100         130         100         20          30        350         650        750         900       1000
- Buildings                             48          62        234         290         180         40          50        150         300        330         400        460
- Material Loans & Other                 4          17          9           20         30         10          20        100         150        170         180        220
278        198        367          450        330          90        130        700        1300       1500        1750       2000
(2) KUDP Operations:
- Construction and Civil Works          -           -          -            -         269        764         766        329          -           -          -           -
- Loans to Beneficiaries                -                                   -          22         70         125        117          -           -          -           -
- Consultant Services                    -          -          -            -          13         10           8          4          -          -           -          -
-          -          -            -         304        844         899        450          -           -          -           -
TOTAL:  Capital Account                     278        198         367         450         634        934       1029        1150        1300       1500        1750       2000
C.  Deposit & Suspense Account              138         128        128         130         140        150         160        170         180        190         200        210  
TOTAL EXPENDITURES                          619         511        673         780        1056       1399        1548       1677        1823       2849        2733       3017



- 71 -                                       ANNEX 3
INDIA                                       Page 6
KANPUR URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 2:  KANPUR NAGAR MARAPALIKA
STATEMENT OF RECEIPTS & PAYMENTS FOR YEARS 1977/78-1980/81
(Rs '00,000)
FY 77/78                    FY 78/79                    FY 79/80                     FY 80/81
Capital      Recurrent      eapital      Recurrent      Capital      Recurrent       Capital      Recurrent
REVENUE RECEIPTS
From Taxes
Property Tax                                151.1                        168.6                       219.1                       235.0
Vehicle Tax                                   12.8                        13.7                        16.3                         17.0
Octrof Tax                                   377.8                       448.1                       484.4                        520.0
Advertisement Tax                             1.3                          2.0                         2.7                          4.0
Show Tax                                      1.7                          0.3                         4.6                          5.0
Water Tax                                    60.2                         28.9                         -                            -
Drainage Tax                                  8.1                          9.5                        11.7                         12.5
Sub-Total                    613.0                       671.1                        738.8                       793.5
Other Receipts
Fees                                         19.1                         17.3                        17.2                        27.2
Rents                                        16.3                         15.2                        19.1                        26.8
Unserviced Land                               1.4                          0.7                         0.2                          2.7
Nazul Land Rent                               0.3                          0.6                         0.7                          2.2
Water Charges                                28.4                         95.8                        19.1                         88.2
Sewage Farm                                   4.2                          8.5                         2.1                          8.0
Conservancy Charges                           -                            -                           -                           0.8
Fines                                          3.7                         3.8                         3.3                        18.9
Interest                                      0.1                          0.1                         -                           1.0
Miscellaneous                                52.7                         51.1                        42.3                          6.3
Sub-Total                    126.2                       193.1                        104.0                       182.1
Government Grants
In lieu of fines                              -                            -                           -                            3.5
General Purpose                              66.6                         93.0                        76.7                         89.0
Roads                                        36.3                         33.8                        61.9                       117.6
Education                                    26.0                         21.3                        39.7                         32.0
Medical                                                                    9.0                         2.5                          5.0
Sub-Total                    128.9                       157.1                        180.8                       247.1
Sub-Total Revenue Receipts                  868.1                       1021.3                      1023.6                      1222.7
CAPITAL RECEIPTS
Government Loans                12.0          -             -              -                            -                           -
Bank Loans                       _                         37.3                         10.7                       20.8
Government Grants                2,5                      20.2                          23.1                       12.4            -
Other Grants                    53.1                                                     4,0
Sub-Total Capital Receipts    67.6                        57.5                          37.8                       33.2
TOTAL RECEIPTS                          935.7                     1076.8                        1061.4                     1255.9
REVENUE EXPENDITURE
General Administration                       62.3                         71.7                        75.1                         89.1
Loan Charges    P la                        3.8                          3.8                        10.0                        11.2
I /b                       0.5                         0.8                          1.2                         2.3
Water Supply                     0.6        107.2           -            138.2           -            37.7                         88.2
Loan Charges    P                           8.5                          2.2                         -                           1.3
I                          9.1                         2.7                          -                           6.1
Drainage                         6.5         26.3           5.3            3.3          1.7           30.0          7.2            35.8
Loan Charges    P                           3.8                          3.9                         4.7                          6.3
I                          3.6                         2.8                          2.7                         4.2
Conservancy                      2.9        241.5           4.1          266.5          4.8          298.1          9.3          329.0
Loan Charges    P                           0.2                         12.0                        25.7                         32.3
I                                                      2.1                          8.2                        18.6
Public Works                   108.1           5.4        51.3             6.5        113.1           24.5        143.6            29.8
Loan Charges    P                           2.4                          2.4                         2.7                          3.1
I                          1.8                         1.6                          1.5                         1.4
Medical & Health                 1.1          62.1          1.1           72.3          3.5           80.7          4.3            94.7
Public Safety & Conveniences  16.9           50.4          21.1           50.8         25.6           75.6         34.5            90.6
Loan Charges    P                                                                                    0.7
I                          -                            -                           0.5
Education                        2.0         44.3           2.1           51.9          3.0           53.4          7.7            67.2
Miscellaneous                                 97.1                        87.9                        89.7                        138.4
Sub-Total Revenue
Expenditure                  138.1        730.3         85.0           783.4        151.7          822.7        206.6         1049.1
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE
Water Supply & Sewerage           -                         1.2                                                      8,2
Drainage                         0.4                        0,6                         2,2                         2.0
Conservancy                     27.9                       60.8                        44,2                        65.6
Public Health                   35.0                        _                           _                            _
Public Safety                    2.4                        5.0                         0.5                          -
Buildings                        -                          -                           -                           0.8
Roads                            -                         27.0                         6.0                          -
Education                        1.9                        1.0                         0,8                          1.0
Sub-Total Capital Ex-             -
penditure                     67.6                      95,6                         53.7                        77.6
TOTAL EXPENDITURE                       936.0                       966.0                       1028.1                     1333.3
/a  Represents repayment of principal.                                    /b  Represents repayment of interest.



- 72 -
ANNEX 3
Page 7
Table 3: KANPUR JAL SANSTHAN
STATEMENT OF RECEIPTS AND PAYMENTS FOR YEARS 1977-78 TO 1980-81
(Rs '00,000)
1977-78   1978-79   1979-80   1980-81
Item                                                         (Budgeted)
INCOME
Water Tax                                 60.2       73.6       78.7       83.0
Cost of Water                             27.4       18.2       26.1      104.0
Other                                      1.0        3.7        8.0       15.0
Total                       88.6       95.5      112.8      202.0
EXPENDITURE
Establishment                             35.6       40.6       45.3       53.2
Electricity & Power                       43.2       63.1       68.1       83.0
Store Purchases                           11.8       10.0       13.0       17.2
Repairs & Maintenance                      1.7        1.9        2.8        4.8
Chemicals                                 13.2       13.7       17.1       25.5
Administrative Overhead                    1.6        1.9        4.2        5.9
Other                                      0.1        0.2        0.8        1.7
Total                      107.2      131.4      151.3      191.3
Table 4: KANPUR DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY: CAPITAL INVESTMENTS
(Rs '00,000)
1977/78       1978/79       1979/80       1980/81
Item             Units   (Rs) Units   (Rs) Units   (Rs) Units   (Rs)
Land Acquisition (acres)         17  128       93   21       201   24      225   25
Land Development (acres)        268   84      113   87      122  165       120  110 a
Housing:  HIG                    10    8       -    -         -    -        76   42
MIG                  102   27       353  101      175   51      816  216
LIG                  126   16        12    2      417   52      842  105
EWS                   -    -        645   30   1,785   84   2,397  113
Sites and Services               -    -        -    -       863    7   1,223    7
Refugee Quarters                158   16       -    -         12    1        8    1
Shopping Centers                 -      3      -    10       -      2       -    -
Cattle Sheds                     -             -    10      100    5        -    -
Total           =96 -b282   1,O 0Qb26     3,252fb39    5 362Lb620
La Expenditure up to November 1980.
/b Total indicates number of units of housing; excludes land development.



KANPU. URBAN DEVELPSIENT PROJECT
KANPUR JAL SANSTHAN
Table 1: WATER SUPPLY OPERATION:  PHYSICAL PARAMETERS, REVENUE AND EXPENDITURE
_KJS13 Sept/22                              1980/81          1981/82           1982/83          1983/84           1984/85           1985/86              Logic
DISTRIBPTION                                    F         G       H       I         J       K        L       N        N         0        p
7 Total populatton  (g.r.te:2.7%/year)    1629                     1673             1718              1765              1812             1861              H 7=Input
8 Number of dorest ic connect. a/               45500            49500             60000             73000             s0500   b/       83500              H 8=Input
9 Number of bulk dom.-conect. a/                   300               3 00             300               300              300               300             H 9=.Input
10 Number of non do.co- e-ect.   o/                3115             3200              3500             3750              3900              3900             Hl0=Input
11 Number of standpipes                            2276             2300              2320             2340              2360              2380             Hll=Input
Number of people served by: c/
13          one domestic  con-ect.                  9.5              9.5               9.5              9.5               9.5               9.5             H13-Input
14               bulk dor.                          540              540               540              540               540               540             H14=lnput
15           "  standplpes                          210              210               210              210               210               210             H15=Input
16 Total populatio-  served                        1072             1115              1219             1347              1422              1455             1116=(H8*H13+N9*Hl11+HII*HI5)/1000
17 X of population  served                           66               67                71                76               78                78             H17=H16/h7*100
PRODUCTION f CONSUMPTION
20 Installed  capacity(mld)                         270              292               316              342               370               400             H20-Input
21 Total water production  (mId) c/                 232              239               251              262               272               280             H21=Input
22 Leakage wastage  & illeg.connect.  c/             39 2             39 Y              38               35 Z              34 %              33 2           H22=Input
23 Billable water supply  (mid)                     127              131               141              155               164            m 172              ii23=INT(H21*(1-H22/lO0)'R28)
24 Average consump/dom.connect. (lcd)               147              143               132              119               115               119             H24=(H23-25.4)*1E6-H26*HIO)/(R8*N13+H9*H14)
25     *              /standpipe    (Cd)          6300              6300             6300              6300              6300             6300              H25=H15*30
26     ,              /non-dom.con. (Cd)          4500              4750             5500              7500              8250             8500              N26=Input
Distribution of consumption;  (.Id)
28  Stand pipes                                      14               14                15                15               15                15             H28-Hll*H25*.000001
29  Domestic                                         h3               67                75                82               87                94             H29=INT(H24*H8*H13*.O00001)
30  Non domestic                                     14  Xbblk        15   Xbulk        19  2bulk         28  2bulk        32  %bulk         33  Ibulk    H30=HIO*H26*.000001
31  Bulk: Railvay  4 Defense                         26       52      25       52       24       52      23       52       23       52       23       52    H31=(N23-H29-H3O)*I31/10O
32         KDA                                       19       36      18       36       17       36       16      36       16       36       16       36    H32-1131/131*132
33         i(NM                                       6       12        6      12        6       12        5      12        5       12        5       12    H33=H31/131*133
REVENUE (Rs 000,000)
---------------------                      ---R----rate- --Ps----rate-  --Rs----rate- --Rs----rate- --N rate- --R----rate-
36  Do..estic   d/                               11.50    0.50   12.23    0.50   13.69    0,50   22.45    0.75   23.82    0.75   25.73    0.75    1136=H29*136*365/l000
37  Non-domestic                                  7.67    1.50    8.32    1.50   10.54    1.50   20.53    2.00   23.49    2.00   24. 20    2.00    H37=H30*137*365/lOOO
38  Bulk: Raillay 6 Defense                       4.74    0.50    4.63    0.50    4.44    0.50    8.52    1.00    8.51    1.00    8.51    1.00    H38=H31*138*365/1000
39         KDA                                    3.28    0.50    3.21    0.50    3.07    0.50    4.42    0.75    4.42    0.75    4.42    0.75    H39=1132*139*365/l000
KIM   e/                              0.22    0.10    0.21    0.I0    1.D2    0.50    1.47    0.75    1.47    0.75    1.47    0.75    H40=R33*I40*365/l000
41 Water tao  and other charges                   3.00              3.50             4.00              0.40              0.50             0.70              R41=Input
43 Potential revenue                             30.42             32.10            36.76             5F.79            62.20             65.04              H43=SIM(H36,1{41)
44 Percent collection                                60               60                65                70               75                80             H44=Input
45 Actual collection of current dues             18.25   f/        19.26            23.89             40.45            46.65             52.03              N45=1143*1144/l00
46 Uncollected  current dues g/                  12.17             12.84            12.87             17.34            15.55             13.01              1H46=N43-H45
47 Arrears collections h/                                           7.31r            9.63             10.94            14.74             13.22              H47=.6*F46
48 TOTAL REVENUE (collected)                     18.25             26.56            33.52             51.39            61.39             65.25              N48=H47+H45
EXPENDITTURE (Rs 000,000)
---------------------          yr.grth.r.te
52 Cost of production(Rs/m3)               .09    0.22              0.24             0.26              0.28             0.31              0.33              H52=F52*(1+E52)
53 Total operating  expenditure                  IR.40             20.66            23.65             26.91            30.45             34.17              H53=H21*365*H52/1000
54 Debt service i/                                2.40              8.50            18.30             24.30            25.50             24.30              N54=Input
55 TOTAL CASH OUTLAY                             20.80            29.16             41.95             51.21            55.95             58.47              H55=H54+N53
57 SUFPLUS/DEFTCIT(-) J/                         -2.55            -2.60             -8.43              0.18             5.44              6.78              H57=H48-H55
a/ Consusar survy currently underway will provide wre accurate infortion on number of cooaectiooa.
b/ Increase in domestic connections from 45,500 to 80,500 during 1981/82 through 1984/85 includes about 25,000 connections under project (KUDP), by contractors; KJS's share only about 10,000
connections is this period.
c/ These inputs are beSt estimates.  Actuals to be established following completion of conssmer survey, production and bulk metering and wastage and leakage study.
dl Tariff revision assumed effective April 1, 1983 (aboot 557 average).
e/ Water supplied to ENM at concestsonary rate of Rs 0.10/m3 changed to Rs 0.50/m3 starting April 1, 1982.
t/ 1980/81 actual collection includes arrears collection fot 1977 onwards.
g/ Represents arrears for current year only.  Any arrears collection for period April 1, 1977 to March 31, 1980 will represent additional revenue not accounted for in this analysis.
h/ Arrears collection of 507., 75%, 057,, 037,, and 85'/ is assu-ced tor 1981/82, 1982/d3, 1983/84, 1984/85 and 1985/8S, rep-Lcti-oly, duc to develapo-eact of metering, meLer repair and effectia-
collection programs.
i/ Additional debt service of Rs 4.3 million, Rs 5.5 million and Rs 4.3 million in 1933/84, 1984/85 a,d 19S5/86, respectively, due to repayment of working capital loan.
j/ Analysis represents a yearly cash position; therefore deficit is not carried forward.  It is assumed that COUP meets shortfalls of KJS sach y:ar until operating surplus is generated.



INDIA
KANPUR URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KANPUR JAL SANSTHAN
Table 2: WATER CONNECTION, CONVERSION AND METER REPAIR PROGRAM
Net      Net        Meters      Meters        New        Con-       Total     Total         Total
Working  Defective  Repaired    Defective    New            Cons  Working  Defective  Cot
Meters    Meters   during yr.  during yr.                            Meters    Meters
Bulk
At April 1, 1981                 100       200                                                        100        200        300
During year                               (200)       200
At April 1, 1982                 300                                                                  300                   300
Domestic - Metered
At April 1, 1981             20,600    12,000                                                                           32,600
During year                   9,600       (600)    5,600         4,000       4,000       4,000
At April 1, 1982             30,200    10,400                                                      30,200    10,400    40,600
During year                  15,500    (1,000)    6,500           5,500     10,500       4,000
At April 1, 1983             45,700      9,400                                                     45,700      9,400    55,100
During year                  19,000    (2,000)    8,000           6,000     13,000       4,000
At April 1, 1984             64,700      7,400                                                     64,700      7,400    72,100      1
During year                  12,100    (3,000)    9,000           6,000      7,500       1,600
At April 1, 1985             76,800      4,400                                                     76,800      4,400    81,200    t
Domestic - Unmetered
At April 1, 1981                                                                                                        13,600
During year                                                                             (4,000)
At April 1, 1982                                                                                                          9,600
During year                                                                             (4,000)
At April 1, 1983                                                                                                         5,600
During year                                                                             (4,000)
At April 1, 1984                                                                                                         1,600
During year                                                                             (1,600)
At April 1, 1985
Non-Domestic
At April 1, 1981                 700     2,415                                                        700      2,415      3,115
During year                   1,115       (930)    1,000             70        185
At April 1, 1982              1,815    (1,485)                                                      3,300                 3,300
During year                   1,140       (940)    1,000             60        200
At April 1, 1983               2,955        545                                                     3,500                 3,500
During year                      585      (385)       545            60        200
At April 1, 1984              3,540        160                                                      3,700                 3,700
During year                      360      (160)                                200
At April 1, 1985              3,900                                                                 3,900                 3,900
_ _ _                           _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 75 -
ANNEX 4
INDIA                                         Page  3
KANPUR URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KANPUR JAL SANSTRAN
Table 3: SEWERAGE OPERATION
1980/81       1981/82       1982/83       1983/84       1984/85       1985/86
Physical Parameters
Total city population ('000)                        1,629         1,676         1,720         1,768         1,816         1,865
Population with water connections ('000)              530           569           638           723           800           862
Number of sewer connections                         7,000        10,000        19,500        40,500        52,000        57,000
Population with sewer connections ('000)               67            95           186           386           495           542
Sewer Connection Program
Sites and Services                                  -              -            1,500         9,000         4,500         2,000
Slum Upgrading                                       -             -            2,000         5,000         3,000         1,000
City-wide                                           -             3,000         6,000         7,000         4,000         2,000
TOTAL                                                             3,000         9,500        21,000        11,500         5,000
Distribution of New Consumers
Sites and Services
Rs 2,400/yr assessed rental (30%)                                              450         3,150         4,500         5,100 a/
Rs 1,200/yr assessed rental (30%)                                              450         3,150         4,500         5,100
Rs   500/yr assessed re?tal (40%)                                              600         4,200         6.000         6,800
1,500        10,500        15,000        17,000
Slum Upgrading
Rs 2,400/yr assessed rental (10%)                                              200           700         1,000         1,100
Rs 1,200/yr assessed rental (25%)                                              500         1,750         2,500         1,750
Rs   500/yr assessed rental (65%)                                            1,300         4,550         6,500         7,150
2,000         7,000        10,000        11,000
City-wide
Rs 2,400/yr assessed rental (35%)                              1,050         3,150         5,600         7,000         7,700
Rs 1,200/yr assessed rental (35Z)                              1,050         3,150         5,600         7,000         7,700
Rs   500/yr assessed rental (30%)                                900         2,700         4,800         6,000         6,600
3,000         9,000        16,000        20,000        22,000
Total New Consumers by Category
Rs 2,400/yr assessed rental                                    1,050         3,800         9,450        12,500        13.900
Rs 1,200/yr assessed rental                                    1,050         4,100        10,500        14,000         15,550
Rs   500/yr assessed rental                                      900         4.600        13,550        18,500        20,550
3,000        12,500        33,500        45,000        50,000
Revenues (Rs '000,000)
From existing connections - Tax                                    3.10          3.40          7.20          7.60          7.60
Sewage Farm                                                        0.80          1.00          1.20          1.40          1.60
New Connections
Rs 2,400/yr assessed rental                                     0.80 b/       0.27 b/       1.42 c/       1.88 c/        2.09 c/
Rs 1,200/yr assessed rental                                     0.04          0.15          0.79          1.05          1.17
Rs   500/yr assessed rental                                     0.01          0.07          0.41          0.56            .62
Total Potential Revenue                                            4,75          4.89         11.02         12,49         13.08
Percent Collection                                                 60            65            70             75            80
Total Cash Collection                                              2.85          3,18          7.71          9.37          10.46
Expenditure (Rs '000,000)
Operating Expenses                                              7.30          8.90          9.60         11.52         13.82
Debt Service                                                    0.70          1.50          1.50          3.20 b/        3.20
Total Expenditure                                                  8.00         10.40         11.10         14.70          17.02
Surplus/(Deficit)                                                 (5.2)         (7.2)         (3.4)          (5.3)         (6.6)
a/  Cumulative totals.
b/ Sewer tax of Rs 72, Rs 36 and Rs 15 p.a. for assessed annual rental values of Rs 2,400, Rs 1,200 and Rs 500
respectively.
c/  Sewerage charges doubled to Rs 150, RS 75 and Rs 30 p.a. for assessed annual rental values of Rs 2,400, Rs 1,200
and Rs 500, respectively. Sewerage charges would include tax and a charge based on water usage,
d/  Debt service increase due to additional essential investments to keep sewage pumping stations operational.



INDIA
KANPUR URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table 4: REVENUE AND EXPENDITURE PROJECTIONS FOR WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE OPERATIONS
1980/81       1981/82        1982/83         1983/84         1984/85        1985/86
Expenditure (Rs '000,000)
Operating Expenditure
Water Supply                  18.4           20.7           23.7           26.9            30.5           34.2
Sewerage                       6.6            7.3            8.9            9.6            11.5           13.8
Debt Service
Water Supply                   2.4            8.5           18.3           24.3            25.5           24.3
Sewerage                      0.7            0.7             1.5            1.5             3.2            3.2
Total Expenditure               28.1           37.2           52.4           62.3            70.7           75.5
Revenue
Water Supply                  18.2           26.6           33.5           51.4            61.4           65.3
Sewerage                      1.6            2.9             3.2            7.7             9.4           10.5
Total Revenue                   19.8 a/        29.5           36.7           59.1            70.8           75.8
Surplus/(deficit)               (8.3)          (7.7)         (15.7)          (3.2)            0.1            0.3
a/  Represents actuals for the year.                                                                                     c j



- 77 -
ANNEX 5
INDIA
KANPUR URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
I. General
1.   Kanpur Urban Development Project:  An Approach Document
2.   Master Plan for Kanpur
3.   Uttar Pradesh:  Draft Five Year Plan 1978-1983
4.   Report of the Working Group on Housing and Urban Development
for the Sixth Five Year Plan (1980-85)
5.   UNESCO Sponsored Urban Community Development Project, Kanpur
6.   Kanpur Draft Urban Sector Background Note
7.   Kanpur Traffic and Transportation Plan 1971-1991
II. Sites and Services and Slum Upgrading
1.   Project Report on Sites and Services and Slum Upgrading
2.   Annexure I:  Detailed Design and Cost Estimates for Sites and
Services and Slum Upgrading
3.   Feasibility Report on Small-Scale Employment by UPICO, Ltd.
4.   Report on Housing Demand
5.   Household Income Distribution Survey
6.   Detailed Engineering Drawings for Barra, Gujaini and Pokharpur
7.   Detailed Engineering Drawings for Ten Slum Upgrading Sites
III. Environmental Sanitation
1.   Kanpur Water Supply Master Plan Project
2.   Kanpur Sewerage Master Plan Project
3.   Consultants' Report on Solid Waste Management
4.   Project Report on Sewerage
5.   Project Report on Stormwater Drainage
6.   Project Report on Traffic Engineering and Management
7.   Project Report on KNM Maintenance Activities
8.   Project Report on Water Supply
9.   Project Report on Solid Waste Management
IV. Financial and Institutional
1.   Consultants' Report on Kanpur Jal Sansthan
2.   Internal Accounts of Kanpur Nagar Mahapalika






____r_____-                      -                                                      ________                                  ____________                               ____                           INDIA                                               IBRD 15671R
0  1l                                                                                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IN DIA
NT                                 JE .F           M           ONFtF TL                                +.+.+ l ''I                                                   KANPUR    URBAN     DEVELOPMENT    PROJECT
\~~~~~~~~~Nh                                        FNFNt6AAD ErIIF.CA NFONN  NUsp. EONNe FAnM               ! N1 O.vE FJAF NO SF00 ON
.......                                                1 1 ITI fN 1-. NENMENT  A O'  50.5  LOCATION   OF  SLUM   UPGRADING  AND  SITES  AND   SERVICES
1  .     N    A -r                   "A' Ir HT.elA  NTe  D  l 
t                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          - i   ,  q F   ABAD 5  Nu -l  -ODE CeF  .D-AF
rILOMETEnn~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SPEBR18
_ _ ___.____ __    _. ____. ___ ___,   _ ,_: _    ,   I   \                ___                                   ____                                   _ .E                         _ _         __-N
>1\'         -fffb:
;'_,,9F;                              \E                     NA /
NEPTEMOeFR 019






_ _  _                  _                  _                                                 __ _                                                                                 I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRD 15672R
I ND I A
KANPUR URBAN  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   hmAmmsAm
Barra    Sites  and    Services                                                                                                                              \\----~.                                                     ;                        Aae6;l    dUtt
PRC-JE-T                                                    N4C>l fROJt_ T \\__,,Uee;Wolv
L_Pr -g. Sch-.               Gr-ebelt                       Et Flsg Ol  Pls  el?__:L _ -~/dmee@flyf 
=H,,, Schos_                                                 pnAI.I,ndPuL F-lt nq RwB  , :__--~
X Commerclol - ~KUDP (F-nk P-M                c       t E-:fi,q P-l Lne -----~ _- --
--    brk Ar-o                  ceeBudr                                                                                                               __        ~~ <                --- r- ---\
L~E-R                                                                               . G     P  --   -- --                                                                                                                          -
M,G 5PI.,,5R 9






br, S,tes o,,d se-sces
I N D IA
KANPUR URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Pokharpur Sites and Services Infrastructure
F-~~~~~~~~~~~~__
PROJECT
I  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Project Boundary                                 --- Fielo Boundaries
- Con,,,erc.cal Buildings     ---Boundlary Wolis to be DOsmonted
fire Hydrants                    Trees
0                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Plots  Abodi to be Upgraded
B                          ____________________________                  V    M n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Wed !,,fll Ronts
Wae   osNON -PROJECT
Sewers                  ~~~~~~Cantonment Boundary
7                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~ Van~es                  En,sting Roads
-o                      ~~~~~~~~~Cannecri- Cra,casets  [:]~  Ex stin,g Buidings
Manholes*nEstgWe
I                   Elect:,. Lines ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o  Emst,ng Electric Lin,es and Poles
Ah -                                                                                  j~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-j
X u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B.
A' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' ~                                          ~        ~        -
y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-V9                                                                             ic






IBRD  15674R
b  hnwL nn t~~~~~;9 wAp   |   $    9 ~~~G  W  A  L T 0  L I 
fUddmez   Nf   I                                                                                                                                                                         l I N
,,OWALTOLG                                                                                                                                                                                      No 12.480
r      ,                      @               1 ,   ,?   Ll-u  -. - -                                    =---=- -'----'  =0  d                     _ <-r      -                                         - r                                       R
=   _==_*   ................... i ,a ,K,,r 1! ................. - .1 < a E-t,g P.ca Strcture
V~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                               7 -
/   T w                                                         MFTERS                                                                                                             MACPOBERT GAIIJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BudayofAo oS ,
Smell                             EM ePt
7,"                                                                                                                                                            Elect-      Lines and   Po[es
~~~~~~1                                           2~~~~~~SHGL-                                                                d
'7J17]f ~~~~~~~~---~~~~--    ~ ~ ~                            TYPK)ICAL SLUMA           PGRDIN
A       /                                                                                                                       GWALTO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LT  o  1/8
A  ,,   S\                                                          - -    ~   ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~   Existing SenicEucca Structures~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VCIH 
2  5-          ~           ~           ~           ~           ~           ~           ~          ~          ~1   Existing Kutcha Structures~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M 
1r7          I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1R1N   OLG
1/                                                                 -             I~~5                                                                             i Struckies to be Demolishe
IL FTERstngTSe
i/i  K'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RBR GAr I)Eisin Wl
y  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   'r-.-~~~~~~~~~~~~i  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                       Ot.N.,CCL'GL                                             Parks~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EPEME  18



