0 7         \CREDIT NUMBER 1185 IN
Project Agreement
(Kanpur Urban Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
Dated                                1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1185 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1982, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH (hereinafter called Uttar
Pradesh).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty two million two hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 22,200,000) on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that Uttar Pradesh agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
and
WHEREAS Uttar Pradesh, in consideration of the Associa-
tion's entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the
Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the term "Executing Agencies" means the Authority, the Jal
Sansthan and the Nagar Mahapalika, and the Directorate of In-
dustries and the Department of Housing of Uttar Pradesh.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Uttar Pradesh shall carry out, or cause
to be carried out, the Project described in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and


﻿-2-
engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
(b) Uttar Pradesh shall make available to the Executing
Agencies funds equivalent to the proceeds of the Credit made
available by the Borrower to Uttar Pradesh on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.02. In order to assist the Executing Agencies in
(i) administration of civil works contracts, and (ii) carrying out
Part C of the Project, Uttar Pradesh shall cause to be employed
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the
provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Uttar Pradesh undertakes to cause the
Executing Agencies to insure, or make adequate provision for the
insurance of, the importeu goods to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit made available to them by Uttar Pradesh
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, Uttar
Pradesh shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower
to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) Uttar Pradesh shall furnish, or cause to be
furnished, to the Association, promptly upon their preparation,
the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) Uttar Pradesh shall: (i) maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records and procedures adequate to record and monitor
the progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits
to be derived from it), to identify the goods and services


﻿-3-
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their
use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Association at regular intervals
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures of such proceeds
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by Uttar Pradesh of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded
and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between Uttar Pradesh
and the Association, Uttar Pradesh shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by Uttar
Pradesh and the Association of their respective obligations under
the Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit.
(e) Uttar Pradesh shall enable the Association's repre-
sentatives to examine all plants, installationq, sites, works,
buildings, property, equipment, records and documents relevant
to the performance of Uttar Pradesh's obligations under this
Agreement.
Section 2.06. (a) Uttar Pradesh shall at the request of
the Association, exchange views with the Association with regard
to the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of
the Credit.
(b) Uttar Pradesh shall promptly inform the Association
of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with
the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by Uttar Pradesh of its obligations
under this Agreement.


﻿-4-
Section 2.07. Uttar Pradesh shall ensure that the annual work
program for off-site water supply, sewerage and drainage to be
carried out by the Nagar Mahapalika and the Jal Sansthan under
Part B (i) of the Project shall be agreed upon between Uttar
Pradesh and the Association by April 1 of each year.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. Uttar Pradesh shall cause the Authority, the
Jal Sansthan and the Nagar Mahapalika to: (i) take out and main-
tain with responsible insurers, or make other provisions satis-
factory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice;
(ii) at all times to manage their affairs, maintain their finan-
cial position, plan their future expansion and carry on their
operations, all in accordance with sound business, financial,
administrative and engineering practices and under the supervision
of experienced and competent management assisted by adequate and
competent staff; and (iii) at all times operate and maintain
their plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and make all
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, in accordance with sound
engineering practices.
Section 3.02. Uttar Pradesh shall cause the Authority, the
Jal Sansthan and the Nagar Mahapalika to maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices their operations and financial condition.
Section 3.03. Uttar Pradesh shall cause the Authority, the
Jal Sansthan and the Nagar Mahapalika to: (i) have their accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than nine months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of their financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the
Association such other information concerning the said accounts
and financial statements and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿-5-
Section 3.04. Uttar Pradesh shall ensure that in respect of
the sites and services to be developed by the Authority under
Part A (i) of the Project, (i) the beneficiary selection criteria,
(ii) the terms and conditions of lease and mortgage, and (iii) the
terms and conditions of shelter construction and small business
loans to the beneficiaries, shall all be satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 3.05. Uttar Pradesh shall ensure that, (i) the terms
and conditions of lease and mortgage, and of improvement loans, to
the beneficiaries of slum upgrading under Part A (ii) of the
Project, and (ii) the terms and conditions of the sewer connection
loans under Part B (i) of the Project shall all be satisfactory to
the Association.
Section 3.06. Uttar Pradesh shall cause to be taken all such
action as may be necessary to introduce accounting systems in
respect of the Authority, the Jal Sansthan and the Nagar Maha-
palika satisfactory to the Association and to ensure that said
accounting systems shall be fully operational in respect of the
Jal Sansthan by April 1, 1982 and in respect of the Authority and
the Nagar Mahapalika by April 1, 1983.
Section 3.07. Uttar Pradesh shall cause the Jal Sansthan
to: (i) implement, by April 1, 1982, a water wastage and leakage
detection program, including production metering and area-wise
bulk metering; (ii) on the basis of the findings of such program,
develop, by September 30, 1982, an action program to reduce water
wastage and leakage to a level acceptable to the Association; and
(iii) thereafter implement said action program in accordance with
a time schedule satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.08. (a) Uttar Pradesh shall cause the Jal Sansthan
to: (i) initiate an accelerated connection program, to achieve not
less than 80,500 total water connections by March 31, 1985; (ii)
introduce quarterly water meter reading and semi-annual billing
with effect from the fiscal year commencing April 1, 1981 and
quarterly billing with effect from the fiscal year commencing
April 1, 1982; (iii) develop its water meter repair and replace-
ment capability, through the provision of adequate staff and spare
parts, to ensure that not less than 75% and 90% of installed
meters are fully functional in each quarter with effect from the
quarters beginning January 1 and October 1, 1983, respectively;
(iv) introduce an effective collection program, including proce-
dures for disconnection of defaulting consumers, to achieve cash


﻿-6-
collections of not less than 60%, 65%, 70%, 75% and 80% of the
current year's receivables during fiscal years 1981/82, 1982/83,
1983/84, 1984/85 and 1985/86 respectively; and (v) generate
sufficient revenues, through operational improvements and, if
necessary, tariff revisions, to cover not less than (A) 75% of the
operation and maintenance costs and debt service requirements for
its water supply operations for the fiscal year beginning April 1,
1982, (B) 100% of the operation and maintenance costs and debt
service requirements for its water supply operations for the
fiscal year beginning April 1, 1983, and (C) 100% of the operation
and maintenance costs and debt service requirements for its water
supply and sewerage operations for each year commencing with the
fiscal year beginning April 1, 1984.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the term "debt" means any debt maturing by its
terms more than twelve months after the date on
which it is originally incurred; and
(ii) the term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of amortization, interest and
other charges in respect of debt.
Section 3.09. Uttar Pradesh shall cause the Nagar Mahapalika
to, (i) establish, by April 1, 1982, a Traffic Management and
Engineering Cell with adequate staff, and (ii) implement such low
cost traffic management schemes under Part B (iv) of the Project
as shall be agreed upon between Uttar Pradesh and the Association.
Section 3.10. Uttar Pradesh undertakes to ensure that, not
later than April 1, 1983, the Nagar Mahapalika shall make such
organizational and operational changes in its solid waste manage-
ment service as shall be agreed upon between the Association and
Uttar Pradesh based on the recommendations of the study being
conducted by the consultants on the organization and management of
the Nagar Mahapalika.
Section 3.11. Uttar Pradesh undertakes that only such invest-
ments under Part B (iii) of the Project shall be undertaken as
shall be agreed upon between the Association and Uttar Pradesh
based on the recommendations arising from the study now being
carried out of the maintenance functions of the Nagar Mahapalika
and the Jal Sansthan.


﻿-7-
Section 3.12. Uttar Pradesh shall cause the Nagar Mahapalika
to implement, not later than April 1, 1983, such measures to
increase the revenues of the Nagar Mahapalika as shall be agreed
upon between Uttar Pradesh and the Association on the basis of
recommendations arising from the resource mobilization study
presently being carried out by Uttar Pradesh.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of Uttar Pradesh thereunder shall terminate
on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
Uttar Pradesh of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or


﻿-8-
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For Uttar Pradesh:
Secretary to the Government of
Uttar Pradesh
Department of Housing
Lucknow, U.P.
India
Cable address:
HOUSINGUP
Lucknow
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of Uttar Pradesh may be taken or executed
by a Secretary to the Government of Uttar Pradesh or such other
person or persons as Uttar Pradesh shall designate in writing, and
Uttar Pradesh shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each
such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several coun-
terparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collectively
but one instrument.


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By (w     ' ,
Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
BAyz RAeay                         peentaatv
Authorized Representative


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" dated March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, Uttar Pradesh shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. Uttar Pradesh shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding.
3.   To the extent practicable, goods shall be grouped in bid
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more
each.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or
the sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of


﻿- 11 -
inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery
of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
India may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
India if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in India equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation,
and sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale
or delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest
evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as
a result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported


﻿- 12 -
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for equipment and materials estimated to cost
the equivalent of $50,000 or less each and in the aggregate not
exceeding the equivalent of $200,000 may be let after obtaining
quotations from at least three suppliers.
2.   Contracts for equipment which must be compatible with other
equipment in use, or for which local availability of spares and
maintenance facilities is essential, may be let on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with proce-
dures acceptable to the Association, provided, that the list of
such equipment shall have been approved by the Association.
3.   Contracts for civil works shall be let on the basis of com-
petitive bidding advertised locally in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for (i) civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more, and (ii) equipment and
materials to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, Uttar Pradesh shall furnish or
cause to be furnished to the Association, for its comments, the
text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising
procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such
modifications in the said documents or procedures as the


﻿- 13 -
Association shall reasonably request. Any further modification to
the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, Uttar
Pradesh shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which
it intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the
Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such
other information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform Uttar Pradesh and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, Uttar Pradesh shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with the
analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably
request. The Association shall, if it determines that the award of
the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform Uttar Pradesh and state the reasons for
such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, Uttar Pradesh shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or


﻿-14 -
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform Uttar Pradesh
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of
198  .
FOR-sEcRTTA-RY


