FFICIAL        CREDIT NUMBER 1185 IN
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Kanpur Urban Development Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                              , 1982


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1185 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated --, 1982, between
INDIA, acting by its President (herinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by the State of Uttar
Pradesh with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to State of Uttar
Pradesh the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided;
and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
State of Uttar Pradesh;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Uttar Pradesh" means the State of Uttar Pradesh, acting
by its Governor, a state of India, or any successor thereto;


﻿-2-
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and Uttar Pradesh of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules to the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental
to the Project Agreement;
(c) "Kanpur" means the city of Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh;
(d)  "Authority" means the Kanpur Development Authority
established under the Uttar Pradesh Urban Planning and Development
Act, 1973 of Uttar Pradesh;
(e) "Jal Sansthan" means the Kanpur Jal Sansthan. established
under the Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Act, 1975 of
Uttar Pradesh; and
(f) "Nagar Mahapalika" means the Kanpur Nagar Mahapalika
established under the Uttar Pradesh Nagar Mahapalika Adhiniyan,
1959 of Uttar Pradesh.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twenty two million two hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 22,200,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1986
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 1
and December 1 commencing December 1, 1991, and ending June 1,
2031, each installment to and including the installment payable
on June 1, 2001, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall cause Uttar Pradesh to perform in accor-
dance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obliga-
tions therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Uttar Pradesh
to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
available to Uttar Pradesh in accordance with the Borrower's
standard arrangements for developmental assistance to the States
of India.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) Uttar Pradesh shall have failed to perform any covenant,
agreement or obligation under the Project Agreement;
(b) Uttar Pradesh shall have taken any action for the
dissolution or disestablishment of the Authority, the Jal Sansthan
or the Nagar Mahapalika; and
(c) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that Uttar Pradesh will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower and Uttar Pradesh; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized or ratified by Uttar Pradesh, and is
legally binding upon Uttar Pradesh in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.02. The date  O/t//9      /9c2    is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-5-
Section 5.03. The provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agree-
ment shall zease and determine on the date on which the Develop-
ment Credi-: Agreement shall terminate or on a date 20 years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director, Deputy Secretary or Under Secretary to the
Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrowe:r for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified, for the
purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:                        Telex:
ECOFAIRS                            953-31354
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-6-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INDIA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 7 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Equipment and                 1,330,000
materials:
(a) procured through                          100% of for-
international                            eign expendi-
competitive                              tures and
bidding                                  100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory)
(b) others                                    55% of local
expenditures
(2) Civil works                  15,440,000        55%
(3) Loans for construction        2,660,000        70% of amounts
and improvement of                            disbursed
homes and business
premises, and for
sewerage connections
(4) Technical assistance            890,000        100%
and training
(5) Unallocated                   1,880,000
TOTAL         22,200,000


﻿-8-
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals
in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $250,000
each may be made in respect of Categories (2) and (4) on account
of payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
April 1, 1981 and October 1, 1980, respectively.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then


﻿applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to provide basic infrastructure and
developed land to primarily low-income beneficiaries in the city
of Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh, to strengthen key urban institutions
in the city, and to develop a state-wide strategy for urban
development and management. The Project consists of the following.
Part A:   Shelter
(i) Sites and Services: (a) Development of about 14,800
residential plots on three sites totalling about 200
hectares, including provision of on-site and off-site
infrastructure, core units, community facilities, and
house construction loans for beneficiaries; and (b)
development on the said three sites of about 540 ser-
viced small business plots, together with common facili-
ties centers and building loans for small businesses.
(ii) Slum Upgrading: Upgrading of slum areas comprising about
20,000 households on about 105 hectares, including grant
of tenure, improved infrastructure services, home
improvement and sanitary core loans, community facili-
ties and small business support services.
Part B:   EnvironL.ental Sanitation, Maintenance and Traffic
Management
(i) Extensions and improvements to water supply, sewerage
and drainage networks directly affecting shelter compo-
nents under Part A of the Project, including the instal-
lation of about 30,400 meters of sewer lines of various
diameters, about 26,000 meters of water mains of various
diameters and about 12,000 meters of stormwater drains;
initiation of a water wastage and leakage reduction
program; construction of about 1,800 meters of storm-
water drains to drain the Latouche Road-Cooper Ganj-
Bansmadi area; desilting and remodelling of 13 existing
drainage outfalls; and implementation of a sewer connec-
tion loan program.
(ii) Solid Waste Management: Improvement of arrangements for
collection and disposal of refuse and nightsoil, through


﻿- 11 -
provision of equipment, improvements to depots and
workshops, and introduction of related organizational
changes.
(iii) Maintenance: Provision of equipment to improve the
infrastructure maintenance capacity of the Nagar Maha-
palika and the Jal Sansthan.
(iv) Traffic Management Measures: Improvement of traffic
management in areas adjacent to shelter components under
Part A of the Project.
Part C:  Technical Assistance and Institutional Strengthening
Provision of advisory services and training to local and
State-level bodies to improve urban planning, management and
finance, and service delivery and establishment of a traffic
engineering and management cell in the Nagar Mahapalika and a
strategy planning cell in the Department of Town and Country
Planning.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1985.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
19 8
F~7ECRETRY


