                                         Document of
                                     The World Bank


                              FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                  Report No: 66130-CG


                            PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT


                                            ON A


                                    PROPOSED CREDIT


                         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.30 MILLION
                            (US$ 5.00 MILLION EQUIVALENT)


                                           TO THE


                                   REPUBLIC OF CONGO


                                          FOR THE


       TRANSPARENCY AND GOVERNANCE CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT II


                                       February 2, 2012




Public Sector Reform and Capacity Building Unit
Country Department Eastern Africa 2
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World
Bank authorization.
                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS


                          (Exchange Rate Effective {Date})
                           Currency Unit = XAF
                                   US$1 =      XAF 480
                                    US$ = SDR 1


                                   FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1    –   December 31


                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AF        Financing Agreement (Accord de Financement)
AfDB      African Development Bank
AFRITAC   Africa Regional Technical Assistance Center
ARMP      Regulatory Authority for Public Tenders (Autorité de Régulation des Marches
          Publics)
AS        Auditing Standards
CEMAC     Central African Economic and Monetary Community (Communauté Economique et
          Monétaire des Etats d’Afrique Central) )
CFAA      Country Financial Accountability Assessment,
CFAF      Franc of the Central Africa Economic and Monetary Community
CIFA      Central African Francs
CNLCC     Governmental Anti-Corruption Commission (Commission Nationale de Lutte
          contre la Corruption et la Concussion)
CPAR      Country Procurement Assessment Report
CPI       Country Performance Institutional Assessment
CPIA      Country Policy and Institutional Assessment
CPIP      Country Procurement Issue Paper
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy
CQ        Consultant Qualification
DA        Designated Account
DAF       Financial and Administrative Service (Direction Administrative et Financiere)
DC        Direct Contracting
DEP       Studies and Planning Services (Direction des Etudes et de la Planification)
DGB       General Budget Services (Direction Générale du Budget)
DGCMP     General Directorate for Public Contracts (Direction Générale de Contrôle des
          Marchés Publics)
DGGT      General Directorat for Public Works (Direction Générale des Grands Travaux)
DGPD      General Directorat for Plan and Development (Direction Générale du Plan et du
          Développement)
DL        Disbursement Letter
CEF       Economic Commission and Financial (Commission Economique et Financière)
EITI      Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative

                                          II
EU       European Union
FA       Financial Agreement
FB       Fixed Budget
FM       financial management
GDP      Gross Domestic Product
GNI      Gross National Income
GPN      General Procurement Notice
HIPC     Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
HRM      Human Resources Management
IBRD     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IC       Individual Consultants
ICB      International Competition Bidding
IDA      International Development Association
IFC      International Finance Corporation
IFR      Interim Financial Reports
IMF      International Monetary Funds
IS       Implementation Support
ISA      International Standards on Auditing
ISR      Implementation Status Report
LCS       Least-Cost Selection
M&E      Monitoring & Evaluation
MDGs     Millennium Development Goals
MTEF     Medium Term Expenditure Framework
NCB      National Competition Bidding
NGO      Non-Gouvernement Organisation
OAC      Independent Governance Observatory (Observatoire Anti-Corruption)
OHADA    Organization for Harmonization of Business Law in Africa (Organisation pour
         l’Harmonisation en Afrique du Droit des Affaires)
ORAF     Overall Risk Assessment Framework
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PAGFP    Public Financial Management Reform action plan (Plan d’Action pour la Gestion
         des Finances Publics)
PAAGIP   Public Investment for Improving Action Plan (Plan d’Action pour l’Amelioration
         de la Gestion des Investissements Publics)
PCN      Project Concept Note
PCU      Project Coordination Unit
PDO      Project Development Objectives
PEFA     Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability
PER      Public Expenditure Review
PFM      Public Financial Management
PFS      Project Financial Statements
PIM      Project Implementation Manual
PIU      Project Implementation Unit
PRSP     Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (DSRP)
QBS      Quality Based Selection
QCBS     Quality and Cost Based Selection
RBM      Results Based Management

                                         III
REI      Request for Expression of Interest
RoC      Republic of Congo
RRA      Rapid Results Approach
RRI      Rapid Results Initiative
SBD      Standard Bidding Documents
SBQC     Selection Based on Quality and Cost
SDIR     Computerized budget management system
SIDERE   Integrated Public Revenue and Expenditure System
SIL      Specific Investment Loan
SMSE     Small and Medium Scale Enterprise
SNPC     Congolese National Oil Company (Société National des Petroles du Congo)
SOE      Statements of Expenditures
SPN      Specific Procurement Notices
SSS      Single Source Selection
SYSTAF   Integrated Tax Management System
TA       Technical Assistance
TGCBP    Transparency and Governance Capacity Building Project (PRCTG)
TOR      Terms of References
UNDB     United Nations Development Business
USD      United States Dollars
WA       Withdrawal Applications
XAF      BEAC CFA francs




            Regional Vice President:     Obiageli Ezekwesili
                   Country Director:     Eustache Ouayoro
                    Sector Director:     Marcelo Giugale
                    Sector Manager:      Anand Rajaram
                 Task Team Leader:       Jean Mabi Mulumba




                                        IV
                                                   TABLE OF CONTENTS

I.     STRATEGIC CONTEXT ....................................................................................................... 1
II.    PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES (PDO) ............................................................. 9
       1.      Project Beneficiaries ..................................................................................................... 9
       2.      PDO Level Results Indicators ...................................................................................... 9
III.     PROJECT DESCRIPTION ................................................................................................ 10
       A.      Project components..................................................................................................... 10
       B.      Project Financing ........................................................................................................ 14
       1.      Lending Instrument..................................................................................................... 14
       2.      Project Cost and Financing ......................................................................................... 14
       C.      Lessons Learned and Reflected in the Project Design ............................................... 15
IV.      IMPLEMENTATION ........................................................................................................ 16
       A.      Institutional and Implementation Arrangements ........................................................ 16
       B.      Results Monitoring and Evaluation ............................................................................ 17
       C.      Sustainability .............................................................................................................. 17
V.     KEY RISKS AND MITIGATION MEASURES ................................................................. 17
VI.      APPRAISAL SUMMARY ................................................................................................ 19
       A.      Economic and Financial Analysis .............................................................................. 19
       B.      Technical .................................................................................................................... 21
       C.      Financial Management ............................................................................................... 23
       D.      Procurement ................................................................................................................ 23
       E.      Social .......................................................................................................................... 24
       F.      Environmental (including Safeguards) ....................................................................... 24
Annex 1: Results Framework and Monitoring.............................................................................. 26
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description ......................................................................................... 32
Annex 3: Implementation Arrangements ...................................................................................... 37
Annex 4: Operational Risk Assessment Framework (ORAF) ...................................................... 62
Annex 5: Implementation Support Plan........................................................................................ 66
Annex 6: Economic and financial analysis ................................................................................... 68
Annex 7: Conceptual note on the subcomponent ......................................................................... 70




                                                                      V
     CONGO: TRANSPARENCY & GOVERNANCE CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT II

                              PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                              AFRICA

                                               AFTPR

            Date: February 2, 2012                           Team Leader: Jean Mabi Mulumba

Country Director: Eustache Ouayoro                  Sectors: Central government administration
                                                    (60%); General public administration sector
Sector Director: Marcelo Guigale                    (40%)
                                                    Themes: Public expenditure, financial
Sector Manager: Anand Rajaram                       management and procurement (70%); Other
                                                    accountability/anti-corruption (20%); Other
                                                    public sector governance (10%)
Project ID: P122990                                 Environmental category: C

Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan        Joint IFC: N/A

                                                    Joint Level:

                                       Project Financing Data

 [ ] Loan   [X] Credit     [ ] Grant    [ ] Guarantee                     [ ] Other:



                                       For Loans/Credits/Others:

                                Total Bank financing (US$m.): 5.00

   Proposed terms: The credit has a final maturity of 25 years including a grace period of 5 years.

                                       Financing Plan (US$m)

                  Source                            Local            Foreign              Total

       BORROWER/RECIPIENT                           21.30             0.00                21.30

  International Development Association               5.00            0.00                5.00
                  (IDA)

              Financing Gap                           0.00            0.00                0.00

                                                 VI
                    Total:                               26.30          0.00               26.30

                                        Borrower: Republic of Congo



                                   Responsible Agency: Ministry of Finance



FY               2012    2013 Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m)
                                  2014     2015
Annual            2.0        1.0        1.0      1.0
Cumulative        2.0        3.0        4.0      5.0
Project implementation period: Start: February 28, 2012 End: June 30, 2015
Expected effectiveness date: June 20, 2012
Expected closing date: June 30, 2015
Does the project depart from the CAS in content or other significant respects?
                                                                                    [ ]Yes [X] No
Ref. PAD I.C.
Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?
Ref. PAD IV.G.                                                                      [ ]Yes [X] No
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                        [ ]Yes [] No
Is approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                         [ ]Yes [X] No
Does the project include any critical risks rated “substantial? or “high??
                                                                                    [ X]Yes [ ] No
Ref. PAD III.E.
Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readiness for implementation?
                                                                                    [X]Yes [ ] No
Ref. PAD IV.G.
Project development objective


To strengthen the capacity of targeted public sector ministries, agencies and accountability structures
for improved management of human and financial resources.


Project description [one-sentence summary of each component] Ref. PAD., Technical Annex 2


The project has three components that are equally funded by IDA and the Republic of Congo:


        Component 1. Increased Capacity of Targeted Ministries to Manage Financial and
         Human Resources (US$ 19, 8 million, of which IDA:US$ 3.76 million, Gov: US$ 16.04
         million): The objective of this component is to provide support to further increase
         transparency and accountability in financial operations through technical assistance, provision
                                                       VII
       of equipment and training in budget and human resources management, and procurement. It
       also includes technical support to extend the Rapid Results approach in selected ministries.


      Component 2. Strengthened Capacity to Ensure Public Sector Accountability and
       Transparency (US$ 3.5 million of which IDA: US$ 0.67 million, Gov: US$ 2.83 million):
       The objective of this component is to support the Independent Governance Observatory, the
       Governmental Anti-Corruption Commission, the Economic and Financial Commission of
       Parliament, the Supreme Audit Institution, the State General Inspectorate, Media and selected
       NGOs by providing technical assistance and training to enhance their capacity to monitor
       governance and anti-corruption measures.


      Component 3. Monitoring and Evaluation system (US$ 3.0 million of which IDA: US$
       0.57 million, Gov: US$ 2.43 million): The objective of this component is to ensure the
       effective management and coordination of project implementation.
Which safeguard policies are triggered, if any? Ref. PAD IV.F., Technical Annex 10



Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
Ref. PAD III.F.


Financing              Description of Condition/Covenant                              Date Due
Agreement (FA)
Reference
FA, Schedule 2,            Deposit of an initial amount of project counterpart       Initial deposit:
Section I.C.2.              funding in CFA Francs, equivalent to US$ 2 million into   by
                            the Project Counterpart Funds Account; and deposit        effectiveness;
                            semiannually thereafter of agreed amounts into this       subsequent
                            account, to be used exclusively for Eligible              deposits April
                            Expenditures.                                             and September
                                                                                      annually


FA, Schedule 2,            Installation and configuration of suitable accounting     3 months after
Section II. B.4             software and recruitment of an external auditing firm     effectiveness

FA, Schedule 2,            Maintenance within the PIU of the following staff with
Section I. A.2              qualifications, experience and ToRs satisfactory to the Ongoing
                            Association: Project coordinator; financial and
                            administrative management specialist; procurement
                            specialist; M&E specialist; accountant; driver; assistant

  FA, Schedule 2,          Recruitment of an internal auditor and a financial
                            officer                                                   3 months after
   Section I.A.2
                                                 VIII
                                                                             effectiveness

FA, Schedule 2,       Conclusion of suitable arrangements with NGOs/media
                                                                             Prior to receipt
Section I.F            organizations for receiving TA under Sub-component
                                                                             of TA
                       2.2 and implementing action plans to enhance M&E of
                       public finances and services.

                      All terms of reference for any TA or studies carried out
FA, Schedule 2,        under the Project to be consistent with, and pay due
Section I.G            attention to, IDA‟s environmental and social safeguards Ongoing
                       policies, and the Recipient‟s own environmental/social
                       laws; and for any laws or regulations drafted under the
                       Project, due attention to be given to these policies and
                       laws.


FA, Section 4.01      Additional Event of Suspension: IDA has determined
                       that before the Closing Date, the Recipient has failed to
                       apply sound environmental or social standards or N/A
                       practices in its management or carrying out of
                       investments by the target ministries.




                                           IX
   I. STRATEGIC CONTEXT


           A. Country Context

1.      The Republic of Congo (RoC) is located in the central-western part of Sub-Saharan
Africa. The country is classified as a lower-middle income country, due to the combination of a
small population (4.1 million inhabitants) and large oil resources. It is one of the most urbanized
countries in Africa, with 70 percent of its total population living mainly in Brazzaville, the
capital in the center of the country, and Pointe-Noire on the west coast where most of the
economic activities are concentrated. The country has a favorable geographical position which
could help it become a transport corridor linking Central Africa to the deep-sea port in Pointe-
Noire. The country also has significant untapped agriculture potential as well as important
natural resources in addition to oil.

2.     The country was affected by a civil conflict which started in the early 1990s and
culminated in 1997. A ceasefire agreement was reached in March 2003, but tensions and
sporadic fighting persisted until 2007. Key infrastructure and businesses were destroyed during
the fighting, and investor confidence was seriously eroded. RoC is now emerging from the
conflict. A Presidential election was won in July 2009 by the incumbent President Denis Sassou
Nguesso, who was elected for a period of seven years. The last remaining rebel leader from the
civil war has returned to Brazzaville and now expressing his position through a political party.

3.      Despite oil dominance, macroeconomic stability is relatively well established in the
Republic of Congo since 2008. Real GDP is expected to grow by 4.5 percent in 2011 compared
to 8.8 percent in 2010. Slightly lower oil production is offset by higher non-oil growth, reaching
7.4 percent in 2011. Non-oil growth has been driven particularly by the transport and
communication sector as well as construction and public works, benefitting from the high public
investment volume.

4.      Nonetheless, broad based growth is linked closely to sustained implementation of
structural reforms. The Government has increased its efforts to diversify the economy in 2011 by
addressing infrastructure constraints, especially concerning transport and the provision of
electricity, facilitating the dialogue between the public and private sector and establishing special
economic zones.

5.      While the Republic of Congo is likely to be affected by the global crisis, the impact is
expected to be moderate and will mostly concern the increase in food prices. Fueled by
increasing world food prices, inflation is projected to accelerate to 5.9 percent in 2011 compared
to 5.0 percent in 2010. Congo remains largely dependent on food imports and is considered to be
a low-income food-deficit country, in spite of its enormous agricultural potential. Food products
that have seen the largest international price increases (such as wheat) take up a large share of
these imports.

6.      The current account surplus increased, mainly driven by higher oil price, thereby
offsetting an increase in imports, both by the government and the non-oil private sector.
                                                 1
                Selected macroeconomic indicators, 2007 – 2011

                                            2007    2008   2009   2010 2011*
                Real GDP growth rate         -1.6    5.6    7.5    8.8      4.5
                (%)
                  Non-oil GDP (%)             6.6    5.4    3.9    6.5      7.4
                   Oil GDP (%)             - 17.2    6.1   16.2   13.8     -1.6
                Inflation (CPI, annual        2.6    6.0    4.3    5.0      5.9
                average)
                External current
                account balance (% of        -9.1    0.3   -8.8    5.1      6.7
                GDP)
                Credit to private sector
                (annual percentage            8.2   83.4   30.4   49.3     18.1
                change)
                Reserve money/M2               76     80     69     84      79
                (%)
                Gross official reserves       2.0    4.1    3.7    4.4      8.8
                (US$ billion)
                Gross official reserves
                in months of imports          5.3    8.6    8.9    8.1     13.3
                (GNFS)
                Nominal exchange rate
                (CFAF/USD, annual            479     446    471    494     464
                average)
                Real effective
                exchange rate (annual         1.9    4.8    2.1    -2.6     n/a
                percentage change)
                Source: Congolese authorities, IMF (*estimates as of December 2011)

7.      The monetary sector has remained strong and has not been affected by the global
financial crisis, as domestic banks are not well integrated in international markets. Foreign
reserves have increased steadily, due to the high oil price and stable production. At the end of
2011, net foreign assets are estimated to reach US$ 8.8 billion, covering more than 13 months of
imports of goods and non-factor services, thereby providing a comfortable buffer against current
account shocks. Credit to the private sector continues to expand.



                                                2
8.     The Republic of Congo sustained a large overall budget surplus and has also reduced the
non-oil primary fiscal deficit over the last years. Overall, the budget has been broadly consistent
with the macroeconomic framework and the program agreed with the IMF. Most of the revenue
stems from the oil sector, representing 34.1 percent of GDP in 2011, up from 29.6 percent of
GPD in 2010. Non-oil revenue has increased as well, but remains small with less than 10 percent
of GDP. The overall budget surplus (excluding grants) is expected to reach 19.3 percent of GDP
in 2011, whereas the non-oil primary deficit is projected to remain stable at 34.4 percent of non-
oil GDP.

9.      Within this framework, fiscal policy has focused on narrowing the infrastructure gap over
the recent years while continuing to save a sizable share of oil revenue. By investing heavily
particularly in the infrastructure sector, the government aims at improving the provision of public
services and contribute to the diversification of the economy.

10.     The share of capital spending in the budget has increased continuously, reaching 14.2
percent of GDP in 2011. The largest share of the investment budget was allocated to public
works, energy and water, transport and decentralization. Regarding recurrent spending, the
ministries of decentralization, primary and secondary education, health and national defense
received the largest allocations. The budget execution rate at the end of September 2011 fell
short of the projections for investment, reaching only 66 percent for the investment budget, but
83 percent for the recurrent budget. The execution rate was considerably higher for domestically
financed investment spending (72 percent) than for externally financed investment spending (42
percent). The execution rate in the social sectors remains particularly low.

11.    Despite this strong economic performance, the country continues to face fundamental
development challenges. Poverty remains significant, with about half the population of 4.1
million living below the poverty line and inequality remains high. Social indicators are still far
below those of countries with comparable levels of GNI per capita and meeting the MDGs
remains a challenge. According to the 2011 United Nations‟ Human Development Index, Congo
ranks 137th among 187 countries. In view of the above, the following issues need to be
addressed:

12.     Managing public investments well. The government‟s desire to implement a large public
sector financed and executed investment program could pose a major challenge to the country‟s
limited absorptive capacity. Investment spending has been scaled up substantially to improve the
dilapidated infrastructure, particularly in the power and transport sectors. The investment budget
is estimated to reach CFAF 1.445 billion (approximately USD 2.89 billion) in 2012, representing
an increase of more than 43 percent compared to the investment budget of CFAF 1.010 billion
(approximately USD 2.02 billion) in 2011. Recent efforts to improve public finance management
including procurement are steps in the right direction. It is highly advisable to ensure all
investment projects are subject to close scrutiny to minimize leakage and waste. Furthermore,
these investments need to be complemented with regulatory and institutional reforms to ensure
good management and governance and to allow private sector participation.

13.     Promoting non-oil growth. The authorities‟ eagerness to promote economic
diversification is a commendable goal but unlikely to be realized without significant

                                                3
improvements in the business climate where the RoC still ranks 181th out of 183 Countries (DB
2012). The most urgent improvements needed in this area relate to starting a business, paying
taxes, trading across borders, enforcing contracts and protecting investors. Furthermore, the
expansion in output in the oil sector has not been accompanied by employment creation. As a
result, unemployment remains high, especially among youth (25% for ages 15-29). Besides the
predominance of the capital-intensive oil sector with little potential for job creation, other
reasons for the poor employment situation include the lack of appropriate market skills among
job seekers as reflected in a combination of high unemployment for people with high educational
attainment, and a high skills wage premium for those holding jobs. To promote private sector
growth the Government is considering a series of measures, including establishing four special
economic zones (Pointe Noire, Brazzaville, Oyo, and Ouesso). In this regard, they have signed
Memoranda of Understanding with Singapore Brazil and Mauritius, and approached the Bank for
support in implementing this initiative.

14.     A second generation Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) is being prepared. Congo
prepared its first full PRSP in April 2008. Implementation of the PRSP continued despite the
global financial crisis. Aware of the transformational effect that proper policy and investment
choices could have, the Government set an objective of becoming an emerging economy by 2025
and is formulating a vision accordingly. Within this framework, the Government is preparing its
second generation PRSP for the period 2011-2016.


           B. Sectoral and Institutional Context

15.     Since the end of civil conflict in 2000, the Republic of Congo has embarked on an
ambitious reform program to increase transparency and improve governance in public sector
management, conscious of the fact that issues concerning natural resource management were at
the root of two destructive civil conflicts in less than a decade.

16.     Reform of the governance system should be put in the context of the prudent use of non-
renewable resources: oil production in the Republic of Congo is currently at its likely peak level
and will start to decline over the next 10 years. Ensuring therefore that the windfall oil resources
are effectively used to create the basis for sustainable economic development is critical. Initially
this required rehabilitation of the country‟s basic infrastructure, much of which was destroyed
during a decade of conflict. However, with much of this rehabilitation now close to completion,
more strategic use of oil windfall resources to re-establish the Republic of Congo as a regional
transport hub and to stimulate economic diversification is essential.

17.     While reform efforts moved slowly between 2002 and 2007, partly due to capacity
constraints and resistance of vested interests, there was a significant acceleration from 2008
onwards. The acceleration was driven to a large degree by the desire to meet the HIPC
completion point, the triggers for which were related mostly to reforms in governance, public
financial management and the extractive industries. However, it is important to note that reforms
in these areas, while driven by the incentive of HIPC completion, were designed by government
and gained a high degree of local ownership, particularly in areas such as PFM and procurement
reform.
                                                 4
18.      In terms of the reform implementation, PRSP I was adopted in 2008 and created for the
first time a prioritized development agenda for the country. The track record on implementation
has been good and the process of designing a second PRSP is underway. The adoption of the
PRSP was followed in 2009 by creation of the MTEF, which facilitates the allocation of
resources according to defined priorities, and the implementation of a new public investment
planning and implementation instrument as well as the adoption and implementation of a new
Procurement Code. The latter two instruments are critical to the country‟s efforts to make more
effective use of the oil windfall and to ensure alignment between strategic priorities and
investment spending.

19.    The country has also implemented a series of public financial management reforms under
the 2008 PFM Action Plan and the 2009 Public Investment Management Improvement Plan.
The Public Investment Management Improvement Plan has been updated since December 2010.
In addition, progress was made on enhancing transparency in natural resource management,
including through the re-organization of the national oil firm (SNPC), the improvement of the oil
commercialization system and enhanced civil society oversight over policy design and
implementation, notably through the activities of the independent „Observatory on governance‟.
The Independent Governance Observatory on governance is an independent structure created in
2007 with mission to monitor and evaluate progress made by the Government in the
implementation of Anti-corruption measures.


Transparency and Governance Capacity Building Project (TGCBP) contribution to PFM
and Governance reform


20.     The previous Governance Project was approved on February 7, 2002 for the amount of
US$ 7 million. The project was originally designed to address the issue of transparency in the
decision-making processes of the government and its agencies, assigning high priority to the
management of oil resources and state budgetary expenditure processes, including public
procurement. The project also intended to support greater transparency of government‟s
disengagement from productive activities in the economy, as it intended to help strengthen the
Privatization Committee, and to help draft the implementation decrees permitting greater
participation of the private sector in the ownership and management of utilities. Finally, the
project aimed at helping design an action plan for strengthening partnership and dialogue
between government and the private sector.

21.     Following achievement of the HIPC Decision Point in March 2006, the GoC re-iterated
its request for supplemental financing by IDA and also requested a realignment of the project
with the priorities agreed under the HIPC Action Plan. In accordance with the Government
request, the project was restructured on May 8, 2007. As a result of the restructuring, the number
of components was reduced from five to three. Also, the focus of the oil sector governance
component shifted from transparency measures (audits, revenue certification etc.) to more
complex and sustainable reform measures such as the development of an integrated and
generally accessible database on all aspects of oil sector management, and implementation of oil
marketing reforms. There was also a fundamental revision of the non-oil revenue component to
                                                 5
become a full-fledged public financial management component, supporting implementation of
the Public Finance Management (PFM) action plan which included public investment
management, procurement reform, and wage bill management with a focus on IT systems as an
instrument to enhance transparency in budget management. The restructuring also meant
selectivity of the component related to transparency and governance in the privatization process,
due to the unsatisfactory performance. Finally, a new sub-component was added to support the
anti-corruption efforts of the Government, in particular the internal government Anti-Corruption
Commission, responsible for implementation of the anti-corruption action plan, and the Anti-
Corruption Observatory, the external monitoring body that tracks and evaluates the progress
made in the implementation of the anti-corruption agenda. The Government decided to increase
its contribution to US$ 5.6 million and the Bank agreed to provide an Additional financing in
amount of US$ 15 million.
.
       From 2007 to 2011, the IDA-financed TGCBP supported the design and implementation
        of the PFM reform action plan (PAGFP), the public investment management reform
        action plan (PAGGIP), the design of the oil commercialization reform system and the
        enhancement of capacity of the Independent Governance Observatory and governmental
        Anti-Corruption Commission.

       In relation to the PFM action plan, the design of the MTEF for budget preparation and the
        design and implementation of the computerized budget management system and related
        reforms were key achievements. The project also facilitated the design and partial
        implementation of an integrated personnel and payroll system (Automated Payroll
        system).

       As regards public investment management, TGCBP supported critical elements of the
        implementation of the public investment management reform action plan (PAGGIP), as
        well as the design of the Procurement Code and the establishment of the institutions
        responsible for implementation of the Code.

       Concerning oil sector governance, the key achievement was the design and
        implementation of an oil commercialization system which more closely reflects
        international best practice.

       The project provided critical capacity building support to both the Independent
        Governance Observatory and the governmental Anti-Corruption Commission.

       Finally, local authorities as well as Congo‟s main donors agree that governance,
        transparency and effectiveness in public financial management, including the oil sector,
        have been enhanced as a result of the various activities and reforms conducted as part of
        the HIPC Action Plan by the TGCB Project. SNPC‟s audits, EITI‟s reports, Anti-
        corruption Commission and Independent Governance Observatory reports and surveys,
        competitive bidding in public procurement, controls on personnel and payroll databases,
        and medium term expenditure frameworks for instance are all evidence of improvements
        in these areas.
                                                6
The Post-HIPC Context


22.     With HIPC completion point achieved in January 2010, the context for the reforms
highlighted above has changed. While the Government continues to implement an IMF program,
one of the key drivers of the reform program, obtaining debt relief is no longer an incentive,
exposing reforms to more resistance by vested interests. Although incentives to improve public
investment planning and implementation processes remain strong, problems remain in the
planning and management of the operating and maintenance costs related to investments
projects.

23.     The Government has managed the period of HIPC reform implementation with strong
leadership which enabled the country to reach the HIPC completion point. The proposed Project
is intended to maintain this positive momentum while maintaining the focus on reforms and
extending those reforms in strategic areas.

24.    The Bank has an important role to play in advocating for and in facilitating the technical
design and implementation of these critical reforms. The impact of the Bank‟s work in this
context is largely determined by the credibility and quality of support provided, as previous
experience has shown that technically sound and properly presented reform solutions can be
acceptable even to those that may have vested interests in opposing them.

Post-HIPC Reform Implementation


25.    Regardless of the political context, it is important to note that the implementation of key
reforms has continued since achieving the HIPC completion point. For example, implementation
of the computerized budget management system is ongoing, a next phase of reforming the
expenditure management system has been launched based on an African Regional Technical
Assistance Center (AFRITAC) technical assessment, a second phase reform plan for public
investment management has been designed, and the Procurement Code has generally been well
adhered to, even though capacity constraints related to its application remain.

26.  However, in other areas progress has stalled, in particular regarding the application of the
MTEF process for budget preparation, and also on issues of oil commercialization.

27.     Furthermore, several important issues that were not part of the HIPC driven reform
process remain to be addressed if the objective of creating a sustainable, diversified economy is
to be attained:

      Greater empowerment of line ministries in budget design and implementation, including
       in the management of procurement processes, as a pre-condition for further improving
       the relevance of the public investment management reform process.


                                                7
      Improved integration of the management of investment and recurrent budgets, in
       particular to ensure that facilities constructed in the social sectors also have the qualified
       staff required and resources to operate them.
      Reform of the payment system, in particular the need to remove discretion on the
       prioritization of payments.
      Public Service modernization.


Rationale for further support

28.    The Republic of Congo remains at the crossroads between what prevailed prior to the
HIPC related reforms in the form of a largely unaccountable state where private interest
outweighed public interest, to becoming a more accountable and transparent state where
decisions are taken to meet shared development goals.

29.     Many of the reforms initiated over the last 3 years, such as the implementation of the new
Procurement Law, the Public Financial Management reform and the Public Investment
Management Reform, are becoming irreversible in the sense that their positive impact has been
demonstrated (lower cost of investment projects, higher relevance of public investments and the
positive impact of oversight and accountability institutions). However, in order to retain this
positive trajectory, significant further steps still need to be taken, in particular in continuing to
reform the Public Financial Management (PFM) and Public Investment Management (PIM)
systems. Providing technical advice on these reforms, as well as leveraging the domestic
resources required to finance their implementation are critical Bank‟ s contributions at this point
in time.

30.     The TGCBP project has shown its value as a vehicle for providing such support, but the
project ended in June 2011. The design of a follow up project is therefore a critical contribution
to the reform process. The new project will finance continued implementation of reforms to the
PFM system, in particular the full implementation of the computerized budget management
system as well as serving as a platform for debate on those reform areas highlighted above where
a consensus on the way forward has not yet been achieved.


           C. Higher Level Objectives to which the Project Contributes

31.     The proposed Transparency and Governance Capacity Building Project II (TGCBP II) is
in line with the ongoing World Bank Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) of which governance
support is one of the priorities. The proposed Project reflects the principles outlined in the new
Africa Regional Strategy as it supports Governance and Public Sector Capacity. The project will
help the Republic of Congo to strengthen human and financial resource management capacity in
the public sector, conscious of the fact that conflict over natural resource management was the
principle driver of two highly damaging civil wars in less than a decade. Finally, TGCBP II will
support the implementation of the second PRSP which is under preparation.


                                                 8
32.     Implementing a large public sector financed and executed investment program could be a
major challenge to the Republic of Congo‟s limited absorptive capacity and considering the
limited impact of public expenditures. Investment spending has been scaled up substantially to
improve the dilapidated infrastructure, particularly in the power and transport sectors. Recent
efforts to improve public finance management including procurement are steps in the right
direction. It is highly advisable to ensure that all investment projects are subject to high levels of
scrutiny so as to minimize leakage and waste. Furthermore, these investments need to be
complemented with regulatory and institutional reforms to ensure good management and
governance and to allow private sector participation.

33.     Successful implementation of this project will also contribute to improve delivery of
basic social services.

   II. PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVES (PDO)

34.    To strengthen the capacity of targeted public sector ministries, agencies and
accountability structures for improved management of human and financial resources.

        1. Project Beneficiaries

35.     Direct Project Beneficiaries will include the Ministries of Finance, Planning, Public
Service, Health, PME (Small and Medium Scale Enterprises), Trade, Agriculture Transport,
Education, and Energy, as well as the General Directorate for Public Works, (DGGT), the
Regulatory Authority for Public Tenders (ARMP), General Directorate for Public Contracts
(GGCMP), Parliament, Supreme Audit Authority, the State Inspector General, Independent
Governance Observatory, Anti-Corruption Commission, Media and selected NGOs. Indirect
Project beneficiaries will include the population who can expect to see improved performance in
public service delivery.

        2. PDO Level Results Indicators

36.   Progress towards the achievement of the Project development objectives will be
measured by the following indicators:

   1.   Deviation between actual and budgeted expenditure by targeted ministries;
   2.   Ghost workers (as determined by payroll audits) removed from payroll;
   3.   Public contracts > FCAF 250 million awarded on competitive basis;
   4.   Yearly publish reports for Supreme Audit Authority and the State General Inspectorate.




                                                  9
      III. PROJECT DESCRIPTION

             A. Project components

37.      The Project will have three components: (i) Increased Capacity of Targeted Ministries to
Manage Public Finances and Human Resources; (ii) Strengthened Capacity of Accountability
Institutions; and (iii) Enhanced Monitoring and Evaluation System.

          Component 1: Increased Capacity of Targeted Ministries to Manage Public
          Finances and Human Resources (US$ 19.8 million, of which IDA: US$ 3.76 million
          and Gov: US$ 16.04 million)

38.       Discussions held during project preparation highlighted two main issues:
         The HRM system currently in place does not provide government a good overview of
          available skills and capacity, which prevents effective deployment of staff.1 The
          computerized HR management system which was planned to be completed under the
          previous TGCB project is not yet fully operational, and the elements that remain to install
          include the career management system. Completing this work is therefore urgent.

         Management systems and practices in line ministries do not allow for the implementation
          of results based management approaches, which in turn are critical to ensuring effective
          planning and management and investment projects

39.    The project will also provide support to continue PFM reforms, to implement the new
Procurement Code, to improve HR management, and to introduce Results Based Management
approaches.

             (a) Sub Component 1.1: Continuing PFM reforms (US$ 16.7 million)

40.       Activities to be financed under this sub-component are:

             Completing implementation of the computerized budget management system (US$
             14.2 million). The new Project will support the operationalization of the Recipient‟s
             computerized budget management system through the: (i) acquisition and installation
             of required software; (ii) connection of its customs and tax authorities and
             department-level finance units of its ministries to said system; and (iii) provision of
             training to the personnel responsible for utilizing said system.

             Supporting critical elements of the implementation of the revised Public Investment
             Action Plan (US$ 1.5 Million) and MTEF (US$ 1.0 Million). The Project will
             continue strengthening of the Recipient‟s public investment management through the:

1
 This issue was earlier noted in the review of the HRM system in the education sector conducted in 2007-2008,
which showed that while a sufficient number of qualified teachers are available in the public service system, the
majority of these teachers do not teach, and most of those that do not teach do not even work for the Ministry of
Education, but rather on „external assignments‟ in other ministries
                                                         10
           (i) design within the key planning and finance directorates of the Recipient‟s
           ministries responsible, respectively, for finance, planning, transport, trade, agriculture
           and energy, of information systems and databases and manuals needed for the
           effective identification and selection, monitoring and evaluation of their investment
           projects and planning of the recurrent costs thereof; (ii) provision of training in
           budget planning for relevant personnel of the Recipient in order to facilitate
           progressive decentralization of public expenditure management; (iii) updating of
           strategies for the education, health, agriculture and energy sectors; and (iv) updating
           of macro-economic data for all sectors in order to prepare a suitable medium term
           expenditure framework.

41.   The planned work under this component has benefited from the 2010 IMF AFRITAC
study on the public expenditure management system, and will help address key
recommendations contained in this study.

           (b) Sub-component 1.2: Support to implement the new procurement law (US$ 1.3
               million)

42.    This sub-component will finance the following activities:

          Provision of procurement training and technical assistance to relevant personnel of
           the Recipient (US$ 1 million): This activity is critical to improve the ownership and
           implementation of the new procurement system. Training will be supported by the
           Project to familiarize stakeholders with the new procurement system.

          Support the development and the operationalization of a „Hotline‟ to handle
           procurement complaints (US$ 0.3 million).

           (c) Sub-component 1.3: Enhanced payroll and personnel management capacity
               (US$ 1.0 Million)

43.     This activity has been included at the request of the Minister of Public Service and
following consultation with the Ministry of Finance. It will address identified deficiencies in the
public service management system which permits large numbers of ghost workers and thus the
ineffective use of wage bill resources. It responds to the identified need to strengthen HRM and
payroll management processes as noted in the AFRITAC report. Assistance provided will build
on the automated payroll system‟ which has been established under the previous project. While
the installation of an integrated payroll and HRM system was largely completed under the
previous project, some of the accompanying activities, in particular the use of installed software
to permit effective career management and HR record keeping and the training of staff at the
Ministry of Public Service, remain to be completed. Work will include:

          Completing implementation of computerized HR management system (US$ 500,000)
          Training of staff on using new instruments (US$ 500,000).


                                                11
           (d) Sub-component 1.4: Extending results based management (RBM) approach
               and practices to additional ministries in order to address budget and program
               implementation problems (USD 0.8 million)

44.      A pilot approach to building RBM practices in the Congolese administration was
conducted under the previous Governance project, focusing on the Ministry of Civil Service. The
pilot approach was based on the Rapid Results Approach (RRA) methodology. The initial
evaluation of results conducted in June 2011 showed the strong potential of this approach, as
teams were able to address the concrete issues identified within set timeframes. Considering the
political commitment at the highest level to introducing results based management practices in
the Republic of Congo, and the experience gained through the pilot, it was decided to scale up
this work in the next phase of implementing governance reforms and to extend it to a further six
ministries (Planning, Finance, Health, Transport, Energy, Trade, Civil Service, and SME). It was
also decided that the issues to be addressed using RRA, would be those that critically affect their
ability to execute their budgets and investment projects under their responsibility (Activity 1). In
a second phase, the experience gained during the Rapid Results pilots would be used to define
and roll out a performance management framework, including the development of an M&E
framework linking at all levels within the ministry concerned, performance targets to outputs to
be delivered under the ministry‟s budget, and linking them to performance targets for units and
the design of a capacity building program, and provision of related training (Activity 2).

   Component 2: Strengthened Capacity of Accountability Structures (US$ 3.5 million, of
   which IDA: US$ 0.67 million and Gov: US$ 2.83 million)

   This component has two sub-components:

             (a)Sub-component 2.1: Supporting the Independent Governance Observatory and
                the Anti-Corruption Commission (US$ 1.5 million)

45.     The project will provide technical assistance and training to enhance the capacity of the
Independent Governance Observatory and the Anti-Corruption Commission to monitor
governance and anti-corruption measures. Technical assistance will be focused on the two
following areas: Budget and procurement. A training program will be endorsed by the Steering
Committee and approved by the Association. Further investment in capacity development is
required to ensure both institutions fully play their role in the accountability system. The
Independent Governance Observatory is an independent structure created in 2007 with a mission
to monitor and evaluate progress made by the Government in the implementation of anti-
corruption measures. The Anti-Corruption Commission, created in 2004 and restructured in
2007, is a Government technical organ in charge of the implementation of the Government‟s
anti-corruption policy. Both these structures are funded by the Government budget. The previous
project provided critical capacity building support to both structures. Such support needs to be
maintained to enhance governance, transparency and effectiveness in public sector oversight.




                                                12
   (b) Sub-component 2.2: Demand for Good Governance (US$ 2, 0 million)

46.      The Project will also provide technical assistance and training to reinforce the capacity
of selected national NGOs and media, as well as of public accountability structures, such as the
Economic and Finance Commission of Parliament, the Supreme Audit Authority, and the State
Inspector General to monitor and evaluate implementation of key public reforms. The capacity
building activities to be provided by Government under this sub-component will allow the NGOs
to:
    - Monitor the governance reforms underway and inform the population of the issues
        regarding public finance, procurement and other reforms;

   -   Gather feedback from the population concerning their experience and level of satisfaction
       regarding the quality of public services, the manner in which Government implements the
       reforms and improves national development strategies.

   -   Monitor and analyze implementation of the national budget and articulate local economic
       and social development needs and priorities in the development of national budgets.

   -   Collaborate with the existing anti-corruption structures to establish an effective coalition
       to pursue transparency, accountability and integrity in public administration.

47.     The national NGOs and the media will be selected by the Government through a survey
based on objective criteria such as governance experience and human resources capacities. In
addition to technical assistance and training, the Project will support the dissemination of the
results of their analysis and monitoring of their activities. Selected NGOs and media will, as a
condition of receiving the TA and training, be required to (a) prepare proposals for the TA they
wish to receive and an action plan for applying the TA they receive to specific activities designed
to enhance the monitoring and evaluation of public finances and services and dissemination of
the results of the monitoring and evaluation; and (b) enter into agreements with the Recipient
undertaking to carry out their action plans.


Component 3: Monitoring and Evaluation system (US$ 3.0 million, of which IDA: US$ 0.57
million and Gov: US$ 2.43 million)
48.      This component will support the government of Congo in the development and
institutionalization of monitoring and evaluation functions and systems at national level and
targeted sectors. Congo has no results-based M&E functions built-in as part of the duties and
responsibilities of the public administration. Production, management and user of performance
information in government decision-making and accountability processes are very weak and
there is a lack of sufficient, timely and reliable information to monitor budget planning
implementation of programs and accountability processes. More specially, the project will
support the following activities:

      Design and implementation of a national monitoring and evaluation system: The project
       will finance: (i) the development of a Government evaluation strategy with the necessary
       policy guidelines for implementation; (ii) preparation of arrays of indicators for economic
                                                13
       and finance programs; (iii) design and implementation of an evaluation agenda with the
       Government ministries. The Ministry of Planning will play a key role as it will also
       coordinate the development of a M&E system for the PRSP second generation.

      Implementation support to provide key PIU staff including the Project Coordinator, a
       Finance Manager, an accountant, a finance officer, a procurement specialist, internal
       auditor, and a monitoring & evaluation (M&E) specialist. The project will also provide
       resources for training in relevant areas for staff of relevant Ministries, as well as
       resources to recruit consultants with specific expertise as needed.

           B. Project Financing

               1. Lending Instrument

49.     TGCBP II will be financed as a Specific Investment Loan (SIL) financed with an
International Development Association (IDA) credit on blend terms with a maturity of 25 years,
a grace period of 5 years, a 1.25% interest charge, and with principal repayable at 3.3 percent per
annum for years 6-15 and 6.7 percent per annum for years 16-25. TGCBP II is focused on the
pursuit of the Public Financial Management reform (PFM), including reforms in the public
investment management, public administration management and procurement systems, and the
support of anti-corruption structures.

               2. Project Cost and Financing

50.     The World Bank‟s contribution to the proposed operation will be US$ 5 million, with
US$ 21.3 million from the Government to advance the reform agenda in PFM, PSM, Public
Procurement and Accountability. In addition, to its modest financial contribution, GoC seeks
Bank technical expertise and its continued support to promote the reform agenda through the
proposed project activities. World Bank engagement will also lend credibility to those public
sector reforms in order to attract other donors.

             Project Components                         Project cost    IBRD or        %
                                                        (USD            IDA            Financing
                                                        million)        Financing
             1. Increased Capacity of Targeted              19.80           3.76          19.00
             Ministries to Manage Public and
             Human Resources


             2. Strengthening capacity of
                                                             3.50           0.67          19.00
             accountability structures


             3. Enhanced Monitoring and
             Evaluation system                               3.00           0.57          19.00

                                                 14
             Total Baseline Costs
               Physical contingencies                      26.30           5.00          19.00
               Price contingencies

             Total Project Costs

                                                           26.30           5.00          19.00
             Total Financing Required
                                                           26.30           5.00          19.01


          C. Lessons Learned and Reflected in the Project Design

51.     The Project design has taken into account the lessons learned from previous operations,
both in the Republic of Congo and elsewhere. These include:

Capacity constraints can delay the implementation of key activities

52.     The Project will focus on providing training and technical assistance to address the
relatively weak capacity of the Government to implement the computerized PFM and HR
systems. The activities supported by the Project will be under the responsibility of the relevant
public ministries and departments. The capacity of these institutions will be strengthened through
their collaboration with experienced consultants to be recruited to support the implementation of
the activities.

Linking a project to a larger agenda.

53.     The previous project benefited from its close link to the HIPC agenda. The HIPC and
TGCBP monitoring was for some time conducted simultaneously by the same supervision
missions. . This project will not have that advantage or the incentive provided by debt relief.
Closer contact with decision makers therefore will be necessary to ensure the required political
will and support for the reform agenda is maintained, including for the actions included in this
project.

Sustained Government commitment is key to policy reforms.

54.     Experience also shows the design of reforms by Government itself contributes to a high
degree of ownership and helps to accelerate implementation of the reforms. This was the case of
the reform related to the HIPC completion point. The Project has been designed to enable direct
involvement at the highest level of the Government though the Steering Committee.




                                               15
The more players involved, the more coordination is essential.

55.     Implementation of the previous project rested with the Project Coordinating Unit working
with close to 30 Project Executing Agencies. These executing agencies could to some extent be
regrouped by activities, as for example the Department of Finance and the Ministry of Civil
Service (Ministère de la Fonction Publique) for the integrated data file destined to manage the
personnel files and the wage bill, or the ARMP and the DGCMP regarding matters related to the
reform of public procurement. In any event, executing agencies were numerous. In such
instances, close and structured coordination becomes an essential condition to the success of the
project.

Limiting the number of very difficult reforms.

56.    Another lesson from the previous project relates to the number of difficult issues any
given project should take on simultaneously. At inception of the first project, it was decided it
would attack simultaneously such difficult reforms as: privatization, public procurement,
transparency in the oil sector, civil servants wage bill, integrated public finance data
management system. Attacking so many difficult issues at the same time increases the
probability of difficulties, delays and disagreements with local authorities, with the result that the
project can lose credibility in face of repeated problems and conflicts. For that reason the
proposed Project will limit the number of reforms it seeks to implement.

Involving other Development partners while ensuring responsibilities are clear from the
onset to avoid duplication and delay in Project implementation.

57.    The Project was designed and prepared in close coordination with the European Union,
the French Development Agency and the IMF. The project activities have been selected so that
achievement of the project objectives will not depend on the implementation of activities
supported by other Development partners.

   IV. IMPLEMENTATION

           A. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements

58.    The project will be implemented by the Ministry of Finance as the lead ministry on PFM
and procurement reforms. The inter-ministerial steering committee, which will include
representatives of both cross-cutting and key spending ministries, will oversee implementation
and will be presided by the Head of Cabinet of the Ministry of Finance.

59.     The existing PIU established to implement the previous project will manage the fiduciary
functions. Procurement and Financial Management performance of the unit has been either
satisfactory or moderately satisfactory for the last two years. However, it is intended to gradually
move responsibility to the procurement units in the line ministries involved in the project, in
particular the ministries of Finance, Planning and Public Service, as well as the Independent
Observatory on Governance and the governmental Anti-Corruption Commission. This transfer
will take place once ceilings for decentralizing procurement are increased from their current
                                                 16
level. However, major procurement for the IT systems will continue to be handled by the PIU for
the duration of the project. Finally, line ministries will be responsible for the implementation of
their activities. The Recipient will be required to prepare and furnish to IDA not later than
December 1 each year, for IDA‟s approval, an annual work plan of activities proposed to be
included in the Project for the following calendar year.

           B. Results Monitoring and Evaluation

60.     A monitoring and evaluation system (M&E) was established for the previous project and
will continue for the new operation under supervision of the existing M&E Specialist. Within
each participating ministry a focal point will be identified whose responsibilities will be ensuring
provision of regular monitoring data for the project indicators related to each ministry‟s activities
and expected results. An M&E plan based on the project Results Framework will be prepared to
identify the specific information required for each indicator, its source within the relevant
ministry, and how frequently this information is updated. An assessment of the capacity of each
ministry to produce the required information will also be conducted to identify what support is
required. As such, the project will help reinforce the M&E capacity of each participating
ministry.

61.     In addition, the PIU will prepare its own annual goals, indicators and action plans, and
establish monitoring plans and reporting plans for its performance indicators that will involve all
members of the team. This system will be described in the Project Implementation Manual. In
this way, monitoring of results indicators will become a management tool to provide regularly
updated information to assess whether program implementation is on track or not. The PIU then
will process and manage the data collected and provide regular reports to the Steering
Committee, the Ministry of Planning, Civil Service and Finance, and to the World Bank. This
work, as stated, will be coordinated by the PIU M&E Specialist who has demonstrated his ability
to implement an effective project M&E system.

           C. Sustainability

62.    The proposed project is considered by all stakeholders as an essential contribution to
continuing and solidifying the public administration reforms already achieved. It supports the
government‟s effort to continue reforms started under the HIPC process and its commitment to
create a sustainable diversified economy. The project is providing equipment, training and
technical assistance which will build institutions and administrative capacities to enable them to
become more effective after project completion.

   V. KEY RISKS AND MITIGATION MEASURES

A. Risk Ratings Summary Table 3.

                    Stakeholder Risk                                      S
                   Implementing Agency Risk
                    - Capacity                                            H

                                                 17
                   - Governance                                         H
                  Project Risk
                   - Design                                             S
                   - Social and Environmental                           L
                   - Program and Donor                                  L
                   - Delivery Monitoring and Sustainability             S
                  Overall Implementation Risk                           H


B. Overall Risk Rating Explanation

63.     The overall and reputational risk of the proposed Project is rated High mainly due to the
country‟s experience in the implementation of the previous project.

(a) Counterpart funding

64.    Risk of delays in the release of Government contributions. While government has
respected its commitments in providing counterpart funding to the previous project (to which it
contributed US$ 5.6 Million) there were delays with processing counterpart contribution
payments. For this reason, it is important that a reliable system of monitoring be created as
government will finance 80 percent of total project cost in this case.

Mitigation: The Government will be required to deposit $2 million equivalent in CFA Franc into
a Project Counterpart Funds Account before effectiveness and subsequent tranches according to
a disbursement schedule agreed upon during negotiations and confirmed in the financing
agreement.

(b) Financial management

65.     Financial management risk is moderate as the project implementation structure has
significant experience in management of operations with IDA contributions and has adequate
capacity to continue this work. This is equally valid for procurement risk, which is also moderate
for the same reasons. The implementation of procurement reforms in the Republic of Congo will
further reduce this risk as the difference between Bank systems and Government systems is
being significantly reduced.

Mitigation: To ensure the FM and procurement systems continue to operate in a satisfactory
manner during the project, semi-annual on-site supervision missions will be carried out in
addition to desk reviews of IFRs, There will also be an annual work program and budget, audit
reports and timely advice to the task team on all FM, Procurement and other issues. Quarterly
Interim Unaudited Financial Report will be prepared by the PIU and reviewed by the World
Bank. Hands on support will also be provided to the project team as needed, facilitated by the
fact that the TTL is located across the Congo River in Kinshasa.


                                                  18
66.     With regard to procurement, a publicly accessible project website will include all relevant
information to facilitate transparency and integrity of implementation, including the following:
Project Appraisal Document and Financing Agreement, advertisements, funding proposals, term
of reference for all activities, contract awards, progress reports from implementing entities, a
procedure for handling complaints satisfactory to IDA, and a record of complaints received and
action taken.

(c) Duplication of activities with other development partners

67.     The EU continues to provide significant support to PFM reforms, including strengthening
medium term budget planning. EU will provide support through its ongoing TA project on public
financial management, to which an additional Euro 4.5 Million has been added.

The EU project will focus on:
 - Improving financial audits;
 - Improving the management of procurement related services of the Ministry of Finance;
 - Building capacity of Parliament and the Supreme Audit Authority ;
 - Strengthening the MTEF through capacity building support for critical ministries

68.    The French government continues to provide support through a resident adviser based in
the Ministry of Planning, who has been closely involved in the preparation of other donor
supported activities. The IMF provides advisory support to the government through AFRITAC.
AfDB has an ongoing PFM project that closes on 31 December 2011. No further support in the
PFM area is planned until 2014.

Mitigation: The EU, France, the IMF and the Bank are working closely together. The main areas
of intervention have been identified and are well harmonized.

   VI. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

         A. Economic and Financial Analysis

69.     The project addresses key areas of public financial reform that have an important
potential impact on economic development and poverty reduction. While the benefits of public
sector reforms do not permit easy quantitative analysis, particularly in terms of direct financial,
economic and social outcomes, the project objectives when realized will contribute to improved
budget credibility, strengthened public expenditure management, enhanced oversight of budget
execution and improved service delivery. However, such improvements cannot be attributed to a
single action, but to a combination of activities. The following sections point to the positive
contribution, which the project will have on the economic conditions and performance. The
analysis drawn from the recent PER can also illustrate the potential contribution of the project
supported reforms to accelerate and diversify Congolese economic growth.




                                                19
Public investment reform:

70.    The reform will help to improve the quality, programming and execution of public
investment particularly in the current context where the Government has an ambitious program
to accelerate infrastructure development. Indeed, infrastructure plays a critical role in Congo‟s
quest to diversify its economy, reduce poverty, and enhance social outcomes. Upgrading
Congo‟s dilapidated infrastructure, in particular in the transport and power sectors, is a
prerequisite for economic development and improving social services.

71.     Evidence from a recent World Bank/IFC enterprise survey2 suggests that power is by far
the greatest infrastructure constraint for Congolese firms. Surveyed firms report losing up to 16
percent of sales due to frequent power outages, corresponding to almost US$ 620,000 per year.
Electricity is also, in itself, an important source of growth. A cross-country statistical analysis
conducted in the PER shows that infrastructure as an economic sector has contributed 0.5
percentage points to Congo‟s per capita GDP growth between 2001 and 2006. However, it could
contribute more than 3 percent a year if the reach and quality of infrastructure services were
improved to the level seen in Mauritius, which leads Africa in infrastructure coverage and
quality (see Figure below).


             Historic and potential future links between infrastructure and growth
    Historic changes in growth per capita, 2001- Potential improvements in growth per capita
    05 versus 1991-95 (percent)                   if infrastructure services would be brought to
                                                  the level of Mauritius (percent)

       2.5                                                   5
         2                                                   4

       1.5                                                   3
                                                             2
         1
                                                             1
       0.5
                                                             0
         0
                                                             -1
       -0.5                                                  -2
        -1

                   Telecom    Electricity   Roads                         Telecom   Electricity   Roads

    Source: PER 2010, Calderon 2008.




2
 The World Bank (2009). Enterprise surveys. Retrieved on April 6, 2010, at: http:// www.enterprisesurveys.org
/ExploreEconomies/?economyid=49&year=2009


                                                       20
Medium Term Expenditure Framework:

72.     The advantage of the MTEF is that it provides a framework within which overall budget
amounts and sector investments and allocations can be planned, enabling the government to
escape from a pro-cycle budget, largely influenced by the oil revenue syndrome. In that context,
the project provides a means to ensure better budgets, and thus potentially better use of revenue,
improved budget allocations and better monitoring and evaluation of overall and sector-specific
expenditures.

Procurement reform:

73.      The economic impact of the reforms will be significant and cost-effective. The
institutionalization of a public procurement system in line with international good practices will
lead to increased competition in the award of contracts. The introduction of a new procurement
law is gradually generating a culture of due process with significant savings on public
procurement, especially on public works.

Public expenditure management system:

74.     The computerization of the entire expenditure chain will lead to improved efficiency and
effectiveness of budget execution through an automated system to track expenditures, identify
fraud and reconcile data discrepancies.

75.      In sum, the project will contribute to improve budget credibility with all the resultant
benefits including improved resource allocation and budget execution in line with PRSP
priorities, and further direct savings in the use of public resources through better management of
oil revenue, procurement practices and improved oversight. The project will also support the
development of sustainable HR capacity, thereby ensuring that the benefits will be sustained over
time.

         B. Technical

76.      Currently, the fiber optic connections between ministries are operational and have
facilitated the exchange of data between ministries and public institutions in Brazzaville. A
datacenter has been fully equipped. The ministries of Finance, Planning, and Public Service
have also received equipment.

77.     Regarding software, the Oracle HR/Payroll software has been established and is being
used to manage salary payments of public sector employees. A new system (SIDERE –
Integrated Public Revenue and Expenditure System) has been installed to manage the
expenditure chain.

78.   Concerning revenue, the software SYDONIA is used by the Customs service, while
SYSTAF is used by the Tax service (SYSTAF – Integrated Tax Management System)..
Procedures are also being revised to comply with CEMAC requirements, particularly concerning
expenditures and public accounting.
                                              21
79.     Training was provided to the ICT teams of the Ministries of Finance, Budget and Public
Portfolio, and Public Service.

80.    Various actions need to be taken to improve implementation of this budget management
system (SDIR). First, the equipment installation needs to be completed and the emergency
datacenter needs to become operational. The connections between ministries also need to be
completed to cover the peripheral areas of Brazzaville as well as others cities and their linkages
with Brazzaville.

81.     The HR/Payroll database is in place but additional work is required to ensure reliable
identification of personnel and more effective human resource management using biometric ID.
The remaining work to complete the automated payroll system will be done by consulting firms
with a transfer of skills to the Congolese administration.

82.    As regards Public Financial Management (PFM), efforts will focus on integration of the
various technologies and introduction of the system in the sector ministries and in eight towns
besides Brazzaville and Pointe Noire. Training and technical assistance will be provided for this
purpose.




                                               22
         C. Financial Management

83.     The Financial Management (FM) arrangements for the project have been designed with
consideration for the country‟s post-conflict situation while taking into account the OP/BP 10.02
which describes the overall FM Bank policies and procedures. The assessment of the FM
capacity of the Ministry of Finance revealed some weaknesses and risks mainly in the field of
staffing arrangements and capacity, accounting systems and fiduciary risks.

84.     Due to these fiduciary risks country systems will not be used. On request of the RoC
government, it was decided to adopt a ring-fenced approach and use the existing PIU which is
familiar with Bank FM procedures having managed Bank-financed operations since 2002 (e.g.
P073507 & P101981). The overall residual FM risk is substantial (S).

85.     At the time of the preparation of this project there were no overdue audit reports or IFR
from the existing PIU. However, the assessment of its FM capacity as well as its overall
performance during the past 8 years indicates the need for additional improvements in the FM
system. For the purpose of this project, the FM team will be headed by a qualified, experienced
FM Manager, supported by one accountant, both of which have been recruited on a competitive
basis and one finance officer to be recruited within 3 months after effectiveness and selected on a
competitive basis among individual consultants.

86.     A Project Implementation Manual (PIM) including the administrative and financial
management procedures has been prepared and adopted. An individual consultant will be
recruited on a competitive basis 3 months after effectiveness to manage the internal audit
function of the PIU. Finally, the existing accounting software will be upgraded with the multi-
projects and multi-sites version 9.3 of the TOMPRO and installation of the network. The setting-
up of the computerized accounting system is due 3 months after effectiveness.

87. The project will be supervised on a risk-based approach. Based on the current overall
residual FM risk which is Substantial, the project will be supervised twice a year (and may be
adjusted when the need arises) to ensure that project FM arrangements still operate well and
funds are used for the intended purposes and in an efficient way.

         D. Procurement

88.     Procurement of Goods and Non consultancy services. Goods procured under this project
will include: Computer equipment; office furniture; and accounting software. Non consultancy
services procured under this project will include workshops and training in the region and
abroad. Procurement will be done under ICB or NCB using the Bank‟s Standard Bidding
Documents for all ICB and National SBD agreed with the Bank. Small value goods may be
procured under shopping procedures. Direct contracting may be used where necessary if agreed
in the procurement plan in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 to 3.8 of the
Procurement Guidelines.



                                                23
89.      Selection of Consultants. Consultancy services would include advisory services,
feasibility studies, and environmental and social impact studies. The selection method will be
Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) method whenever possible. Contracts for specialized
assignments estimated to cost less than USD 100,000 equivalent may be contracted through
Consultant Qualification (CQ). The following additional methods may be used where
appropriate: Quality Based Selection (QBS); Selection under a Fixed Budget (FB); Least-Cost
Selection (LCS) and Single Source Selection (SSS). For assignments which will not need a Team
of Expert, Individual Consultants will be hired.

90.     Procurement Implementation arrangements. The project will be implemented by the
Ministry of Finance as the lead ministry on PFM and procurement reforms. The inter-ministerial
steering committee, which will include representatives of both cross-cutting and key spending
ministries, will oversee implementation and will be presided by the Head of Cabinet of the
Ministry of Finance.

91.     Assessment of the PIU’s capacity to implement procurement. The existing procurement
capacity under the Governance PIU will be used to handle the fiduciary functions. Procurement
performance of the unit has been either satisfactory or moderately satisfactory for the last two
years. However, it is intended to gradually move implementation responsibility to the
procurement units in the line ministries involved in the project, in particular the ministries of
Finance, Planning and Public Service, as well as the Independent Governance Observatory and
the Anti-Corruption Commission. This transfer will take place once ceilings for decentralized
procurement are increased from their current levels. However, major procurement for the IT
systems will be handled by the PIU for the duration of the project.

         E. Social

92.    The proposed project is limited to the provision of training, technical assistance, and is
not expected to result in any direct negative social impacts. It is expected to contribute to
improved delivery of basic social services.

93.     The project will assist the Government to better manage its investment budget which
allocates major resources to build public infrastructure. It is expected that the infrastructure will
enhance social outcomes and reduce poverty.

         F. Environmental (including Safeguards)

94.     The project is rated as Category C. It will provide technical support to enable the
government to conduct feasibility studies for investment projects under the revised Public
Investment Action Plan. This includes the following: (a) helping to reinforce the key planning
and finance directorates in several line Ministries (Finance, Planning, Transport, Trade,
Agriculture, Energy, Civil Service, SMEs and health), to assess the feasibility of all instruments
needed to identify and select their investment programs, design the database of their investment
projects, ensure effective monitoring of the impact of these projects, and enable planning of
recurrent costs (O&M) of their investment projects; (b) supporting implementation of the
                                                 24
requirements including the manuals to identify and select investment projects that were adopted
under the HIPC initiative; and (c) supporting the Government to update the sector strategies
(Education, Health, Agriculture and Energy), and to update the macro-economic data for all
sectors in order to enable preparation of more effective MTEF. The project will not support the
investments under the Public Investment Action Plan. Nevertheless, any Terms of Reference for
any technical assistance or studies carried out under the Project will be consistent with, and pay
due attention to, the World Bank‟s environmental and social safeguards policies, as well as the
borrower‟s own laws relating to environment and social aspects. In drafting any laws or
regulations under the Project, due attention will be given to environmental and social policies
and laws.




                                               25
                                                                   Annex 1: Results Framework and Monitoring


                                                    CONGO Transparency and Governance Capacity Building Project II

Project Development Objective (PDO): To strengthen the capacity of targeted public sector ministries and agencies and accountability structures for improved
management of human and financial resources.
                                                                          Cumulative Target Values**                        Data Source/    Responsibility     Description
    PDO Level Results                Unit of
                              Core




                                                  Baseline                                                     Frequency                      for Data          (indicator
      Indicators*                    Measure                 YR 1        YR 2         YR3        YR 4   YR5                 Methodology      Collection       definition etc.)
                                                                                                                            -Report on      -Cellule DSRP     Measures
                                     Percentage                                                                             investment                        Government
Indicator One: Deviation                            40        35          25          15          8            Annual                       - DGPD
                                                                                                                                                              ability to
between actual and                                                                                                          - Annual
                                                                                                                                            -DEP              execute its
budgeted expenditure by                                                                                                     Budget
                                                                                                                                                              budget.
                                                                                                                                            - DGB
targeted ministries reduced
from 40 % to less than 10
% by the end of the
Project;
                                     Percentage                                                                             - WebSite       ;ARMP             Measures
                                                                                                                            ARMP                              progress
Indicator Two: Public                               50        55          60          70          80             Annual                     -DGCMP
                                                                                                                                                              achieved to
contracts > FCAF 250                                                                                                        - Report of
                                                                                                                                                              implement new
million awarded under                                                                                                       DGCMP
                                                                                                                                                              procurement
competitive basis                                                                                                                                             code.


                                     Percentage                                                                                             -Min. Finance     Measures how
                                                                                                                                                              HR management
Indicator Three: Ghost                              20        10           5           5          5            Quarterly     Payroll bill   -Min Fonction
                                                                                                                                                              system is used
workers (determined by                                                                                                                      Publique
                                                                                                                                                              and follow-up
payroll audits) removed                                                                                                                                       actions.
from payroll


Indicator Four: Annual               number          0        0            2           2          2              Annual      - Report of    - Supreme Audit    Measures
report of the Supreme                                                                                                       the Supreme     Authority and     government
Audit Authority and the                                                                                                         Audit       the State         commitment to
State General Inspectorate                                                                                                  Authority and   General           fight corruption.
                                                                                                                              the State
                                                                                            26
are publicly available                                                                                                         General       Inspectorate;
                                                                                                                             Inspectorate;
                                                                                                                                             - CNLCC.



                                                                                                                              - Report of
                                                                                                                                CNLCC


                                                              INTERMEDIATE RESULTS


Intermediate Result 1 Component 1: Increased capacity of targeted ministries to manage public finance and human resources.
1.1. Continuing public financial management reform
Intermediate Result                                                                                                                          -DGPD           Verifies that
indicator One: National                                                                                       Annual            Budget       -DGB            national budget
                                              No       No           Yes        Yes            Yes                                                            reflects sectoral
Budget prepared in
accordance with the                                                                                                                                          strategies
MTEF;
                                                                                                                                                             Verifies
                                                                                                                                                             adequate
Intermediate Result              Percentage       0    05           30         50             70              Annual           Budget        -DGPD           preparation of
indicator Two: Investment                                                                                                                                    investment
                                                                                                                                             -DGB
projects for which                                                                                                                                           projects.
feasibility study is
prepared;
Intermediate Result
indicator                      Percentage                                                                                                                    Measures actual
                                               80      85           90         90             90              Quarterly        Budget        -DGPD
Three: Investment Budget                                                                                                                                     investments;
                                                                                                                                             -DGB
implemented;


Intermediate Result                                                                                                                                          Measures the
indicator                                                                                                                                                    perception of the
                               number         0         0       1               1         1                   Annually       Budget          DGPD            quality of
Four: Annual budget                                                                                                                                          investment
                                                                                                                                             -DGB
execution law is prepared                                                                                                                                    programs;
in due time and is
publically available;

                                                                                     27
Intermediate Result                                                                                                                            Measures the
indicator                                                                                                                                      perception of the
                                     Percentage            Baseline                                      Once        second          DGPD      quality of
Five: Perception by the                                    survey in                                                 perception                investment
                                                                                                                                     -DGB
citizens of the quality of                                   2012                                                    survey at the             programs;
the public investment;                                                                                               end of the
                                                                                                                     project

1.2. Support to
     implement the new
     Procurement Code
Intermediate Result
Indicator
One: Sectoral Ministries             Percentage                                                                                                Reflects extent
                                                    75         80           90          95         100   Annual      Procurement     -DGPD
with a CGMP3 and an                                                                                                  Plan                      of procurement
approved Procurement                                                                                                                 -ARMP     reform
Plan:                                                                                                                                          implementation
                                                                                                                                               Indicates
Intermediate Result                                                                                                                            capacity to
Indicator                            Percentage      40        50           70          80         90    Quarterly      ARMP         - ARMP    implement
                                                                                                                        report                 according to
Two: Procurement Plan                                                                                                                - DGCMP
implementation by                                                                                                                              new
                                                                                                                                               procurement
Targeted Ministries
                                                                                                                                               law.
Intermediate Result                                                                                                                            Indicates
Indicator                                                                                                                                      capacity to
                                     Percentage     0          10           20          40         60    Annually    ARMP            - ARMP    implement
Three: Percentage of                                                                                                 report                    according to
                                                                                                                                     - DGCMP
procurement complaints                                                                                                                         new
monitored by hotline under                                                                                                                     procurement
a determined time frame                                                                                                                        law.

1.3. Enhanced payroll
     and personnel
     management
     capacity



             3
                 CGMP: Structure in charge of public procurement in the ministries and Agencies.
                                                                                             28
Intermediate Result                                                                                                                 Demonstrates
Indicator                                                                                                                           that HR
                                                                                         Quarterly    Listing of       DGFP
                                                                                                       payroll                      management
One: Ghost workers              Number                                                                                 DGB          system is used
identified in the payroll;
Intermediate Result                                                                                                                 Measures
Indicator                      Percentage    0        10             30   50        80   Quarterly    Listing of       DGFP         efficiency of
Two: Civil Servant salary                                                                              payroll                      payroll
                                                                                                                       DGB          management.
executed through an
automated payroll system;
1.4 RBM/RRI Approach
Extending RBM to
additional ministries to
address budget and
program implementation
problems
                                                                                                        Final        Ministry of    Measures
Intermediate Result                                                                                   Review of     Civil Service   effectiveness
                               Percentage   60        70             80   80        85   Bi-annual
Indicator                                                                                               RRIs                        of the
One : Rate of achievement                                                                                                           approach. :
of RRI expected results in                                                                                                          Ratio [Results
100 days:                                                                                                                           achieved/Resul
                                                                                                                                    ts planned]
                                                                                                                                    Measures
Intermediate Result                                                                                                                 extent RRI
                                Number       1         6             7    9         11   Bi-Annual   Final review    Ministry of
Indicator Two: Ministries                                                                                                           (Used as
                                                                                                       of RRIs      Civil Service
using RRI.                                                                                                                          management
                                                                                                                                    tool).
Component Two : Strengthened capacity of Accountability structures
Intermediate Result                                                                                                                  Measures to
Indicator                                                                                                                            monitor the
                                                                                                                                    implementatio
One :Number of targeted        Number        0         1             2    4         6     Annual       CNLCC          CNLCC           n of Anti-
Ministries that have                                                                                    report
implemented the Anti-                                                                                                  OAC            corruption
                                                                                                                                     Action Plan
Corruption Action Plan

                                                                               29
Intermediate Result                                                                                                                    Measures
indicator Two: Qualified                                                                                                              update by
                                               Yes      Yes      No    No         No     Annual       Report of     Supreme Audit
budget audit each year                                                                                                              Government of
                                                                                                    the Supreme       Authority
                                                                                                                                    anti-corruption
                                                                                                        Audit
                                                                                                      Authority                        measures

                                                                                                                       CNLCC           Measures
Intermediate Result
                              Number                                                                                                 participation
Indicator Three : Number                       0         2        4     5          5     Annual       Survey
                                                                                                                                    by civil society
of NGO that have been                                                                                                   OAC             in anti-
initiated anti-corruption
                                                                                                                                      corruption
activities
                                                                                                                                       program

Intermediate Result           Percentage             Baseline                             Once        A second      CNLCC            Measures to
Indicator Four:
                                                     survey in                                       perception                      monitor the
Perception of corruption by                                                                                         OAC
                                                     2012                                           survey at the                   implementatio
the citizens;
                                                                                                     end of the                       n of Anti-
                                                                                                       project                        corruption
                                                                                                                                     Action Plan
Component Three: Enhanced Monitoring and Evaluation system
                                                                                                                                      Measures
Intermediate Result                                                                                                                    program
Indicator One :Steering                    No           Yes      Yes   Yes        Yes   Bi-Annual    Steering             PIU
                                                                                                    Committee                        oversight by
Committee Meetings                                                                                                                   Government
                                                                                                      report
                              Percenta     0             50      80    100        100   Bi-Annual   M&E             Line               Indicates
Intermediate Result           ge                                                                    reports         Ministries        capacity to
Indicator Two : Ministries                                                                                                            monitor the
who prepared annual M&E                                                                                                                impact of
reports;                                                                                                                            investment and
                                                                                                                                       programs

                                                                             30
Intermediate Result                                                                               Measures
Indicator                     No                                                                   fiduciary
                                   Yes   Yes   Yes        Yes    Annual     Audit report   PIU
Three :Completion of                                                                             capability of
Internal Audit Reports ;                                                                              PIU
                                                                                                  Proxy for
Intermediate Result
                                                                                                  functional
Indicator Four : Project      0    Yes   Yes   Yes        Yes   Quarterly     Internal     PIU
                                                                                                  M&E and
Progress and Monitoring                                                        reports
                                                                                                   reporting
reports submitted on time ;
                                                                                                    system




                                                     31
                              Annex 2: Detailed Project Description


1.     The Republic of Congo continues to make the transition from the pre-reform governance
context of a largely unaccountable state where private interest outweighed public interest, to a
more accountable and transparent system where decisions are taken to meet shared development
goals.

2.       Many of the reforms initiated over the last 3 years, such as procurement reform, Public
Financial Management Reform and Public Investment Management Reform, are being
consolidated as their positive impact is demonstrated (lower cost of investment projects, higher
relevance of public investments and the positive impact of oversight and accountability
institutions). However, to retain this positive trajectory, further steps are required, in particular to
reform the PFM and PIM systems. Providing technical advice on these reforms, as well as
leveraging the domestic resources required to finance their implementation are critical
contributions at this point in time.

3.     The proposed project will finance both the continued implementation of reforms to the
PFM system, in particular full implementation of the computerized budget management system,
as well as serve as a platform for debate on those reforms highlighted above where a consensus
on the way forward has not yet been achieved.

4.     Based on close consultations with the Government, the project will have three
components: (i) Increased Capacity of Targeted Ministries to Manage Public Finance and Human
Resources (US$ 19.8 million); (ii) Strengthened Capacity of Accountability Structures (US$ 3.5
million); and (iii) Enhanced Monitoring and Evaluation system (US$ 3.0 million).


Component 1: Increased Capacity of Targeted Ministries to Manage Public Finance and
Human Resources (USD 19.8 million of which IDA: US$ 3.76 million and Gov: US$ 16.04
million)

5.     The project will provide support to continue PFM reforms, to implement the new
       Procurement Code, to improve HR management, and to introduce Results Based
       Management approaches.
This component has five sub-components:
       Sub Component 1.1.: Continuing PFM reforms (US$ 16.7 million)

6.     The activities to be financed under this sub-component are:
          Completing implementation of the computerized budget management system (US$
           14.2 million)?. The new Project will support the operationalization of the Recipient‟s
           computerized budget management system through the: (i) acquisition and installation
           of required software; (ii) connection of its customs and tax authorities and
           department-level finance units of its ministries to said system; and (iii) provision of
           training to the personnel responsible for utilizing said system.
                                                  32
          Supporting critical elements of the implementation of the revised Public Investment
           Action Plan (US$ 1.5 Million) and MTEF (US$ 1.0 Million). The Project will
           continue strengthening of the Recipient’s public investment management through the:
           (i) design within the key planning and finance directorates of the Recipient’s
           ministries responsible, respectively, for finance, planning, transport, trade,
           agriculture and energy, of information systems and databases and manuals needed
           for the effective identification and selection, monitoring and evaluation of their
           investment projects and planning of the recurrent costs thereof; (ii) provision of
           training in budget planning for relevant personnel of the Recipient in order to
           facilitate progressive decentralization of public expenditure management; (iii)
           updating of strategies for the education, health, agriculture and energy sectors; and
           (iv) updating of macro-economic data for all sectors in order to prepare a suitable
           medium term expenditure framework.

7.    The planned work under this component has been informed by the recent IMF AFRITAC
study on the public expenditure management system, and will help address key
recommendations contained in this study.

       Sub-component 1.2: Support of the implementation of the new procurement law (US$
       1.3 million)

8.     The new Procurement code was adopted in 2009 and the TGCB Project supported its
design and the establishment of the institutions charged with the implementation of the Code.
While the new code is being implemented, capacity constraints related to its application remain
and need to be addressed. This sub-component will finance the following activities:
            Provision of procurement training and technical assistance to relevant personnel
                of the Recipient (US$ 1 million): This activity is critical to improve the
                ownership and implementation of the new procurement system. Training will be
                supported by the Project to familiarize stakeholders with the new procurement
                system.

               Support the development and the operationalization of a ‘Hotline’ to handle
                procurement complaints (US$ 0.3 million).
       Sub-component 1.3: Enhanced payroll and personnel management capacity (US$ 1.0
       Million)

9.     This activity aims to address identified deficiencies in the public service management
system, including the existence of a high numbers of ghost workers and thus the ineffective use
of wage bill resources. It responds to the identified need to strengthen HRM and payroll
management processes as noted in the AFRITAC report. Assistance provided will build on the
„automated payroll system‟ which was established under the previous TGCB project.

10.    While installation of an integrated payroll and HRM system was largely completed under
the previous project, some of the accompanying activities, in particular installation of installed


                                               33
software to permit effective career management and HR records keeping and the training of staff
at the Ministry of Public Service, remain to be completed. Work will focus on:
                Completing the civil service master file system and related training (US$
                 500,000)

                Training of staff on using new instruments (US$ 500,000).

      Sub-component 1.4: Extending RBM Approach to address budget and program
implementation problems: (USD 0.8 million)

11.      A pilot approach to building Results Based Management practices in the Congolese
administration was conducted under the previous Governance project, focusing on the Ministry
of Civil Service. The pilot approach was based on the Rapid Results methodology. The initial
evaluation of results conducted in June 2011 showed the strong potential of this approach as
teams were able to address the concrete issues identified within set timeframes. Considering the
political commitment at the highest level to introducing results based management practices in
the Republic of Congo, and the experience gained through the pilot, it was decided to scale up
this work in the next phase of implementing governance reforms and to extend it to a further six
ministries (Planning, Finance, Health, Transport, Energy, Trade, Civil Service, and SME). It was
also decided that the issues to be addressed using RRA, would be those that critically affect their
ability to execute their budgets and investment projects under their responsibility (Activity 1).

12.     In a second phase, the experience gained during the Rapid Results Initiative pilots would
be used to define and roll out a performance management framework, including the development
of an M&E framework linking at all levels within the ministry concerned, performance targets to
outputs to be delivered under the ministry‟s budget, and linking them to performance targets for
units and the design of a capacity building program, and provision of related training.
 (Activity 2).


Component 2: Strengthened Capacity of Accountability Structures (US$ 3.5 million, of
which IDA: US$ 0.67 million and Gov: US$ 2.83 million)
This component has two sub-components:

Sub-component 2.1: Supporting the Independent Observatory on Governance and the Anti-
Corruption Commission US$ 1.5 million)
13.     The project will provide technical assistance and training to enhance the capacity of the
Independent Observatory on Governance and the government Anti-Corruption Commission to
monitor governance and anti-corruption measures. Technical assistance will be focused on the
two following areas: Budget and Procurement. A training program will be prepared. Further
investment in capacity development is required to ensure both institutions fully play their role in
the accountability system. The Independent Observatory on Governance is an independent
structure created in 2007 to monitor and evaluate progress made by the Government in the
implementation of anti-corruption measures. The Anti-Corruption Commission, created in 2004
and restructured in 2007, is responsible for implementation of the Government Anti-corruption
policy. Both these structures are funded by the government. The previous Project provided

                                                34
capacity building support to both structures, and continued support is required to enhance their
internal governance, transparency and effectiveness.

Sub-component 2.2: Demand for Good Governance (US$ 2, 0 million)
14.     The Project will also provide technical assistance and training to reinforce the capacity of
selected national NGOs to monitor and evaluate implementation of key public reforms. The
capacity building activities to be financed under this sub-component will allow the NGOs to:

   -   Monitor the governance reforms underway and inform the population of the issues
       involved regarding public finance, procurement and other reforms;
   -   Gather feedback from the population concerning their experience and level of satisfaction
       regarding the quality of public services, how to implement the reforms and how to
       improve national development strategies.
   -   Monitor and analyze implementation of the national budget and how to advocate with the
       Parliament to ensure the budget reflects local needs and priorities.
   -   Collaborate with the existing anti-corruption structures to establish an effective coalition
       to pursue transparency, accountability and integrity in public administration.

15.      The national NGOs and the media will be selected based on objective criteria and will
prepare action plans. In addition to technical assistance and training, the Project will support
them in disseminating the results of their analysis and monitoring of their activities. As the Bank
has much less leverage to pressure the Government to continue implementing reforms, such
support will be extended to public accountability structures, such as Economic and Finance
Committee in Parliament, the Supreme Audit Authority, and the State Inspector General.
Selected NGOs and media will, as a condition of receiving the TA and training, be required to
(a) prepare proposals for the TA they wish to receive and an action plan for applying the TA they
receive to specific activities designed to enhance the monitoring and evaluation of public
finances and services and dissemination of the results of the monitoring and evaluation; and (b)
enter into agreements with the Recipient undertaking to carry out their action plans.

Component 3: Monitoring and Evaluation system (US$ 3.0 million, of which IDA: US$
0.57 million and Gov: US$ 2.43 million)

16.      This component will support the government of Congo in the development and
institutionalization of monitoring and evaluation functions and systems at national level and
targeted sectors. Congo has no results-based M&E functions built-in as part of the duties and
responsibilities of the public administration. Production, management and user of performance
information in government decision-making and accountability processes are very week and
there is a lack of sufficient, timely and reliable information to monitor budget planning
implementation of programs and accountability processes. More specially, the project will
support the following activities:

      Design and implementation of a national monitoring and evaluation system: The project
       will finance (i) the development of a Government evaluation strategy with the necessary
       policy guidelines for implementation; (ii) preparation of arrays of indicators for economic
       and finance programs; (iii) design and implementation of an evaluation agenda with the
                                                35
    Government ministries. The Ministry of Planning will play a key role as it will also
    coordinate the development of a M&E system for the PRSP second generation.

   Implementation support to the Project Coordination Unit including the Project
    Coordinator, a Finance Manager, an accountant, a finance officer, a procurement
    specialist, internal auditor, and a monitoring & evaluation (M&E) specialist. The project
    will also provide resources for training in relevant areas for staff of relevant Ministries, as
    well as resources to recruit consultants with specific expertise as needed.




                                              36
                           Annex 3: Implementation Arrangements


1.     The project will be implemented by the Ministry of Finance as the lead ministry on PFM
and procurement reforms. The inter-ministerial steering committee, which will include
representatives of both cross-cutting and key spending ministries, will oversee implementation
and will be presided by the Head of Cabinet of the Ministry of Finance.

2.      The existing PIU staff established under the previous governance project will manage the
fiduciary functions. Procurement and Financial Management performance of the unit has been
either satisfactory or moderately satisfactory for the last two years. However, it is intended to
gradually move responsibility to the procurement units in the line ministries involved in the
project, in particular the ministries of Finance, Planning and Public Service, as well as the
Independent Observatory on governance and the Governmental Anti-Corruption Commission.
This transfer will take place once ceilings for decentralizing procurement are increased from
their current levels. However, major procurement for the IT systems will continue to be handled
by the PIU for the duration of the project. Otherwise, line ministries will be responsible for the
implementation of their activities.

Results Monitoring and Evaluation

3.      A monitoring and evaluation system (M&E) was established for the previous project and
will continue for the new operation under supervision of the existing project unit M&E
Specialist. Within each participating ministry a focal point will be identified among whose
responsibilities will be ensuring provision of regular monitoring data for the project indicators
related to each ministry‟s activities and expected results. An M&E plan based on the project
Results Framework will be prepared to identify the specific information required for each
indicator, its source within the relevant ministry, and how frequently this information is updated.

An assessment of the capacity of each ministry to produce the required information will also be
conducted to identify what support is required. As such, the project will help reinforce the M&E
capacity of each participating ministry.

4.      In addition, the PIU will prepare its annual goals, indicators and action plans, and
establish monitoring and reporting plans for its performance indicators that will involve all
members of the team. This system will be described in the PIU Operations Manual. In this way,
monitoring of results indicators will become a management tool to provide regularly updated
information to assess whether program implementation is on track or not. The PIU will process
and manage the data collected from the various ministries supported and provide regular reports
to the Steering Committee, the Ministries of Planning, Public Service, and Finance, and to the
World Bank. This work, as stated, will be coordinated by the PIU M&E Specialist who has
demonstrated his ability to implement an effective project M&E system.




                                                37
Financial Management, Disbursements and Procurement

5.      The Financial Management (FM) arrangements for the project have been designed with
consideration for the country‟s post-conflict situation while taking into account the OP/BP 10.02
which describes the overall FM Bank policies and procedures. The assessment of the FM
capacity of the Ministry of Finance revealed some weaknesses and risks mainly in the field of
staffing arrangements and capacity, accounting systems and fiduciary risks.

6.     Due to the weaknesses and the fiduciary risks associated to the project, the country
system will not be used as default. On request of the government, it was decided to adopt a ring-
fenced approach and use the existing PIU which is familiar with Bank FM procedures having
managed Bank-financed operations since 2002 (e.g. P073507 & P101981). The overall residual
FM risk is substantial (S).

7.     At the time of the preparation of this project there were no overdue audit reports and IFR
from the existing PIU. However, the assessment of its FM capacity as well as its overall
performance during the past eight years indicates the need for additional improvements in the
FM system. For the purpose of this project, the FM team will be headed by a qualified,
experienced FM Manager supported by one finance officer and one accountant; all to be selected
on a competitive basis among individual consultants.

8.      A Project Implementation Manual (PIM) including the administrative and financial
management procedures has been prepared and adopted. An individual consultant will be
recruited on competitive basis three months after effectiveness to manage the internal audit
function of the PIU. Finally, the existing accounting software will be upgraded with the multi-
projects and multi-sites version 9.3 of the TOMPRO and installation of the network. The setting-
up of the computerized accounting system is due 3 months after effectiveness.

9.     Interim Financial Reports (IFR) will be prepared every quarter in a format and including
content agreed with IDA and furnished to the Bank 45 days after the end of the quarter.

10.     The assessment of the Supreme Audit Agency conducted during the PEFA and CIFA
revealed a need to improve its capacity, meaning it could not be used to audit the project
accounts. Therefore, a qualified, independent external auditor will be recruited on approved
terms of reference three months after effectiveness. The Agency may participate in the selection
process of the external auditor. The external audit will be carried out according to either
International Standards on Auditing (ISAs) or Auditing Standards (ASs) and will cover all
aspects of project activities implemented and will include verification of expenditure eligibility
and physical inspection of goods and services acquired. The audit period will be annual and the
reports, including the project financial statements, will be submitted to IDA and the Agency six
(6) months after the end of each fiscal year. The project will comply with the Bank disclosure
policy of audit reports (e.g. made publicly available promptly after receipt of all final financial
audit reports including qualified audit reports) and the Recipient will place the information
provided on its official website within one month after the report being accepted as final by the
team.


                                                38
11.    The project will be supervised on a risk-based approach. Based on the current overall
residual FM risk which is Medium Impact (Substantial), the project will be supervised twice a
year (and may be adjusted when the need arises) to ensure that project FM arrangements still
operate well and funds are used for the intended purposes and in an efficient way.

Country issues

12.     The Republic of Congo is gradually emerging from a decade of political instability,
conflict, and mismanagement. The country has recently reached the HIPC completion points.
The country‟s institutions and economy are weak. Structural reforms have been launched in the
areas of economic governance, public expenditure management, and transparency. The previous
Governance project financed by IDA helped the country strengthen capacity in public
administration and tackled corruption and mismanagement. The integrated fiduciary assessments
(Country Financial Accountability Assessment - CFAA, Country Procurement Assessment
Report - CPAR, and Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability - PEFA) conducted in
2006 and 2007 reports outlined significant public finance management weaknesses-mainly in
budgeting preparation and control, accounting, reporting, internal and external controls, and
human resources.

13.     Although there is cause for cautious optimism (significant improvements have been made
in public finance management and oil revenue management through the IDA-financed project on
transparency and governance support as well as other donor-financed projects), it will take a long
time for these reforms to yield substantial improvement in the management of public funds.
Given the fragility of the fiduciary environment, the Government has requested to use a ring-
fenced approach to implement this project, similar to the other IDA-financed Projects in the
country.

Overall conclusion of the Financial Management Assessment of the Ministry of Finance
and the PIU

14.     The findings of CFAA and PEFA exercises as well as the FM capacity assessment
conducted during the project preparation revealed some capacity deficiencies in financial
management and procurement within the Ministry of Finance. These weaknesses include (i)
insufficiently qualified staff in financial management at all levels of the sector, (ii) staff‟s weak
familiarity with IDA and other donor-financed project procedures for reporting, disbursement
arrangements, and auditing; (iii) lack of an accounting system acceptable to IDA and of
computerized and modern accounting tools. Due to the limited FM capacity of the overall PFM
system, it was decided during the project preparation on request of the government to use the
existing PIU for the previous project that is familiar with Bank-financed operations. At the time
of the preparation of this project, there were no overdue audit reports and IFR facing the existing
PIU. However, the auditor expressed a qualified opinion on the 2007, 2008 and 2009 project
accounts mainly due to the delays in the payment of government contributions to the project
financing and some overrun expenditures. As of today, these issues have been addressed.




                                                 39
             A. Risk assessment and mitigation

15.    The following risk identification worksheet summarizes the significant risks with the
corresponding mitigating measures.



      Risk                                 Risk     Risk Mitigating Measures              Conditions      Residual
                                           Rating   Incorporated into Project             for             Risk
                                                    Design                                Effectiveness
                                                                                          (Y/N)
      Inherent risk                        S                                                              S
      Country level                        H        None. Beyond the control of the       N               H
                                                    project. The government is
      According to questions 13 and 16
                                                    committed to a reform program
      of the CPIA, Congo is a high risk
                                                    that includes the strengthening
      country from the fiduciary
                                                    of the PFM, An ongoing IDA-
      perspective.
                                                    financed PFM Reform project is
                                                    being implemented but is
      The CIFA, PER and the PEFA                    unlikely to yield results quickly
      reports outlined PFM weaknesses               enough to impact the proposed
      at central and decentralized                  project. Use of IDA FM
      government levels as well as                  procedures is required for this
      sector ministries level in term of            project.
      governance and public funds
      management;
       Entity level                        S        A       ring-fenced      approach     N               S
                                                    established to implement the
      The assessment of the key
      ministries during the CFAA,                   previous Governance Project
      PEFA and particularly the                     will be used; Relying on a
                                                    dedicated FM team at the PIU
      MinFin revealed internal control
                                                    and use of IDA FM requirements
      weaknesses and weak fiduciary
                                                    is critical for the mitigation of
      environment
                                                    fiduciary risk of this project; the
                                                    adoption of a FM procedures
                                                    manual; and the selection of an
                                                    individual internal auditor 3
                                                    months after the effective date
                                                    will mitigate internal control
                                                    weaknesses.
        Project level:                     S        The PIU will strengthen ex-ante       N               S
                                                    and ex-post control of activities
      Funds may not be used for the
                                                    implemented/managed           by
      intended purposes; delays in the
                                                    implementing entities. The scope
      reporting system and auditing due
      to the weak capacity of the                   of audit will include review of
      fiduciary team are expected.                  expenditures incurred at all
                                                    levels. FM staff have been and
                                                    will be recruited on ToRs
                                                    acceptable to IDA and training
                                                    and hands on advice to staff
                                                    during project implementation.


                                                     40
     Risk                                  Risk     Risk Mitigating Measures             Conditions      Residual
                                           Rating   Incorporated into Project            for             Risk
                                                    Design                               Effectiveness
                                                                                         (Y/N)




     Control Risk                          S                                                             S
     Budgeting:                            M        Annual work plan and budget          N               M
                                                    required each year and endorsed
     (i) Weak capacity at the
                                                    by the steering committee and
     implementing entities to prepare
                                                    approved by IDA. The project
     and submit accurate work
                                                    Financial Procedures Manual
     program and budget; (ii) weak
     budgetary execution and control;               defines the arrangements for
     (iii) weak monitoring leading to               budgeting, budgetary control and
                                                    the requirements for budgeting
     some overrun expenditures
                                                    revisions.    Annual     detailed
                                                    disbursement     forecasts   and
                                                    budget required. IFR will
                                                    provide      information       on
                                                    budgetary control and analysis
                                                    of variances between actual and
                                                    budget.
     Accounting:                           S        (i) The project will adopt the       N               S
     Poor policies and procedures,                  OHADA accounting system.
                                                    Accounting procedures will be
     lack of qualified accountant staff.
                                                    documented in the procedures
     A     computerized     accounting              manual (ii) The FM functions
     system is      in place but no                 will be carried out by qualified
     network operates; delay in                     consultants (individuals); FM
     keeping reliable and auditable                 staff recruited on competitive
     accounting records; FM Manager                 basis;       An       integrated
     is on board since 2002                         computerized accounting system
                                                    will be set up and will be
                                                    maintained by the fiduciary team
                                                    including the M&E.
     Internal Control:                     S        (i) FM Procedures Manual has         N               S
                                                    been revised and adopted, an
     Internal control system may be
                                                    internal   auditor    (individual
     weak due to weak FM capacity of
                                                    consultant) will be recruited to
     IA; Insufficient safeguards and
     controls may result in misuse of               ensure    that    the    project‟s
     funds     and     impact       the             fiduciary     and     operational
                                                    procedures and regulations are
     implementation of the project.
                                                    adhered to by the PIU and any
                                                    entity managing the project
                                                    funds.



     Funds Flow:                           S        (i) Payment requests will be         N               S
     (i) Risk of misused                            approved by the FM Manager
                                                    prior to disbursement of funds to
of   funds; and (ii) delays in                      contractors or consultants
     disbursements of funds to IA and
                                                     41
Risk                                  Risk     Risk Mitigating Measures            Conditions      Residual
                                      Rating   Incorporated into Project           for             Risk
                                               Design                              Effectiveness
                                                                                   (Y/N)
beneficiaries; (iii) delays in the             (ii) The ToRs of the External
release       of       government              Auditors     include   physical
contributions (e.g. mainly the                 verification of goods, services
subsequent tranches after initial              acquired.
deposit).                                       (iii) A Finance Officer will be
                                               recruited 3 months after project
                                               effectiveness and capacity will
                                               be strengthened during project
                                               implementation period.
                                               (v) The RoC will release US$ 2
                                               million as initial deposit before
                                               effectiveness and subsequent
                                               tranches according to an agreed
                                               disbursement schedule
                                                                                   Y
                                                                                   (counterparts
                                                                                   funds)
Financial Reporting                   M        (i) A computerized accounting       N               M
                                               system will be used.
Inaccurate and delay in
submission of IFR at central                   (ii) IFR and financial statements
level due to delays from IAs or                formats similar to the previous
weak capacity of the FM team.                  operation and agreed during
                                               negotiations;


Auditing:                             S        (i) The project‟s institutional     N               S
                                               arrangements allow for the
No auditing arrangement in
                                               appointment      of      adequate
place; the national audit
                                               external auditors (independent
capacity is weak and not
                                               auditors) and the ToRs will
reliable. Delay in submission of
                                               include physical verification and
audit report or qualified
                                               specific report on finding of
opinion and delays in the
                                               physical controls of goods, and
implementation       of    audit
                                               services acquired or delivered.
reports recommendations.
                                               (ii)     Annual         auditing
                                               arrangements will be carried out
                                               during        the        project
                                               implementation     period     in
                                               accordance with ISA.


Governance and Accountability         S        (i) The TOR of the external         N               S
                                               auditor will comprise a specific
Possibility of circumventing the
                                               chapter on corruption auditing
internal control system with
                                               (ii) FM procedures manual has
colluding practices as bribes,
                                               been adopted; (iii) Robust FM
abuse       of       administrative
                                               arrangements          (qualified
positions, mis-procurement etc,
                                               individual FM staff recruited
is a critical issue.
                                               under ToRs acceptable to IDA,
                                               quarterly IFR including budget

                                                42
      Risk                          Risk     Risk Mitigating Measures             Conditions      Residual
                                    Rating   Incorporated into Project            for             Risk
                                             Design                               Effectiveness
                                                                                  (Y/N)
                                             execution and monitoring; (iv)
                                             Measures         to       improve
                                             transparency such as providing
                                             information on the project status
                                             to the public, and to encourage
                                             participation of civil society and
                                             other stakeholder are built into
                                             the project design.


      OVERALL FM RISK               S                                                             S


The overall residual risk rating is deemed Medium Impact (Substantial).

16.     Strengths: The PIU and mainly the current FM team is familiar with the Bank‟s FM
procedures and requirements ( financial reporting, audit compliances, disbursements…) although
there is a need to strengthen its capacity and staffing arrangement as well.

17.     Weaknesses and Action Plan: In contrast, the main weaknesses for the FM
arrangements of this project include the PIU FM performance during the last 3 years (qualified
audits for the years 2007, 2008 and 2009); FM performance rated Moderately Satisfactory over
the past 20 months, the lack of a strong leadership of the FM team, an inadequate computerized
accounting system, and delays in the implementations of Bank supervision mission action plans
as well as of internal and external auditor‟s recommendations.

Financial Management Action Plan

The Financial Management Action Plan described below has been developed to mitigate the
overall financial management risks.

             Issue      Remedial action recommended           Responsible          Completion FM
                                                                entity                  date    Conditions
      FM staffing     Recruitment of the FM Manager              PIU              Done              Yes
      FM staffing     Recruitment of a Finance Officer           PIU              Three months      Yes
                                                                                  after
                                                                                  effectiveness
      FM staffing     Recruitment of an Accountant                 PIU            Done              Yes
      Accounting      Installation      (network)      and         PIU            Three months      Yes
      software        finalization of the configuration of                        after
                      the     multi-projects   accounting                         effectiveness
                      software
      FM              Revision of the FM procedures                PIU            Done                 Yes
      procedures      manual
      manual
      Internal        Appointment of the Internal auditor          PIU            Three                Yes
                                               43
       auditing        (individual consultant)                              months after
                                                                            effectiveness
       Counterpart     Payment of the first tranche of the       PIU        By                    Yes
       funds           government contribution                              effectiveness
       External        Selection of an external auditor on       PIU            Three             Yes
       auditing        ToRs (project accounts)                               months after
                                                                            effectiveness

18.      Implementing entity: An existing PIU “with significant experience with IDA-financed
projects will be IDA‟s and other donors‟ main counterpart and focal point. It will oversee the
entire project management including management of the funds and will primarily be responsible
for: (i) overseeing implementation; (ii) handling financial and administrative management; (iii)
collaborating and coordinating with other relevant entities involved in the project for the
successful implementation of the project; and (iv) liaison with IDA and other donors. The FM
team of the project headed by a Financial Management Manager will be composed of an
Accountant and a Finance Officer to handle disbursement aspects. The FM staff has been and
will be selected on a competitive basis among individual consultants. The FM Manager has been
recruited to oversee the project‟s overall FM aspects. The ToRs will provide more details on the
scope and responsibilities of the FM Manager. An internal auditor (individual consultant) will be
selected to undertake periodic assessments on the strengths and weaknesses of the internal
control system at all levels.

19.     Budgeting: Annual work plans and budgets and detailed disbursement forecasts will be
consolidated into a single document by the FM unit of the project, which will be submitted to the
Project Steering Committee for endorsement, and thereafter to IDA for approval no later than
December 1 of the year immediately prior to the year the work plan should be implemented. The
PIU will monitor its execution with the accounting software in accordance with the budgeting
procedures specified in the manual of procedures and report on variances along with the
quarterly interim financial report. The budgeting system needs to forecast for each fiscal year the
origin and use of funds under the project. Only budgeted expenditures would be committed and
incurred so as to ensure the resources are used within the agreed upon allocations and for the
intended purposes.

20.     Accounting policies and procedures: The RoC is a member of the Organisation pour
l’Harmonisation en Afrique du Droit des Affaires (OHADA), hence adheres to its accounting
standards, (Syscohada), in line with international accounting standards. Hence Syscohada
accounting standards will apply to this project. An integrated financial and accounting system
will be put in place and used by the PIU.

21.    The accounting systems and policies and financial procedures used by the project are
documented in the project‟s Administrative, Accounting and Financial Manual. On the basis of
this manual, IDA will assess the acceptability of the project accounting, reporting, and control
systems. The auditors will use the manual to assess the project‟s accounting systems and
controls and to design specific project audit procedures. This FM manual is included in the
Project Implementation Manual. For the project to deliver on its objectives, the existing
computerized financial management system will be improved (configuration and network) based


                                                 44
on multi-projects accounting software. The system should integrate budgeting, financial and cost
accounting systems to facilitate monitoring, evaluation and reporting.

22.     Internal control and auditing: Internal controls comprising the systems of control,
financial or otherwise, established by management, are being put in place in order to (a) carry out
project activities in an orderly and efficient manner, (b) ensure adherence to policies and
procedures, and (c) safeguard project assets and secure as far as possible the completeness and
accuracy of the financial and other records. The existing FM and Implementation procedure
manual was drafted during the preparation of the first governance project three year ago. Various
supervision mission reports stated there were problems complying with the manual, that the PIM
was not fully disseminated and that users were not trained to use the manual. Furthermore, some
deficiencies were identified in the manual itself. For these reasons, it was decided to prepare a
new FM & Implementation manual. The new Project Implementation Manual (including the FM
and Implementation procedures) has now been completed and approved by Government and
IDA. The FM and implementation procedures will focus on the following: (i) Segregation of
duties, (ii) Physical control of assets, (iii) Authorization and approval, (iv) Clear channels of
command, (vi) Arithmetic and accounting accuracy, (vii) Integrity and performance of staff at all
levels, (viii) Supervision. The internal audit function of the first governance project was
contracted to an audit firm to ensure that the project‟s fiduciary and operational procedures and
regulations are adhered to by the PIU and any entity managing project funds. However, since the
audit firm is not based in RoC, and was required to conduct in country missions every two
months, this arrangement led to implementation delays, It was decided therefore gradually to
transfer this function to an individual consultant to be selected on competitive basis.

23.     Financial Reporting: The PIU will record and report on project transactions and furnish
to IDA Interim Financial Monitoring Reports (IFRs) no later than 45 days after the end of each
calendar quarter. At a minimum, the financial reports must include the following tables with
appropriate comments; (i) Sources and Intended Use of Funds; (ii) Actual Use of Funds by
Project Activity/Component and comparison between actual expenditures and budget; (iii)
Designated (and counterpart funds) account activity statement and (iv) Note to the IFR. At the
end of each fiscal year, the project will issue the Project Financial Statements (PFS) comprising:
(i) a balance sheet; (ii) a statement of sources and use of funds; (iii) accounting policies and
procedures; and (iv) notes related to significant accounting policies and accounting standards
adopted by management and underlying the preparation of financial statements. These PFS will
be subject to annual external audits as described below.

24.     External audit: The assessment of the Supreme Audit Agency during the PEFA and
CIFA exercises revealed a need for improvement of its capacity and that it could not as a result
audit the project accounts. Therefore, a qualified, experienced, and independent external auditor
will be recruited on approved terms of reference three months after effectiveness. The Agency
may participate in the selection process of the external auditor. The external audit will be carried
out according to either International Standards on Auditing (ISAs) or Auditing Standards (ASs)
and will cover all aspects of project activities implemented and include verification of
expenditure eligibility and physical verification of goods and services acquired. The report will
also include specific controls such as compliance with procurement procedures and financial
reporting requirements and consistency between financial statements and management reports
and field visits (e.g. physical verification). The audit report will thus refer to any incidence of

                                                45
non-compliance and ineligible expenditures identified during the audit mission. The audit period
will be annual and the reports, including the project financial statements, will be submitted to
IDA and the Agency within six months after each fiscal year.
The tentative due dates of the audit report will be as follows:




                 Audit Report                                      Due Date
                                                (i)Not later than June 30 (2000 + N) if
                                                effectiveness has occurred before June 30
                                                (2000 + N-1).
    The Project audit reports (Audit report
          and Management letter)                (ii) Not later than June 30 (2000 + N+1) if
                                                effectiveness has occurred after June 30, (2000
                                                + N-1)

Since the project is expected to become effective in the second semester of 2012, the first audit
report would be due on June 30, 2013. At the time of the preparation of this project, there is no
overdue audit report on the original project‟s accounts or the sector. However, the auditor
expressed a qualified opinion on the original project‟s accounts mainly due to the delay in the
payment of government contributions to the project financing and some expenditure overruns.
As of today, these issues have been addressed.

25.     The project will comply with the Bank disclosure policy on audit reports (e.g. make
publicly available, promptly after receipt of all final financial audit reports (including qualified
audit reports) and place the information provided on its the official website within one month of
the report being accepted as final by the team.

Disbursement arrangements and flow of funds

26.     Flow of funds- designated account: the overall project funding will consist of an IDA
Credit in the amount of US$ 5.0 million equivalent and US$ 21.3 million equivalent counterpart
funds provided by RoC. These funds will jointly finance all components and will be managed
through two (2) new bank accounts to be opened at Credit du Congo, a commercial bank
acceptable to IDA, and maintained by PIU as follow: (i) a Designated Account in CFAF to
receive IDA advances, and to pay for project expenditures eligible for IDA financing; (ii) a
Project Counterpart Funds Account in CFAF to receive counterpart deposits and replenishments,
and to record project payments made from RoC resources. Interest income received on the
Designated Account will remain in the designated account to be used for eligible project
expenditures. The ceiling of the Designated Account will be set at CFAF 500 million. Additional
advances to the Designated Account will be made on a monthly basis against withdrawal
applications supported by Statements of Expenditures (SOE) or records and other documents as
specified in the Disbursement Letter (DL).



                                                 46
27.     Disbursement arrangements (disbursement methods): Given the high risk
environment, the report-based disbursement will not be applicable by default. Therefore, upon
project effectiveness, transaction-based disbursements will be used. An initial advance up to the
ceiling of the DA (CFAF 500 million) and representing four months‟ forecasted project
expenditures paid through the DA will be made into the designated account and subsequent
disbursements will be made on a monthly basis against presentation of SOE or records as
specified in the DL. Thereafter, the option to disburse against presentation of quarterly unaudited
IFR (also known as the Report-based disbursements) could be considered subject to the quality
and timeliness of the IFRs furnished to IDA and the overall FM performance as assessed in due
course. In the case of the use of the report-based disbursements, the DA ceiling will be equal to
the cash forecast for two quarters as provided in the quarterly unaudited Interim Financial
Report. If and when IFRs are used as the basis of disbursements, the contents and format will be
revised to include disbursement-related information. The other methods of disbursing the funds
(reimbursement, direct payment and special commitment) will also be available to the project.
The minimum value of applications for these methods is 20% of the DA ceiling. The project will
have the option to sign and furnish Withdrawal Applications (WA) electronically using the
eSignatures module accessible from the Bank‟s Client Connection website.

28.      Counterpart Funds. The government is committed to supporting the project with US$
21.3 million equivalent. Despite the recent improvements in the timely provision of counterpart
funds by the Government of RoC, there remains a risk of delay in releasing counterpart funds in
a timely manner which may jeopardize the implementation of the annual work program; it was
decided to mitigate this risk. In addition to the measures recently put in place by the government,
deposit of US$ 2.0 million equivalent into the Project Counterpart Funds Account will be
required as a condition of effectiveness. Subsequent replenishments will be done by RoC on the
basis of the disbursement schedule agreed upon during negotiations and included as a covenant
in the financing agreement and as shown below.

        USD equivalent of the amount to be       Date not later than which the amount shall be
        deposited                                deposited in the Project Counterpart Funds
                                                 Account

        $2,000,000                               Effective Date

        $5,000,000                               April 30, 2013

        $5,000,000                               September 30, 2013

        $4,800,000                               April 30, 2014

        $4,500,000                               September 30, 2014



29.     Table of eligible expenditures and taxes: Funds will be disbursed in accordance with
project expenditure categories as shown below. As this project will be jointly financed with
government counterpart funds, the project cost sharing ratios by component/subcomponent will
determine the percentage of eligible expenditure to be financed for each category. The
Government‟s counterpart funding will jointly finance eligible project expenditures in line with
                                                47
the cost sharing ratios. The financing is inclusive of taxes as per the current Country Financing
Parameters approved for the Republic of Congo. The table of eligible expenditures is as follows:




            Category/Component                              Amount of the        Percentage of
                                                            Credit Allocated     Expenditures
                                                            (expressed    in     to be Financed
                                                            USD)                 (inclusive    of
                                                                                 Taxes)
  1         Goods,     non-consulting   and   consultants 2,410,000              19.0
            services
  2         Training                                          1,230,000                 19.0
  3         Operating Costs                                     380,000                 19.0
  4         Refund of Preparation Advance                       980,000                  -
            TOTAL AMOUNT                                      5,000,000


30.      Governance and Accountability: the risk of fraud and corruption within project
activities is high given the country context and inherent risks of the activities. However, the
proposed fiduciary arrangements will help mitigate such risks. Nonetheless, to further mitigate
the risk of fraud and corruption, the PIU will support the Independent Observatory on
Governance to implement the government‟s existing Anti-corruption Action Plan.

31.     Implementation Support Plan: Implementation support will be provided throughout the
project on a risk-based approach. This will focus on the status of financial management system
to verify whether the system continues to operate well and to ensure that funds are used for the
intended purposes and in an efficient way. It will comprise inter alia, the review of audit reports
and IFRs, and advice to the PIU on all FM issues. Based on the current risk assessment which is
M-I (substantial) the project will be supervised at least twice a year and this frequency may be
adjusted when the need arises. The ISR will include a FM rating of the project. An
implementation support mission will be carried before effectiveness to ensure the project
readiness. To the extent possible, mixed on-site supervision missions will be undertaken with
procurement monitoring and M&E and disbursement colleagues.

List of conditionality and covenants

32.         Following are the FM effectiveness conditions and covenants:


      (i)      FM effectiveness condition:

           Deposit of the first tranche of the government contribution ($2 million equivalent) into
            the Project Counterpart Funds account
                                                   48
   (ii)      Financial covenants

         Implementation of the Project in accordance with the PIM, which has been revised to
          include an accounting, administrative and financial procedures manual;
         Maintenance of the FM Manager and Accountant, who have been recruited;
         Appointment of the internal auditor (individual consultant) 3 months after effectiveness;
         Installation and configuration of the multi-project accounting software 3 months after
          effectiveness;
         Recruitment of a Finance Officer 3 months after effectiveness;
         Recruitment of an external auditing firm 3 months after effectiveness.
         IFRs will be prepared on a quarterly basis and, furnished to the Bank not later than 45
          days after each quarter;
         Annual detailed work plan and budget including disbursement forecasts will be prepared
          each year by December 1;

The overall FM system will be maintained operational during the project‟s entire life in
accordance with sound accounting practices.


Procurement
             B. General

33.    Applicable guidelines. Procurement for the proposed project will be carried out in
accordance with the following: “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers? dated
January 2011; “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers? dated January 2011; “Guidelines on
Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects financing by IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and Grants?; dated October 15, 2006 and revised in January 2011 per the FA appendix;
and the provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement. The various items under different
expenditure categories are described in general below.

34.     For each contract to be financed by the Credit, the different procurement or consultant
selection methods, the need for pre-qualification, estimated costs, prior review requirements, and
time frame will be agreed between the Recipient and the Bank in the Procurement Plan. The
procurement plan would be updated at least annually or as required to reflect the actual project
implementation needs and improvement in institutional capacity.

35. Procurement documents. Procurement will be carried out using the Bank‟s Standard
Bidding Documents (SBDs) or Standard Request for Proposals, respectively for all International
Competition Bidding (ICB) for goods and international recruitment of consultants. For National
Competition Bidding (NCB), while waiting for the Bank to assess the implementation of the new
procurement system based on experience gained from the Government‟s use of these documents
outside the context of this project, the Borrower would use the WB‟s SBD for ICB for goods and
the WB‟s Standard Request for Proposals for recruitment of consultants.
                                                 49
           C. National procurement system and ongoing reforms.

36.     The main recommendations of the 2006 Country Procurement Issue Paper (CPIP) were to
(i) prepare and approve a public procurement code, (ii) carry out a survey of the existing
procurement capacity, (iii) conduct a needs assessment of the institutional and human capacity
requirements for public procurement in the country, (iv) prepare an action plan for the
procurement reform and (v) implement the new procurement code. All these recommendations
have been implemented.

37.      The Government has finalized the major actions to more completely implement the new
procurement code and the code is already being applied by the Government since September
2009. The most important steps achieved to date include the following: (i) the draft national
procurement code finalized and approved by the national authorities; (ii) staff of the DGCMP
(prior reviewing institution) are in place, (iii) the board of the ARMP is nominated by the
Government, the private sector and civil society as recommended by the new provisions, (iv) the
standard bidding documents are reviewed and approved by the procurement reform committee
and (v) an action plan for the training of main actors has been implemented. In March 2012, an
independent audit will be conducted to verify the extent to which the rules are respected by the
authorities involved.

38.    Conditions to use the national procurement code. Once the new procurement code and its
implementation have been reviewed and found satisfactory to IDA, the new code will be
applicable for all contracts which are not advertised internationally. If any exceptions to the
procurement code will be needed in order to be acceptable to the Bank, the said exceptions will
be notified to the Government prior to the use of the code. Any time, modifications in the
national procurement system are brought by the Government, the exceptions will be updated
accordingly.

39.     Advertising procedure. General Procurement Notice (GPN), Specific Procurement
Notices (SPN), Request for Expression of Interest (REI), and results of the evaluation and
contracts award should be published in accordance with advertising provisions in the Bank‟s
Procurement and Consultant Guidelines.


           D. Procurement Methods

40.     Procurement of Goods and Non consultancy services. Goods procured under this project
will include: Computer equipment; office furniture; and accounting software. Non consultancy
services procured under this project will include workshops and training in the region and
abroad. Procurement will be done under ICB or NCB using the Bank‟s Standard Bidding
Documents Small value goods may be procured under shopping procedures.

41.    Direct contracting may be used where necessary if agreed in the procurement plan in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 to 3.8 of the Procurement Guidelines.

42.     Selection of Consultants: Consultancy services would include advisory services,
feasibility studies, and environmental and social impact studies. The selection method will be
                                              50
Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) method whenever possible. Contracts for specialized
assignments estimated to cost less than USD 100,000 equivalent may be contracted through
Consultant Qualification (CQ). The following additional methods may be used where
appropriate: Quality Based Selection (QBS); Selection under a Fixed Budget (FB); and Least-
Cost Selection (LCS).

43.     Least-Cost Selection (LCS) may be used for selecting consultants for assignments of a
standard or routine nature, such as audit services, where well-established practices and standards
exist.

44.     Single Source Selection (SSS) may be employed with prior approval of the Bank and will
be in accordance with paragraphs 3.8 to 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.

45.    Individual Consultants. All services of Individual Consultants (IC) will be procured
under contracts in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 to 5.6 of the Guidelines.

46.      Short lists of consultants for services estimated to cost less than the equivalent of
US$ 100,000 per contract may be composed entirely of national consultants in accordance with
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. However, if foreign firms express
interest, they will not be excluded from consideration.

47. Training, workshop, seminars and conferences: Training activities will comprise workshops
and training in the region and abroad, based on individual needs as well as group requirements;
on-the-job training, and hiring consultants for developing training materials and conducting
training. All training and workshop activities will be carried out on the basis of approved annual
programs (included in the annual work plans) that will identify the general framework of training
activities for the year, including: (a) the training envisaged; (b) the personnel to be trained if
known, or the criteria for their selection if not; (c) the selection methods of institutions or
individual conducting such training; (d) the institutions conducting the training, if already
selected; (e) the duration of the proposed training; and (f) the cost estimate of the training.
Attendance at relevant project workshops and seminars will be treated as training and will need
advance Bank no objection.

48.      Operating costs: The Operating costs include reasonable expenditures for office
supplies, vehicle operation and maintenance, communication and insurance costs, banking
charges, rental expenses, office and office equipment maintenance, utilities, document
duplication/printing, consumables, travel cost and per diem for Project staff for travel linked to
project implementation, and salaries of contractual staff for the Project, but excluding salaries of
officials of the Recipient‟s civil service.

           E. Procurement implementation arrangement


49.     The project will be implemented by the Ministry of Finance as the lead ministry on PFM
and procurement reforms. The inter-ministerial steering committee, which will include
representatives of both cross-cutting and key spending ministries, will oversee implementation
and will be presided by the Head of Cabinet of the Ministry of Finance. However, the

                                                51
Procurement capacity established under the first Governance project‟s PIU will be used to handle
the fiduciary functions. Procurement performance of the unit has been moderately satisfactory
for the last two years. However, it is intended to gradually move implementation responsibility to
the procurement units in the line ministries involved in the project, in particular the Ministries of
Finance, Planning and Public Service, as well as the Independent Governance Observatory and
the Anti-Corruption Commission. This transfer will take place once ceilings for decentralized
procurement are increased from their current levels. However, major procurement for the IT
systems will be handled by the PIU for the duration of the project.

50.     In addition to his daily responsibilities, the procurement specialist will provide the
following services: (i) develop and strengthen the procurement capacity for staff in line
ministries involved in project implementation, (ii) coach and mentor the national procurement
specialist of the Ministry of Finance through its contract committee, (iii) reinforce the integrity
and internal review of the procurement process, (iv) oversee and advise on procurement related
matters, (v) ensure the quality of procurement activities, (vi) draft no objection requests for all
procurement decisions subject to prior review for the Project Coordinator. The procurement
Specialist will have specific performance criteria in his TOR to measure procurement quality and
delay and how knowledge is transferred to staff in the line ministries.

51.     Midterm Review: A mid-term review is planned to assess the capacity of all government
entities involved in the project execution when implementing activities funded with resources
using the new Procurement Code. The midterm review report will integrate the results of the
procurement activities performed during the period preceding the date of such report and will set
out the measures recommended concerning the use of the national procurement code for the
remaining activities of the project if satisfactory to the Bank.

           F. Assessment of risks and mitigation measures


52.    To ensure the FM and procurement systems continue to operate in a satisfactory manner,
two on-site supervision missions will be carried out in addition to -desk reviews of IFRs, annual
work programs and budgets, audit reports and timely advice to task team on all FM issues. Hands
on support will also be provided to the project team as needed.

53.     With regard to procurement, a publicly accessible project website established by the
Recipient will include all relevant information to facilitate transparency and integrity of
implementation, including the following: Project Appraisal Document and Financing Agreement,
advertisements, funding proposals, term of reference for all activities, contract awards, progress
reports from implementing entities, a procedure for handling complains satisfactory to IDA and
complaints received and action taken.

Fraud, coercion, and corruption


54.    The risk factors for procurement performance include the country context and the low
procurement capacity of the Ministry of Finance. This ministry will be in charge of project
implementation with the support and technical assistance of the staff of the PIU for the first
                                                 52
governance project. In terms of the sector and country context, the CPIP and the experience of
other IDA- and IFI-funded projects indicate that project procurement is likely to involve the
following risks:


      (a) A weak governance environment, weaknesses in accountability arrangements, and an
          overall lack of transparency in conducting procurement processes that create significant
          risks of corruption, collusion and fraud;

      (b) The administrative system as it operates in practice creates opportunities for informal
          interference in the procurement process by senior officials – creating opportunities for
          waste, mismanagement, nepotism, corruption, collusion and fraud;

      (c) Government officials likely to be involved in project procurement through tender
          committees and the national control system ensuring that the rules are respected and able
          to handle complaints from bidders may not be familiar with procurement procedures;

      (d) The control and regulatory system may not be fully and totally operating in an
          independent manner


The overall project risk for procurement is medium before risk mitigation.


Measures to mitigate the risks


55.      The following strategy has been developed to mitigate procurement risks identified:


      (a) To mitigate the risks of collusion, fraud, corruption, waste and mismanagement,
          implementation arrangements will be geared towards achieving a high level of
          transparency in project implementation.

      (b) To mitigate risks related to the low level of capacity both in the PIU and the Ministry of
          Finance, all proposed procurement decisions at a given threshold (to be determined) will
          be subject to mandatory review by a contract committee composed of members proposed
          by the steering committee but any staff involved in evaluation and contract award
          processes should be excluded.

      (c) The publicly accessible project website at the country or Ministry level, it will include all
          relevant information to facilitate transparency and integrity of implementation, including
          the following: Project Appraisal Document and Financing Agreement; advertisements;
          funding proposals; terms of reference for all activities; contract awards; progress reports
          from implementing entities; a procedure for handling complaints satisfactory to IDA; and
          complaints received and action taken.



                                                   53
 (d) All consulting contracts costing above US$ 200,000, ICB contracts for goods will be
     published in the UNDB online and on the Bank‟s external website, in accordance with
     World Bank Guidelines;

 (e) The government project team will apply a 'one-strike' policy to all contractors and
     consultants - any case of complicity in corruption, collusion, nepotism and/or fraud will
     lead to dismissal, disqualification from all further project activities and prosecution;

 (f) A project launch workshop will be conducted for the Ministry of Finance staff and
     relevant staff of all other entities involved in project implementation;

 (g) For all procurement, the PIM includes procurement methods to be used in the project
     along with their step by step explanation as well as the standard and sample documents to
     be used for each method;


      Action                           Responsibility      Due Date           Remarks

1     Update its project record        PIU                 No later than 6    To better keep
      management system.                                   months after       procurement
                                                           project            documents and
                                                           effectiveness      reports
                                                           (Not          a
                                                           covenant))

2     Training of Staff (at least      PIU                 Not later than     To     improve
      two) on World Bank                                   one year after     project   staff
      procurement procedures in                            project            skills       in
      specialized institutions                             effectiveness      Bank‟s
                                                                              procurement
                                                         (Not a covenant)
3     A maximum period of 15           PIU                                    To           be
      days after bids opening is                                              maintained
      allowed for contract award                                              during      the
      signature, in order to avoid                                            whole life of
      delays and reduce the scope                                             the project
      for corruption

 (h) The Ministry of Finance, through the PIU, will create a data base of suppliers of the
     required goods, and consultants (firms and individuals) for the required services. The
     database will also include information on current prices for goods and services required
     by the project.

 (i) After the implementation of the measures to mitigate the risk, the Team expects that the
     overall project risk for procurement will be Low.



                                             54
       Schedule of Risk Mitigation Action Plan to be carried out

G.     Implementation readiness


56. The following actions were initiated/carried out during the preparation of this project:

       (a)     A detailed Procurement Plan for the first 18 months of the project has been
               prepared and was finalized during negotiations.

       (b)     The General Procurement Notice (GPN) was prepared during appraisal and will
               be advertised locally and in the United Nations Development Business (UNDB)
               online and the DgMarket after Board approval.

       (c)     The selection of consultants for studies for all project components has been
               initiated and is expected to be completed by the project effectiveness.

       (d)     The most important procurement activities for the critical contracts of the first
               year are initiated and completed to the stage of contract award but without signed
               contracts.
H.     Fraud, coercion, and corruption

57. All procuring entities, as well as bidders, suppliers, and contractors, shall observe the highest
standards of ethics during the procurement and execution of contracts financed under the project
in accordance with paragraph 1.16 and 1.17 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraphs 1.23
and 1.24 of the Consultants Guidelines.

I.     Frequency of Procurement Supervision


58.      In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out by IDA, the capacity
assessment of the implementing agency has recommended (i) supervision missions every six
months to visit the field, and (ii) at least one annual post procurement review. Missions in the
first 18 months shall include a Bank Procurement Specialist or a specialized Consultant.


J.     Technical Procurement audit

59.    A technical procurement audit will be conducted by the Government at least every year
during project implementation and will report within 6 months after the end of the year on the
procurement process, contract management, fiduciary compliance, and so forth.

K.     Procurement Planning

60.    The Borrower has developed a draft procurement plan for project implementation, which
provides the basis for the procurement methods. This plan will be approved by the Bank during
                                                 55
negotiations. It will be available in the project‟s database and on the Bank‟s external website.
The Procurement Plan will be updated in agreement with the Bank on an annual basis or as
required to reflect the project implementation needs and improvements in institutional capacity.

1. Procurement methods and World Bank Review requirements

       (a) Procurement methods and Bank review and for Goods and Consulting Services


      Procurement Methods            Threshold for the method in 1000       Bank review in
                                                   USD                      1000 USD
 (a) International    Competitive            USD 500 or more                  All contracts
 Bidding (ICB)
 (b) National Competitive Bidding   All contracts estimated below the ICB     The first two
 (NCB)                              threshold and above shopping ceiling       contracts
 (c) Shopping                                  Below USD 50
                                                                               Post review
 (d) Direct contracting (DC)                          N/A                     All contracts


(b) Selection methods and bank review for Contracts for consultant services


                                    Selection               Bank review in 1000 USD
                                    methods
                                    threshold in
 Procurement Methods                1000 USD
     (a) Selection based on         NA                      All contracts estimated above
         quality and cost                                   USD 100
         (SBQC)
     (b) Selection Based on the     100                     All contracts estimated above
         Consultants‟                                       USD 100
         Qualifications (SQC)
                                    N/A                     All contracts estimated above
 © Individual Consultants (IC)                              USD 50
 (d) Single Source Selection        N/A                     All contracts
 (SSS)


The approved procurement plan will determine procurement methods and the contracts to be
submitted to Bank review and no objection




                                                 56
2. Procurement planning
A. Goods

           (a) List of contract packages to be procured following NCB and ICB:


              1     2                            3            4           5          6            7          8           9
                                                                                                  Review                 Comments
                                                                          Pre                                Expected
                                                                                     Domestic     by
              Ref. Description                   Estimated    Selection   qualific                           Bids
                                                                                     preference   Bank
              No. of Assignment                  Cost (USD)   Method      ation                              Opening
                                                                                     (yes/no)     (Prior/P
                                                                          (yes/no)                           Date
                                                                                                  ost)



                    Acquisition of Computer
                    equipment and software,
                    including      interconnection
                    infrastructure      for    the
                    implementation of the PFM                                                                June 14,
              1     Budget Management System. 11,600,000      ICB         No         No           Prior      2012
                    Acquisition of equipment
                    related to the implementation
                    of the Procurement Hotline                                                               April 25,
              2     system.                       200,000     NCB         No         No           Prior      2012


                    Acquisition of computer
                    equipment in favor of the
                    General Direction for the                                                                April 30,
              3     Treasury and Accounting „ 75,000          NCB         No         No           Post       2012
                                                                                                                       There are 3
                                                                                                                       vehicle
                    Acquisition of a vehicle for                                                             May    4, dealers in
              4     the PIU                      55,000       Shopping    No         No           Post       2012      RoC


                                                                  57
2. Consulting Services


          (a) List of consulting assignments with short-list of international firms.


             1      2                              3             4            5          6               7
                                                                              Review
                                                                                         Expected
                                                                              by
             Ref.                                  Estimated     Selection               Proposals
                    Description of Assignment                                 Bank                       Comments
             No.                                   Cost (USD)    Method                  Submission
                                                                              (Prior/P
                                                                                         Date
                                                                              ost)


                    Firm in charge of the
                    organizational reform of the
                    General Direction for the
                    Treasury and Accounting
             1
                    with       a     focus     on
                    computerization      of   the
                    accounting system        and                                         June 20,
                    related training              400,000        QCBS         Prior      2012
                    Firm in charge of the
                    finalization      of     the
             2
                    implementation of the Civil                                          June 29,
                    Service database system.     350,000         QCBS         Prior      2012
                    Firm in charge of supporting
             3
                    the elaboration of the MTEF  500,000         QCBS         Prior      July 12, 2012
                    Firm in charge of training
             4
                    related to procurement     800,000           QCBS         Prior      July 18, 2012
                    Firm in charge of the
             5      computerization of public
                    procurement system        300,000            QCBS         Prior      July 26, 2012

                    Firm in the charge of the                                            August 3,
             6
                    design      and       the 100,000            QCBS         Prior      2012

                                                                     58
    implementation   of   the
    electronically management
    document system
    Firm to provide training on
    budget process for “OAC,                                           Regarding the cost, QC
7
    CNLCC, CCS,         selected                          August 6,    is the appropriated
    NGOs and media               100,000   QC     Prior   2012         method for this activity
    Firm to support design and
    implementation of the data
8
    base related to public                                August 10,
    investment projects        500,000     QCBS   Prior   2012




                                           59
(b) List of consulting assignments for individual consultants.


   1      2                                      3              4           5              6                    7

                                                 Estimated                  Review by
   Ref.                                                         Selection                  Expected Proposals
          Description of Assignment              Cost                       Bank                                Comments
   No.                                                          Method                     Submission Date
                                                 (USD)                      (Prior/Post)



          Consultant in charge of the
   1
          management of the SDIR Project 350,000                IC          Prior          March 30, 2012


          Consultant in charge of the
          rationalization of the public
   2      expenditure                   50,000                  NC          Prior          April 4, 2012
          Consultant in charge of the
          implementation of the M&E system
   4      for the public investment projects 50,000             IC          Prior          April 20, 2014
          Consultant in charge of the
          elaboration of the training program in
          favor of the DEP and DAF in
   5      selected ministries.                   50,000         IC          Prior          May 17, 2012
          Consultant in charge of the update of
          sector strategies for the Ministries of
          Education, Health, Agricultural and
   6      Energy                                  70,000        IC          Prior          May 24, 2011
          Consultant in charge of the design
          and the implementation of the
          Hotline system for the public
   7      procurement system                 100,000            IC          Prior          May 30, 2012
          Consultants in charge of training
          staffs involved in the implementation
   8      of the RRA                            100,000         IC          Prior          June 5, 2012
                                                           60
         Recruitment of a procurement
   11    specialist in favor of OAC   50,000              IC          Prior         June 18, 2012
         Consultant to prepare PFM training
         program in PFM for institutions
         involved in the sub-component
   12    related to the DFGG                50,000        IC          Prior         June 25, 2012




(c) Consultancy services estimated to cost the equivalent value of USD 100,000 and above for firms and the equivalent
    value of USD 50,000 and above for individuals and all Single Source Selection of consultants (firms and individuals)
    will be subject to prior review by the Bank.




                                                     61
                                  Annex 4: Operational Risk Assessment Framework (ORAF)


                                                         REPUBLIC OF CONGO

                                     Transparency and Governance Capacity building Project II


                                                         Board Package Version


1. Project Stakeholder Risks                                    Rating:                                        S
 Description : There has been some resistance to the      Risk Management: A series of consultative seminars will be held during the
 PFM reforms following attainment by the RoC of the       preparation process, with the participation of the Development partners, to strength
 HIPC completion point in January 2011.                   ownership and engagement on the Government side.

                                                            Resp: Min of
                                                                                   Stage: Ongoing           Due Date :            Status:
                                                               Finance
                                                                Resp:                  Stage:               Due Date :            Status:
2. Implementing Agency Risks (including fiduciary)
     2.1. Capacity                                                             Rating:                                      H
 Description :                                            Risk Management :
 The implementation of Project activities will be led     To avoid the risk of disconnect, the Steering Committee will include
 by different Government structures, stressing the risk   representatives from Ministry of Planning. The SC technical committees will also
 of disconnects.                                          be represented in these structures.

                                                           Resp:    Min of
                                                                                       Stage:               Due Date :            Status:
                                                               Finance
    2.2. Governance                                                           Rating:                                        H
 Description :                                            Risk Management :
 Weaknesses in the governance systems of the RoC          The Project will provide technical assistance and training to enhance the capacity
 continue to pose significant risks to progress on the    of the Independent Governance Observatory and the Anti-Corruption Commission
 country‟s agenda. Budget management is a particular      in monitoring of governance and anti-corruption measures. This will also include

                                                                   62
 problem, along with provision of water and              one further repeater survey on governance and anti-corruption, building on the
 electricity.                                            earlier surveys conducted in 2008 and 2011.

3. Project Risks
     3.1. Design                                               Rating:                                        S
 Description :                                           Risk Management :
 The number of qualified staff involved in the Project   The Project will provide technical assistance to support the beneficiaries in the
 is not sufficient with the risk of delays in the        preparation and the evaluation of bidding documents.
 implementation of the activities.
                                                         The Government will release about 10% of its contribution as a deposit before
 Risk of delays in the release of Government             effectiveness and subsequent tranches according to a disbursement schedule to be
 contributions.                                          agreed upon during negotiations and confirmed in the financing agreement.

                                                           Resp: Min of
                                                                                        Stage:               Due Date :             Status:
                                                                Finance
    3.2. Social & Environmental                                 Rating:                                        L
 Description :                                           Risk Management :
 No negative environmental and social impacts of the     The Government will ensure that all terms of reference for any technical assistance
 proposed activities are expected.                       or studies carried out under the Project are consistent with, and pay due attention
                                                         to, the Bank‟s environmental and social aspects; and in drafting any laws or
                                                         regulations under the Project, due attention will be given to said policies and laws.
                                                                 Resp:                  Stage:               Due Date :             Status:
    3.3. Program & Donor                                        Rating:                                        L
 Description :                                           Risk Management :
 Inconsistencies in partners‟ coordination may lead to   The EU, France, IMF and the World Bank are closely working together. The main
 confusion about program implementation.                 areas of intervention of each partner have been identified and are well harmonized.

                                                                 Resp:                  Stage:              Due Date :              Status:
    3.4. Delivery Monitoring & Sustainability                   Rating:                                       S
 Description :                                           Risk Management :
 The lack of sustainability of reforms may mean their    Technical assistance provided by the Project will transfer skills to the beneficiaries
 benefits do not continue after the Project.             to sustain reforms after the the Project.

                                                                  63
                                                          Resp:                  Stage:              Due Date :              Status:
    3.5. Other                                           Rating:                                        H
Description :                                     Risk Management :
The RoC is a high risk country from a fiduciary   To ensure the PFM system continues to operate in a satisfactory manner during the
perspective.                                      project‟s life, two on-site supervision missions per year will be carried out in
                                                  addition to desk reviews of IFRs, annual work plans and budgets, audit reports and
                                                  timely advice to task team on FM issues. Hands on support will also be provided
                                                  to the project teams as needed.

                                                    Resp:        WB            Stage:              Due Date :            Status:




                                                            64
                             Team Composition
                   Name                        Title                         Unit
Jean Mabi Mulumba           Senior Public Sector Specialist, TTL     AFTPR
Clement Tukeba              Senior Procurement Specialist            AFTPC
Monthe Bienvenu Biyoudi     Senior Economist                         AFCCD
Nicolette Dewitt            Lead Counsel                             LEGAF
Aissatou Diallo             Senior Finance Officer                   CTRLA
Etaki Wadzon                Economist                                AFTP3
Jean Charles Amon Kra       Senior Financial Management Specialist   AFTFM
Rachidi Radji               Sector Leader                            AFTED
Benjamina Randrianarivelo   ET-Consultant                            WBIGV
Dieudonne Katende Ndumbi    Information Analyst                      AFRIT
Jeff Ramin                  Senior Operations and M&E Specialist     AFTDE
Mahine Diop                 Senior Municipal Engineer                AFTUW
Mahamat Goadi Louani        Senior Human Development Specialist      AFTHE
Sylvie Mahieu               Consultant                               AFTPR
Lydie Ahodehou              Program Assistant                        AFTPR
Josiane Maloueki            Team Assistant                           AFMCG




                                      65
                           Annex 5: Implementation Support Plan


Strategy and approach for Implementation Support

The strategy for Implementation Support (IS) has been developed based on the nature of the
project and its risk profile. It will aim at making implementation support to the client more
flexible and efficient, and will focus on implementation of the risk mitigation measures defined
in the ORAF.

Procurement. Implementation support will include: (a) advisory support to the procurement
team based in the project‟s PIU; (b) reviewing procurement documents and providing timely
feedback to the Procurement Committee, including guidance on the Bank‟s Procurement
Guidelines; and (c) monitoring procurement progress against the detailed Procurement Plan.

Financial management. Supervision will review the project‟s financial management
arrangements, including but not limited to, accounting, reporting and internal controls.

Anti-Corruption. The Bank team will support implementation by the Recipient of activities
agreed for strengthening the anti-corruption bodies and the selected NGOs involved in
monitoring governance performance.

Implementation Support Plan

The Task Team Leader of the Project and the FM Specialist are based in the Kinshasa office,
while the Economist and the Procurement Specialist are based in Brazzaville. The Operations
and M&E Specialist is based in Washington.. Formal supervision and field visits will be carried
out twice annually. Detailed inputs from the Bank team are outlined below:

Technical inputs. The team will ensure that technical inputs are provided by the economist to
track the fiscal impact of supported reforms.

Fiduciary requirements and inputs. Training will be provided regularly by the Bank‟s financial
management specialist and procurement specialist to improve the project implementation. The
team will also help stakeholders to identify capacity building needs to strengthen their financial
management capacity and to improve procurement management efficiency. The procurement
specialist will be based in the country office to provide timely support. Formal supervision of
financial management will be carried out quarterly, while procurement supervision will be
carried out on a timely basis as required by the client.

Operation. An operations officer, based in DC, will provide overall guidance and M&E support
to the team.




                                               66
 Staff skill mix required is summarized below.
 `
Skills Needed            Number of Staff Weeks    Number of Trips   Comments
TTL                      9                        4                 Kinshasa based
Economists (2)           8                        2                 Brazzaville & DC
                                                                    based
Legal adviser            4                        1                 DC based
Procurement specialist   5                                          Brazzaville based
FM specialist            5                        4                 Kinshasa based
M&E specialist           4                        1                 DC based
Governance specialist    4                                          DC based




                                             67
                              Annex 6: Economic and financial analysis

The objective of this project is to improve the transparency, accountability, and efficiency of
public finance and human resource management systems in RoC. The project addresses key
areas of PFM and HR reforms that have a direct impact on economic development and poverty
reduction. While the benefits of public sector reforms do not lend to easy quantitative analysis,
particularly in terms of direct financial, economic and social outcomes, the project objectives
when realized will contribute to improved budget management and credibility, resulting in
improved efficiency in the use of public resources. This is turn will mean more resources are
available for investment in infrastructure and service delivery related to poverty reduction and
economic growth and diversification, and that these resources are more efficiently utilized.
The analysis drawn from the recent PER also illustrates the potential contribution of the project
supported reforms to accelerate and diversify Congolese economic growth.

Public investment reform:

The crucial reform will help improve the planning and execution of public investment projects,
particularly in the current context where the Government has an ambition program to accelerate
infrastructure development. Indeed, infrastructure plays a critical role in Congo‟s quest to
diversify its economy, reduce poverty, and enhance social outcomes. Upgrading Congo‟s
dilapidated infrastructure, in particular in the power sector, is a prerequisite for economic
development and improving social services. Evidence from a recent World Bank/IFC enterprise
survey4 suggests that power is by far the greatest infrastructure constraint for Congolese firms.
Surveyed firms report losing up to 16 percent of sales due to frequent power outages,
corresponding to almost US$620,000 per year.

Electricity is also, in itself, an important source of growth. A cross-country statistical analysis
conducted in the PER shows that infrastructure as an economic sector has contributed 0.5
percentage points to Congo‟s per capita GDP growth between 2001 and 2006. However, it could
contribute more than 3 percent a year if the reach and quality of infrastructure services were
improved to the level seen in Mauritius, which leads Africa in infrastructure coverage and
quality (see Figure below).




4
 The World Bank (2009). Enterprise surveys. Retrieved on April 6, 2010, at: http:// www.enterprisesurveys.org
/ExploreEconomies/?economyid=49&year=2009
                                                       68
Historic and potential future links between infrastructure and growth

  Historic changes in growth per capita, 2001-05 versus    Potential improvements in growth per capita if
  1991-95 (percent)                                        infrastructure services would be brought to the level of
                                                           Mauritius (percent)

      2.5                                                     5
        2                                                     4

      1.5                                                     3
                                                              2
        1
                                                              1
      0.5
                                                              0
        0
                                                             -1
      -0.5                                                   -2
       -1

                  Telecom    Electricity   Roads                            Telecom    Electricity   Roads

  Source: PER 2010, Calderon 2008.


Medium Term Expenditure Framework:

The advantage of the MTEF is that it provides a framework within which overall budget
projections and sector investments and allocations can be planned, enabling the government to
escape from a pro-cycle budget, largely influenced by the oil revenue syndrome. In that context,
the project provides a means for more effective budget planning and execution, thus potentially
achieving better use of revenue.

Procurement reform:

The economic impact of this reform will be significant, especially in terms of cost-effectiveness of
the use of public resources. The institutionalization of a public procurement system in line with
international good practices will lead to increased competition and economy in the award of
contracts. The introduction of a new procurement law is gradually generating a culture of due
process with significant savings on public procurement, especially on public works. The
evidence of the recent budget execution suggests that the rehabilitation of one of the most
important bridges for the country generated a savings of almost 50 percent of budgeted amount.

Public expenditure management system:

The computerization of the entire expenditure chain will lead to improved efficiency and
effectiveness of budget execution through an automated system to track expenditures, identify
fraud and reconcile data discrepancies. The proposed reforms will stop illegal payments which
now represent an estimated 10 percent of total expenditures, equivalent to substantial savings.

In sum, the project will contribute to improve budget management and efficiency in the use of
public resources enabling the government to focus on implementing PRSP priorities, and make
better use of it oil revenues. The project will also support the development of sustainable HR
capacity, thereby ensuring that the benefits will be sustained over time.

                                                      69
                       Annex 7: Conceptual note on the subcomponent
     "Strengthening results-oriented management to better address the stakes of budgetary
                 execution and the implementation of investment programs?

Context

1. The success of reforms in public finance management, management of public investments and
   management of public procurements depends in a critical way on enhanced capacity in the
   RoC administration. Without the appropriate accompanying measures, the impact of
   legislative and procedural reforms and the installation of IT systems on the quality of the
   service delivery to the population will remain limited.

2.     The evaluation of experience gained through the implementation of reforms in public
      financial management, procurement and public investment management since 2008 has
      underscored several critical constraints which have hampered progress in these fields (for
      example the evaluation of the implementation of the public investment management reform
      action plan and the Procurement Code). Some of these constraints are related to aspects of
      crosscutting reforms (such as the payment system and the need for further automation of
      procedures). However, capacity constraints and issues of organization and management are
      regarded as equally critical. The government thus asked that these issues be integrated in the
      next phase of support by the World Bank.

3. Discussions held within the framework of the project preparation underlined three major
   issues:

       The human resources management system currently in place does not make it possible for
        the government to have an accurate and complete inventory of skills and experience
        available to it, which prevents effective deployment of staff. The “Automated Payroll
        system", which was envisaged to be completed within the framework of the preceding
        Governance project, is not yet fully operational, and the elements which remain to be
        finalized include the career management system. Completing this work is thus urgent.

        Management systems and practices in place in line ministries do not allow the
         implementation of results-oriented management approaches, which in turn are essential to
         ensure effective planning and management of investment projects.

        The effective implementation of reform programs initiated by the government will
         require a rapid increase in skills in critical professions, in particular in budget
         management, IT systems, management of public procurements and project management.
         However, the public service legal and management framework in its current form does
         not provide the mechanisms which may allow the government to recruit and develop
         capacity in a focused and effective way.

4. For these reasons, support will be provided within the framework of the new project to
address these three essential aspects to support the development of capacity in the public service.
The present conceptual note is focused primarily on the second aspect of strengthening the

                                                 70
results-oriented management capacity to ensure improved budget implementation, including
investment planning and execution.

Description And       Logic   Of    “Strengthening     The    Results-Oriented     Management?
Subcomponent

5. A pilot approach to developing results-oriented management practices in the Congolese
   administration was carried out in the previous governance project, focusing on the Ministry
   of Public Service. The pilot approach was based on the methodology of Rapid Results (RR).
   The initial evaluation of results carried out in June 2011 showed the strong potential of this
   approach, the teams involved having succeeded in effectively tackling the concrete issues
   identified within set timeframes.

6. Considering the political commitment, at the highest level, to introducing results-based
   management practices in the Republic of Congo, and the experience gained through the
   earlier project, it was decided to scale up this work in the next implementation phase of
   governance reforms and to extend it to a further six (6) ministries. It was also decided that in
   the identification of issues, the ministries would focus specifically on those elements that
   critically affect the ability of ministries to effectively execute their budgets and the
   investment projects under their responsibility. In a second phase, experience gained within
   the framework of the pilot RR initiative will be used to define and roll out a results-oriented
   management framework, including the design of a capacity building program.

7. The subcomponent will contribute to achieving the project development goal which as a
   whole, aims at improving the effectiveness and the accountability of human and financial
   resources management in the Republic of Congo. Thus, at the end of the project, for
   example, an increase in pro-poor expenditure devoted to infrastructure investment should be
   expected, along with the removal of the ghost workers from the wages of the public
   administration, as well as more competitive procurement process resulting in more efficient
   use of public funds.

8. The subcomponent will contribute to strengthening ownership of budget planning and
   execution by the implementing units by developing the culture of results and accountability.
   This will be done in particular through promoting behavior change including committed
   leadership, institutionalized team work, internal communication and greater accountability.

9. The process to instill these changes is articulated around two activities within the 7 target
    ministries [Ministry for Public Service and 6 new ministries], thus making it possible to
    obtain satisfactory performance on two cycles of RR initiatives RRI) which will be launched;
    and to implant a system establishing the culture of performance in order to be able to later
    allow expansion to all government ministries.




                                                71
 Outcome 1: Satisfactory results on all two (2) cycles of Rapid Results Initiatives within the
seven (7) target ministries

10. The first activity in the subcomponent will finance the achievement of results following the
   extension of the RR pilot project from the Ministry of Public Service to six other ministries.
   These include the sectors of Health, Planning, Finance, Transport, SMSE5 and Trade.

11. Each of these ministries will identify critical issues which block effective implementation of
    their budgets and programs and then to utilize the RR approach to address these critical
    issues. A team of national and international coaches, established from the network of
    coaches accredited in RRI, will support this process. These ministries will complete two
    cycles of performances improvement, so as to implement measures to address the
    constraints affecting their performance.

12. A final report describing these performance constraints and identifying structural measures
    through which they will be addressed could be used thereafter as the basis to extend the RR
    approach further.

Outcome 2: System establishing the culture of institutionalized performance within the seven
           (7) target ministries

13. Based on the experience gained and the issues identified during the RR pilots, the second
    phase will develop the basis of the Results-based Management, which will in particular
    make it possible to link the ministerial performance goals to outputs to be delivered under
    the budget, and linked to performance targets for units, and, possibly at the individual level.

14. The project will then finance the development of the results frameworks, as well as the
    design of a program of capacity building which will accompany implementation of the RR
    approach. A twinning agreement between a selected Congolese training institutions and a
    training institution of international reputation will be encouraged to facilitate the design,
    adaptation and roll out of the capacity building program.




5
    Small and Medium Scale Enterprise
                                                72
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           IBRD 33390
                                                                                   14°E                                                 16°E                                                               18°E




                                                                                                                                 CENTRAL AFRICAN
4°N                                                                                                                                  REPUBLIC                                                                                           4°N

                                            CONGO
                                                                              CAMEROON
                                                                                                                                                                             Ib
                                                                                                                   To                                                             en
                                                                                                                 Batouri
                                                                                                                                                                                       ga                         Bétou




                                                                  To                                                                                                               Mo
                                                                                                                                                                                        tab
                                                                Ebolowa                                                                                                                       a




2°N                                                                            Souanké                                         Ngoko                                       LIKOUALA                                                     2°N


                                                                                                 Sembé
                                                                                                                                               Ouésso                                       Impfondo
                                                                                                                                                                            Epéna
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ng
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Co
                                                                                                                               SANGHA
                                                                                                                  C o n g o




                                                                                                                                                              Sangh
                                                                                                                                                                                  Li




                                                                                                                                                                                   ko
                                                                                                                                             Le




                                                                                                                                                                 a




                                                                                                                                                                                       ua
                                                To                                                                               Mambili          ng




                                                                                                                                                                                        la
                                             Lambaréné




                                                                                                                                                   oué
                                                                                         WESTERN
                   GABON




                                                                                                                                                                                                      gi
                                                                                         CUVETTE




                                                                                                                                                                                                  Uban
0°                                                                                            Etoumbi                                                                                                                                    0°




                                                                                                                                                             Lik
                                                                                                                                                              ou
                          To
                                                                                                                           CUVETTE




                                                                                                                                                                 ala
                        Booué

                                                                                                                                         Owando
                                                                                                                                                  Kouyou                          Liranga

                                                                                              Ewo                   B a s i n                                                                                      Lake
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Tumba

                                                                                                                           a
                                                                                                                     im




   To                                                                                                                                                    Mossaka
                                                                                                                    Al




Lambaréné
                                                                                                     Okoyo
                                                                                                                    P L AT E A U X
                                                                                                                                                             o
                                                                                                                                                        ng




                                                                                                                        Gamboma
                                                                                                                         i
                                                                                                                                                   Co




                                                                                                                      én
2°S
                                                                                                                                                                      DEMO CRAT IC                                                      2°S
                                                                                                                  k
                                                                                                                 N




                                                                 Mbinda
                                                           s                                                                                                            REPUBLIC
                                                           é




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Lake
                                                          s




                                                                                                                                       Ngo
                                                      Loué




                                                                                                        Djambala
                                                                                                                                                                       O F CO NGO                                     Mai-Ndombe


                                         NIARI
                                                                                  Zanaga         Batéké                                                                                     Fim
                                                                                                                                                                                                  i
                                                              Mossendjo
                                                                                                                                                        Kwa
                                                                                               Plateau                                 Ngabé
                                                                                                  ué




                                                                                                                                                                       0 20 40 60 80 100 Kilometers
                                                                  LÉKOUMOU
                                                                                                 D jo




                                         Makabana                                                       POOL
                                                                Ni




                                                                     Sibiti                                                                                            0    20         40             60   80     100 Miles
                                                                 ari
                                           lou




                KOUILOU
                                          Koui




4°S                              Nkola                                                                                                                                                                                                  4°S
                                                 Dolisie                      Madingou       BRAZZAVILLE                                                                                                   18°E
                                                                       BOUENZA
                     Kayes
                                                                                           Kinkala


                                                                                                                                                                                   CO N GO
                                                                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                                                                  Kikwit
              Pointe-Noire

AT L AN T IC                                                                                                                                                                                SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                  CABINDA
 OCEAN                           (ANGOLA)                                                                                                                                                   REGION CAPITALS
                                                                                                         To
                                                                                                        Matadi                            To
This map was produced by                                                                                                               Lusanga                                              NATIONAL CAPITAL
the Map Design Unit of The
World Bank. The boundaries,                                                                                                                                                                 RIVERS
colors, denominations and                                                                              To
any other information shown                                                                                                                            6°S
on this map do not imply, on
                                                                                            M'banza Congo                                                                                   MAIN ROADS
the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                                            RAILROADS
Group, any judgment on the
legal status of any territory,                                            ANGOLA
or any endorsement or                                                                                                                                                                       REGION BOUNDARIES
acceptance of such
boundaries.
                                   12°E                                            14°E                                                 16°E                                                INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                                                                                                                                                                                                          SEPTEMBER 2004
The original had problem with text extraction. pdftotext Unable to extract text.
