                                 Document of
                              The World Bank



                                                  Report No: ICR00003668



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-50630)



                                   ON A

                                  CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.3 MILLION
                         (US$5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                  TO THE

                             REPUBLIC OF CONGO

                                   FOR A

           TRANSPARENCY AND GOVERNANCE REPEAT PROJECT




                              December 31, 2015




Governance Global Practice
Africa Region
                    CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

             (Exchange Rate Effective November 30, 2015)

                        Currency Unit = US$
                         US$1.00 = SDR0.72
                       US$ 1.00 = CFAF 600.09

                         FISCAL YEAR 2015

                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFRITAC   Regional Technical Assistance Center in Southern Africa
AML/CFT   Anti-money Laundering and Combating Financing of Terrorists
          Regulatory Authority for Public Procurement (Autorité de Régulation des
ARMP
          Marchés Publics)
CCDB      Supreme Audit Institution (Cour des Comptes et de Discipline budgétaire)
CEMAC     Central African Economic and Monetary Community
CNLCCF    Anticorruption Commission
CPS       Country Partnership Strategy
DGCMP     General Directorate for Control over Public Contracts
DGI       General Directorate for Taxes (Direction Générale des Impôts)

FMIS      Financial Management Information System
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
HIPC      Heavily Indebted Poor Countries
HRM       Human Resources Management
ICR       Implementation Completion and Results Report
IMF       International Monetary Fund
IGE       State General Inspectorate
IT        Information Technology
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MTEF      Medium-term Expenditure Framework
NGO       Nongovernmental Organization
OAC       Independent Governance Observatory
OECD      Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
PDO       Project Development Objective
PEFA      Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability
PEMFAR    Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability Review
PFM       Public Financial Management
PIM       Public Investment Management
PIU       Project Implementation Unit
RoC       Republic of Congo
RRI       Rapid Results Initiative
SIDERE    Integrated Public Revenue and Expenditure System
TGRP            Transparency and Governance Repeat Project
TTL             Task Team Leader




       Senior Global Practice Director:   James A. Brumby (Acting)
       Practice Manager:                  Renaud Seligman
       Project Team Leader:               Jean Mabi Mulumba
       ICR Team Leader:                   Roland Lomme
                                       REPUBLIC OF CONGO
                              Transparency and Governance Repeat Project



                                                          CONTENTS
Datasheet
A. Basic Information ............................................................................................................ i
B. Key Dates ........................................................................................................................ i
C. Ratings Summary ............................................................................................................ i
C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR) .................................. i
D. Sector and Theme Codes................................................................................................ ii
E. Bank Staff ....................................................................................................................... ii
F. Results Framework Analysis ......................................................................................... iii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ..................................................................... viii
H. Restructuring (if any) .................................................................................................. viii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 4
3. Assessment of Outcomes ................................................................................................ 8
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ............................................................. 14
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 14
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 17
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 18
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 20
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 21
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 28
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 30
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 31
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results ....................................................... 32
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 33
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................... 36
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 37
MAP .................................................................................................................................. 38
A. Basic Information

                                                               CG Rep:
                                                               Transparency &
Country:           Congo, Republic of     Project Name:
                                                               Governance Repeat
                                                               Project
Project ID:         P122990             L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-50630
ICR Date:           12/24/2015          ICR Type:              Core ICR
                    Specific Investment
Lending Instrument:                     Borrower:              Ministry of Finance
                    Loan
Original Total
                    SDR 3.30 million    Disbursed Amount:      SDR 1.76 million
Commitment:
Revised Amount:     SDR 3.30 million
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

                                                                      Revised / Actual
Process        Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                      Date(s)
Concept
               12/21/2010       Effectiveness:    11/01/2012          01/11/2013
Review:
Appraisal:     12/22/2011       Restructuring(s):
                                Midterm
Approval:      02/28/2012                         07/16/2014          07/31/2014
                                Review:
                                Closing:          06/30/2015          06/30/2015


C. Ratings Summary

C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                 Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:              Substantial
Bank Performance:                         Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance:                     Moderately Unsatisfactory



C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)

Bank               Ratings                Borrower             Ratings


                                          i
                    Moderately
Quality at Entry:                         Government:          Unsatisfactory
                    Unsatisfactory
Quality of                                Implementing         Moderately
                    Unsatisfactory
Supervision:                              Agency/Agencies:     Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                              Overall Borrower     Moderately
                    Unsatisfactory
Performance:                              Performance:         Unsatisfactory

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
Implementation                          QAG Assessments
                         Indicators                        Rating
Performance                             (if any)
 Potential Problem
                                        Quality at Entry
Project at any time      Yes                               None
                                        (QEA):
(Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any                 Quality of
                         Yes                               None
time (Yes/No):                          Supervision (QSA):
 DO rating before
                         Unsatisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes

                                                 Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                25                 –
General public administration sector             75                 –


                                                 Original           Actual
Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Administrative and civil service reform          7                  –
Managing for development results                 3                  –
Other accountability/anti-corruption             9                  –
Participation and civic engagement               10                 –
Public expenditure, financial management and
                                                 71                 –
procurement


E. Bank Staff

Positions             At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:       Makhtar Diop                    Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
Country Director:     Amadou Moustapha Ndiaye         Eustache Ouayoro
Practice
                      Renaud Seligman                 Marcelo Giugale
Manager/Manager:

                                         ii
Project Team Leader: Jean Mabi Mulumba                 Jean Mabi Mulumba
ICR Team Leader:     Roland Lomme
ICR Primary Author: Roland Lomme



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The project development objective (PDO) was to strengthen the capacity of targeted
public sector ministries, agencies, and accountability structures for improved
management of human and financial resources. It was measured through the following
four key indicators:
  1.    Deviation between actual and budgeted expenditure by targeted ministries;
  2.    Ghost workers (as determined by payroll audits) removed from payroll;
  3.    Public contracts > CFAF 250 million awarded on competitive basis;
  4.    Yearly publish reports for Supreme Audit Authority and the State General
        Inspectorate (IGE).

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target Formally         Actual Value
                                          Values (from     Revised        Achieved at
   Indicator       Baseline Value
                                            approval       Target        Completion or
                                          documents)       Values         Target Years
              Deviation between actual and budgeted expenditure by targeted ministries
Indicator 1 :
              reduced from 40% to less than 10% by the end of the project
Value
(Quantitative
              40%                       10%              –             11.76%
or
Qualitative)
Date achieved 6/30/2015
              Partially achieved. In 2013, the budget execution rate reached 89.97% (as
Comments
              compared to 71% in 2012) according to the budget execution audit report
(including %
              but it deteriorated in 2014 to 88.24% because of lower oil revenues and
achievement)
              related fiscal constraints.
Indicator 2 : Public contracts over CFAF 250 million awarded under competitive basis
Value
(Quantitative
              50%                       80%              –             97%
or
Qualitative)
Date achieved 6/30/2015
Comments      Fully achieved since official data (2014 annual report of the Regulatory
(including % Authority for Public Procurement [Autorité de Régulation des Marchés
achievement) Publics, ARMP]) only reflect a part of the procurement transactions.


                                          iii
Indicator 3 :   Ghost workers (determined by payroll audits) removed from payroll
Value
                Percentage of ghost
(Quantitative
                workers in the payroll: 5%                 –             19%
or
                20%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 6/30/2015
Comments      Not achieved. Only 1% of government employees have been removed
(including %  from the payroll following payroll audits, according to the Republic of
achievement)  Congo (RoC) government.
              Public disclosure of annual report of the Supreme Audit Institution (Cour
Indicator 4 :
              des Comptes et de Discipline budgétaire, CCDB) and the IGE
Value
(Quantitative
              0                       2                   –             1
or
Qualitative)
Date achieved 6/30/2015
Comments      Partially achieved. Only the annual report of the auditor general is
(including % publicly available (although this is in principle and not in practice, in part
achievement) because its website does not work).


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                       Original Target Formally          Actual Value
                                         Values (from       Revised       Achieved at
   Indicator        Baseline Value
                                           approval         Target       Completion or
                                          documents)        Values       Target Years
                National budget prepared in accordance with the Medium-term
Indicator 1 :
                Expenditure Framework (MTEF)
Value
(Quantitative 0                        1                  –            1
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 6/30/2015
Comments
(including % Fully achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Investment projects for which feasibility study is prepared
Value
(Quantitative 80%                      90%                –            Few
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 6/30/2015
Comments
(including % Not achieved.
achievement)


                                             iv
Indicator 3 : Investment budget implemented
Value
(Quantitative 80%                        90%                  –              84.7%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 6/30/2015
                Not achieved because of the oil price drop in 2014 as well as structural
                bottlenecks.
Comments
                The 2013 and 2014 budget execution audit reports also highlight
(including %
                significant variations across line ministries (with one ministry spending
achievement)
                500% of its appropriated capital expenditure and others not spending at
                all on investment) as well as significant arrears.
Indicator 4 : Public disclosure of annual report of the CCDB and the IGE
Value
(Quantitative 0                          2                    –             1
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 6/30/2015
                Partially achieved. Although the annual report of the auditor general is
Comments
                publicly available in principle, it is not actually the case (including
(including %
                because its website is not working). The annual report of the IGE is not
achievement)
                yet publicly available.
                Annual budget execution law is prepared in due time and is publically
Indicator 5 :
                available
Value
(Quantitative 0                          1                    –             1
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 6/30/2015
Comments
(including % Fully achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 6 : Sectoral ministries with CGMP and an approved procurement plan
Value
(Quantitative 75%                        100%                 –             86%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 6/30/2015
Comments
                Partially achieved. CGMPs have been established in most line ministries
(including %
                even though in 2014the ARMP observed that most CGMPs lack capacity.
achievement)
Indicator 7 : Procurement plan implementation by targeted ministries
Value
                                                                            32% on average
(Quantitative 40%                        90%                  –
                                                                            in 2014.
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 6/30/2015




                                            v
Comments        Not achieved. According to the 2014 ARMP annual report, this low
(including % execution rate results from procedural delays and bottlenecks, as well as
achievement) from the fiscal pressures related to the oil price cycle.
                Percentage of procurement complaints monitored by hotline under a
Indicator 8 :
                determined time frame
Value
(Quantitative 0%                         60%              –             0%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 6/30/2015
                Not achieved. The planned complaints handling mechanism (hotline) is
Comments
                not yet operational. The ARMP recognizes that it fails to handle
(including %
                complaints in a timely manner (within seven days): it took it about six
achievement)
                months on average to do so in 2014.
Indicator 9 : Ghost workers identified in the payroll
Value
(Quantitative None                       No target        –             1%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 6/30/2015
Comments
                Partially achieved. Only 1% of government employees have been
(including %
                removed from the payroll following its auditing
achievement)
Indicator 10 : Civil servant salary executed through an automated payroll system
Value
(Quantitative 0                          80%              –             100%
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 6/30/2015
Comments
                Fully achieved. The automated payroll system covers 91,000 government
(including %
                employees.
achievement)
Indicator 11 : Results-based Management/Rapid Results Initiative (RRI)
Value
(Quantitative 1                          11               –             8
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 6/30/2015
Comments
(including % Partially achieved. Only six line ministries benefitted from the RRIs
achievement)
                Number of targeted ministries that have implemented the anticorruption
Indicator 12 :
                action plan
Value
(Quantitative 0                          6                –             0
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 6/30/2015
Comments         Not achieved.

                                          vi
(including %
achievement)
Indicator 13 : Qualified budget audit each year
Value
(Quantitative Yes                         No               –             No
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 6/30/2015
Comments        Fully achieved. Even though the 2013 and 2014 budget execution audit
(including % reports are unqualified, they contain a level of criticism of budget
achievement) management which could have warranted their qualification.
                Number of nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) that have initiated
Indicator 14 :
                anticorruption activities
Value
(Quantitative 0                           5                –             5
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 6/30/2015
Comments
                Fully achieved. Five NGOs partnering with the Anti-corruption
(including %
                Commission (CNLCCF) have benefitted from training under the project.
achievement)
Indicator 15 : Perception of corruption by the citizens
Value                                     Second survey at
                Baseline survey in                                       No survey at
(Quantitative                             the end of the   –
                2012                                                     project closure
or Qualitative)                           project
Date achieved 6/30/2015
Comments        Not achieved. On the Transparency International Perception of
(including % Corruption Index, the RoC ranked 152 in 2014 and its rating has not
achievement) improved over the last few years.
Indicator 16 : Steering committee meetings
                                                                         Only one meeting
Value
                                                                         happened during
(Quantitative No                          Yes              –
                                                                         project
or Qualitative)
                                                                         implementation.
Date achieved 6/30/2015
Comments
(including % Partially achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 17 : Ministries which prepare monitoring and evaluation (M&E) reports
Value
(Quantitative None                        100%             –             None
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 6/30/2015
Comments
                Not achieved. The project did not deliver on the establishment of M&E
(including %
                systems for the RoC government
achievement)

                                           vii
                 Completion of internal audit reports by the Project Implementation Unit
Indicator 18 :
                 (PIU)
Value
(Quantitative –                       Yes                –            Yes
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 6/30/2015
Comments
(including % Fully achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 19 : Project progress and monitoring reports submitted on time
Value
(Quantitative –                       Yes                –            Yes
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 6/30/2015
Comments
(including % Partially achieved. Although only activities were monitored, not results.
achievement)



G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


                                                                      Actual
    Date ISR
No.                   DO                      IP                      Disbursements
    Archived
                                                                      (US$, millions)
                      Moderately              Moderately
1    11/14/2012                                                       0.00
                      Satisfactory            Satisfactory
                      Moderately              Moderately
2    08/02/2013                                                       1.44
                      Satisfactory            Satisfactory
                      Moderately              Moderately
3    06/30/2014                                                       1.94
                      Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
4    03/15/2015       Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory          2.62



H. Restructuring (if any)

Not applicable




                                            viii
I. Disbursement Profile




                          ix
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.      Transparency and Governance Repeat Project (TGRP II) was construed as a
repeat project, meant to complete the reform program initiated by the heavily
indebted poor countries (HIPC) debt relief of 2010, as a follow-up to TGRP I. The first
operation started in 2002, with a focus on transparency in the decision-making processes
of the government and its agencies in the oil sector, and the management of public
expenditure including public procurement. It was restructured in 2007 to better support the
government reform plan of public finance management (PFM, with a focus on public
investment, public procurement, and the wage bill) adopted under the HIPC debt relief
program. PFM reforms were the introduction of a Medium-term Expenditure Framework
(MTEF) for budget preparation, the design of the integrated financial management
information system (IFMIS), the design and partial implementation of an automated
payroll system, the enactment of a procurement code, and the establishment of regulatory
and oversight institutions on public procurement such as the Regulatory Authority for
Public Procurement (Autorité de Régulation des Marchés Publics, ARMP) and the General
Directorate for Control over Public Contracts (DGCMP). TGRP I also provided technical
assistance to anticorruption agencies and closed in 2011.

2.     TGRP II was justified by the pursuit of the reform efforts initiated by the
HIPC debt relief program (for example, the enactment of an organic law on budget
management in 2012, the computerization of budget management, and so on) and by
the need to extend the reach of reforms to the following new areas: 

          Empowering line ministries for budget preparation and implementation,
           including in the management of procurement processes, so as to improve public
           investment management (PIM)

          Improving the integration of the management of capital and recurrent
           expenditure, to ensure in particular that facilities constructed in social sectors
           also be granted the necessary qualified staff and operating resources to function
           adequately

          Reforming the payment system, including so as to eliminate discretion in the
           prioritization of payments

          Modernizing the civil service

3.      The project focus on capital expenditure management was warranted by the
fast increase of public investment. While economic growth slowed down steeply (from a
growth rate of 8.7 percent in 2010 to 3.4 percent in 2011), the government engaged in a
massive public investment program thanks to resources made available by the HIPC debt
relief program in 2010. Public investment jumped from 7.9 percent of the gross domestic
product (GDP) in 2010 to 28.5 percent in 2014.


                                             1
1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

4.     The PDO was to strengthen the capacity of targeted public sector ministries,
agencies, and accountability structures for improved management of human and
financial resources. It was measured through the following four key indicators:

       (a) Deviation between actual and budgeted expenditure by targeted ministries;

       (b) Ghost workers (as determined by payroll audits) removed from payroll;

       (c) Public contracts > CFAF 250 million awarded on competitive basis;

       (d) Yearly publish reports for Supreme Audit Authority and the State General
           Inspectorate (IGE).

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification

5.     Neither the PDO nor key indicators have been revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

6.     Around 30 public entities were targeted as direct implementing agencies of the
project, including the Ministries of Finance, Planning, Civil Service, Health, Small and
Medium Enterprise (SMEs/PME), Trade, Agriculture, Transport, Education, and Energy,
as well as the General Directorate for Public Works, the ARMP, the DGCMP, the
parliament, the Supreme Audit Institution (Cour des Comptes et de Discipline budgétaire,
CCDB), the IGE, the Independent Governance Observatory (OAC), the Anticorruption
Commission (CNLCCF), the media, and five selected nongovernmental organizations
(NGOs) partnering with the CNLCCF.

7.      The population was intended to benefit indirectly from the improved performance
in public service delivery including basic social services.

1.5 Original Components

8.    The project had three components: (a) Increased Capacity of Targeted Ministries
to Manage Public Finances and Human Resources; (b) Strengthened Capacity of
Accountability Institutions; and (c) Enhanced Monitoring and Evaluation System.

Component 1: Increased Capacity of Targeted Ministries to Manage Public Finances
and Human Resources (US$19.8 million; that is, 75 percent of the total amount)

Subcomponent 1.1: Continuing public financial management reforms (US$16.7 million)

9.     This essentially came down to completing the implementation of the computerized
budget management system (for an amount of US$14.2 million, that is, 40 percent of the



                                           2
total amount) and also aimed at supporting critical elements of the implementation of the
revised Public Investment Action Plan (US$1.5 million) and the MTEF (US$1.0 million).

Subcomponent 1.2: Support the implementation of the new procurement law (US$1.3
million)

10.    This subcomponent included technical assistance to the ARMP and the DGCMP,
and the establishment of a ‘hotline’ for procurement complaints (US$0.3 million).

Subcomponent 1.3: Enhanced payroll and personnel management capacity (US$1.0
million)

11.    This subcomponent aimed essentially at the completion of a computerized human
resources management (HRM) system.

Subcomponent 1.4: Extending results-based management approach and practices to
additional ministries to address budget and program implementation problems (US$0.8
million)

12.    This subcomponent essentially aimed at piloting the Rapid Results Approach
methodology in seven line ministries (Planning, Finance, Health, Transport, Energy, Trade,
Civil Service, and SMEs) in preparation for the rolling out of a performance management
framework at the ministry level.

Component 2: Strengthened Capacity of Accountability Structures (US$3.5 million)

13.    This component had two subcomponents.

Subcomponent 2.1: Supporting the Independent Governance Observatory and the
Anticorruption Commission (US$1.5 million)

14.    The OAC is an independent structure created in 2007 to monitor and evaluate
progress made by the government in the implementation of anticorruption measures. The
CNLCCF, created in 2004 and restructured in 2007, is a public entity in charge of the
implementation of the government’s anticorruption policy.

Subcomponent 2.2: Demand for good governance (US$2.0 million)

15.     This subcomponent aimed at offering technical assistance and training to reinforce
the capacity of selected national NGOs and media, as well as of public accountability
structures, such as the Economic and Finance Commission of the parliament, the CCDB,
and the State Inspector General, to monitor and evaluate the implementation of key
reforms.

Component 3: Institutionalization of Monitoring and Evaluation Systems at the
National Level and in Targeted Sectors (US$3.0 million). The objective of this
component is to ensure the effective management and coordination of project
implementation.

                                            3
1.6 Revised Components

16.    The components have not been revised during implementation.

1.7 Other Significant Changes

17.     The project design was not revised during implementation. The project
effectiveness was delayed until January 2013, further shortening the implementation
timeline by two and a half years.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

18.    Since TGRP II was a follow-up to a previous operation, its design was well
informed by an in-depth policy dialogue with public authorities and a long-standing
operational experience drawn from active engagement during the nine years of TGRP
I implementation. As a result, TGRP II closely reflected the priorities and expectations of
the government and the needs of the targeted implementing agencies. Strong initial
government ownership was also demonstrated by its counterpart funding of up to 80
percent of the entire project cost. Unfortunately though, the Implementation Completion
and Results Report (ICR) for TGRP I was not available during project preparation since it
drew lessons from its completion which would have been useful in the preparation of
TGRP II and could have helped address observed design flaws and implementation
challenges. The ICR highlighted that TGRP I “was excessively ambitious, attempting to
impact distinct and unrelated areas of government policy and management” and pointed to
weaknesses in the coordination capacity of the borrower across 30 implementing agencies.

19.     Nonetheless, the risks were not fully identified and assessed at appraisal since
the ICR for the previous operation was only finalized in December 2011, even though
the overall implementation risk was adequately rated as High. The ICR for TGRP I
highlights: (a) the challenges of coordinating project activities across 30 beneficiary
organizations; (b) the weaknesses of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), including with
regards to monitoring and evaluation (M&E); (c) implementation delays; (d) project
intrinsic complexity given the client’s limited institutional capacity; and (e) reform fatigue
in the aftermath of the HIPC debt relief program.

20.     Consequently, the lessons drawn from the previous operations and candid risk
assessment at appraisal were not adequately reflected in the project design which
proved overly complex and ambitious. Even though the coordination of activities proved
challenging under TGRP I, the number of implementing agencies remained unchanged.
The design of TGRP II was even more complex than that of the previous operation—while
TGRP I was restructured in 2007 to be scaled down and more narrowly focused, TGRP II
aimed significantly beyond the scope of the previous operation, including a component to
establish a national M&E system. For a repeat operation, TGRP II should have focused on
the achievement of the objectives and the completion of the activities of the previous


                                              4
operation as restructured. Instead, its PDO diluted the focus on financial management of
TGRP I by adding HRM, which proved to be particularly challenging in a fragile context.

21.     Since fast increasing public investment was identified at appraisal as a major
challenge given the government’s limited absorptive capacity and the weak
development effectiveness of capital expenditure, the project should have focused on
the improvement of PIM. Without necessarily altering its PDO, such focus would have
offered a more tangible impact (including on service delivery) and possibly better
government ownership. It would have also ensured better complementarity with support
provided by other donors, such as the International Monetary Fund (IMF) Regional
Technical Assistance Center in Southern Africa (AFRITAC), on budget management. This
could have been achieved by refocusing the PDO results indicators and some of the project
components at midterm review, building on the findings of the Public Expenditure
Management and Financial Accountability Review (PEMFAR) report (World Bank 2015a)
which provides insights about the PIM value chain, and identifies weaknesses and gaps
calling for mitigation measures.

2.2 Implementation

22.      The main challenge to project implementation was well identified by the ICR
of the previous operation, that is, reform fatigue in the aftermath of the completion
of the HIPC debt relief program, but not factored into the project design. Although
the project was strongly supported during preparation by the then minister of Finance, it
lost political support after a government reshuffle in 2012, that is, before the project
became effective. TGRP II was not sustained by the same level of policy dialogue and
donors’ pressure as TGRP I, but suffered on the contrary from the loss of reform
momentum observed toward the end of 2011 in the ICR for TGRP I. Therefore, from the
start, the context was less propitious to the achievement of TGRP II’s stated objective, that
is, pursuing and broadening the scope of reforms initiated under the HIPC debt relief
program. The government also abandoned reforms which it considered unsuccessful for
lack of institutional capacity, such as the devolution of budget expenditure management to
line ministries (given the weaknesses of financial control). The situation further
deteriorated in the summer of 2014 with the budget crunch which resulted from the sharp
decrease in oil prices. Eventually, the initial commitment of the government to fund 80
percent of the project directly, a sign of its ownership of the project, ended up first delaying
and eventually undermining the project implementation by delaying the payment of the
first installment until August 2012, and finally granting the project only half of the
originally committed counterpart funding.

Table 1. Committed and Actual Schedule of Payment of the Counterpart Funding (in US$, millions)

                                   2012              2013                2014           Total
 Initial schedule of        2                 5                   4.8                   21.3
 payment of the             by project        by April 30 and     by April 30 and
 government counterpart     effectiveness     5                   4.5
 funding                                      by September 30     by September 30
 Actual schedule of         2                 5                   5                      12
 payment                    August            September           April

                                               5
 Disbursement rate         100.0%            50.0%               53.8%                56.3%



23.    TGRP II was also mired by the same implementation challenges experienced
under the previous project, which worsened after the government reform program
lost momentum.

       (a) Lack of institutional coordination and weaknesses in project management.
           As under the previous project, the project steering committee met only once
           (after more than a year and a half following effectiveness); the integration of
           budget management information technology (IT) systems, the main project
           component, failed for lack of political leadership and coordination between
           financial departments.

       (b) Systemic failure of HRM. The Ministry for Civil Service hardly started the
           registration of civil servants (only 900 biometric identity documents have been
           delivered till date for a total of 91,000 government employees); the devolution
           to line ministries of the management of budget expenditure could not succeed
           in the absence of a cadre of financial controllers deployed in line ministries;
           training programs aiming at professional development or skills enhancement
           proved inadequate in view of the lack of basic training of civil servants (as in
           the tax administration) and could not be conducted under the project, as
           originally planned.

       (c) The weaknesses of the PIU were only partially and belatedly addressed.
           The weaknesses included the limited availability of the project coordinator
           (which was only mitigated in 2014 thanks to the recruitment of a deputy
           coordinator), procedural ineffectiveness (reflected in significant procedural
           delays), and a lack of a culture of results (reflected in the PIU reporting
           exclusively on activities) and of performance measurement and evaluation
           systems, including to monitor the PIU interaction with project implementing
           agencies. But the apparent misunderstanding by the PIU of the purpose of
           Component 3 of the project (which the PIU construed as aiming at the
           strengthening of the project M&E system whereas it essentially aimed at
           strengthening the country M&E systems) which resulted in this component
           being unattended (as acknowledged by the PIU in its project completion report)
           also epitomizes the weakness of its coaching by the World Bank. The issue is
           not mentioned in the Implementation Status and Results Reports.

24.      The opportunity to cancel or restructure TGRP II was missed despite the
acknowledgement of loss of client ownership and political support after the 2012
government reshuffle and intractable implementation challenges at midterm. After
the minister of Finance who supported the project during preparation was replaced in 2012,
that is, before the Loan Agreement was signed, it became obvious that the project had lost
political support and its cancellation was deemed warranted by the Bank. The Bank
eventually decided not to cancel the project to avoid affecting client relationships. At
midterm, that is, less than a year before project closure, it was clear that the project could

                                              6
not achieve its objectives given its execution rate of only 20 percent and its downgrading
to Moderately Unsatisfactory (for both development objectives and implementation
performance) in June 2014. But its restructuring was not undertaken. One midterm review
mission took place, but the aide memoire did not contain a review of the continued
relevance, efficacy, and efficiency of the PDO, components, and activities. Important
reforms, though (such as the enactment of an organic law on budget management in 2012
introducing performance-based budgeting by 2020, the adoption of new accounting
standards, and so on), as well as progress made by some of the project implementing
agencies (thanks to project support such as the ARMP and the IGE, despite its lack of
support such as the CCDB and the Direction Générale des Impôts (DGI) may have
warranted the realignment of project design to support the most promising reforms and
improve the overall performance of the project. The transcription of the 2011 Central
African Economic and Monetary Community (CEMAC) guidelines on PFM into the
Republic of Congo (RoC) law with the technical assistance of the IMF (through the
AFRITAC) also offered an opportunity to align project activities in accordance with a
renewed PFM reform program, in close coordination with other donors. Again, the
prevailing consideration was not to undermine client relationships by closing the project
and thus risk signaling that the Bank did not find the authorities’ commitment to
governance reforms to be either strong or credible. This however put the task team and
project in a difficult situation.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

25.     The PIU monitored project activities closely and compliance of transactions
with fiduciary procedures, but did not monitor or evaluate project results or the
performance of the processes it handled. The project implementation manual does not
include provisions on M&E except for the description of the tasks of the M&E expert of
the PIU (appointed under the previous project after its restructuring). This is a significant
failure in project implementation, which the project completion report submitted by the
PIU epitomizes since it only reports on activities but not on results. The PIU did not
monitor procedural delays which eventually resulted in several activities remaining
incomplete and a number of critical implementing agencies (such as the CCDB, the DGI,
and so on) being unserved. Therefore, the assessment of M&E for the project is rated
Negligible.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

26.    The project was classified in category C with regard to social and environmental
safeguards and did not trigger any such policies.

27.    At closure, the project was rated Moderately Satisfactory on financial
management and Moderately Unsatisfactory on procurement. Given the weaknesses
of the RoC’s fiduciary systems, it was decided to rely on a PIU for procurement and
financial management. Relevant rules and procedures were rigorously observed under the
close oversight of both the Bank and the PIU. Although this control was effective in
preventing irregularities, it entailed significant procedural delays and bottlenecks which
heavily impacted project performance by delaying the completion of planned or initiated

                                             7
activities, including because of a lack of training of project implementing agencies on the
procedures to follow, as well as of insufficient interaction between the PIU and project
implementing agencies to expedite procedures. Eventually, a significant number of
transactions were not completed because of ‘administrative and procedural hurdles in
procurement”, as the PIU acknowledges in its project completion report. A number of
implementing agencies also complained about these delays, which may partly reflect the
limited governance environment in the country.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

28.     A follow-up Advisory Services and Analytics (ASA) is considered with a focus
on PIM. The objectives of the first two TGRP operations remain relevant with regard to
the reform strategy of the government of the RoC and to the Bank Country Partnership
Strategy (CPS) for FY13–16. In this respect, pursuing efforts undertaken so far to improve
budget management still makes sense despite the limited success of TGRP II. However,
the ASA will focus on helping strengthen the evidence basis and engaging with the
authorities to spur a renewed commitment to address the underlying weaknesses in PIM
that remain after the closure of the project.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

29.    Overall, the project is rated Unsatisfactory.

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

30.      The relevance of the project objectives is rated Substantial since objectives
remain fully relevant both with regard to the government reform strategy and to the
Bank CPS for FY13–16. The CPS incorporates some of the project performance indicators
in its own results framework. Although the integration of the revenue and expenditure
chain is incomplete, it remains on the government’s reform agenda. Improving PIM,
including public procurement, is even more relevant today in a context of budget squeeze.
The reform of HRM remains indispensable to the strengthening of institutional capacity,
including for financial administrations which are deprived of adequately skilled human
resources. Oversight authorities, such as the ARMP, CCDB, and IGE, have a critical role
to play both for fiduciary oversight and the evaluation of the government performance, that
is, for the social accountability of public action. Strengthening the capacity of the civil
society is a necessary complement to that of oversight authorities since it fosters the
demand for good governance. But the project objectives were not commensurate to the
client capacity and political leadership to drive, coordinate, and sustain the systemic
reforms aimed at a wide range of public entities.

31.     The project design is rated Modest—the design was based on political dialogue
and good intention of the government at the time of project preparation; however, it
was too complex and ambitious as a follow-on project. The PDO proved far too
ambitious for the project rationale, resources, and timeline, and was not well captured by
its results indicators. The project design was too complex for the limited capacity of the
PIU in the absence of effective steering and coordination by the government. For lack of

                                             8
project restructuring at midterm, there is a gap between the project design and its actual
resources (only 58 percent of the original project cost was eventually made available).
Activities (123 were initially planned), implementing agencies (around 30 public entities),
and intermediate results indicators (19 at appraisal) proved too numerous for the PIU to
conduct, serve, and monitor. Preparatory activities were still being funded a few months
before project closure, that is, when the completion of activities undertaken was unlikely.
Eventually, two-thirds of intermediate results indicators were not even tracked. Lessons
drawn from the completion of the previous operation were not factored into the TGRP II’s
project design which replicated most of the design shortcomings observed in TGRP I.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

32.     The achievement of the PDO is rated Modest. Although the project made
improvement on fiscal management, its impact on HRM was limited. The project’s
contribution to improve the management of fast growing capital expenditure, that is, two-
thirds of total budget expenditure in 2014, was particularly significant—essentially through
enhanced procurement oversight. Only one of the four PDO results indicators (Indicator 2
on the competitiveness of public procurement) has been fully met. It is unquestionable that
significant progress has been made on procurement and contract management, even though
it may not have reached the level officially claimed. According to the ARMP, 97 percent
of public contracts are now competitively awarded (ARMP 2015), but according to Bank
experts a number of transactions are deliberately circumventing the public procurement
legal framework and are still single sourced to the extent that only one-third of contracts
are in effect competitively awarded; and official data are not exhaustive nor consistent.
Nonetheless, since 2012, the ARMP has significantly strengthened its oversight, including
by broadening the range of indicators and parameters it attempts to control to improve the
quality of public procurement and contract management (see details in annex 4). Similarly,
the capacity of accountability institutions (such as the CCDB and IGE) for internal and
external audit have been significantly strengthened. But no significant progress has been
made on HRM and budget performance has remained vulnerable to external shocks and
consequently deteriorated in 2014.

33.     The results framework failed to adequately capture qualitative progress aimed
by the PDO. Only six intermediate results indicators were fully met and another six
partially. Nevertheless, such a quantitative estimate does not accurately reflect qualitative
progress in PFM reported through parallel evaluation exercises (Public Expenditure and
Financial Accountability [PEFA]), PEMFAR, the annual report of the CCDB on budget
execution): for example, the recently built capacity of the CCDB to audit budget execution;
improved quality of public procurement based on the Organisation for Economic Co-
operation and Development (OECD) Development Assistance Committee (DAC)
assessment methodology (World Bank 2015a); and significant progress in nonoil tax
revenue mobilization in 2014 (CCDB 2015).

34.    The most obvious results have been achieved in public procurement
competitiveness and oversight thanks to the improvement of its institutional and legal
framework in 2009, that is, before project implementation, which led to a higher rating by
the PEFA report in 2014 (to Moderately Satisfactory) and capacity building provided by

                                             9
the project to stakeholders (including the ARMP, DGCMP, and procurement units within
line ministries). The Bank now considers mobilizing country procurement institutional
capacity within its own operations:

       (a) Competitive bidding has become the norm in public procurement (even though
           a significant number of transactions circumvent the Procurement Act, as
           already mentioned, and the actual level of competition remains relatively low):
           the average number of bidders remains below the ARMP objective of 5, at 3.5
           on average (ARMP 2014).

       (b) Most line ministries (30 out of 35) are now equipped with a public procurement
           unit (CGMP), even though most of those units do not meet regulatory
           requirements or lack necessary human and financial resources (ARMP 2014).

       (c) A hotline is available on the website of the ARMP for complaints to be
           submitted online but a complete complaints handling system, which was aimed
           at in the project results framework, is yet to be established.

                 Table 2. Intermediate Results Indicators on Public Procurement

                                                            Value at Project
                                        Baseline (%)                             Target (%)
                                                             Closure (%)
      Proportion of line ministries         75         97                           100
      with the MTEF incorporating a
      procurement plan
      Procurement plan execution rate       40         32                           90
      in targeted line ministries                      (on average across line
                                                       ministries)
      Proportion of complaints               0         0                            60
      recorded by the complaints
      handling system
Source: ARMP (2015).

35.     As for budget credibility, although the MTEF is now used for budget
preparation across line ministries, variations between appropriated and actual
expenditure have not diminished, not only because of exogenous factors (the steep drop
in oil prices since summer 2014), but also because of persistent weaknesses in budget
management such as noncompliance with expenditure ceilings and sectoral resource
allocation as determined in the Appropriation Act; payments without prior authorization of
expenditure or commitment to expenditure; lack of coordination between oil revenue and
macroeconomic forecasting; and arrears incurred by delays in processing authorized
payment which amount to 5.5 percent of the GDP (IMF 2015). In its report on the 2013
budget execution, the CCDB itself observes that “accounting and budgetary rules are not
observed”, including the principle that appropriated expenditure should be executed by the
end of the fiscal year since a significant amount of such expenditures are carried over to
the following fiscal year when they could not be executed on time (CCDB 2014). In 2014,
budget expenditure carried over from 2013 amounted to nearly 6 percent of appropriated
expenditure (CCDB 2015). The auditor general also highlighted wide disparities in the

                                                 10
execution rate of capital expenditure across line ministries (CCDB 2014, 2015). Although
the budget is now prepared based on the MTEF and the budget execution bill is tabled
within the prescribed delay to the parliament, “the quality of real time information on
budget execution is deteriorating” (EU 2014).

36.     Neither the annual reports of the CCDB nor the IGE are effectively made
publicly available and the overall budget transparency has significantly deteriorated.
This results in particular from the fact that “most websites of financial administrations are
not working anymore” (EU 2014), which also applies to the CCDB whose reports are in
principle made public. The IGE internal audit reports are not meant to be publicly
disclosed. Although the CCDB and the IGE are not fully operational yet, “they have made
important progress in organizing themselves” (EU 2014), including with support from
development partners and the Bank in particular, which bodes well for the strengthening
of their institutional capacity and effectiveness.

37.     The auditing of the payroll has led to the removal of around 900 ghost workers
out of a total of 91,000 civil servants, that is, 1 percent of them as compared to the
target of 5 percent under the project. Furthermore, payroll management by the Ministry
of Finance remains disconnected from HRM by the Ministry of Civil Service in the absence
of the planned census of civil servants and integration of the pay and personnel rolls. There
is no evidence that endemic patronage in the recruitment and promotion of civil servants
has decreased.

38.     The revision of the results matrix at midterm would have allowed to take stock
of achieved results (including on compliance with budget management and
procurement rules) and refocus on other results indicators deemed critical to the
achievement of the PDO. It would have improved the project rating by simply ensuring
that the targeted results were commensurate to resources effectively available and a
significantly reduced implementation time frame after delayed project effectiveness.

3.3 Efficiency

39.    Project efficiency is rated Negligible because it was significantly hampered by
the delayed and partial release of government of RoC counterpart funding and its
return on investment, thanks to the enhanced efficiency of capital expenditure, cannot
be quantified.

40.      The operating cost of the PIU amounted to US$1.3 million, that is, over 14
percent of disbursed funds, which is a relatively high ratio. Procedural ineffectiveness
entailed transaction delays and costs which have in many instances prevented the
completion of initiated activities and, hence, lowered the impact of the project even though
procedures at work have arguably prevented irregularities in payments. Therefore, the
institutional framework adopted for project implementation has resulted in a trade-off
between fiduciary integrity and process efficiency. The delayed and partial release of
government of the RoC counterpart funding also significantly hampered project efficiency
because it prevented the completion of a number of activities initiated in the expectation of


                                             11
resources which eventually were not made available. Two months before project closing,
the Bank estimated the project disbursement rate at only 29 percent (World Bank 2015c).

41.      With regard to public expenditure efficiency, the project has essentially
contributed to improving the efficiency of public procurement process
(competitiveness and oversight), that is, indirectly and only potentially of capital
expenditure which amounted to an increasing share of the budget (that is, 64.6
percent of total expenditure in 2014). According to the ARMP, improvement in
procurement process has resulted in savings in public investments which is measured based
on the variation between the estimated cost and contract award price. But it did not provide
quantitative information to substantiate its claim. Reducing unit costs of public investment
would be a major achievement since they are so far among the highest among the
developing countries (World Bank 2015). The RoC is also one of the weakest performers
when it comes to PIM (IMF 2015), but it is not possible to assess whether TGRP II has had
any impact on the efficiency of PIM as a whole. The overall efficiency of public
expenditure has not improved in recent years (World Bank 2015) and the strengthening of
institutional capacity of oversight institutions has not yet improved the effectiveness of
their fiduciary controls (EU 2014).

42.     On the efficiency of current expenditure, the project does not seem to have had
any significant impact since the budget execution rate did not improve—it deteriorated
from 90 percent in 2013 to 88 percent in 2014 (CCDB 2014, 2015)—and the civil service
payroll audit, which resulted in its downsizing by less than 1 percent, pales in comparison
with the absence of any progress in HRM (including for lack of registration of civil
servants, as well as of improvement in their recruitment and promotion).

43.     Overall, given the importance of public investment both in the economy (28.5
percent of the GDP in 2014) and in public expenditure (64.6 percent in 2014), the
project return on investment can be deemed potentially significant due to actual or
impending efficiency gains generated in public procurement. But such efficiency gains
are not quantifiable so far (see annex 4 for further details on the measurement of efficiency
gains in public procurement and contract management by the government of the RoC). On
the other dimensions of public management initially targeted by the PDO, such as the
overall efficiency of public expenditure and HRM, the project does not seem to have had
any tangible impact.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Unsatisfactory

44.    Although the project objectives remain fully relevant, TGRP II has only
achieved limited results. Although its relevance is Substantial, its efficacy was Modest at
best and its efficiency Negligible. The project implementation timeline was far too short,
its implementation framework often ineffective, it has been deprived of more than 40
percent of the initially committed resources, and it has not been revisited at midterm to
adjust to the government reform agenda in budget management, achieved results, or
experienced bottlenecks.


                                             12
                            Table 3. Rating of Overall Project Performance

               Relevance                      Efficacy
                                      1 (Fiscal
                                                        2         Efficiency    Overall Rating
    Objective              Design     Managem
                                                     (HRM)
                                         ent)
 Substantial         Modest           Modest       Negligible    Negligible    Unsatisfactory


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

45.     The project did not have any significant impact on the overall quality of public
expenditure and, hence, on poverty or social development. There is no evidence that
the progress made in public procurement improved the quality of capital expenditure. The
overall quality of public expenditure has even deteriorated because of their fast increase in
the past ten years (World Bank 2015). The project is devoid of any gender-related results
indicator.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

46.     The project contributed to institutional capacity building at a number of
public entities with regard to strategic planning, budget preparation, public
procurement, and fiduciary control. It also helped improve the institutional
framework of budget management due to the strengthened capacity of oversight
authorities. But recorded progress in this regard is partial and limited and can only be
deemed sustainable if the reform agenda is effectively pursued by the government of the
RoC and its momentum is sustained. For example, the IGE recognizes that despite the
extensive support it was granted by the project (to draft its audit manuals, to digitize its
archives and documentation, and to train its staff), it still lacks the capacity to conduct
internal audits and is in need of a revised regulatory framework of internal audit as well as
of the establishment of a cadre of internal auditors so that it can fulfill its mandate
adequately. On the other hand though, some of the targeted project implementing agencies
such as the tax administration (DGI), which ended up not benefitting from the project, still
made significant progress against considerable odds: the auditor general highlights the “in
2014 (CCDB 2015). This exemplifies that significant institutional reforms have been
pursued by some of the very agencies that the project targeted but failed to serve for
procedural reasons. The auditor general is another example of such unfortunate mismatch.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

None

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

47.    Implementing agencies met for this evaluation (see list in annex) confirmed
that they value the Bank’s support, even though a number of them also regretted
procedural bottlenecks, delays, and opacity, as well as a lack of action from the PIU.
                                                 13
They particularly value the financial, technical, and even ‘moral’ (that is, intended but not
realized) support of the Bank and mentioned in particular their equipment with IT systems,
staff training, and the drafting of legal and policy documents and operational manuals.
They also highlighted the need for them to get acquainted with Bank procedures and even
admitted their ignorance of its financing rules (as in the case of NGOs which complained
that the Bank could not fund their activities contrary to other donors). Implementing
agencies also regretted a lack of information on the procedures handled interactively by the
PIU. Some of them also recommended that communication tools be developed to facilitate
the interaction with the project implementing agencies to allow them to track the successive
steps of the decision-making process (most often iterative) and try to expedite it. A
consultant reflected on the perceived lack of accountability of the PIU for results by
suggesting that the Rapid Results Initiatives (RRIs), funded by the project, should have
applied to the PIU itself whose own processes defied the very purpose of the initiative.

48.      Implementing agencies also recognized that institutional bottlenecks, internal
to the government, prevented the main component of the project, that is, the
integration of budget management IT systems, to succeed. They invoked policy
uncertainties, lack of political leadership and of adequate coordination, and bureaucratic
strife and resistance among the reasons why the government’s own project (SIDERE) could
not be completed. They also mentioned that part of the reform of the expenditure chain (the
devolution of the authorization of expenditure and financial control to line ministries) was
repealed for lack of necessary capacity across line ministries for effective financial control.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Substantial

49.     Political and governance risks remain high at project completion. Despite
change signals, resistance to governance reforms remain effective within the government
of the RoC, even if significant reforms are been pursued. Further improvements to budget
management, although officially approved, are being effectively resisted by vested
interests or hampered by a lack of institutional capacity and political leadership. The
government is still signaling its willingness to reform. Among such signals are: (a) the
adoption of a new organic law on budget management in 2012, (b) the recent reshuffling
of the government with the elevation of the minister of Planning to the rank of senior
minister (Ministre d’Etat) and the reorganization of the Ministry of Finance (with the
regrouping of financial administrations), and (c) the commitment to the transcription of the
CEMAC’s new guidelines on PFM into the national legal framework. It can be expected
that the fiscal crisis triggered by the sudden drop in oil revenue since 2014 should further
incentivize the improvement of the efficiency of public expenditure. But it is likely that
progress will remain uneven and partial, while existing institutional checks and balances
(parliament, auditor general, the IGE, the ARMP, and so on) could be more effectively
mobilized to push the reform agenda forward. On the other hand, other institutional
mechanisms supported by the project may well remain ineffective: the role and capacity of
anticorruption agencies (such as the CNLCCF and the OAC) and of civil society
organizations partnering with them are still narrowly limited.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

                                              14
5.1 Bank Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

(a) The Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

50.     While the project was construed as a repeat operation in a deteriorating
environment because of reform fatigue, its objectives were not calibrated to its
rationale, resources, time frame, and well-identified implementation risks. The project
was carefully prepared and its design informed by long-standing engagement and
interaction with the client and implementing agencies on governance reforms as part of the
previous operation. TGRP II could have been designed as a simple follow-up to a previous
operation which by itself successfully supported the HIPC debt relief program. Although
the risks incurred by reform fatigue were well identified, the project design was not
calibrated to the limited absorptive capacity of implementing agencies and the loss of
momentum or the evolution of the RoC’s government reform agenda.

(b) The Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Unsatisfactory

51.     Project cancellation, although deemed warranted by the Bank, was discarded
for reasons linked to client relations. Due to the lack of a full midterm review, the
Bank has failed to restructure the project so as to deepen achieved results (including
on public procurement and fiduciary controls) and reallocate funds earmarked for
the main project component (on the integration of budget management IT systems)
which could not be completed. Bank supervision focused essentially on fiduciary
compliance but overlooked project impact and results. Achieved results warranted the
extension of the initially overly tight implementation timeline. Despite obvious
implementation bottlenecks highlighted in supervision reports, the Bank failed to consider
restructuring the project at midterm. Although it coordinated with donors during project
preparation, it failed to consult with the IMF during implementation—even though the
AFRITAC took the lead for technical assistance on budget management. The Bank also
failed to improve the effectiveness of the PIU in interacting with implementing agencies
and expediting processes (by omitting to include provisions on M&E into the project
operational manual) and was tardy and only partially successful in mitigating its
inefficiencies (by appointing a deputy project coordinator in 2014).

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

52.      The overall Bank performance is rated Unsatisfactory for flaws in project
design and serious shortcomings in supervision. The Bank failed to act once client
ownership and political support vanished. Subsequently, it failed to consider project
restructuring at midterm and to adequately instruct the PIU on M&E of project results (as
initially intended) which prevented it from improving project effectiveness during

                                            15
implementation and trumps the Bank’s higher performance on project preparation and its
effectiveness in ensuring the fiduciary integrity of transactions.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

53.     The performance of the government is rated Unsatisfactory for not abiding to
its financial commitment and for lack of ownership and leadership during
implementation. The government lost project ownership after the cabinet reshuffle in
2012 and only disbursed slightly more than half of its initially committed counterpart
funding and with significant delays for the up-front installment which postponed project
effectiveness by over a year. It failed to steer the project (the steering committee only met
once in two years) and to answer Bank demands and it undermined the effectiveness of the
PIU by assigning other tasks to the PIU, thus distracting it from its responsibility in project
implementation (which the task team leader [TTL] had to mitigate by appointing a deputy
project coordinator) and inevitably weakened the authority vested with the PIU by its
interlocutors and partners. The government also failed to exercise its political leadership
on relevant bureaucracies to ensure the integration of budget management IT systems (that
is, the operationalization of the SIDERE), which was the main project component. Public
officials recognize that lack of internal coordination and steering hampered its completion.
A number of targeted implementing agencies also attributed the project’s inability to meet
some of its objectives and to conduct some of its main activities as planned to institutional
failure (that is, to the government and the bureaucracy). Despite the overall poor
performance of the government, a number of public administrations have shown an active
involvement in project implementation and ownership of its objectives, and have
effectively benefitted from capacity building under the project. Others, such as the tax
administration and the auditor general, have made significant progress despite the project
failing to provide them with planned support.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Unsatisfactory

54.     The performance of the PIU is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory because it
ensured the fiduciary integrity of transactions and activities but at the cost of a
lengthy and often ineffective process and failed to coach implementing agencies through
iterative procedures and to monitor or evaluate the project outcomes.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

55.     The overall borrower performance is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory.
Although the performance of the government is rated Unsatisfactory for failing to pilot the
project, funding it as planned, and distracting critical resources from the PIU, the
performance of the PIU is rated Moderately Unsatisfactory for ensuring the fiduciary
integrity of project implementation and because a number of public entities among targeted

                                              16
implementing agencies have made good use of the Bank proceeds and displayed strong
commitment to the reform agenda supported by the project.

6. Lessons Learned
Project Design
56.     The internalization of governance reforms takes time and requires long-
standing support, and the project design needs to be tailored to client capacity. For
example, long-standing Bank experience proves that it takes on an average six to seven
years to deploy an FMIS, not accounting for the time it takes to operationalize it, that is,
applying its functionalities, for budget management (World Bank 2011). Therefore, the
implementation time frame of a governance project needs to be long enough to allow for
the necessary adjustment to contingencies inherent to state or reforms and to unexpected
opportunities resulting from inevitable shifts in reform agendas. TGRP II’s design wrongly
assumed that the completion of the governance reforms triggered by the HIPC debt relief
program could be achieved within a few more months. This had to be a longer process and
the project design should have been focused on this single objective (given its short
timeline) rather than reach beyond to promote additional reforms (such as HRM and the
establishment of a national M&E system, which by themselves are demanding, costly,
complex, and risky undertakings). Client institutional capacity may not lend itself to
breakthrough and all-encompassing change and systemic reforms, and Bank support to
governance reforms may in such circumstances rather build on performing agencies and
successful initiatives to foster incremental progress. Problem-driven approaches are more
likely to be successful than blueprint ones, even when it comes to supposedly basic and
standard governance reforms (for example, in budget and HRM).

57.     To effectively align with the client agenda and adjust to its subsequent shifts
during project implementation, the Bank cannot rely on one single champion, but
needs to garner support from project implementing agencies. The initial client
ownership, reflected in its unusually high level of counterpart funding, proved detrimental
when the project lost support from the minister of Finance after the cabinet reshuffle in
2012, TGRPwhich resulted in the delay and eventually partial release of the counterpart
funding for TGRP II. Despite the failure of the Ministry of Finance to effectively steer
project implementation, critical implementing agencies were performing well and would
have warranted the project restructuring to refocus on areas of progress and achievements.
The project could also have realigned with the stated prioritization by the government of
the internalization of the CEMAC’s new guidelines on PFM after 2011 and technical
assistance granted by donors under the IMF (AFRITAC) leadership. Thus, without any
change to its PDO, the project would have contributed to a major government agenda for
the next eight or ten years (which is the timeline granted to the country for complying with
the CEMAC guidelines). The same could be said about the new budget management law
enacted in 2012 and introducing program budgeting by 2020.

58.    Political and governance risks need to be carefully mitigated in project design
to ensure financial sustainability. Among the political risks to be factored in is that
the Bank itself will be hesitant to apply remedies in case the client fails on its financial
commitment to preserve client relationship. TGRP II was heavily dependent on

                                            17
counterpart funding which itself was grounded on client ownership and political support.
When client ownership faltered, the project was deprived of a significant part of its
resources and its implementation was delayed. The project design could have mitigated
this risk by ring-fencing activities financed by the Bank.

59.     A governance project should, whenever possible, contribute to the
international agenda on aid effectiveness, including the commitment by development
partners to use country systems. The TBGCP II could have aimed at facilitating the use
of the RoC’s FM systems by donors, including the Bank, by helping the government fulfill
the conditions deemed necessary for their use within Bank projects (those conditions are
listed in the 2013 Bank report referenced in the annex 9). The same recommendation
applies to public procurement and fits the government’s own expectations. Such an
objective could have been reflected in the PDO and should have determined a part of the
technical assistance and capacity-building activities funded by the project: for example, the
strengthening of internal audit and internal control on public procurement within Bank-
funded projects. The department controlling public procurement transactions (DGCMP)
objects that it is not allowed to exercise its jurisdiction on transactions funded by the Bank.
Such an approach may also help engage bilateral donors (such as China which by itself
represents over 96 percent of the public external debt [CCDB 2015]) on the use of the
RoC’s fiduciary systems for their own projects.

Project Implementation
60.     A PIU needs to be endowed by the government with both operational capacity
and the authority on beneficiary agencies to ensure adequate internalization of the
project inputs. For that purpose, active support from political authorities is indispensable.
Their piloting of the project should ensure the alignment of the project with the political
agenda, alert the Bank and the PIU of any policy shifts, and impose interagency
coordination across public entities benefitting from the project. Some of the decisions
which were needed for the project to remain meaningful and be successful belong
exclusively to the political leadership. The project could not perform as expected for want
of sufficient leadership on the part of the authorities. Project coordination is a full-time
responsibility from which the project coordinator and the PIU should not have been taken
out.

61.     An MIS should have been established to facilitate the interaction between the
Bank, the PIU, and the implementing agencies, and help track and expedite iterative
processes at work for project implementation. Such a system will ensure that
information is adequately available to all stakeholders, inform their relationship and
interaction, and help monitor their respective performance in handling procedures. A
dashboard should be made available to the implementing agencies to allow them to track
iterative procedures and processes and be better equipped to improve their celerity by
proactively engaging with the PIU.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies



                                              18
62.     The borrower recognized that policy uncertainties, because of the
prioritization of the 2011 CEMAC directives, hampered the implementation of the
main component of the project (the integration of budget management IT systems).
The Ministry of Finance only agreed to the completion of the SIDERE in May 2015, before
the internalization of the CEMAC directives, but despite this long delay no steering
committee has yet been put in place to drive the agenda. The management framework of
the expenditure chain is yet to be decided on. The government wavered on the devolution
of expenditure authorization and financial controls to line ministries and the steering
committee on the internalization of the CEMAC directives has yet to submit its
recommendations.

(b) Cofinanciers
No cofinancing
(c) Other partners and stakeholders
63.     NGOs supported by the project (on anticorruption) regretted that the project
could not fund their activities as other donors do, and only granted them training.
This is a significant limitation which warrants further examination. The project could have
usefully funded some of their activities (including on legal aid) and produced tangible
deliverables (for example, report on budget oversight and so on), which would have
strengthened its overall impact on demand for good governance.




                                            19
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$, millions equivalent)

                                                              Actual/Latest
                                        Appraisal Estimate                           Percentage of
            Components                                        Estimate (US$,
                                         (US$, millions)                              Appraisal
                                                                 millions)
1. Increased Capacity of Targeted
Ministries to Manage Public Finances             3.76                 2.34               62.23
and Human Resources
2. Strengthened Capacity of
                                                 0.67                 0.28               41.79
Accountability Structures
3. Institutionalization of Monitoring
and Evaluation Systems at National               0.57                 0.19               33.33
Level and in Targeted Sectors
                  Total Baseline Cost            5.00                 2.81               56.20
Physical Contingencies                           –                    –                    –
Price Contingencies                              –                    –                    –
                  Total Project Costs            5.00                 2.81               56.20
Project Preparation Fund                         –                    –                    –
Front-end Fee IBRD                               –                    –                    –
          Total Financing Required               5.00                 2.81               56.20

(b) Financing
                                                           Appraisal      Actual/Latest
                                            Type of                                      Percentage of
           Source of Funds                                 Estimate         Estimate
                                          Cofinancing                                     Appraisal
                                                         (US$, millions) (US$, millions)
Borrower                                                     21.30            6.00           56.33
IDA                                                           5.00            3.16           63.19




                                                   20
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

1.     Overall, the project disbursed 57.34 percent of its initial amount. However,
according to the PIU, only 48.78 percent of planned activities were completed and the
achievement rate of activities exceeded that of targeted outputs because a number of
conducted activities were only preparatory and two main components have been missed:

       (a) Component 3 on the institutionalization of M&E systems at the national level
           and in targeted sectors was overlooked.

       (b) The achievement of the main activity, amounting to 40 percent of the project
           total cost (Subcomponent 1.1 for the completion of the integrated budget
           management IT system), was prevented by policy uncertainties and institutional
           bottlenecks, including because of a shift of the reform agenda (that is, the
           prioritization of the internalization of CEMAC 2011 guidelines of PFM).

Component 1: Increased Capacity of Targeted Ministries to Manage Public Finances
and Human Resources (75 percent of the total project amount)

2.    Less than half of the activities undertaken were completed according to the PIU
completion report. Completed activities were essentially the following:

          The implementation of RRIs in six line ministries: some of them made a
           significant difference on budget performance (for example, the Ministry of
           Health dramatically improved its initially very low budget execution rate); but
           others were not clearly related to the PDO (for example, the establishment of a
           single window at the Ministry of Small and Medium Enterprise to facilitate
           business creation).

          The deployment of a computerized archive management system for the IGE and
           the Ministry of Civil Service

          The deployment of equipment for the data centers of Brazzaville and Pointe
           Noire (even though their fiber optic connection remains incomplete)

          The updating of strategic plans for four line ministries

          Technical assistance to the government IT office (ASCI) in charge of
           supporting the completion of the integrated budget management IT system
           (SIDERE)

3.     Among critical activities which remain incomplete are the following:

          The integration of the pay and nominal roll of the civil service

          The improvement of PIM

          The establishment of a grievance redress mechanism under the ARMP

                                            21
          The provision of IT equipment to financial administrations in the prospect of
           their integration into SIDERE

Subcomponent 1.1: Continuing public financial management reforms (US$16.7 million)

4.     This essentially came down to not only completing the implementation of the
computerized budget management system (for an amount of US$14.2 million, that is, 40
percent of the total project cost) but also aimed at supporting critical elements of the
implementation of the revised Public Investment Action Plan and the MTEF.

5.      The main activity (completion of the integration of budget management IT systems)
could not be completed because the government hesitated on how to proceed on the agenda;
the SIDERE steering committee was not operational; and the government decided to
finalize the program before the internalization of CEMAC guidelines on public finance
management in early 2015 that is, six months before project closure.

6.     The PIM was essentially improved with regard to strategic planning and public
procurement.

Subcomponent 1.2: Support to the implementation of the new procurement law (US$1.3
million)

7.      This includes technical assistance to the ARMP and DGCMP and the establishment
of a hotline for procurement complaints.

8.      On public procurement, both oversight agencies (ARMP and DGCMP) and
contracting agencies (the General Directorate for Public Works and CGMP in line
ministries), benefited from substantive capacity-building activities both for the drafting of
manuals and staff training.

9.    A hotline for procurement complaints has been opened on the ARMP website but
a comprehensive grievance redress mechanism is not yet operational.

Subcomponent 1.3: Enhanced payroll and personnel management capacity (US$1.0
million)

10.     This subcomponent is aimed essentially at the completion of a computerized HRM
system. This activity was not completed.

Subcomponent 1.4: Extending results-based management approach and practices to
additional ministries to address budget and program implementation problems (US$0.8
million)

11.    This subcomponent was essentially aimed at piloting the Rapid Results Approach
methodology in seven line ministries (Planning, Finance, Health, Transport, Energy, Trade,
Civil Service, and SMEs) in preparation of the rolling out of a performance management
framework at the ministry level.


                                             22
12.    RRIs in six line ministries were completed by the end of 2013. However, no
performance management framework at the ministry level has been rolled out.

Component 2: Strengthened Capacity of Accountability Structures (US$3.5 million)

13.     According to the PIU, over 70 percent of planned activities have been completed
under this component even though the project did not benefit the CCDB because of
procedural delays. These activities essentially aimed at supply-side and demand-side
anticorruption capacity building. Activities reached beyond targeted anticorruption
agencies because they also benefitted the Financial Integrity Unit tasked with anti-money
laundering and combatting the financing of terrorism (AML/CFT).

Subcomponent 2.1: Supporting the Independent Governance Observatory and the
Anticorruption Commission (US$1.5 million)

14.     The OAC has benefitted from capacity-building activities under the project but to
hardly any avail because their leverage remains limited (for example, the OAC cannot
conduct audits or prosecute criminal activities). The CNLCCF complained, on the contrary,
that it was not granted support for the drafting of its strategic plan, for conducting a
corruption perception survey, and for IT equipment, as planned. Yet the project supported
some of its activities (investigations, sensitization campaigns, and the establishment of a
website).

15.     Although it was not initially targeted by the project, the Financial Integrity Unit, in
charge of AML/CFT was provided staff training and support to conduct stakeholders’
sensitization programs on AML/CFT.

Subcomponent 2.2: Demand for good governance (US$2.0 million)

16.     This subcomponent aims at providing technical assistance and training to reinforce
the capacity of selected national NGOs and media, as well as of public accountability
structures, such as the Economic and Finance Commission of Parliament, the Supreme
Audit Authority, and the State Inspector General to monitor and evaluate the
implementation of key public reforms.

17.     The CCDB did not benefit from the project because of procedural delay but it
benefitted from the Bank’s technical assistance, provided in parallel, to conduct a
performance audit related to the main Bank lending operation in the country (in urban
water). This has been a missed opportunity of coordinating Bank support to this critical
oversight institution.

18.    On the contrary, the IGE benefited from project support both for the drafting of its
audit manuals, staff training, and IT equipment for file management.

19.     Five NGOs were selected to partner with the CNLCCF and provided training.
However, their representatives complained that the project did not fund their activities
directly as other donors (such as the EU) do.


                                              23
Component 3: Institutionalization of Monitoring and Evaluation Systems at the
National Level and in Targeted Sectors (US$3.0 million)

20.    This component has been thoroughly overlooked.

21.    The establishment of an M&E system for the PIU as well as of a file management
system has not been completed.

22.      Overall, only one PDO-level indicator (indicator 2) and ten out of 19 intermediate
results indicators have been met. They essentially pertain to public procurement and budget
execution.




                                            24
                                           Table 2. 1. Results Framework
                                                       Target at Project
          Indicator                      Baseline                                Actual               Comments
                                                         Completion
PDO Level Results Indicators
1. Deviation between actual        40%                 10%                 11.76% for total   In 2013, the budget
and budgeted expenditure by                                                budget             execution rate reached
targeted ministries reduced                                                expenditure        89.97% (as compared to
from 40% to less than 10% by                                                                  71% in 2012) but it
the end of the project                                                                        decreased to 88.24% in
                                                                                              2014, according to the
                                                                                              CCDB report of budget
                                                                                              execution, with significant
                                                                                              variation across ministries.
                                                                                              However, this average
                                                                                              overshadows significant
                                                                                              variations across line
                                                                                              ministries and significant
                                                                                              arrears. In 2014, the PEFA
                                                                                              report did not observe any
                                                                                              significant improvement
                                                                                              of budget credibility
                                                                                              between 2006 and 2013.
2. Public contracts greater than   50%                 80%                 97%                According to the 2015
CFAF 250 million awarded                                                                      annual report of the
under competitive basis                                                                       ARMP
3. Ghost workers (determined       20%                 5%                  19%                Payroll audits resulted
by payroll audits) removed                                                                    only in 1% of government
from the payroll                                                                              employees being removed
                                                                                              from the payroll according
                                                                                              to the Directorate General
                                                                                              of Budget.
4. Public disclosure of the        0                   2                   1                  Annual reports of the
annual report of the CCDB                                                                     CCDB are only publicly
and the IGE                                                                                   available in principle, not
                                                                                              actually, and the annual
                                                                                              reports of the IGE are not
                                                                                              yet publicly available.
Intermediate results indicators
1. National budget prepared in No                      Yes                 Yes
                                                                                                           –
accordance with the MTEF
2. Investment projects for      80%                    90%                 Only few           PEMFAR 2015
which feasibility study is
prepared
3. Investment budget            80%                    90%                 84.7%              According to the 2013
implemented                                                                                   budget execution audit
                                                                                              report, which highlights
                                                                                              significant variations
                                                                                              across line ministries (with
                                                                                              one ministry spending
                                                                                              500% of its appropriated
                                                                                              capital expenditure and
                                                                                              others not spending at all
                                                                                              on investment). This
                                                                                              execution rate also
                                                                                              overshadows significant

                                                           25
                                                                     arrears, which accrue to
                                                                     the following fiscal year.
4. Public disclosure of annual   0      2           1                Although the annual report
report of the CCDB and the                                           of the auditor general is
IGE                                                                  publicly available in
                                                                     principle, it is not actually
                                                                     the case (including
                                                                     because its website is not
                                                                     working). The annual
                                                                     report of the IGE is not yet
                                                                     publicly available.
5. Annual budget execution       0      1           1                Annual budget execution
law is prepared in due time                                          law is prepared in due
and is publically available                                          time but is not publically
                                                                     available
6. Sectoral ministries with      75%    100%        86% (30 out of   According to the ARMP
CGMP and an approved                                35)              2013 annual report, all
procurement plan                                                     procurement plans
                                                                     submitted by line
                                                                     ministries have been
                                                                     validated but only 63% of
                                                                     their CGMP have been
                                                                     certified as compliant with
                                                                     regulatory requirements.
7. Procurement plan              40%    90%         32%              According to the 2014
implementation by targeted                                           ARMP annual report, this
ministries                                                           low execution rate results
                                                                     from procedural delays
                                                                     and bottlenecks as well as
                                                                     from the budget crunch.
8. Percentage of procurement     0%     60%         0%               The planned complaints
complaints monitored by                                              handling mechanism is not
hotline under a determined                                           operational yet.
timeframe
9. Ghost workers identified in   None   No target   1%               Source: Directorate
the payroll                                                          General of Budget
10. Civil servant salary         0      80%         100%
executed through an                                                  –
automated payroll system
11. Results-based management     1      11          8                    Only six line ministries
/RRI                                                                      benefitted from RRIs
12 Number of targeted            0      6           0
ministries that have
                                                                     –
implemented the
anticorruption action plan
13. Qualified budget audit       Yes    No          No                Even though the 2013 and
each year                                                               2014 budget execution
                                                                         audit reports are not
                                                                       qualified, they contain a
                                                                     level of criticism of budget
                                                                      management, which could
                                                                         have warranted their
                                                                             qualification.




                                            26
14. Number of NGOs that         0                    5                  5                  Five NGOs partnering
have initiated anticorruption                                                              with the CNLCCF have
activities                                                                                 benefitted from training
                                                                                           under the project.
15. Perception of corruption    Baseline survey in   Second survey at   No survey at       On the Transparency
by the citizens                 2012                 the end of the     project closure    International Perception of
                                                     project                               Corruption Index, the RoC
                                                                                           is ranked 152 in 2014 and
                                                                                           its rating has not improved
                                                                                           over the last few years.
16. Steering committee          No                   Yes                Only one meeting
meetings                                                                during project     –
                                                                        implementation
17. Ministries which prepare    0                    100%               None
                                                                                                        –
M&E reports
18. Completion of internal      No                   Yes                Yes
                                                                                                        –
audit reports by the PIU
19. Project progress and        0                    Yes                Yes                They are activity progress
monitoring reports submitted                                                               reports which hardly
on time                                                                                    contain any information
                                                                                           on outcomes.
                                                                                               Project intermediate
                                                                                            results indicators have not
                                                                                             been consistently tracked
                                                                                           during project supervision.




                                                         27
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1.      The project was expected to improve budget management and credibility,
resulting in improved efficiency in the use of public resources, thus indirectly
benefiting investment in infrastructure and service delivery. It was recognized, though,
that such benefits would not be easily quantified.

2.      Overall budget management and credibility have not significantly improved.
The recent PEFA report (EU 2014) finds no significant progress since the previous one in
2006. The RoC’s performance remains unchanged on 13 out of 28 comparable indicators;
it has improved on four and deteriorated on seven. Budget credibility is weakened by the
accumulation of arrears estimated to amount to 5 percent of the GDP (IMF 2015). In its
audit report of the 2013 budget execution, the CCDB itself observes that “accounting and
budgetary rules are not observed”, including because the principle that appropriated
expenditure should be executed within the fiscal exercise, is not abided by because a
significant amount of such expenditure is carried over to the following fiscal exercise when
it could not be executed on time. It also highlights wide disparities in the execution rate of
capital expenditure across line ministries (CCDB 2014). The overall efficiency of public
expenditure has not improved in the previous years (World Bank 2015) and the
strengthening of institutional capacity of oversight institutions has not yet improved the
effectiveness of their fiduciary controls (EU 2014).

3.      The efficiency of current expenditure has not improved. The project does not
seem to have had any significant impact on the management of the wage bill—the civil
service payroll audit which resulted in its downsizing by less than 1 percent, pales in
comparison to the absence of any progress in HRM (including for lack of completion of
the civil servants’ nominal roll).

4.     The project has essentially contributed to improve the procurement
competitiveness and oversight, that is, potentially of the efficiency of public
procurement and indirectly of capital expenditure which amounted to an increasing
share of the budget (that is, 64.6 percent of total expenditure in 2014). According to
the ARMP, improvement in the procurement process has resulted in savings in public
investments which it measures based on the variation between the estimated cost and
contract award price (although its estimate was not shared with the Bank or made publicly
available in the ARMP annual report). Reducing unit costs of public investment will be a
major achievement because the RoC ranks among the highest in developing countries
(World Bank 2015a).

5.      Although it is not yet possible to quantify efficiency gains in public
procurement, progress made in its oversight during project implementation should
result in significant achievements over time. In its 2015 annual report, the ARMP
monitors a range of critical performance indicators not only of the procurement process but
also of contract management and makes recommendations on how to address observed
challenges and bottlenecks.



                                             28
Table 3. 1. Performance Indicators of Public Procurement and Contract Management Monitored by
                                                the ARMP
                Performance Indicator                                     Rating (2014)
 Institutional capacity of contracting agencies        Compliance of procurement units (CGMP)
                                                           with organization standards: 62%
                                                       Necessary resources allocation (facilities,
                                                           financial, human): <10%
                                                       Validation rate of submitted procurement
                                                           plans: 67%
                                                       Procurement plan execution rate: 32%
 Quality of bidding documents                         Objection rate on bidding documents: 30%
 Quality of bid evaluation                             Objection rate on bid evaluation report: 14%
                                                       Objection on contract award proposal: 29%
 Tenders competitiveness                              Average number of bidders: 3.5
 Procedural delays                                     Delays in drafting of bidding documents: 32
                                                           days
                                                       Delays in contract award: 22 days
                                                       Delays in approving contracts: 52% between
                                                           108 days and 4 years
                                                       Proportion of contracts signed within the
                                                           financial year: 32%
 Contracting                                           Approval rate of contracts: 23%
                                                       Contract amendment rate: 0.004%
 Legal security                                       Litigation rate: 0.0055%
 Complaints handling mechanism                        Hotline not yet operational; 6 months delay in
                                                      answering complaints on average
 Auditing                                             Number of audits by the ARMP
Source: ARMP (2015)

6.      It is unclear whether the project has had much impact on PIM beyond public
procurement. The RoC is one of the weakest performers when it comes to PIM (IMF
2015). The planning and budgeting of public investment remains poor and most investment
projects are budgeted without prior studies (World Bank 2015a). An excessive use of
exceptional spending procedures entails overcommitment, lack of cash, and arrears (EU
2014). Development partners, whether bilateral or multilateral, do not use country systems
(expenditure chain, public procurement, and fiduciary controls) for their projects (EU
2014).

7.      On the whole, given the importance of public investment both in the economy
(28.5 percent of the GDP in 2014) and in public expenditure (60 percent in 2014), the
project’s return on investment can be deemed potentially significant due to actual
and future efficiency gains generated in public procurement only. This is despite the
project’s lack of a tangible impact on the other dimensions of public management initially
targeted, such as the overall efficiency of public expenditure, HRM, and results- or
performance-based M&E systems.




                                                29
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team Members
                                                                                    Responsibility/
            Names                                Title                   Unit
                                                                                      Specialty
Lending
Ahossame Ayaba A. L.
                                Program Assistant                       GMFDR
Ahodehou
Monthe Bienvenu Biyoudi         Senior Operations Officer                AFCE1
Christophe E. Bosch             Lead Water and Sanitation Specialist    GWADR
Nicolette K. DeWitt             Lead Counsel                            LEGOP
Mahine Diop                     Senior Municipal Engineer               GSURR
                                                                        AFTPM -
Carine Karitini Doganis         Senior Public Sector Mgmt. Specialist
                                                                          HIS
                             Senior Financial Management
Jean Charles Amon Kra                                                   GGODR
                             Specialist
Mahamat Goadi Louani         Consultant                                 GEDDR
Josiane Maloueki Louzolo     Team Assistant                             AFMCG
Jean Mabi Mulumba            Senior Public Sector Specialist            GGODR
Rachidi B. Radji             Country Manager                            AFMBI
Clement Tukeba Lessa Kimpuni Senior Procurement Specialist              GGODR
Antonius Verheijen           Country Manager                            ECCYU
Supervision/ICR
Roland Lomme                 Senior Governance Specialist               GGODR TTL

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                                  Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
       Stage of Project Cycle                                            US$, thousands (including
                                             No. of Staff Weeks
                                                                        travel and consultant costs)
Lending
                                Total:                                            150,000
Supervision/ICR
                                Total:                                            360,000




                                                    30
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results


Not applicable




                                      31
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results


Not applicable




                                     32
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

1.     The project was structured in three components whose activities were targeting the
performance indicators of the log frame of the financial agreement approved on February
28, 2012.

2.     Overall, 123 activities were to be conducted. Their completion rate amounts to
48.78 percent and their rate of physical completion probably reaches 57.64 percent. The
disbursement rate for each source of funding is the following: 56.33 percent for the
government counterpart funding and 63.19 percent for the IDA loan.

3.      The first component aimed at strengthening public finance management and public
procurement, including through training the stakeholders of the integrated budget
management IT system (SIDERE) based on 71 planned activities in total. On June 30, 2015,
26 activities were fully completed ( 36.62 percent), six were partially completed (8.45
percent), and 39 had not been conducted (54.93 percent). Therefore, the physical rate of
completion was probably 45.07 percent. Such activities as the establishment of an
integrated pay and nominal roll of civil servants, the elaboration of a performance
management framework for line ministries, and the disclosure of sector strategies of four
line ministries did not happen because of administrative and procedural delays in
contracting.

4.      The second component aimed at strengthening public entities involved in oversight
in general and anticorruption and fraud in particular, based on 32 planned activities. On
June 30, 2015, 23 activities were fully completed (60.53 percent), four activities were
partially completed (10.53 percent), and 11 activities were not conducted (28.94 percent).
Therefore, the physical rate of completion was approximately 71.05 percent.

5.      The third component aimed at the establishment of an M&E system for the
preparation of activities reports by the PIU was based on 14 planned activities. On June 30,
2015, 11 activities had been completed (78.57 percent), 1 activity was partially achieved
(7.14 percent), and 2 activities had not been conducted (14.28 percent). Therefore, the
probable rate of physical completion was 85.72 percent). The design and establishment of
an M&E system that focused on project results did not happen. Neither was a document
filing IT system finalized.

6.     These results, although Moderately Satisfactory, reflect efforts made by the PIU,
the project steering committee, and implementation agencies and their effective
involvement.

7.      The government exercised its oversight through the coordination of line ministries,
steering committee meetings, the payment of counterpart funding until April 2014,
ownership of the conclusions of supervision missions, and convening stakeholders for
portfolio reviews. However, the government failed to disburse the last two tranches of
counterpart funding scheduled on April 30, 2014 (US$4.8 million) and September 30, 2014
(US$4.5 million).



                                            33
8.      IDA performance was characterized by multiple support: country portfolio
performance review every two years, PIU portfolio review every year, supervision
missions conducted by the TTL. However, the project midterm review, which could have
restructured the project based on observed results, did not happen.

9.    Around 30 implementing agencies were involved and their performance improved
compared to what it was under the implementation of TGRP I.

10.     The PIU (ten staff members) takes credit for a performance level of 60 percent since
the financial agreement became effective. Such a performance reflects its own intermediate
achievements: capacity building of implementing agencies; timely funding of activities;
replacement of IT equipment and establishment of a shared data management system;
higher work productivity; adoption of an annual work plan and budget; and submission of
progress indicators every three months. It also acknowledges its responsibility for delaying
processes which resulted in the lack of completion of IT systems for Components 1 and 2
and for failing to design the planned national M&E system under Component 3.

11.     The project log frame included 23 result indicators, including four PDO-level
indicators. At project closure, the following indicators were effectively monitored:

          Three out of four PDO indicators

          Eleven out of thirteen results indicators under Component 1

          Two out of four results indicators for Component 2

          Three out of four indicators for Component 3

12.    The PIU commented the draft ICR on behalf of the government. It made only a few
observations:

          It stressed that the financing agreement did not specify the timeline for the
           payment of the first installment of the government counterpart which happened
           in August 2012.

          It objected that the PIU interacted closely with beneficiary agencies to help
           them navigate the procedures and processes at work.

          It claimed that the results matrix had been revised in 2013.

          It highlighted that although the project implementation manual did not contain
           any provision on M&E, the PIU was well equipped in M&E systems.

          It argued that, although the steering committee only met once, the Ministry of
           Planning closely monitored Bank operations, including TGRP II.




                                            34
   Finally, the PIU stressed that the Bank recognized its capacity for project
    implementation since it tasked it with other Bank-funded projects, for example,
    on extractive industry transparency and on deforestation.




                                    35
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

Not applicable




                                      36
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

ARMP (Autorité de Régulation des Marchés Publics). 2012. Rapport Annuel sur
l’Efficacité et la fiabilité du système de passation, d’exécution et de contrôle des marchés
publics et délégation de service public en. République du Congo.

—— 2013. Rapport Annuel sur l’Efficacité et la fiabilité du système de passation,
d’exécution et de contrôle des marchés publics et délégation de service public en.
République du Congo.

—— 2014. Rapport Annuel sur l’Efficacité et la fiabilité du système de passation,
d’exécution et de contrôle des marchés publics et délégation de service public en.
République du Congo.

CCDB (Cour des Comptes et de Discipline budgétaire). 2014. Rapport sur le contrôle de
l’exécution de la loi de finances. Exercice 2013.

—— 2015, Rapport sur le contrôle de l’exécution de la loi de finances. Exercice 2014.

EU (European Union). 2014. Cadre de la Mesure de la Performance de la Gestion des
Finances Publiques en République du Congo.

IMF (International Monetary Fund). 2011. Investing in Public Investment: An Index of
Public Investment Efficiency.

—— 2015. Republic of Congo Article IV Staff Report.

Government of RoC. 2015. TGRP II Completion Report. Ministry of Economy &
FinancesTGRP.

World Bank. 2011. Financial Management Information Systems. 25 Years of World Bank
Experience on What Works and What Doesn’t.

—— 2013. Examen de l’utilisation du système national de gestion financière pour les
projets d’investissement financés par la Banque mondiale.

—— 2015a. Public Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability Review
(PEMFAR).

—— 2015b. Rapport de suivi de la situation économique et financière. Deuxième édition.

—— 2015c. Rapport de Supervision en Gestion financière.




                                            37
MAP




      38
