      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      CG:Transparency & Governance repeat Proj (P122990)



                                                                                                                Report Number : ICRR0020166


1. Project Data



 Project ID                                             Project Name
 P122990                                                CG:Transparency & Governance repeat Proj

 Country                                                Practice Area(Lead)
 Congo, Republic of                                     Governance



  L/C/TF Number(s)                                     Closing Date (Original)                                      Total Project Cost (USD)
  IDA-50630                                            30-Jun-2015                                                              26,300,000.00

  Bank Approval Date                                   Closing Date (Actual)
  28-Feb-2012                                          30-Jun-2015

                                                             IBRD/IDA (USD)                                                   Grants (USD)

  Original Commitment                                             5,000,000.00                                                          0.00

  Revised Commitment                                              2,726,907.77                                                          0.00

  Actual                                                          2,526,657.32                                                          0.00




 Sector(s)
 General public administration sector(75%):Central government administration(25%)

 Theme(s)
 Public expenditure, financial management and procurement(71%):Participation and civic engagement(10%):Other accountability/anti-
 corruption(9%):Administrative and civil service reform(7%):Managing for development results(3%)

 Prepared by                        Reviewed by                         ICR Review Coordinator              Group
 Judyth L. Twigg                    Robert Mark Lacey                   Lourdes N. Pagaran                  IEGEC (Unit 1)




2. Project Objectives and Components


a. Objectives
    According to the Financing Agreement (p. 5) and Project Appraisal Document (PAD, p. 9), the project's objective was "to strengthen the
    capacity of targeted public sector ministries, agencies and accountability structures for improved management of human and financial
    resources."

    This was a repeater project, following on the Transparency and Governance Capacity Building Project that ran from 2002-2011 and the
    Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) debt relief program of 2010.
          Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
          CG:Transparency & Governance repeat Proj (P122990)




b. Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
     No



c.   Components
      The project contained three components. The ICR provides costs by component only for Bank financing. The project team confirmed that
      data for government contribution by component are not available.

      1. Increased capacity of targeted ministries to manage public finances and human resources (appraisal, US$ 19.8 million, of which Bank
      financing was to be US$ 3.76 million; actual Bank financing, US$ 2.34 million). Activities were to include technical assistance and
      provision of equipment and training aimed at increasing transparency and accountability in financial operations. The main activity was to
      be implementation of a new computerized budget management system, as well as support for a revised Public Investment Action Plan, a
      new procurement law, and enhanced payment and personnel management capacity. Technical assistance was also to be provided to
      extend previously implemented pilots of the Rapid Results approach in selected ministries.

      2. Strengthened capacity of accountability structures (appraisal, US$ 3.5 million, of which Bank financing was to be US$ 0.67 million;
      actual Bank financing, US$ 0.28 million). This component was to provide technical assistance and training to support the Independent
      Governance Observatory, the Governmental Anti-Corruption Commission, the Economic and Financial Commission of Parliament, the
      Supreme Audit Institution, the State General Inspectorate, media outlets, and selected non-governmental organizations to enhance their
      capacity to monitor governance and anti-corruption measures.

      3. Institutionalization of monitoring and evaluation systems at the national level and in targeted sectors (appraisal, US$ 3.0 million, of
      which Bank financing US$ 0.57 million; actual Bank financing, US$ 0.19 million). This component was to ensure effective management
      and coordination of project implementation and, equally importantly, to support the development and institutionalization of M&E functions
      and systems at the national level and in targeted sectors.




d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates
      Project Cost: Estimated project costs were US$ 26.3 million; actual total costs were US$ 9.16 million. The ICR does not provide actual
      total project costs by component.

      Financing: The project was to be supported with a Specific Investment Loan financed by a US$ 5.0 million International Development
      Association credit. US$ 3.16 million was disbursed, and the remainder was cancelled.

      Borrower Contribution: The government contributed US$ 6.0 million of an expected US$ 21.3 million contribution, due primarily to lack of
      commitment to the project's reform agenda.

      Dates: Project effectiveness was postponed until January 2013, due to delays in the government's up-front installment payment. There
      was no formal mid-term review. The project closed as scheduled on June 30, 2015.




3. Relevance of Objectives & Design

a. Relevance of Objectives

     The objectives were substantially relevant to the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy at appraisal (2008-2011), which explicitly prioritized
     public financial management reform and public administration/civil service reform. The objectives remain relevant to the government's current
     reform strategy and to the Bank's Country Partnership Strategy (CPS, 2013-2016), with its focus on assistance in better targeting the country's
     public investment program and increasing its efficiency and effectiveness. Some of the project's performance indicators are included in the
     results framework for the current CPS, and integration of the revenue and expenditure chain is on the government's reform agenda. The share
     of capital spending in the budget had been increasing steadily at appraisal, and budget execution rate was consistently falling short of
               Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                              Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
               CG:Transparency & Governance repeat Proj (P122990)



       projections. The continued budget crunch enhances the continued relevance of public investment management and public procurement.




       Rating
       Substantial


   b. Relevance of Design

       In principle, the project's planned activities were logically and plausibly linked to achievement of its intended outcomes. A sharp increase in
       public investment due to resources made available by the HIPC debt relief program in 2010 led to an appropriate decision to focus the project
       on capital expenditure management. However, the project's design was far too ambitious, given country capacity, available resources, and the
       project's timeline; around thirty public entities, including line ministries, federal agencies, and non-governmental organizations, were targeted. In
       addition, the exogenous factor of potential political changes and their implications for support to the reform agenda was not taken into
       consideration, although the project team stated that the government's lack of support after the HIPC completion point could not have been
       anticipated.




       Rating
       Modest




   4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy)
PHREVISEDTBL



    Objective 1

    Objective
     Strengthen the capacity of targeted public sector ministries, agencies and accountability structures for improved management of human
     and financial resources.

    Rationale
    Outputs:
    The main project activity, completion of an integrated budget management information technology system (amounting to 40% of the
    planned project costs), was not undertaken due to a shift in the reform agenda and institutional bottlenecks. Nonetheless, the national
    budget is now prepared in accordance with the Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF), meeting the target (the ICR does not
    contain information about the quality of the MTEF). A new budget execution law was prepared and is publicly available. The 2013 and 2014
    budget execution audit reports were unqualified, but they contained a level of criticism of budget management that, according to the ICR,
    could have warranted their qualification. Weaknesses in budget management persist, including noncompliance with expenditure ceilings,
    lack of coordination between oil revenues and macroeconomic forecasting, and arrears incurred by delays in processing authorized
    payments (in 2014, budget expenditure carried over from 2013 was nearly 6% of appropriated expenditure).

    The Regulatory Authority for Public Procurement aimed to strengthen its oversight through substantive capacity-building, broadening the
    range of indicators and parameters it attempts to control to improve the quality of public procurement and contract management. However,
    the ICR indicates that any improvement that may have taken place was through improvements in its legal and institutional framework prior
    to the project period. The percent of sectoral ministries with a public procurement unit and an approved procurement plan increased from
    75% in 2012 to 86% in 2014, not reaching the target of 100%. In 2014, the Regulatory Authority for Public Procurement noted that most of
    the public procurement units lacked capacity. A planned procurement complaints handling mechanism was established but is not yet
    operational.

    According to the ICR, "no significant progress" was made on human resources management. An automated payroll system covering
    91,000 government employees was established. However, the Ministry for Civil Service delivered biometric identity documents for only 900
    employees. A planned census of civil servants and integration of the pay and personnel rolls did not take place.
      Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
      CG:Transparency & Governance repeat Proj (P122990)




Devolution of budget expenditure management to line ministries did not take place as planned, due to an absence of financial controllers in
the ministries; the prerequisite training programs were not conducted.

Eight results-based management/Rapid Results Initiatives were carried out, not reaching the target of 11. Only six line ministries benefited
from these initiatives, including a significant improvement in budget execution rates for some (the Ministry of Health in particular improved
its rate).

No ministries implemented anticorruption action plans, not reaching the target of six. However, five non-governmental organizations
(partnering with the Anti-Corruption Commission) received anticorruption training, meeting the target, although their representatives
regretted that the project did not fund this training directly. A planned second survey on public perceptions of corruption, following a
baseline in 2012, was not conducted. The Transparency International Perception of Corruption Index ranking of the country has remained
very poor in recent years.

Planned ministry-level monitoring and evaluation systems were not developed; in essence, the entire third component was overlooked.

Feasibility studies were performed for "very few" investment projects, not meeting the target of studies performed for 90% of investment
projects.

Outcomes:

The deviation between actual and budgeted expenditure by targeted ministries declined from 40% in 2012 to 11.76% in 2014, not quite
reaching the target of 10%, but representing progress. The percentage of investment budget implemented increased from 80% in 2012 to
85% in 2014, not reaching the target of 90%, with significant variations across line ministries. The budget execution rate was 71% in 2012,
90% in 2013, and 88% in 2014, with the recent decline due to lower oil revenues and related fiscal constraints. A 2014 European Union
Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability Report noted that "the quality of real time information on budget execution is deteriorating"
(ICR, p. 11); it rated overall budget management and credibility unchanged between 2006 and 2014 on 13 of 28 indicators, improved on
four, and deteriorated on seven (the ICR does not provide information on specific indicators) (ICR, p. 28).

According to official data, the percent of public contracts over CFAF 250 million that were awarded on a competitive basis increased from
50% in 2012 to 97% in 2014, surpassing the target of 80%. However, it is also reported that the official data on this indicator are
inadequate, that "a number of indicators" are still single-sourced through deliberate circumvention of the legal framework, and that in reality
only about one-third of contracts are competitively awarded in practice (ICR, p. 9). The average number of bidders is 3.5, remaining below
the desired 5. The percentage of procurement complaints monitored by a hotline remained at zero, not reaching the target of 60%; it took
six months, on average to handle complaints in 2014.

Procurement plan implementation by targeted ministries was 40% in 2012 and 32% on average in 2014, not reaching the target of 90%.
The low execution rate in 2014 resulted from procedural delays and bottlenecks, and from fiscal pressures due to the oil price cycle.

The percent of civil servant salaries executed through an automated payroll system increased from zero in 2012 to 100% in 2014,
exceeding the target of 80%. The automated payroll system is fully functional, but there was little progress on identity verification, the
planned census of civil servants did not take place, and personnel and pay rolls are still not integrated. The percentage of government
employees who are ghost workers, as determined by payroll audits, decreased from 20% in 2012 to 19% in 2014, not meeting the target of
5%. Only 1% of government employees (around 900 workers) were removed from the payroll following audit. Human resource
management (under the Ministry of Civil Service) remains unconnected to payroll management (under the Ministry of Finance).

The annual report of the auditor general is available in principle, though not in practice, as the website is not operational. This does not
meet the target of public disclosure of the annual reports of both the auditor general and the State General Inspectorate.




Rating
Modest



5. Efficiency
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       CG:Transparency & Governance repeat Proj (P122990)



 Return on the project's investment in the area of public expenditure efficiency cannot be quantified, as the Regulatory Authority on Public
 Procurement did not provide the necessary data. It claims, however, that improved procurement processes have resulted in savings in public
 investments, measured by the variation between estimated costs and contract award prices. The Bank's 2015 Public Expenditure
 Management and Financial Accountability Review indicates that the overall efficiency of public expenditure has not improved in recent years.

 Counterpart financing was delayed and eventually reached about half of promised amounts. Operating costs of the Project Implementation
 Unit amounted to over 14% of disbursed funds. Procedural delays and high transaction costs, in many cases, prevented the initiation or
 completion of planned activities. Ironically, some procedures put in place by the project to ensure fiduciary integrity created these bottlenecks,
 preventing irregularities in payments but slowing implementation.




Efficiency Rating
Negligible


a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and/or Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the re-estimated
   value at evaluation:

                                              Rate Available?              Point value (%)                   *Coverage/Scope (%)

                                                                                                             0
 Appraisal                                                                 0
                                                                                                             Not Applicable

                                                                                                             0
 ICR Estimate                                                              0
                                                                                                             Not Applicable

* Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome

The project's objectives were substantially relevant, responsive to country conditions, government strategy, and Bank strategy at both appraisal
and at closing. The project's design was modestly relevant; although planned activities logically and plausibly supported intended outcomes,
design was too ambitious for the country's capacity and the project's time frame, and political risks related to government commitment were
underestimated. The objective to strengthen the capacity of targeted public sector ministries, agencies and accountability structures for improved
management of human and financial resources was modestly achieved. Many planned activities were not implemented at all. While there were
some modest improvements in public budget management and procurement, virtually no progress was made on human resources management.
Efficiency is rated negligible due to delays, high transaction costs, unimplemented activities, and inability to quantify returns on the project's
investments. Taken together, these ratings represent major shortcomings in the project's preparation and implementation, and therefore an
Outcome rating of Unsatisfactory.



a.    Outcome Rating
      Unsatisfactory



7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating

The Bank is considering a follow-up Advisory Services and Analytics with a focus on public investment management. Limited and partial
institutional capacity was developed in some agencies in the areas of strategic planning, budget preparation, public procurement, and fiduciary
control; this progress, however, is sustainable only through government commitment to the reform agenda, and that commitment is limited by
vested interests and a lack of political leadership. Some positive signals have emerged, including the adoption of the new organic law on budget
management in 2012 and a reorganization of the Ministry of Finance, but the role and capacity of anticorruption agencies and civil society
organizations remain inadequate, and existing within-government checks and balances are ineffective.
         Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
         CG:Transparency & Governance repeat Proj (P122990)




a.     Risk to Development Outcome Rating
       Substantial


8. Assessment of Bank Performance

a. Quality-at-Entry
     The project was grounded in long-standing policy dialogue and operational experience based on the nine years of implementation of the
     predecessor project. Coordination with other donors during preparation was appropriate. However, the Implementation Completion Report for
     the predecessor project was not yet available when this project was prepared, and therefore the opportunity was missed to draw from some of
     its main lessons: that the project was overly ambitious in relation to coordination and implementation capacity, and that there was an attempt
     to impact too many "distinct and unrelated areas of government policy and management" and too many implementing agencies. As a result,
     there were again too many agencies involved (even though the previous project had been restructured in 2007 to be scaled down and
     streamlined), and human resources management strengthening was added to the objectives. The risk of diminished political commitment to
     the project's core activities was underestimated. "Reform fatigue" after the completion of the HIPC debt relief program was well identified, but
     that was not factored into project design. Adequate provisions were made for M&E activities, but the result framework contained only
     qualitative indicators that were not adequate for assessing progress toward desired outcomes (see Section 10a).



     Quality-at-Entry Rating
     Unsatisfactory


b. Quality of supervision
     The Bank team was effective in ensuring the fiduciary integrity of project transactions. However, although the loss of client ownership and
     political support in 2012 was evident, the project was not restructured or cancelled due to client relations concerns. A full mid-term review was
     not undertaken. As a result, mid-course corrections were not made to deepen preliminary results in the areas of public procurement and
     fiduciary controls, or to reallocate funds earmarked for activities that clearly were not going to be completed. The focus on fiduciary
     compliance crowded out attention to project results and impact. Overall interaction with the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) failed to address
     key shortcomings. The Bank team did not correct the PIU's misunderstanding of the purpose of the third component (strengthening project
     rather than country M&E systems); the issue is not mentioned in Implementation Status and Results Reports. Consultation with the
     International Monetary Fund (IMF) was inadequate, even though the IMF had the lead for technical assistance on budget management; for
     example, the 2011 Central African Economic and Monetary Community guidelines on public financial management were integrated into country
     law with the IMF's assistance, but this was not used as an opportunity to align project activities with a renewed public financial management
     reform program (ICR, p. 7).



     Quality of Supervision Rating
     Unsatisfactory

     Overall Bank Performance Rating
     Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance

a. Government Performance
     Strong government commitment at appraisal was reflected in plans to fund 80% of project costs. However, a government reshuffle in 2012,
     before the project became effective, resulted in diminished support and loss of reform momentum. The project team further stressed that,
     after the HIPC completion point, the reforms were viewed as being imposed by the Bank. This situation worsened after the summer 2014
     budget crunch (caused by decreasing oil prices). Eventually, the government contributed only slightly over half the pledged amount, with
     significant delays in the up-front installment postponing project effectiveness for over a year. The project's Steering Committee met only
     once. Political leadership and coordination between financial departments was inadequate. The government repeatedly assigned other
     tasks to the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), undermining its effectiveness and leading to the appointment by the Bank of a deputy
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                 Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       CG:Transparency & Governance repeat Proj (P122990)



   project coordinator. According to the ICR, some public entities showed initiative and benefited from capacity building under the project, but
   these agencies are not specified; others, such as the tax administration and auditor general, achieved progress despite lack of planned
   project support.



   Government Performance Rating
   Unsatisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance
   The PIU ensured careful adherence to Bank procurement and financial management procedures, but in doing so it experienced lengthy
   and often ineffective processes. It did not coach the target government agencies through iterative procedures. The project coordinator's
   availability was limited, a situation that was rectified only in 2014 with the recruitment of a deputy coordinator. There were significant
   procedural delays. The PIU reported only on activities rather than results, and it interpreted the project's third component as being intended
   to strengthen project M&E rather than country M&E, meaning that this component was essentially not implemented. The ICR (p. 6) cites
   lack of institutional coordination and weaknesses in project management. It should be noted that the government's comments on the draft
   ICR include counter-observations by the PIU: that it did interact closely with beneficiary agencies, that the PIU's M&E systems tracked the
   project's key indicators effectively, and that the Bank recognized the PIU's capacity for project implementation by tasking it with other Bank-
   funded projects (including projects on extractive industry transparency and on deforestation).



   Implementing Agency Performance Rating
   Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating
    Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization

a. M&E Design
   The PAD contained appropriate provisions for M&E, including supervision by the M&E specialist from the prior Transparency and Governance
   Capacity Building project. It also identified an M&E focal point in each participating ministry, assessed capacity within each ministry to produce
   required data, and had an M&E plan to ensure collection of appropriate data for each project indicator, as well as a data collection, analysis, and
   reporting plan for the PIU.

   The PAD included detailed descriptions, baselines, and targets for the four key outcome indicators and 20 intermediate outcome indicators.
   However, the outcome indicators were too narrowly defined to capture fully progress made toward achievement of the objectives.




b. M&E Implementation
   The PIU did not follow the M&E design plan and reported on activities rather than results. It did not monitor procedural delays, and therefore
   several activities were not completed and important target agencies were unserved. Most of the project's intermediate outcome indicators
   were not tracked at all. Overall, the implementation of an M&E system focused on project results did not take place, nor did the establishment
   of a document filing information technology system.




c. M&E Utilization
   The ICR does not report on the use of M&E data and analysis.
             Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                            Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
             CG:Transparency & Governance repeat Proj (P122990)




   M&E Quality Rating
   Negligible


11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards
   The project was Environmental Category C and did not trigger any safeguard policies.




b. Fiduciary Compliance
   Weaknesses in country fiduciary systems led to a decision to use the PIU for project procurement and financial management. Relevant rules
   and procedures were followed. However, the PIU did not have adequate training, and communication between the PIU and target agencies was
   poor, leading to bottlenecks, delays, and activities that were unfinished or not initiated. The ICR does not report on audits.




c. Unintended impacts (Positive or Negative)
   None reported.




d. Other
       ---




12. Ratings
                                                                                                                Reason for
Ratings                                   ICR                                 IEG
                                                                                                                Disagreements/Comment
Outcome                                   Unsatisfactory                     Unsatisfactory                     ---
Risk to Development Outcome               Substantial                        Substantial                        ---
Bank Performance                          Unsatisfactory                     Unsatisfactory                     ---
Borrower Performance                      Moderately Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory                     ---
Quality of ICR                                                               Modest                             ---


Note
When insufficient information is provided by the Bank for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade the relevant ratings as warranted
beginning July 1, 2006.
The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column could cross-reference other sections of the ICR Review, as appropriate.


13. Lessons

The ICR provides several useful and insightful lessons, including:

Particularly in challenging political environments, the internalization of governance reforms takes a long time. This project's preparation
incorrectly assumed that the reforms initiated under the predecessor project would take only a few months to complete, and therefore it
inappropriately added additional ambitious reforms to its agenda.
       Independent Evaluation Group (IEG)                                                  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) Review
       CG:Transparency & Governance repeat Proj (P122990)




Ambitious and potentially controversial reforms cannot rely on a single champion. In this case, the project lost support from the Minister of
Finance after a cabinet reshuffle in 2012, but the project's structure did not easily allow for a refocusing on those key agencies that were
performing relatively well and could have benefited from enhanced Bank support.

In a situation of high political risk, ring-fencing activities and using dedicated PIUs to ensure adherence to Bank fiduciary rules is no guarantee of
delivery on results if the PIU itself has limited capacity and lacks active support from political authorities. In this case, the government
undermined the PIU's effectiveness by repeatedly assigning it to other tasks outside the project.

IEG adds the following lesson:

Repeater projects are unlikely to succeed, even in a favorable international context, in the absence of strong government commitment and
effective learning of lessons from predecessor projects. The context for this project -- a reform program initiated by the HIPC debt relief of 2010
-- should have justified and extended the reach of reform efforts, but the opportunity was missed to adjust course after TGRP I, and the project
could not sustain momentum after a less supportive government came to power in 2012.




14. Assessment Recommended?

No


15. Comments on Quality of ICR

The ICR is concise and results-oriented, with a candid account of the project's preparation shortcomings and challenges encountered during
implementation. It provides information from outside the project's formal results framework to supplement quantitative indicators with qualitative
assessments of achievement of intended outcomes. Its lessons are particularly deep, thorough, and insightful, and should be carefully
considered in future operations. The descriptions of the project's components, however, are rather thin, making it difficult to understand the
shortcomings in the implementation of project activities without going back to the PAD. The efficiency analysis is primarily about efficacy, with
no attempt to quantify "value for money." There is no breakdown of actual total project costs by component (only Bank actual costs by
component are specified), no indication of activities financed by counterpart funding, and no discussion of external auditing.




a.   Quality of ICR Rating
     Modest
