Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4883-LSO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KITNGDDM OF LESOTHO
FOURTH HI, HWAY PR., J.ICT
April 24, 1984
Eastern Africa Projects
Tranportation II Division
This document has a iestricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALEN1S
Currency Unit                                  Maloti (M) 1/
US $ 0.83                                      M 1.00
US $ 1.00                                      M I.2r
WEIGHlS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                     -      3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                       0 U.62 miles (ml)
1 square kilometer (sq kn)             0.386 square miles (sq mi)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIA1LONS
AfDF              African Development Fund
CIDA              Canadian International Development Agency
CPDO              Central Planning and Development Office
EEC               Europetan Economic Community
ICB               International Competitive BLdding
KfW              Kreditanstalt fur Wieders!fbau
LCB               Local Competitive Bidding
LCU               Labor-Intensive Constructinn Unit
LNBS              Lesotho National Bus Service
LII              Lerotholi lechnical Institute
MD                Maintenance Division (MOW)
MOA              Ministry of Agriculture
MUIC              Min-istry of Iransport and Communications
MOW        -     Ministry of Works
MRD               Ministry of Rural Development
ODM              Overseas Development Ministry, United Kingdom
PPF               Project Preparation Facility
PVPS             Plant and Vehicle Pool Services (MOW)-
RB               Roads Branch (MOW)
RSA               Republic of South Africa
RIB              Road iransportation Board (MOIC)
I1S        -       echnician Iraining School
UNDP             United Nations Development Programme
USAID            UniCed States Agency for International Development
vpd               vehicles per day
KINGDOM OF LESOIHO
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
1/    Maloti are at par and circulate side by side with the Rand, the HSA's
currency.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SIAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECI
KINGDOM OF LESOIHO
IABLE OF CONTENlS
Page Nos.
I.    THE TRANSPORT SEClOR
A.  Geographic and Economic Setting ...                                   1
B.  The I ransport System           .     ................ . .  .         1
C.  Iransport Policy, Planning and Coordination .........                 3
D.  Previous Bank Group Projects inthe...
Ira nspert Sector ...4..... . , .,.,,.,,., ......  , . , . *       4
II.   THE HIGHWAY SUB-SECIOR
A   l The Network .    .    ..   , , *.. ...,                            6
B.  Road Use                                                              6
C.  Admin.istration *.    .        ........ .. ... ..,                   8
D . St affing and Training                                                9
E . Planning ......                                                      10
F.  Financing                                                            11
. . Engineering                                                          12
H . Co nst ructi on                                                      12
1 . Mainten ance..                    ..... . ,                          13
III.  THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives ...16
B. Project Description 6..                                               16
C. Cost Estimates .. . 19
D . Financing                  . . .Zi
E.  Implernentation and Procurernent                                     21
F . Disbursernents ...24
G.  Accounting, Auditing and Reporting Requirements                      24
H. Environmental Impact ...25
IV.   ECONOMIC EVALUAIION
A. General. .26
B . Ecoriomi c Evaluation .26
C. Risks .28
V.    AGREEMEN1S AND RECONMENDAIIONS ..........................                 29
The appraisal was undertak<en jointly by IDA and AflDF in September/0ctober
1983.  The IDA appraisal team consisted of J. de Weille, Senior Economist, H.
van Helden, Engineer/Consultant, A. Krishnan, Financial Analyst, and J.
Segerstrom, lecnnical Educator.
This docurnaett haq a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duatics. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Page Nos.
ANNEXES
1. Review of Domestic Construction Industry:.
Terms of Reference .    ..        ....          ...        .. .          31
2. Work Program for Brigades, 1984/85-1936/87 .                               34
3. Estimated Project Costs 7........                                            7
4. lechnical Assistance:  lerms of Reference                 .                 42
5. Training Component ...              ..46
6. Composition and Cost Estimates of Brigades..48
7. Project Implementation Schedule .....51
8. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements .........   .............               52
9. Progress Reporting System                 . . .53
10. Actual Traffic on Roads to be Rehabilitated, 1973- 83.......                57
11. Economic Analysis of Rehabilitation Component:.
A.  Masianokeng-Maseru - KM 6 Leribe Road          .      .58
B.  Maseru (KM 6) - Leribe Road            .........................     59
C.  Masianokeng-Mafeteng Road Including Two Bridges                      60
12. Economic Analysis of Road Improvement Component .
A. Vehicle Operating CcsLs and Savings Earth and.
Gravel Roads           ......................................     61
B.  Economic Justification of Road Improvements   .........              62
13. Related Documents and Data Available in Project File    ......              63
CHARTS
1. Organizational Chart, MOIC                                                  64
2. Organizational Chart, MOW                                                   65
MAP
Lesotho - Fourth Highway Project (IBRD - 17433R)



KINGDOM OF LESOIHO
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECI
CRFrI1 AND PROJEC1 SUMMARY
Borrower:              Kingdom of Lesotho
Amount:                Development credit of SDR 14.3 million (US$15.2 million
equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard
Project Descriptionr:  lhe proposed project aims to improve existing roads and
strengthen institutions in the transport sector. It
would include: rehabilitation of two paved road
sections and construction of two bridges; regravelling
of 360 km of gravel roads, upgrading of 42 km of earth
roads to gravel standard, and improvement of drainage of
123 km of gravel roads; traffic counters and
weighbridges; and technical assistance and training.
Road rehabilitation and improvement would lower
transport costs, protect past investments and increase
accessibility of rural areas. Technical asistance and
training would improve the operational capability of the
Roads Branch and the Plant and Vehicle Pool Services.
In addition, assistance for the labor-intensive
construction unit wou'.d enhence the Government's efforts
to increase domestic employment opportunities. The
project risks relate to the scarcity of qualified local
technical and managerial staff and the drain of
qualified local staff to South Africa. The project,
therefore, includes a high level of staff training and a
substantial technical assistance component.



- il -
Estimated Cost:
Local     Foreign       Total
------- US$ Million -
Rehabilitatiori of Paved Roads                       2.9         11.6       14.5
Improvement of Gravel and Earth Roads                2.9          2.7        5.5
Iraffic Counters and Weighbridqes                    -              .2        .2
lechnical Assistance                                  .3          1.5        1.8
ira ining                                              .2         1.2        1.4
lotal Base Cost                                      6.3          7.1       2T3.5
Physical Contingencies                                 .3         1.1         1.3
Price Coneingencies                                  1.2           2.5       3.7
Extra Contingencies                                    .3         1.1        1.4
IOTAL                                           8.1         21.8       29.9
(of which taxes)                                  (1.7)                   (1.7)
Financing Plan:
Local      Foreiqn      Total
- US$ Million -------
IDA                                                  1.8         13.4       15.2
African Development Fund                              .3          8.3        8.6
Government of Lesotho                                6.1          -           6.;
IOTAL                                            8.2         21.7       29,9
Estimated Disbursement of IDA Credit:
IDA FY                                  85      86     87      88
U! Million-
Annual                                           5.0    4.0    3.5    2.7
Cumulative                                       5.0    9.0   12.5   15.2
Rate of Return:               16.4 to 24.2 percent on paved road rehabiliation
and bridges.
15.8 percent on road regravelling and 16.2 percent
on upgrading from earth to gravel standard
(minimum estimate for first year of program).
Appraisal Report:             Report No. 4883-LES, dated April 13, 1984.
Map:                          No. IBRD 17433.



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECI
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
l. IHE IRANSPORI SECIOR
A. Geographic and Economic Setting
1.01      Lesotho's economy is vulnerable to factors beyond its control.  It
is a small country, land-locked within an industrialized country, the Republic
of South Africa (RSA), on which it relies for external communications (see
Map). lotal population (1983) is 1.4 million growing at 2.3% per year. lotal
land area is no more tthan 30,350 sq km, about the size of Belgium, and only 13
percent of this is suitable for crop farming. Soil erosion is excessive,
further reducing the amount of arab e land available.  Known mineral resources
are few and limited. Only diamonds have been mined in any large quantity, but
the supply is being depleted and the major mine has closed.
1.02      Lesotho was designated as one oF the least developed countries of
the world by thc United Nations in 1976.  For 1982, per capita GNP >was
estimated at US$530. The lack of development of the country is evidenced by
the fact that about 90 percent of the population still live in the rural areas
and depend on subsistence agriculture and/or workers' remittances from abroad
for livelihood.
1.03      The country is highly dependent on the RSA for employment, income,
trade and monetary arrangements. About 50 oercent of the male labor force
earn their income by working in the mines in the RSA. lheir remittances
constitute over 40 percent of Lesotho's GNP. Over 70 percent of the
Government's income comes from the payments of the Customs Union, an associa-
tion formed in 1910 by Botswana, Lesotho and Swaziland with the RSA, the
dominant parLner. Over 95 percent oF Lesotho's imports come from the RSA and
its exports either end up there or go to the rest of the world via RSA's
ports. In addition, Lesotho is a member of the Rand Monetary Area; while this
guarantees payments of Lesotho's foreign financial commitments, it severely
limits its use of monetary policy instruments.
B. Ihe Transport System
1.04      Lesotho depends almost exclusively on road and air transport for
internal travel.  lhe country has no navigable rivers and no railway except
for a short (2 km) rail spur, operated by South African Railways, connecting
Lesotho (Maseru) to the South African system. Domestic air transport,
connecting 12 airports, is quite well developed. The density and standard of
the road network reflects the population distribution. Most of the network,
including most paved roads, are located in the western part of the country
where the majority of the population lives. A small part of the network,



-2-
mainly consisting of lower class roads and trails negotiable only by
four-wheel drive vehicles, is located in the eastern mountain region which is
only very thinly pupulited. At present, the pressing need of the trarisport
sector is to rehabilitate the iflain paveL roads, built some 15 years ago, and
to properly maintain and uinprovei the remainder of the road. network.  In recent
years, some 25%0o of the Government's capital budget has been devoted to invest-
ment in the transport sector, mainly in roads. For external travel, Lesotho
depends entirely on RSA's well developed road and ra.;l network and on Jan
Smuts International Airport at 3ohannesburg for internattonal flight
connections.  Because of Lesotho's high proporti,n of migrant workers and low
level of marketed domestic production, domsnd ror passenger transport is
relatively high.
Roads and Road lransport
1.05      Ihis sub-sector is discussed in Chapter  LI
Air Transport
1.06      Lesotho has 31 airfields and airstrips, of which 12 are used for
domestic scheduled air transport.  Only two are paved, while the rest have
gravel or grass surfaces, of which six are presently being improved to gravel
standards. Only Maseru Airport, the cour,'.ry's international airport, is
equipped with navigational aids, communications equipment, and terminal
facilities. Ihere are no facilities for night flights in the interior. For
some remote mountain areas, air transport provides the only access, other than
by foot or animal. Flights need sometimes to be suspended because of adverse
wheather conditions.
1.07      Facilities at Maseru Airport are inadequate for the larger planes
needed for longer distance international flights and can only accommodate
aircraft up to the Hawker Siddeley 748. Consequently, international traffic
to and from Lesotho must transit through the RSA. lo decrease this reliance
on RSA facilities, Government, in 1983, started construction of an inter-
national airport 20 km south of Maseru, near Mazenoid. Ihis project, expected
to cost about US$50 million, is financed by a number of bilateral and
multilateral aid agencies. Construction is expected to be completed by mid
1985. The construction of this airport was essentially a political decision
and not justified from an economic or financial point of view.
1.08       In 1982, the number of domestic passengers averaged 76 per day, and
international passengers 58 per day. The latter number is easily accommodated
by the 40-seat Fairchild 227 of Lesotho Airways which presently maintains,
with two flights daily, connections with international airlines starting or
terminating in Johannesburg in the RSA. (Ihe Project File contains statistics
on the number of passengers, volume of freight and aircraft movements at
Maseru Airport; Item 1.)
1.09      Lesotho Airways`' domestic schedule is maintained by three 18-seat
lwir Otters. Lesotho Airways also carries out sone charterflights.



-3
1.10      South African Airways operations into Lesotho were discontinued in
February 1983 and so were Lesotho Airways' direct flights to Botswana.  Except
for a privately owned Cessna Charter Comipany, the Government-owned Lesotho
Airways provides all air transport services tc and within the country. In
1982, nearly 30,000 passerigers and 300 tons of freight were carried; these
figures will increase rnow that the partnership with SAA has been terminated.
Because of low occupancy and low utilization of the fleet, Lesotho Airways
operates at a considerable deficit. A four-men KLM team, financed by the EEC,
at present provides technical assistance to Lesotho Airways.
C. Iransport Policy, Planning and Coordination
1.11      Ihe main policy objectives in the transport sector have been to (i)
provide a basic road network serving the main population and production
centers, (ii) reduce dependence on South Africa, and (iii) create the
institutional capability to plan and maintain a transport systu,n consistent
with resource constraints.
1.12      As regards the first objective, Lesotho has been successful during
the sixties and early seventies in providing a paved road network in the
north-south lowland corridor near the western border linking the country's
main political and economic centers. Since the mid-seventies, the Government
has been extending the road network to, and in, the country's eastern mountain
areas to develop their full socio-economic potential as well as ensure their
political and administrative integration.  In developing the rc i network, the
Government, with the assistance from IDA and in line with the Government's
basic economic policy of increased employment generation, has introduced the
use of Jabor intensive work rneLhods. These endeavors have been and are being
achieved with technical and financial inputs from multilateral and bilateral
aid agencies. Ihe current Five-Year Development Plan is consistent with the
Government's development objectives and provides a sound basis for development
of the country's road infrastructure (Para 2.17).
1.13      As to the second objective, the new international airport now under
construction, although uneconomic, intends to avoid the use of airport
facilities in South Africa. As to the third objective, the Government has
mixed experiences. For example, while it has appointed a Mosotho as Chief
Engineer of the Roads Branch and some more experienced local engineers are
moving up in the hierarchy, the Roads Branch is still faced with a lack of
local engineers and technicians as they leave Lesotho for better paying
employment opportunities in the RSA. As a result, the Roads Branch still
requires a considerable number of expatriate staff.
1.14      The Association has supported the Government's policy in the highway
sub-sector, since 1966, through three projects (Paras 1.17-1.20). The
proposed Highways IV project will continue to support the Government's policy
and includes rehabilitation of the main paved roads, improvement of gravel and
earth roads and continued support of institution building. A subsequent
project is likely to continue to support road improvement and institution
building efforts, assist the development of the domestic construction
industry, and may include reconstruction of the Oxbow-Mokhotlong Road (Para
1.19).



- 4 -
1.15      The Central Planning and Development Office (CPDO) of the Ministry
of Planning is responsible for overall policy and planning in Lesotho and for
ensuring irit-er-sectoral. coordination. CPDO's staff includes a Director of
Planning and 1B planning officers, all with training in economics or
statistics; two staff members are expatriates.  Coordination among the
transport modes is not a major issue, given the lack of internal rail and
water transport and the complementary functions of air and road transport.
1.16      The Ministry of Iransport and Communications (MOTC) through its Road
Iransport Roard, is responsible for issuing operating permits for taxis, buses
and trucks.  MOlC's policy in this area is rather liberal.  Also, through its
Civil Aviation Department, MOIC is responsible for airports and their
operatip;is and oversees the activities of Lesotho Airways.  In addition to
these main activities, MOIC is responsible for coordination with the South
African Railways, issuance of drivers and vehicle licenses, control of vehicle
weight, and collection of certain transport statistics.  As further discussed
in Chapter III, riuW is responsible for the road network and its maintenance.
D. Previous Bank Group Projects in the Transport Sector
1.17       There have been three Bank Group transportation projects in Lesotho,
all three for roads. The First Highway Project (Credit 82-BL, US$4.1 million,
1966), executed between 1967-69, included the construction of 107 km of the
main north-south road from Leribe to the Masianokenig Turnoff, and a 27 km
gravel road between Leribe and Pitseng. Ihe project did not include
training. The work was corrmpleted satisfactorily and for less than the
estimated cost.
1.18      Ihe Second Highway Project (Credit 619-LSO, US$5.5 million, 1976)
provided for construction to all-weather gravel standard of a 147 km section
of the main west-east road linking St. Michaels with Thaba Tseka in the
eastern mountain area. The project also assisted in establishing the LCU on a
pilot basis to prepare Lesotho to provide economic employment for any sudden
return of Basotho from the RSA; projects suitable for labor-intensive work
methods were identified, and on-the-job training was provided for local staff
who would form the nucleus of an administrative set up if expansion should
become necessary. A recently prepared PCR concluded that the project had only
been partly successful: construction of the project road encountered delay
while the agricultural development in the area traversed by the road remained
well below expectations, resultinq in a lower economic return than expected.
Ihe LCU as a pilot project, on the other hand, turned out to be successful in
establishing an alternative work method more suitable for low traffic roads.
Ihis project did not include a training component.
1.19      The Third Highway Project (Credit 884-LSO, US$9.0 million, 1979)
provided for (a) paving of the 24 km St. Michaels-Molimo Nthuse section of the
above St. Michaels-lhaba Iseka roao; (b) improvement of gravel and earth roads
through establishment of one equipmerit arid two labor-intensive regravelling
brigades; (c) construction and equipping of regional offices of the Roads
Branch (RB) in the Ministry of Works (MOW); (d) construction and equipping of
the Plant and Vehicle Pool Services (PVPS) regionial workshops; (e) technical
assistance and fellowships for RB and PVPS; and (f) feasibility study and (if



- 5 -
justifiud) detailed engineering for the Oxbow-Mokhotlong road (120 kin) in the
eastern part of the country.  Ihe pavirig of the St. Michaels-Molino Nthuse
road section was aatisfactorily completed in 1983, and road maintenance wau
reorgan.ized and strengthened with the assistance of technical assistance
staff.  Ihe improvement of existing roads is progressinig roasonably well anld
the regravelling backlog has been substantially reduced. lhe two labor based
brigades, employing about 200 workers each, are facing serious staffing
problems (technical. and managerial) resulting in lower output (in terms of
quantity and quality) and higher costs than originally anticipated.  The
detailed engineering of the Oxbow-Mokhotlong road was satisfactorily completed
in late 1982. After a delayed start, the ihird Highway Project is now
expected to be completed by early 1985 and, on the whole, can be considered
successful.
1.20       Ihe technical assistance services provided under Highways III helped
strengthen RB's road maintenance capability and considerable progress has been
made under the project: a new maintenance organization was set up, a staff
training program developed a cost accounting system designed, and a road
inventory and inspection systen  introduced.  Similarly, technical assistance
provided to PVPS helped improve the poor condition this organizatiorl wes in
and introduced order in the administration, workshops and yards. Moreover, a
start was made with the training of staff. lechnical assistance provided
under Highways III to RB and PVPS accounted for some 7%0 of total project
costs.
1.21       In the proposed Fourth Highway Project, an attempt is made to
reflect the lessons learned under the previous projects. For example,
particular attention is paid to technical assistance to PVPS, training and
fellowships to strengthen the staff of the RB and implementation of traffic
count and axle load limit enforcement programs.



- 6 -
II. THE HIGHWAY SUO3SECTOR
A. Ihe Network
2.01     The road network, totalling about 5,000 km, is divided into three
categories according to their function:
a)  primary trunk roads (1,154 km) linking the major towns, regional
centers and border posts;
b)  secondary district roads (856 km) within and between districts;
and
c)  tertiary sub-district roads (376 km).; the remaining 2,613 I<m are
mostly tracks serving as feeders to trunk snd secondary district
roads and are as yet not classified.
2,386 km of these roads are officially classified. As shown in the following
table, 412 km are bitumen paved, 1,644 km are gravel roads, and the rest are
dry-weather earth roads and tracks. Whereas in the late sixties the paved
road network covered less than 150 km at present it is over 400 km. By and
large, the lay-out and density of the road network is adequate; its condition
is discussed in Paras 2.28 and 2.29.
Road Network, 1983 (in kn)
Road Iype           Maintained_b      Primary    Secondary    Tertiary    Total
Bitumen             MOW                  381          17           14          412
Gravel              MOW                  752         775          117        1,644
Earth 1/            MOW                   21          64          245          330
lotal Flassi-                           ___          ___
fied Network                           1,154         856          376        2,386
Not Classified      Ministry of
Network             Rural Devel.,
Traders &
Missions                                                2,613
Total Road
Network                                                                      4,999
1/  Not maintained regularly.
Source: Ministry of Works
B. Road Use
2.02      Until 1977 vehicle registration statistics were collected by the
Ministry of Finance but MOIC now collects this information. In 1982, the last
year for which data are available, the vehicle fleet was estimated at about
21,000 units or one vehicle per 70 inhabitants. Of the total vehicle fleet
nearly 70% consists of light vehicles (passenger cars, pick ups, land rovers,
and minibuses); some 10%o of heavy vehicles (trucks and buses) and the



- 7 -
remainder consists of tractor-traiLers, and motorcycles. Between 1971 and
1982, the vehicle fleet grew at an average annual rate of 12% with the fastest
growth occurring in the number oF light vehicles. (lhe Project File contains
more detailed information on vehicle registration; Item 2).
Ihe Iransport industry
2.03      Information on the total number of trucks operating in Lesotho is
not available since no record is kept of the many South African-owned trucks
handling freight between railheads in South Africa and points in Lesotho. In
1980, there were about 1,400 trucks and 340 buses registered in Lesotho.
About half the number of trucks is for hire. The number of transport
companies and the size of their fleets were not recorded. The majority of the
bus fleet is privately owned; the Lesotho National Bus Service (LNBS), a
parastatal under MOTC and Pstablished in 1973, owns and operates at present 24
buses arid offers a limiteJ inter-city service on most passable routes in the
country. In response to the closure of the southern border with Transkei in
1977, the Government established in 1979 a national trucking company, Lesotho
Freight Services Corporation (LFSC). Ihis company with a fleet of 3B trucks
at present, confines its activities to Lesotho's southern regions, but
Government hopes that this could form the nucleus for an expanded trucking
company operating in the future on a country-wide basis.
Traffic and Transport Regulations
2.04      Commercial transporters of goods or passengers must obtain a motor
carrier certificate which MOTC's Road Transport Board (RTB) issues annually to
licensed drivers on payment of a small fee. Passenger transport vehicles are
required to be tested for road-worthiness every six months, and passenger
fares for buses are determined by RIB, taking into account the conditions of
transport routes. Ihe fares are not strictly enforced, and there is evidence
of some passenger-fare undercutting as well as some overcharging; however,
fare under- cutting is generally more prevalent than overcharging since
competition in passenger transport is quite intense. Freight vehicles are
required to be tested at yearly intervals; freight tariffs are not regulated,
and competition is very keen. The single axle load limit is 8.2 tons, the
same as in Souith Africa. This limit is not enforced at present and a 1980
survey found that overloading is a problem.
2.05      Nevertheless, under the Third Highway Project some progress was made
in this area: one staff member each from the Police and MOTC were trained in
1982 in the mechanics of checking axle loads; in 1983, legislation on axle
load control and enforcement was rewritten and adopted; and MOTC, in 1983,
acquired two portable weighbridges. The proposed project includes procurement
of some additional portable and two permanent weighbridges while the
rehabilitation of the main paved roads includes access to the two permanent
weighbridges to be installed north and south just outside Maseru. MOTC has
prepared an Axle Load Limit Enforcement Work Program (see Project File for
details; Item 3) implementation of which will start in 1984.
2.06     MOTC's Department of Transport administers the regulations.  It has
recently been reorganized; Chart 1 gives the present organization. The
Department's ability to enforce vehicle regulations is limited by a lack of



- 8 -
trained and experienced staff.  Though many of its staff are well educated,
they lack experience with the types of activities to be carried out.
Furthermore, driver arid vehicle examiners are in short supply. MOIC is
working toward improving this situation by providing on-the-job training to
the Department's staff.
Fuel Consumption and Prices
2 07      Annual growth of Fuel consumption over the period 1976-1981 ranges
from 12% for gasoline to 15°6 for diesel.  (Ihe Project File provides more
detailed information on gasoline and oil consumption for this period; Item 4.)
2.08      All fuel is supplied by the RSA.  The following table presents, per
liter, fuel retail prices, tax and duty component, estimated in-land transport
and distribution costs, and' CIF Lesotho import prices. lhe retail prices
include a 35 percent tax component providing considerable revenue to the
Government (see also Para 2.21).  As in the past, these prices are well above
economic costs and considered adequate; the 1983 (last quarter) world market
price (landed in Mozambique) for gasoline and diesel was about US$.25/liter.
Fuel Cost, Lesotho, 1983
(per liter)
Gasoline
Regular          Premium            Diesel
M     US$        M     US$         M      US$
Ex South Africa                   .37    .31        .38    .32        .40    .33
Excise duty                       .10    .08        .10    .08        .10    .08
Special levy                      .10    .08        .10    .08        .08    .07
Retail margin and transport       .04    .03        .04    .03        .04    .03
Governmerit sales tax              .03    .03       .03    .03        .03    .03
Retail price Maseru                .64    .53       .65    .54        .65    .54
Source: Mobil Oil Company, Lesotho, 1983
C. Admiriistration
2.09     MOW is responsible for the 2,386 km of classified roads; the Ministry
of Cooperatives and Rural Development (MRD), using labor employed under the
Food for Work Program, is in charge of construction and maintenance of most
earth tracks in the mountainous areas; and the Ministry of Agriculture and
Marketing (MOA) has undertaken responsibility for the construction of about
200 km of feeder roads under the Association's Basic Agricultural Services
Project (Credit 795-LSO, US$6.0 million, 1978), with co-financing from the
Overseas Development Ministry of the UK (ODM), the European Economic Community
(EEC), the Federal Republic of Germany and the United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP). It is intended that MOW will gradually take over the



- 9 -
maintenance of some Feeder roads as traffic on them increases sii,'e rneithe
MRD nor MOA has the capacity to maintain the road,, properly.
2.10     MOW's Roads Branch (RB) is in charqg  of j.lanninq, design, maintenaric
and construction of roads under MOW's jurisdiction. It also maintains some
airfields on behalf of the Civil Aviation Department. RB has ceiitralized
services at Maseru for planning, design and construction. The Maseru office
and the regional offices in Leribe, Mohale's Hoek ai,d Mokhotlong are
responsible for all routine and periodic mi.ntenance.  lo permit RB to operate
efficiently over the entire country, its administrative structure was
reorganized and strengthened under the Third Highway Project (Para 2.28).  For
details on its organization, see Chart 2.
2.11      MOW's Plant and Vehicle Pool Services (PVPS) is in charge of
equipment procuremerit, maintenance and repair and provides e1quipment for hire
to other Government agencies; when time perwits, PVPS also maintains vehicles
of these agencies. Most of PVPS plant, some 95%, is being used by RB. PVPS's
organization and operations are further discussed in detail in Paras 2.13-
2.15, 2.31 and 2.32.
D. Staffing and Training
2.12      A major constraint on RB's operations is the shortage of qualified
staff due to both the scarcity of trained Basotho and the departure of skilled
local personnel to the RSA which pays substantially higher salaries. Total riB
staffing, skilled and unskilled, in 1983 was around 2,000. As of August 1983,
out of a total of 31 proFessional positions (e.g. engineers, assistant
engineers and financial controllers), 21 positions were vacant. Similarly,
out of a total of 116 sub-professional positions (e.g. chief and lower level
technical officers, storekeepers, oFfice assistants, etc.), 47 positions were
vacant. (The Project File contains more --tailed information on the subject;
Items 5 and 6.) lhe shortage of qualifieu local engineers is
especially severe. RB now employs only one Mosotho engineer (Chief Engineer
Roads) in a managerial position while expatriates occupy all other managerial
positions. On the whole, RB operates reasonably well but the heavy reliance
on technical assistance is expected to persist well into the 1990's.
2.13      PVPS operations are also seriously hampered by an overall shortage
of qualified staff. Managerial and technical staffing is very weak, resulting
in operational inefficiencies and high costs. Wel'l trained mechanics and
equipment operatnrs are in short supply. To improve the situation, a five-man
consultant team, financed under the Third Highway Project, was engaged in 19B3
to manage PVPS operations. Improvements are noticeable but a lot remains to
be done.
2.14      As mentioned before, the continuing shortage of skilled local
personnel at all levels in both RB and PVPS impedes efficient operations and/
or makes foreign technical assistance indispensable. In the absence of a
technical faculty at the National University of Lesotho (NUL), profesrional
engineers have to be trained overseas or in neighboring countries. Numerous
fellowships have been granted through bilateral and multilateral donors to RB
and PVPS for this purpose, but a severe shortage of senior management staff



- 10 -
still remains. At the middle management level, there is 9 shortage of
technicians and other supervisory staff.  lraining of technicians is provided
by the lechrnician Iraining School (IIS) of the Lerotholi Polytechnic, but the
output is small (10 civil engineering and six mechanical engineering
tecthnicians will graduate in 1984) and the course content is too theoretical
to immediately suit the needs of the employers. The Ministry of Education is,
at present, in the process of engaginrj technical assistance to improve the
quality of iTS.  As to training of skilled workers, the Lerotholi Technical
Institute (LlI), together with two regional technical institutes, produces
annually about 100-120 graduates in mechanical, electrical and building
trades. As in the case of technicians, these graduates are not readily
operational and are exposed to a period of on-the-job training in PVPS and RB
before independent job assignments can be given to them.
2.15      On-the-job training is carried out at the PVPS on an inforrmal and
small scale basis. However, plans exist to introduce an apprenticeship
upgrading program for its mechanics and operators in cooperation with the
LII. The RB has a small training school for upgrading of road maintenance and
construction workers supported under the Third Highway Project. The proposed
project will assist the Govcr-ment in inproving its staffing situation by
providing technical assistance to fill key positions within RB and PVPS as
well as for training of RB and PVPS local staff (Paras 3.08 and 3.09).
E. Planning
2.16      MOW's Plarnning Unit is responsible for preparing and evaluating
projects (including those for roads), coordinating investments within the
Ministry and with CPDO (Para 1.15), framing annual capital estimates and
monitoring the physical and financial progress of MOW projects. Neither the
MOW Planning Unit nor the RB has any capacity for major road or transport
studies, and these functions are perfornmed by expatriate consultants.
2.11      Road investments scheduled under the on-going Ihird Five-Year
Development Plan (1980-1985) are primarily directed toward opening up the
eastern mountain areas. (The Project File contains a list of the roads to be
studied or constructed under the Plan and the present status; Items 7 and 8).
Investments included in the Plan are consistent with the Government's
development objectives and were recommended in the 1973 Lesotho Transportation
Study as part of a ten-year road development plan (1976-1985) which was
adopted by Government and which provides a generally sound basis for
development of the country's road infrastructure.  The Government is about to
start preparing the next Five-Year Development Plan (1986-1990). During
negotiations, it was agreed that the Government during the preparation of this
Development Plan will consult with the Association on the transport section
thereof (para 5.01 (a)).
2.1B      One very important planning function of MOW is the undertaking of
trafFic counts. Under the Third Highway Project, consultants prepared a
detailed plan of action for undertaking automatic and manual traffic ccunts.
Automatic counting was started in 1982 while MOW undertook its first nation-
wide-one-week manual traffic count in mid 1983. Given the paramnount inport-
ance for planning purposes of reliable, detailed and up--tc-date traffic



- 11 -
counts, the proposed project includes the procurement of automatic traffic
counters.  (1he Project File contains NOW's work program for future traffic
counts; Item 9.)
F.  Financiig
2.19      MOW's annual budget estinates for the highway sector are prepared by
the RB and are reviewed and, where necessary, anended by the office of HOW's
Permanent Secretary.  The capital budget is then submitted to CPDO for
approval before being incorporated into the Government's Capital Budget which
is submitted to the Ministry of Finance for presentation to Parliament. MOW's
recurrent budget is subrnitted directly to the Ministry of Finance for approval
and presentation to Parliament.
2.20      The table below presents the annual maintenance and capital
expenditures on roads by HOW since 1977. Over the period 1977-1984,
maintenance expenditures in real terns have increased nearly 30% while capital
?xpenditures have more than trebled.  The present level of road maintenance
exi,enditures does not permit an adequate standard of road maintenance and
should be increased (Para 2.28). IThe bulk of the capital expenditure, some
90%, is financed fron bilateral and multilateral sources.  The level of
capital expenditure is appropriate while the choice of projects reflects the
Government's transport policy strategy (Para 2.17).
Roads Department, MOW
Maintenance and Capital Expenditures, FY 1977-1984
(Maloti million)
E x p e n d i t u r e s
Fiscal        Maintenance           Capital          Maintenance           Capital
'fear        ----(in current prices)----            ----(in FY83 prices  )J)
A. Actual
1977              1.07                2.50              2.18                  5.05
1978              1.26                2.60              2.21                  4.56
1979              1,66                4.8              Z.59                  7.50
1980              3.81                7.20              5.37                 10.14
1981              3.10                9.33              3.97                 11.97
1982              2.B6               24.73              3.29                 28.42
B. Estimates
1983              3.41               23.15              3.41                 23.15
1984              3.10               19.34              2.79                 17.41
(Index, 1977      100)
1984              290                 774               128                   342
1/  Using the GDP implicit price deFlator for Gross Capital Fornation and an
estimated 10%6 inflation for FY1984.
Source: Hinistry of Works, World Bank, and Mission Estimates.



- 12 -
Road User Charges
2.21      The following table summarizes the 1980 road user charges collected
by the Government:
Road User Charges, 1980
Maloti             US $
Million           Million
Various Vehicle Registration,
Inspection and License Fees                 0.8               0.7
T,,xes and Duties on:
-   Fuel                                    5.5               4.6
-   Engine Oil                              0.5               0.L
-   Spare Parts                             1.0               0.8
-   Tires                                   1.5               1.3
-   Vehicles                                6.6               5.5
TOTAL                                      15.9              13.3
Source:  MOTC
The level of general revenue generated by road users amounts to some M16.0
million annually, considerably in excess of annualr maintenance expenditures on
roads of some M3.0 million in recent years as well as of the Government
contribution to capital expenditures (Pare 2.20). This level of road user
revenue covers not only the economic costs of the use of roads in Lesotho but
also makes a considerable contribution to the Government's revenue. It is
expected that the Government in the future will at least maintain the present
level of road user charges in real terms.
G. Engineeri
2.22     Due to a shortage of qualified staff, RB's Design and Planning
Section prepares only minor road and bridge designs, whereas designs for major
projects and construction supervision are undertaken by foreign consultan'  .
Because of the shortage of qualified local personnel, there is, at preserc,
only one local civil works consulting firm in Lesotho, which Was established
in 1980 in association with a Canadian firm.
2.23     Design standards for roads (see Project File for details; Item 13)
are satisfactory. The design axle load is 8.2 ton. RFural roads are usually
designed for speeds oF 30-80 km/h in western lowlands and 20-5!) km/h in
mountainous areas.  Bitumen paved roads normally consist of double surface
treatment on a cement or lime stabilized granular base; gravel roads are
constructed with a 15-20 cm natural gravel surface.
H. Construction
2.24     All major construction works are carried out by Foreigrn contractors
with contracts signed on a unit price basis following international ccmpeti-
tive bidding or the requirements of the financing aqency. RB undertakes only
minor construction works, most of which are equipment intensive, with equip-



- 13 -
ment rented from the PVPS and supervised by RB's own staff. As to the
availability of construction materials, except for gravel and stone fron local
quarries, all materials (cement, lime, bitumen, steel, fuel, spare parts) are
imported from or t.hrough the RSA.  Crushing of stones is not voilnon practice,
resultinq in a (too) great variety of sizes of the stone used in base
construction and gravel surfacing.
2.25     RB has two equipment intensive brigades, one established by the
Government and the other under the Third Highway Project (Para 1.19) which
carry out about 175 km of road regravelling work annually. In addition, LCU,
established under the Second Highway Project on a pilot basis (Para 1.16),
employed in mid 1983 about 800 laborers and has been involved imainly in
construction, upgrading and maintenance of low traffic rural and urban roads
using labor intensive techniques. The two labor intensive brigades,
established under LCU and financed under the Ihird Highway Project (Para 1.19)
have carried out about 75 km of regravelling of roads annually since 1980,
employing about 400 laborers.
2.26      Little work is being done by domestic firms who are poorly equipped,
and only capable of undertaking small jobs such as hauling materials. Local
contractors have not developed their full potential. lhis can be costly fcr
Lesotho in both economic and financial terms, particularly since rmuch OF the
required work in the future will be either maintenance or small jobs in renote
areas which are unlikely to attract foreign firms. The Governrnent is,
therefore, considering taking steps to encourage the development oF a domestic
construction industry. As a first step, the Government would like to carry
out a review of the construction industry to identify the main constraints and
obstacles preventing domestic construction firms from assuning a more
productive role in the economy.  Ihe review should lead to the development of
appropriate action to overcome these constraints.  Ihe proposed project
includes consulting services (five man-months) to assist the Governmnent in
carrying out this review during 1985. For the Terms of Reference of this
review, see Annex 1.  Ihe timing and terms of reference for the study were
agreed with the Government during negotiations (Paras 5.01 (f) and (g)).
1. Maintenance
2.27     RB, through its Maintenance Division (MD), is respons:tble for the
maintenance of the 2,386 km cvlassified road network (Para 2.09). RB,
including its Maintenance Division based at RB's headquarters, was reorganized
and strengthened under the 'hird Highway Project (Para 2.ZB).  MI is divided
into four regions (north, central, east and south), each headedI by a regional
road engineer.   Each region is further sub-divided into distr:Acts each headed
by a principal technical officer. Each administrative level carries out
particular functions:  road maintenance administration, planning and annual
programming of work is done at headquarters; detailed programming of
maintenance and supervision work is undertaken at the regional level;
districts have overall responsibility for day-to-day maintenance activities
carried out by maintenance gangs based in road camps.  Road improvement and
periodic maintenance (resealiimq and regravelling) is carried out by separate
units under the direct responsibility of RB (Para 2.25).



- 14 -
2.28      Since 1977, the Government has taken several measures to improve
road maintenance. Maintenance expenditures in real terms more than doubled
between 1977 and 1980 (see Para 2.20) but since then, because of the tight
financial situation, were considerably reduced again. For FY1965, an adequate
level of road m3intenance expenditures would be N14.4 million. This has been
discussed with the Government during appraisal and during negotiations the
Government's at;surance was obtained that during the project period acequate
amounts will be budgeted for road maintenance: M4.4 million for FY19U5 and
the same annual amount in real terms thereafter (Para. 5.01 (b)).   Under the
Third Highway Project, RB was satisfactorily reorganized and strengthened. As
a result routine maintenance of both paved and unpaved roads has considerably
improved while the regravelling backlog has been substantially reduced, though
not elimAnated, by the regravelling brigades established under the Third
Highway Project (Para 1.19). The paved roads have been maintained reasonably
well though some sections are approaching the end of their economic life and
are deformed to the extent that regular maintenance cannot restore then (Para
3.03). The proposed project, therefore, includes the rehabilitation of 108 km
of main paved roads. Moreover, technical assistance staff, provided under the
Third Highway Project, has established appropriate road maintenance standards
and determined the road maintenance resources requirements. In addition, they
have prepared guidelines for the establishment of a cost accounting system and
a road inventory which are being implemented albeit rather slowly because of
lack of adequately trained staff. Therefore, the proposed project will
strengthen RB by provision of technical assistance staff to fill two key
vacant posts in addition to the posts filled by expatriates financed from
other sources.
2.29     Though the performance of the Maintenance Division has substantially
improved, there is still a considerable gravelling backlog. In addition, many
gravel and earth road sections become temporarily impassable during the rainy.
season because of inadequate and poor drainage. Culverts and small bridges
are often lacking or the existing ones are poorly designed, damaged or washed
away. To resolve these problems, RB has prepared a three-year program
(FY84/85-86/87) to regravel 360 km of gravel roads, upgrade 42 km of earth
roads to gravel standard, and improve the drainage of 123 km of gravel roads
through provision of culverts (Annex 2). During negotiations, agreement
was reached on this Program. Moreover, agreement was reached that MOW submit
to the Association, for its review and approval, at least three months before
the beginning of each fiscal year, an update of next year's Program, including
an economic justification of the proposed Program (Paras 5.01 (c) and (d)).
The regravelling, upgrading and culverting program will be carried out by one
equipment and one labor intensive brigade plus a culverting brigade which will
be supported under the proposed project through financing of equipment, fuel,
spare parts, materials and part of the local costs.
2.30      In early 1983, MOW has taken several corrective measures to improve
the poor performance (Para 1.19) of the two LCIJ regravelling brigades:
planning and programming was improved; appropriate desiqn standards were
established; coordination between RB and LCU was improved; and supervision of
work by headquarters staff was intensified. As a result, performance and
production initially improved but due to managerial and technical staffing
problems deteriorated again in the course oF 1983. Given the importance of
the employment generation objective underlying the LCU concept (Para 1.12),
the proposed project includes equipment, fuel, spare parts and materials for



- 15 -
one LCU brigade for a period iif three years.  Technical assistance will be
provided by SIDA to help ensu:re that through an adequate level of supervisory
and technical staffLng of the LCU, the output will be satisFactory in terms of
quantity and quality.
2.31      Road maintenance depends heavily on the performance of PVPS which is
in charge of procur.ing, maantaining arid repairing of equipment, plant and
vehicles rented bv n3nvernment agencies including RB. Besides the serious
staffing problems already mentioned (Para 2.13), PVPS' operations suffer from
an imbalance in equipment with shortages of some road maintenance equipment
items while others (heavy construction equipment, for example) are in surplus,
a wide variety in make of equ:ipment with lack of standardization, and lack of
spare parts.  As a result of these factors, availability of equipment is only
64% and utilization 60°0.  In addition, PVPS was only allowed to undertake
maintenance and repair of its own plant and vehicles and not of RB's equipment
purchased under various aid projects including equipment purchased under the
Third Highway Project for the labor and equipment intensive brigades. This,
in turn, made RB's road maintenance operations more costly. This
unsatisfactory arrangement is gradually being discontinued and during
negotiations of the proposed project, the Government recorifirmed that it will
allow PVPS to maintain and repair all RB's equipment (Para 5.01 (e)).
2.32     The Government has taken several steps to improve the poor perform-
ance of PVPS. In 1982, PVPS management was changed and since then coordina-
tion with RB has improved.   To assist the new management i1t improving the
present situation, a five-men consultant team (T. P. O'Sullivan and Partners,
UK) was engaged in 1983 financed under the lhird Highway Project. This team
has reviewed the PVPS fleet, organization, staffing, management, and hire
cherges as well as PVPS' capacity in terms of workshops and workshop
facilities. Ihe preliminary findings indicate that PVPS fleet has increased
From 780 units in 1978 to about 1,500 in 1983. Over the same period, the
number of senior management staff declined from 10 engineers, accountants and
supervisors to only 2 while the growth of artisan staff increased by only 12%,
resulting in an unacceptably high ratio of vehicles to mechanics of 30:1. To
improve PVPS' performance, the proposed project includes technical assistance
staff to fill the key positions (Para 3.08,.Page 4 of Annex 3, and Annex 4)
and training of local staff (Para 3.09, Page 5 of Annex 3, and Annex 5) s0
that the present imbalance between the managerial and technical staff on the
one hand, and plant and vehicles to be maintained and repaired on the other
hand, can be eliminated.



- 16 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.01      The Fourth Highway Project is to support the Governmerit's transport
objectives of lowering transport costs and increasing accessibility of rural
areas as well as assist the Government in its institution building efforts in
the transport sector. Moreover, the project is to support the Government's
general policy objective of employment generation. Specifically, the project
intends to:
a)    rehabilitate two paved road sections totalling 108 km tn
reduce (or avoid the increase in) transport costs as well as
protect the capital investment made in the past;
b)    improve the gravel and earth road network to reduce transport
costs, increase the accessibility of rural areas and create
additional employment by using labor intensive techniques
where appropriate; and
c)    strengthen the institutional capacity of the Ministry of Works
through (i) provision of technical assistance, (ii) on-the-job
and formal training of local personnel, and (iii) comprehen-
sive programs for traffic counting as well as enforcement of
axle load limits.
B. Project Description
3.02      The project comprises the following components:
a)    rehabilitation of two paved road sections:  one rujral section
From Leribe to a point 6 km north of Maseru (Project II, 88
km) and one urban/suburban section froni the above 6 km point
via Maseru to Masianokeng (Project I, 19.5 km); plus the
construction of two bridges on the road from Masianokeng to
Mafeteng;
b)    regravelling of 360 km of gravel roads, upgrading from earth
to gravel standards of 42 km, and improvement of drainage of
123 km of gravel roads;
c)    procurement of traffic counters and weighbridges;
d)    technical assistance and training and fellowships.
3.03      Rehabilitation of Paved Roads - Lesotho has 412 km of bitumen paved
roads (Para. 2.01). The most important are (a) the 170 km main road parallel
with and close to the border with RSA between Leribe in the north via Maseru
and Masianokeng to Mafeteng in the south; and (b) a 20 km road section
connecting Masianokeng with Roma where the national university center is
located. These 190 km of roads were constructed sone 15 years ago and were
originally designed for a life of about 10 years. In 1981 MOW undertook a
deFlection survey and found that several sections of these roads were deformed
and damaged to the extent that regular maintenance could not restore them any
longer. lo protect its capital investment, and to avoid hieavy and expensive
reconstruction in the future, the Government decided to rehabilitate these



- 17 -
vital roads, either by surtace dressing of those sections where the existing
pavement still held up well, and by strengthening, where possible, the present
pavement with an overlay or, where necessary, by reconstructinig base coorse
and pavement.
3.04      With this in mind, MOW engaged in 1983 the consulting firm Louis
Berger Internat.ional, Inc. (USA) to carry out economic and engineering studies
for the rehabilitat'Lurn of the above 190 km of roads. This StLIdy was financed
by an IDA Project Preparation Faciiity (PPF223).  Based on traffic volume and
road condition, the above roads were divided in three sections: Projects I
and II, as described in Para 3.02, and Project III which inicluded the 62.5 km
Mafeteng-Masianokeng plus the 20.3 kin Masianokeng-Roma road sections. The
feasibility study was produced irn May 1983 and the consultants were instructed
to proceed with the final design arnd cost estimates and the preparation of
tender documents. During appraisal in September/October 1983, it became clear
that the combined funds available from the Government of Lesotho, IDA and AfDF
were insufficient to finance the rehabilitation cost of all road sections
covered by the detailed engineering study. It was, therefore, decided to
postpone the rehabilitation of the 62.5 km Masianokeng-Mafeteng and the 20.3
Masianokeng-Roma sections which are in a better condition and to include in
the proposed project the 108 km from Masianokeng via Maseru to Leribe and two
bridges on the road from Masianokeng to Mafeteng. The rehabilitation
component of the proposed project has been divided in the two road sestions
and the two bridges described in Para. 302, sub a); the 88 km rural section
between the point 6 km north of Maseru and Leribe (Project II) is to be
financed by the AfDF, and the 19.5 km suburban and urban section between
Masianokeng and the above point north of Maseru (Project I) plus the two
bridges (Project A) by IDA.
3.05      In the feasibility study report, the road sections were divided into
a large number of homogeneous sub-sections based on pavement condition and
traffic volume. For these sub-sections, the following design and timing
options were considered: (i) reconstruction, overlay or surface dressing;
(ii) different types of material for base course (crushed stone and cement,
lime or bitumen stabilized gravel); (iii) different pavement width (the
present width or wider); and (iv) different timing for the works (1984, 1989,
1993). Based on the foregoing, for each sub-section the most cost effective
solution as well as the appropriate timing was determirned and this, in turn,
formed the basis for the detailed engineering. During 1984-86, 19.5 km is to
be reconstructed and surfaced with 60 mm asphalt concrete, 74.5 km to be over-
laid with a stabilized base and surfaced with a 20 mm so called capeseal, and
13.2 km is to be resealed with a single surface treatment. The entire
rehabilitation component, including the bridges, accounts for about 65 percent
of the total project cost 2/.
2/ At the time of appraisal of the lhird Highway Project, construction of the
Oxbow-Mokhotlong Road was expected to form the main component of the Fourth
Highway Project. Hence, the Third Highway Project included the feasibility
study and detailed engineering of that road (Para 1.19). Since then, however,
the Government has come to the conclusion that rehabilitation of the main
roads has a higher priority. Construction of the Oxbow-Mokhotlong road,
however, could feature promimently in a next highway project (Para 1.14).
Ihis postponement, moreover, would result in a higher rate of return because
of higher traffic volumes four to five years from now.



- 18 -
3.06      Improvement of Gravel and Earth Roads - lo reduce the regravelling
backlog, one equipment arid two labor intensive regravelling brigades were
established and financed under the 1hird Highway Project (Pare 1.19).  In
addition, one equipment intensive brigade was established and financed by the
Governmerit.  Since establishment of these four brigades in 1980/81, about 600
km of rosds have been gravelled. MOW is using these brigades to catch up with
the regravellirig backlog and to upgrade some earth roads to gravel standards.
lihis work requires a minimal amount of engineering such as simple sketches and
specifications which can be provided by RB staff. Ihe proposed project will
assist in implementing the regravellirig and upgrading program (Para 2.29) by
providing some additional equipment for two (orne equipment and one labor
intensive) IDA-financed brigades established under the Third Highway Project
as well as the necessary equipmernt to establish a small culverting brigade.
In addition, the proposed project finances the operating costs of these three
brigades over a three-year period. This project component accounts for about
22 percent of the total project cost.  Because of the financial constraints
facing the lProject (Para 3.04), the operation of one of the two labor
interisive brigades established and financed under the Third Highway Project
will be discontinued. In the future, it is expected that following the
conclusion of the Review of Domebtic Constiuction Industry (Para 2.26), local
private contractors will gradually assume the activities now undertaken by MOW
force account.
3.07      Procurement of Traffic Counters and Weighbridges - The Government
recognizes the importance of regular and reliable traffic counts for planning
purposes (Para 2.1B) and of enforcement of axle load limits to preserve the
existing pavement against overloading (Para 2.05). MOW has prepared a
detailed work program for traffic counting (see Project File, Item 9).  Also,
coordination between MOW, MOIC and traffic police has been improved and MOTC
has outlined a program for enforcement o' axle load limits (see Project File,
Item 3) for which staff has been trained under the Third Highway Project. Ihe
proposed project includes procurement of traffic counters and mobile and
permanent weighbridges accounting for less than one percent of the total
project costs.
3.08      lechnical Assistance - Given the continued lack of qualified local
personnel, the project will provide technical assistance to fill Key positions
in the Roads Branch and the Plant and Vehicle Pool Services. Annex 3, Page 4,
lists the key positions to be filled by technical assistance staff under the
project with the corresponding cost estimates while Annex 4 provides the terms
of reference. In addition, five man-months consulting services are included
to assist Government in carrying out a review of the local construction
industry (Para 2.26). A total of 21.5 man-years (258 man-months) will be
provided. This project component accounts for nearly seven percent of the
total project costs.
3.09      Training.  As indicated in Paras. 2.14 and 2.15, there is a need for
training at all staff levels within PVPS and RB. The objectivie of the
proposed training component is to upgrade existing staff skills to gradually
replace technical assistance with well trained staff. Engineering training
through fellowships abroad would be provided as follows: (a) road engineering
and transport planning, long term, 84 man-months; (b) road engineering and
supervision, short term, 45 man-months; (c) mechanical engineering, and
managerial training, long term, 108 man-months; (d) mechanical workshop



- 19 -
supervision and mana9ement, short term, 152 man-months; and (e) a study tour
for senior management staff, 3 man-months. lhe progr&in has been prepared to
fit in with the departure of technical assistance personnel and has been
scheduled in such a way that maximum two candidates for roads and two for
mechanical engineering training would be away on long-term Fellowships
simultaneously.  With respect to shiort-term fellowships for middle level
staff, almost all fellows would attend courses of at the most three montlhs
duration, which would not impose undue problems on RB and PVPS operations (see
Annex 5, Page 1). Total overseas fellowship training amounts to 392
man-months. With respect to in-country training, the RB existing training
center would be strengthened in order to expand its activities to include
practical training in the field for existing staff. For this purpose, the
proposed project would provide financing for: (a) training materials and
field training equipment; (b) spare parts and fuel during three years for
operating equipment designated for training; and (c) mobile accommodation for
a field training unit. In addition, the proposed project provides 18
man-months of technical assistance as well as equipment to support an
apprenticeship training program for PVPS mechanics. The program would be
conducted in cooperation with LTI and the lechnical/Vocational Education
Advisor of the Ministry of Education. Annex 3, Page 5, presents the cost
estimate of the training component of the project while Annex 5 gives a
detailed listing of the items included. All in all, the training component
constitutes just over five percent of total project cests.
C. COST ESIIMATES
3.10      The total project cost, including all contingencies and taxes, is
estimated at M35.9 (US$29.9 million), with a foreign exchange component of
M26.2 million (US$21.8 million) or 73°. Excluding taxes, the total project
cost is M33.9 million (US$2B.2 milliun). Details of the cost estimates of the
five project components are shown in Annex 3 and summarized on the following
page.
3.11      The total project cost includes:  (a) the estimated base cost as of
March 1984 (see Para 3.12 for details); (v) physical contingency of 10% only
on base costs of the rehabilitation works to be cerried out by contractors;
(c) price contingencies of base cost plus physical contingency if any; and (d)
an extra 20  contingency for Project II over and above the base cost plus
physical and price contingencies which reflects the procurement restrictions
of the AfDF (the RSA is excluded from bidding). lotal contingencies amount to
21 percent of the total project cost.
3.12      The base cost, estimated as of March 1984, have been derived as
follows:
a)        Rehabilitation of Paved Roads:  Estimates are based on the Bill of
Quantities and unit prices prepared by the consultants who carried out the
detailed design. For details, see Annex 3, Page 1;
b)        Improvement of Gravel and Earth Rtoads:  The equipment cost estimates
for one equipment intensive and one labor intensive (LCU) regravelling brigade
and one culverting brigade are based on prices of similar equipment recently
procured in Lesotho. The operating costs, including spare parts, fuel,
equipment repairs, materials, wages and salaries, are based on 1983 actual
costs for similar type of work in Lesotho. For details, see Annex 3, Page 2;



- 20 -
S1AFF APPRAISAL IEPORI
FOII1-H HIAYY 'Rff:cI
K5a UF Etl.ESllH[
ES1 lt4WLF PROJEC CMST
Foriqyg
Ill-K3                  Lncral FojEmc lotal  Local Forelc}  lotal   CCaRIOMnt
(Mnufltoi)        - rIS- $ mii lroi---  (,6
A. Rmn%iibiitot iun of IloveJ Roads
WDtAmlecl E rerr                   -      .375    .375   -       .313    .313       100
i i ) CoiR3baFLCE ioii
- Puject 1, .s. :Mr
(19.5 1en)                     1.265   5.152    6.417  1.054  4.293    5.347       80
- PVQj0t 11, M3SerTu4.ribe
(8B Wk)                        1.556  6.550    0.1106  1.297   5.458   6.755       81
- Projoct A, lrainr aul
WL'ai)t lErla Bridq !i           .5(X)  1.1o    1.6D0  .417   .917    1.334         69
i i i ) Ca-et nct icTr SApervisicn  .164   .716    .880  .137   .597    .734          81
10tal RehablitatIau                  3.485 T3T '3   17.378  2.905  11.578   14.3          80
B. 1rrpnveaInt of Gravol/Earth
Roads
Tilpnent intensive EBrigade
- Ejipwnt Purchase                .027   .581    .6113  .023   .4R4        .507       95
- (perattig Costs                 1.626   1.590    3.216  1.355   1.325   2.68D       49
Sub-lotal                         1.653   2.171   T1.95  1.378   1.809    3. 1R73     57
ii) Labor Intensive Brigade
- Fquipmsent Purchase             .oo5   .102    .107  .JM        .085    .(89        96
- Operat lrg Costs                1.358   .474    1 .832  1.131    .395    1.527      26
£..b-lotaI                        1.363   .576    1.939  1.135   .480    1 .          30
iii) Culve-t tns Brqaa9c
- Equirijit ilFPurdti              .O0I    .152    .159  .060   ,127    .135          95
- Operat ing Costs                .441   .292      .733  .368   .243    .611          40
9Sb-lotal                          .44     444    .82   .374   .370    .744           50
iotol Ifrprovernft                   3.464   3.191    6.655  2.886   2.659    5.547       48
C. Traffic Canrters and Weig-
bridges Purchase                   .022   .222    .244  .018   .185    .203           91
D. 1 Tenical Assistare
- Durestic Ccrxstnrt li
Irdistry Study                 -       .085    .085    -      .071    .071       100
- Technical Assista-ce            .40O  1.728   2.128  .333   1.436    1.769          81
Total lectnical Assistr-ce            .4    1.813   2.213  .333   1.507    1.84iJ         82
E. lra,nqrg                            .236   1.462    1.698  .197   1.218    1.415       86
BASE (ST (Mtarch 19B4 Prices)         7.607  20.581   28.188 6.329  17.148   23.490       73
F . Cant inqeres 2/ 3/
) Physical d,WOFA (11)            .332   1.280    1.612   .276   1.066    1.342
) PriceA, P D, & E 2/           1.451   3.011   4.462  1.190   2.528    3.718
Iii) Extra 3/20. of Prj. ll       .311   1.310   1.621   .259   1.092    1.351
Sib-lotal]                        2.1M74   5.598    7.692  1.745   4.665    6.410     73
l10AL PRMECI CDSI INCLLI)IN; lAXES    9.701  26.179   35.880 8.084  21.816   29.900       73
TOTAL PR0JECI 01DS EXCLLUING IAXES    7.701  26.179   33.80 6.4U0  21.B34   28.234        77
1/  ctaI COst FarHMI irker PPF.
1984   1985  1986  1987  1988
2/ Expected price urtrease (O): Foreic    7.5   7.0   6.0   6.0   6.0
Loxal    13.5  13.0  12.0  12.0  12.0
3/ Extra contirrjery for Project 11 of fhabilitati nWrk<s (for explanation, see Pura.
3.11).



- 21 --
c)        Traffic Counters and Weighbridges:  The costs are based on recent
suppliers' quotations. For details, see Annex 3, Page 3;
d)        Technical Assistance:  (i) The costs of technical assistance staff
recruited individually are based on current costs for expatriate staff In
Lesotho.  The costs cover 66 man-months over a 3-year period at a rate of
about US$5,700 per man-month, including salaries, expatriate allowances,
social security and other indirect expenses and fees as well as housing and
external travel but excluding taxes. (ii) The average cost of technical
assistance provided by consulting firms, including salaries, social costs,
international travel, the firms' overhead and profit, are estimated at
US$7,600 per man-month in line with recent experience in the country; 192
man-months is involved.  In addition, an amount of US$71,000 for the five
man-months study of the local construction industry is included (Para 3.08).
For details, see Annex 3, Page 4: and
e)        Iraining:  Ihe costs are based on current price quotations for
Fellowships and courses and up-to-date detailed estimates by MOW of the
construction costs for the training facilities. For details, see .nriex 3,
Page 5.
D. Financing
3.13      The total project cost (excluding taxes) of M33.9 million or
US$28.2 million will be financed as follows:
M. Million          US $ Million         % of Total
IDA                              18.2                 15.2                   54
AfDF                             10.3                  8.6                   30
Government of Lesotho             5.4                  4.5                   16
Total                            33.9                 28.2                  100
The total IDA financing of M18.2 million (US$15.2 miliion
equivalent) includes M2.1 million (or 12 percent) financing of local cost.
The external Financing from IDA and AfDF would be used in parallel financing
of various components as shown in the table on the next page.
E. Implementation and Procurement
3.14      MOW will be responsible for execution of all project components
except enforcement of axle load limits which will be implemented jointly by
the traffic police and MOTC. Rehabilitation of the Maseru-Leribe-Masianokeng
road will be carried out by contractors and supervised by consultants.
Improvement of the existing gravel and earth roads will be carried out by MOW
force account. Technical assistance will be used to fill the key positions
with RB and PVPS as well as for training of local staff. During negotiations,
agreement has been reached with the Government on the Technical Assistance
(Annex 3, Page 4 and Annex 4), 1raining (Annex 3, Page 5, and Annex 5),
Equipment and Operating Costs (Annex 6) to be financed under the Project (Para
5.01 (m)).
3.15      As shown in the project implementation schedule (Annex 7) the road
rehabilitation will take 30 months beginning mid 1984 with an estimated 20°%,
35% and 45%0 of works to be carried out in 1984, 1985 and 1986, respectively.
The road improvement program will be carried out from mid 1984 to mid 1987.



SIAFF APPRAISk F[ffRI
FaRTH tIGfAY fR C
KINMM OF LtSWOlH           r
RfC1  fCfl                  M H1D)
Total Project Ccsts
Project Caiprnt                  (FR.nld IrrILdirn  Contigcies)                       IDA                      AOF                 Goverrrt
Local   Taxes)   Foreircs   LotaL   Local    Foreicg  lotal         S               4    (Local ly)    laxes   %
A. Rehiiitaticn of Paved Roa_s
- 0etaLled erfmeerjrq                     -         -          .375    .375       -        .375    .375    10          -      -         -            -       -
- Project 1                             1.560      .650       6.340    7.900    .375      6.340    6.715     85        -      -       1.10S        .650    15,
- P.oject 11                            2.3CO     1.auO       9.675   11.975      -         -        -        -      9.875   82       2.1C0        1.0[0   18
- Project A                               f(3      .270       1.350    2.000    .350      1.350    1.700    B5         -     -         .300        .270    15
- S.ervia,n 1                            .075      .O)         .325    .400    .015        .325    .340      85        -      -        .060        .030    15
- SLpervisa,n Project II                 .090      .035        .410    .50s       -         -        -        -       .450  90        .050         ,035    10
- Spervision Project A                   .030      .015        .170    .200       -        .170    .170    85          -      -        .030         ,015   15
SLbtotal                            4.705   .T1Z)        18.64"   23,350     .740     8.560    9.30W      -    10.325    -        3.725        2.000     -
B. tnprovenent of Gravel ard Earth Roada
- Procuramw  of Eqwpnent                 .040       -          .835    .875    .040        .835     .615   10         -      -         -              -    -
- EjipTnent Intensive 8rcqaie           1,980       -         1.920    3.900      -       1.920    1.920     49        -      -       1.980           -    51
- Labor Intesive Brigae                 1.705       -          .565    2.270     .508      .565    1.073    47         -      -       1.197           -   .53
-  Jlvertirn Brigal                      .540       -          .360    .903    .090       .360    .450       50        -      -        .450           -    50
Sittotal                            4.265       -         3.68     794        6       3.680    4.318      -        -      -       3,627            -     -
C. Weictoridges and Iraffic CoLnters        .020       -          .225    .245    .020        .225     .245    10-
D. lecIhical AssistarLe                     .450       -         2.00D    2.450    .450      2.0D    2.450    10          -
E. 1rainir                                  .260      _          1.630    1.890     .260     1.630    1.89     10         -      -        -              -      -
lotal Project Costs (Unckulin laxes)       9.7A)       -        26.180   35.88)   2,10C    16.095   18.203      51     10.325   29      7.352          2.010  20
Finranem  (Excl. laxes)                      -      (2.000)        -    33.883       -         -     18.203     54     10.325   30       5.352           -    16
Finr irrg in US$ Million
(Irclidirg Taxea)                         -         -           -     29.9        -         -      15.2       -      8.6      -      6.1



- 23 -
The technical assistance, similarly, will be spread over a period of three
years starting mid 1984. During negotiations, agreement was reached on this
project implementation schedule (Pars 5.01 (n)).
3.16     The road rehabilitation works, except for Project II, will be carried
out under unit price contract(s) through international competitive bidding
(ICB) in accordance with Guidelines for Procurement under the World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits. The road rehabilitation works for Project II will also be
executed under a unit price contract through ICB but in accordance with AfDF
Guidelines. Major equipment will also be purchased through ICB. Only
teaching aids and small miscellaneous equipment will be procured through local
competitive bidding (LCB) under Government procedures satisfactory to the
Association and in which foreign suppliers are eligible to participate or, for
items of less than US$5,000 but not to exceed a total of US$30,000, by
shopping with at least three price quotations. To maintain continuity, the
same firm which prepared the design, cost estimates and tender documents will
undertake the supervision of the rehabilitation works. Similarly, technical
assistance to PVPS will be provided by the same firm which at present is
providing it satisfactorily already under Highways III. Other technical
assistance, including consultants services for the domestic construction
industry study, will be selected in accordance with "Guidelines for the use of
consultants by Wor!d Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency". Fuel, spare parts, and materials for the brigades will be procured
through normal commercial channels. The foregoing procurement arrangements
were agreed upon during negotiations (Para 5.01 (h) through (1)). The
procurement arrancements are summarized in the table below:
Procurement Methods
Force
Pr..Ject Element                         ICB    LCB    Acct.    Other   Total
________-  US$ Million -----------
A. Civil Works
1. Rehabilitation of Paved Roads
- Detailed Engineering                                          .31/     .3
- Construction                      18.2                               18.2
(10.0)                            (10.0)
- Supervision                                                   .92/     .9
(.47     (.4)
2. Road Improvements
- Operating expenses
of brigades                                        5.9                5.9
B. Equipment
- For Brigades                        .7                                 .7
- Weighbridges and
Traffic Counters                    .2                                 .2
C.  Technical Assistance                                           2.o3/     2.0
D.  Training                                      .6               1.0       1.6
TOTAL                            19.1      .6     5.9       4.2       29.9
1/ Financed under PFF
1/ Same consultants who did the detailed engineering
_/ Consulting firm already engaged under Highways III.
Note: Figures in parenthesis refer to items to be financed by AfDF.



- 2tL -
F.  Disbursements
3.17     The IDA Credit will be disbursed on the following basis:
a)    100% of the Foreign casts arid 25% of the local costs of the
rehabilitation of the 19.5 km Masianokeng-Maseru Road and dhe
two bridges on the Masianokeng-Mafeteng Road;
b)    100% of foreign cost of equipment for the brigades and for
weighbridges and traffic counters, if procured internatio-
nally, and 90%0 of local cost if procured locally;
c)    75%0 of local expenditures in FY1985, 50% of lccal expenditures
in FY1986 and 25%O of local expenditures thereafter for the
brigades; and
d)    100% of the total cost For consultants, technical assistance
services and training.
With the exception of (c) above, all disbursements will be fully
documented. Withdrawal applications for (c) will be against a Statement of
Expenditures of the works actually executed duly certified by the Ministry of
Works who will maintain and make available to the Association representatives
all relevant supporting documents as and when required. Disbursements by the
AfDF will follow AfDF's rules and procedures.
3.18     The estimated schedule of disbursements of the Credit is given in
Annex 8. The schedule reflects: (i) that by the time of Board presentation,
bids will have been received and evaluated for the main project component,
i.e. rehabilitation of two paved roads, and that the construction will start
promptly (construction period 30 months); (ii) that for most of the remaining
project components, i.e. operating costs of the brigades, including the use of
existing equipment, the disbursements are concentrated in the first two years
of the implementation period. The expected disbursement schedule for the
proposed project is somewhat shorter than the actual disbursement profiles of
previous highway projects in Lesotho. This, however, is fully justified for
the two reasons outlined above.
G. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting Requirements
3.19      Project accounts will be maintained by the Accounts Section of MOW
giving details of the expenditure incurred--both local and foreign--for each
project component. The form of the accounts has been agreed with MOW and also
with the Accountant-General (under the Ministry of Finance) who is responsible
for compiling the accounts of the Government including those of the MOW and
who has staff working in MOW to scrutinize claims before they are submitted to
the Treasury for payment.
3.20      The Auditor-General is the slatutory authority responsible for the
audit and certification of all Governrment accounts including those of MOW. He
has adequate staff (including eigI-,t expatriate accountants) to fulfill his



- 5
statutory obligations and his audit of the Project expenditures is
acceptable. It has been arranged with HOW, the Accountent-General and the
Auditor-General that the project accounts maintained by MOW w4ill be audited
and certified by the Auditor-General and a copy of the certified accounts sent
to the Bank not later than six> months after the close of each fiscal year.
This arrangement was agreed during negotiations (Para 5.01 (o)).
3.21      During negotiations,.agreement was reached with the Government on
the submission of quarterly proqress reports and of a Project Completion
Report by MOW (Annex 9), in a form satisFactory to the Association, not later
than six months after the project closing date (Para 5.01 (p)).
H.  Environnental Impact
3.22      The net environmental impact of the project is favorable.  The
rehabilitation of the main paved roads will beneFit the environment through
reduced fuel consumption of the vehicles using these roads and hence a reduced
production of noxious fumes resulting in improved air quality. The improve-
ment of gravel and earth roads will similarly reduce fuel consumption but in
addition reduce dust formation through the provision of an adequate gravel
wearing course. Also, by providing adequate drainage, erosion--a very serious
problem in Lesotho (Para 1.01)--will be prevented or at least reduced.



- 26 -
IV. ECONOMIC EV,ALUAIION
A. General
4.01      The main project component, accounting for two thirds of total
project costs, is the rehabilitetion of 108 km of Lesotho's principal road
arteries plus the construction of two bridges. The priority and the benefits
of this component are clear: by preventing further deterioration of the
roads, future transport costs for the road users will be considerably less
than they would be if the roads were allowed to deteriorate further. In
addition, by undertaking the rehabilitation now rather than later, sharply
higher ccsts of road rehabilitation and/or road maintenance in the future are
avoided.  Ihe benefits of this project component will be felt ;hroughout the
economy in the form of prices for goods and services which are lower than they
would have been otherwise because of higher transport costs. Similarly, the
reduction in future road maintenance and/or rehabilitation costs will free
Government resources to speed up the country's economic development.
4.02      Ihe second project component, accounting for one fifth of total
project costs, is the improvement of gravel and earth roads. Benefits are
mainly in the form of transport cost savings because of improved driving
conditions. In addition, agricultural production will be stimulated by the
reduction in transport costs of agricultural inputs and outputs. Also,
improved roads will provide better access for the rural population to health
facilities, schools. and administrative services.
4.03      The remaining project components, aceounting for about 13 percent of
total project costs, consist of (i) technical assistance to PVPS and RB to
make up for the lack of qualified local staff as well as to train local staff;
(ii) training to help create qualified local staff for MOW; and (iii) traffic
counters and weighbridges in support of, respectively, transport planning and
control of overloading to prevent premature deterioration of the road network.
B. Economic Evaluation
4.04      The economic evaluation ir. quantitative terms is limited to the
rehabilitation and improvement components of the project which together
account for nearly 90% of total project costs. No attempt has been made to
quantify the impact of technical assistance, training, or traffic counters and
weighbridges together accounting for some 10°' of total project costs.
i) Rehabilitation Component
4.05      On the cost side have been included:  costs of feasibility study and
detailed engineering plus costs of construction and supervision, excluding
taxes and price contingency but including physical contingency. On the
benefit side, the following was taken into account: savings in vehicle
operating costs by comparing vehicle operating costs with and without the
rehabilitation plus, similarly, the savings in road maintenance costs result-
ing from the rehabilitation; time savings and accident cost savings have not
been taken into account nor have congestion coat savings (an important factor
in the case of the Masianokeng - 6 km north of Maseru Road) been considered.
In addition, the economic life of the roads was assumed to be 15 years and the
traffic growth rate 10%oo per year during the first 10 years and 6% per year



- 27 -
thereafter.  Costs and benefits are expressed in constant 1984 prices.  The
economic rates of return (ERR) were calculated fcr each of the two roads usinn
the World Bank highway design model.
4.06      The following table summarizes the results.  In addition, the table
presents the impact on the ERR of an alternative assumption as to (i) the
estimated cost of rehabilitation (plus 20%) and (ii) the expected traFfic
growth rate (3% per year during first 10 years and 4¶6 per year thereafter
rather than 10% and 6%, respectively).
REHABILITATION COMPONENT: ECONOMIC RAlES OF RETURN (ERR)
ERR
if Rehabili-   if lraffic
Length   ERR    tation Cost    Growth Rate
Roads and Bridges             (km)    (%)      + 2019 (%)    2P/Yr Lower
i)   MasiaLnokeng - 6 km            19.5    16.4         13.2           13.3
nortV of Maseru
ii)  6 knr. north of                88.0    22.7         18.3           20.5
Maseru-Leribe
iii) 2 Bridges on Masianokeng-       -       24.2        21.8           22.0
Mafeteng road
4.07      The ERRs for this project component range From 16 to 24 percent.
The sensitivity analysis indicates that even with an increase in costs of 20%,
or a decrease in the expected traffic growth of 20% per year, this component of
the project remains a viable economic proposition. Annex 10 presents data on
the actual traffic on the Leribe-Masianokeng road while Annex 11 presents the
detailed cost benefit analyses; the bulk of the benefits, some 75 to 80O, is
in terms of road user savings and only a minor part in terms of road
maintenance cost savings.
ii) improvement of Gravel and Earth Roads
4.08      On the cost side have been taken in account the cost of regravelling
a gravel road or the cost of upgrading an earth road tc gravel standard plus
the incremental annual road maintenance costs. The benefit side takes into
account savings in vehicle operating costs by comparing vehicle operating
costs with and without the regravelling or with and without the upgrading from
earth to gravel standard. Time savings and accident cost savings have not
been taken into account. The length oF the regravelling cycle is assumed to
be six years and the traffic growth rate Bo' per year.
4.09       The results can be summarized as follows:



- 28 -
IMPROVEMENT OF GRAVEL AND EARTH ROADS:
ECONO1Tc RATES OF RETURN (ERAR)
Average Daily Traffic in First
Type of Road                                          Year
Improvement                              30             35             40
-              R---ER. (%)     -)
Regravelling                                      9.4            15.8           21.6
Ditto, but costs + 30%                             1.8            7.3           12.4
Ditto, but traffic growth 4%/Yr                    4.8           11.3           17.3
Upgrading from Earth to Gravel                   12.2            16.2           20.1
Ditto, but costs + 30%                            7.4            10.6           13.7
Ditto, but traffic growth 4%/Yr                    9.8           13.6           17.3
Assuming a 10% opportunity cost of capital, the break-even traffic volume,
that is the traffic volume in the first year that justifies the road
improvement, is between 30 and 35 vehicles per day.  All roads included in the
first year of the road improvement program (Annex 2) carry, at present, a
traffic volume of at least 30 vehicles a day. Because of the absence of
meaningful data on the benefits of improved drainage, no separate quantitative
frnalysis has been made of the small culverting operation included in the
project. Rates of return at least as high as for the regravelling or
upgrading operation presented above, would seem very likely indeed since
washout of road sections would stop traffic completely for considerable
periods of time.
C. Risks
4.10      Because of the scarcity of qualified local staff in Lesotho, risky
elements in the project are those which require a substantial local technical
and managerial manpower input. These are: (i) the road improvement component
and in particular the labor-intensive road improvement operation (LCU); and
(ii) the traffic count and axle load limitation programs. These are areas
which have also created problems in the past. In addition, the project
component "training" should be considered risky as it is not certain that
local staff, after appropriate training, will stay with MOW or even in
Lesotho. Chances are that the considerably higher remuneration available
across the border in the RSA will siphon off a substantial number of the
people to be trained under the project. The project, therefore, includes a
high level of staff training and a substantial technical assistance component.
4.11     Bids for rehabilitation of the two main roads have been received and
preliminary evaluation indicates that the amounts are within the appraisal cost
estimates. Construction and supervision will be undertaken by qualified and
experienced organizations and given the relatively simple nature of the work to
be done, no major technical disappointments are expected.



- 29 -
V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDAI1ONS
5.01      During negotiations, the following items were discussed and agreed
upon with the Government:
a)  during the preparation of the Five-Year Development Plan,
(1986-1990) the Government will consult with the Association on
the transport section thereof (para 2.17);
b)  adequate funds will be budgeted for road maintenance by MOW;
M4.4 million for FY85 and the same annual amounts in real terms
thereaFter (Para 2.28);
c)  the work program for the brigades (Para 2.29 and Annex 2);
d)  submission to the Association for its review and approval at
least three months before the beginning of each fiscal year,
starting with FY 1986, of an update of next year's work program
for the brigades including an economic justification of the
proposed operations (Para 2.29);
e)  PVPS to be allowed to maintain and repair all RB's equipment
(Para 2.31);
f)  TOR for a review of the domestic construction industry (Para
2.26 and Annex 1);
g)  MOW, assisted by consultant, to undertake in 1985 a study of the
domestic construction industry (Para 2.26);
h)  the road rehabilitation works will be procured under unit price
contracts through international competitive bidding (ICB) in
accordance with Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank
Loans and IDA Cred-ts of Jujly 1980 (Para 3.16);
i)  the consultant staff for (i) supervision of the road rehabili-
tation, (ii) technical assistance and (iii) the domestic
construction industry study will be engaged on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association in accordance with
the Bank Group's Guidelines for the Use of Cornsultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency of
August 1981 (Para 3.16);
j)  major equipment will also be procured through 1CB in accordance
with the Guidelines (Para 3.16);
k)  teaching aids and small miscellaneous equipment will be procured
through (i) local competitive bidding (LCB) in which foreign
suppliers are eligible to participate or (ii) for items of less
than US$5,000, by shopping with at least three price quotations
(Para 3.16);
1) operating cost items such as fuel, materials and spare parts
will be procured through normal commercial channels (Para 3.16).



- 30 -
m)  the Technical Assistance (Annex 3, Page 4 and Annex 4), Training
(Annex 3, Page and Annex 5), Equipment and Operating Costs
(Annex 6) to be financed under the Project (Pare 3.14).
n) the implementation schedule for the project (Para 3.15 and
Annex 7);
o) an annual audit report of the project accounts prepared by an
independent auditor to be submitted to the Association not later
than six months after close of each financial year (Para 3.20)
and;
p) quarterly progress reporting requirements and a Project
Completion Report, in a form satisfactory to the Association,
not later -han six months after the project closing date (Para
3.21 and Annex 9).
5.02      The project is suitable for an Association Credit to the Kingdom of
Lesotho of SDR 14.3 million (IJS$15.2 million equivalent) on standard terms.
5.03      A condition of effectiveness of the Association's Credit will be
receipt by the Association of satisfactory evidence that all conditions,
except for the effectiveness of the Association's Credit, precedent to initial
disbursement of AfDF funds, have been fulfilled.



- 31 -
Annex 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPOR_
FOURIH HIGHWAY PROJECT
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
REVIEW OF DOMESIIC CONSIRUCIION INDUSlRY:
TERMS OF REFERENCE
I. Introduction
1.1       The Government of Lesotho (GOL) wishes to review the role of
domestic contractors in the construction and maintenance of civil works.
While it is anticipated that contracts for major construction projects will
continue to be carried out by international firms for many years to comet
there is an increasing demand for civil works and the maintenance of existing
infrastructure, which would be suitable for domestic contractors but are now
carried out by force account operations.
1.2       Therefore, GOL has decided to retain consultants to provide the
services outlined below.
II. Objectives
2.1       The development of the domestic construction/contracting industry
shall be encouraged to improve the local capability for executing construction
and maintenance, in the first instance, of civil works of a scale which is not
attractive to large international contractors, and are being carried out
mainly by force account operation.
III. Scope of Consultants' Work
3.1       The consultants will identify the major constraints anti obstacles
which have prevented domestic firms from taking part in the construction and
maintenance of civil works. Based on this review, they will prepare a
strategy for developing domestic construction/contracting industry for civil
works and action plans for near-term (i.e. short- to medium-term) efforts
required to initiate a developing momentum as appropriate for the market size
and potential growth in Lesotho. Long-term plans shall be considered as
tentative only and subject to review prior to implementation.
3.2       In more detail, the Consultants will, inter alia, review and assess;
1) government's policy toward the local construction industry,
including government force account operations, international
contractors, locally based foreign firms and domestic
contractors;



- 32 -
2) the incentives that might be necessary to encourage the creation
and growth of a domestic contracting industry, including:
- investment arnd tax codes,
- authority of the various public-sector agencies to procure
works by contract,
- preferences for domestic contractors,
- the public sector procurement systems and practicec of
awarding contracts to companlies and individuals,
- financial assistance to contractors, such as advances for
rnaterials and equipment,
- availability of equipment for hire from government pools (e.g.
from PVPS) or private enterprise and whether rates charged are
reasonable, nominatLon of a public agency (ministry, board) to
be the contracting industry's interlocutor within Government,
and
- technological requirements to consider the feasible use of
locally available material and human resources.
3.3       Ihe Consultants will investigate the capacity and capability of the
local contracting industry, in general, and for civil works, in particular.
This will include but not be limited to:
1) size, location and type of activity, etc., of private
contractors (foreign locally-based and dornestic) and government
force account operations engaged in civil works construction;
2) existing local production of construction materials;
3) past experience with and performance of private contractors,
including the role of domestic firms as partners in joint
ventures and subcontractors;
4)  availability of qualified local manpower at different levels;
5) existence and role of contractor associations in Lesotho.
3.4       Related to the demand on the local contracting industry, they will
estimate:
1) the public sector construction and maintenance activity for the
next five years and the part thereof to be executed under
contract, based on past procurement practice;
2) the private sector construction demand for the next five years.
3.5       They will review development and/or growth constraints, including:
1) availability of local untrepreneurial talent;
2) fluctuations of construction demand;
3) reliability of the supply of equipment, spare parts and raw
materials due to boiret, transportation or other problems;



- 33 -
4)  profitability;
5) availability of skilled manpower;
6)  leqal or administrative constraints;
7) complexity of bidding documents including designs and specifications
which are difficult to attain with an infant industry;
8) financial constraints for obtaining equipment, materials and working
capital.; and
9) adequacy of timely flow of funds from clients to contractors.
3.6       Ihe consu tants will explore the suitability of existing financial institu-
tions for lending to domestic contractors.
3.7       Related to education and training, they will assess:
1) the industry's manpower requirements; and
2) the suitability of existing education and training institutions to meet
both the qualitative and quantitative manpower requirements of the
construction industry under assumption of growth which the consultants
assume attainable for the industry.
3.8       the consultants will take ouch other actions as necessary to meet the
principal requirements stipulated in Para. 3.1.
IV. Work Program and Reports
4.1       The consultant services will be carried out in two phases:
a) Phase I will include about three man-months to review and assess the
areas of study indicated in the "Scope of Work". The findings and
conclusions of Phase I shall be presented in an interim report to be
submitted to GOL not later than four months after the starting date;
b) Phase II will include about one man-month to prepare, in close consul-
tation with GOL but under the consultant's own final responsibility, a
report recommending how the domestic construction/contracting industry
can and should be developed. The report will recommend short-, medium-
and long-term goals, and action plans aimed at resolving the key
immediate problems and constraints identified during Phase I. The
report will contain schedules and programs for various steps, and
identify the persons or institutions to be responsible for their
implementation. The Phase II report shall be presented to GOL not
later than two months after receiving GOL's comments on the interim
report.



- 34 -
Annex 2
Page 1
STAFF APPRAISA.. REPORI
FJOUR1H HIGHWAY PROJEC1
KINGDOM OF LESOIHO
WORK PROGRAM FOR BRIGADES 1984/85 - 1986/87
A. IDA Labor Intensive Brigade
1983
Year     Road  #             Description                Activity        Km   ADT _/
1984/B5   B47         Matukeng-Mantsebo               Upgrading 2/       12      52
B45         Mazenod-Moitsupeli             Regravelling 3,   23       31
19B5/B6   334         A4 - Tosing                     Regravelling       14      42
B35         A4 - Ha Mosehle                Regravelling         5     38
B36         Qomo-Qomong Extension          Upgrading          11      4B
339         MaphuL3eng Road                Regravelling         9     40
1986/87   B451        A5 - Nyakosob8-Makhaleng        Upgrading          19      11
B451       A5 - Nyakosoba-Makhaleng        Regravelling        12     11
Sub-Total Regravelling                     63
Sub-Total Upgrading                        42
1/ Average daily traFfic.
2/ Upgrading from earth to gravel road.
3/ Regravelling of gravel road.



- 35
Annex 2
Page 2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
WORK PROGRAM FOR BRIGADES 1984/85 - 1986/87
B. IDA Equipment Intensive Brigade
1983
Year      Road #            Description               Activity        Km   AD1 I/
1984/85   842         Ramohapi-Ramoihloe            Regravelling       40    122
B46        B40 - Raleqheka                Regravelling      27      65
B47        Boinyatso-Mokema-Phohleli-
Mantsebo                      Regravelling       25    176
B33        Tsoelike-Sehlabathebe          Regravelling        4     32
1985/86   B33         Tsoelike-Sehlabathebe         Regravelling       71     32
A4         Mpiti-Isoelike                 Regravelling       18     48
8203       Mateka-Pulane-Sefikeng         Regravelling       12    199
1986/87   827/B271   Levi's Nek - 'Mate             Regravelling       16     93
820        Lancer's Gap-Makhalanyane    Regravelling         56     56
A14        Seni-Pass                      Regravelling      14      30
B21        Mohlomi-Thaba Bosiu            Regravelling      14      36
Sub-lotal Regravelling                     297
Total Regravelling Both Brigades                360
lotal Upgrading Both Brigades                    42



- 36 -
Annex 2
Page~ 3
SIAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURIH HIGHWAY PROJECT
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
WORK PROGRAM FOR BRIGADES 1984/85 - 1986/87
C. IDA Culverting Brigade
Activity
Year     Road #            Description         U of Culverts   # of Fords  Km  ADI
1984/85  A14        Mokhotlong-Sani Pass               98              4       43   34
1985/86  B232/233  Mpharane-Kolojane-Bela
Bela-St. Theresa                  22               -      24   72
B46-Raleqheka                     48              4       16   44
1986/87             B46-Raleqheka                      47              4       16   44
B272-3oel's Draft-Hlosoa          23              -       24   26
TOTAL               238              12      123    -



- 37 -
Arrex 3
Pacge I
STAFF APPRAISAL FRPORT
FfXJR1H HIGfWAY PROJEC1
1<KNrM OF LE'lTHtD
ESTIMAIED PRlOJECI CS1 (M 'IXOC)
A. Rehbilitation of Paved Roads
Total        -- Contircies--------                  Total
Base  PFysical       - -          Price - -         RehabIttaticn
Kis.  Locall/ Forei4   Cost        1U.     Local  Foreign  lotal  Extra
1. rIetailed Ergineering Z                  -        375      375           -        -        -        -            .375
2. Comtruct toi
- Project I: Masia-zkeng       19.5  1,265    5.152   6.417    .642         .161     .657    .818      -       7.877
via Maseru to Kin 6 of
road to Leribe
- Project 11: Leribe Roa1      8      1,556   6,550    8,106    ,811        .270    1.154    1.429   1.621    11.9673/
fron Kn 6 to Km '/,
- Project A:     -ing a-d
LekIn'         's                     500    1.10    1,600   .160         .090    .185    .275       -       2.035
S.b-Total Corstruction                    3,321   13.177   16.498   1.612       .521    1.996    2.517   1.621    22.250
3. Sipervisin of ConstnuctLon:
for Project 1                          .060    .256    .316       -         .015     .065    .08U      -        .396
Stpervision of Corstutimn:
ror Project ll                         .074    .327      .400    -          .018    .(B2    .100       -        .500
c&4ervisxon of Ca-strartion:
for Project A                          .030     .133    .163    -           .007    .033    .040       -        .203
S.b-lotal Supervision                       .164    .7i6    .80    -           .040    .180    .220       -       1.100
SLb-Total RehEtblitaticn                 3,485   13,893   17,378   1,612       .561    2.176    2.737   1.621    23.3504/
1/ Irludirng Taxes.
2/ Pre-finared from PPF.
3/ Irlus an extra cortinrerry of ZLE. (for expleation, see Para 3.11).
27  Irclus abt '2 million taxes.



- 38 _
Annex 3
SIAFF APPRAISAL REPOR1               Page  2
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJEC1
KINGDOM OF LESOIHO
ESTIMAIED PROJECI COSI (M '000)
B. Improvement of Gravel/Earth Roads
Local         Foreign          Total
1.  Equipment Intensive Brigade
Equipment Purchase                          27            581            608
Equipment Hire                             254            402            656
Equipment Running Cost                     468            493            962
Spare Parts and Repairs                   250             264            514
Materials                                 408             430            838
Wages                                      246            -              Z46
Sub-lotal 1984 Prices                        1,653          2,171          3,824
Contingenctes                                  355            327            682
lotal Equipment Intensive Brigade            2,008          2,498          4,506
2.  Labour Intensive Brigade
Equipment Purchase                           5            102            107
Equipment Hire                             117            183            300
F.quipment Running Cost                     83             89            172
Spare Parts and Repairs                     38             40             78
Materials                                  153            162            315
Wages                                     967             -              967
Sub-lotal 19B4 Prices                        1,363            576          1,939
Contingencies                                  348             92            440
lotal Labour Intensive Brigade               1,711            668          2,379
3.  Culverting Brigade
Equipment Purchase                           7            152            159
Equipment Running Cost                    116             123            239
-pare Parts and Repairs                     28             30             58
Materials                                  132            139            271
Wages                                      165             -             165
Sub-lotal 1984 Prices                          448            444            892
Contingencies                                  100             68            168
Total Culverting Brigade                       548            512          1,060
Note:  The 3-year program for the equipment and labor intensive brigades
includes 360 km of regra%elling anid 42 km of upgrading Froin earth to
gravel; the upgrading on a per kmn basis is estimated to cost twice as
mnuch as the regravelling. 'he total base costs of this program,
excludinq equipment procurement, diriounts to M 5.05 rmillion.  Adding 50%0
oF the costs of equipment purchases (equroment. life estimated at 6
years), the total base cost of the program viould be M 5.1t million.
This works out at M 12000/km for regravelling and M 24000/km for
upgrading.



- 39 -
Annex 3
Page 3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOUR1H HIGHWAY PROJECT
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
ESTIMATED PROJECT COST (M '000)
C.  Traffic Counters and Weighbridges Purchase
Local         Foeign          Tutal
1.  Two Permanent Weighbridges                  12             111            1Z3
2.  Two Mobile Weighbridges                      3              36             59
3.  Three Vehicles                               5              50             55
4.  Four Automatic Traffic Counters              2              25             27
Total 1984 Prices _/                            22             222            2ta4
= _=    __  _         ~~~~~~~~~=  . .7
17 Since this equipment may be ordered immediately after the Credit becomes
effective, no contingencies have been added.



- 40 -
Annex 3
Page 4
SlAFF APPRAISAL REPORI
FOURIH HIGHV'Y PROJECI
KINGDOM OF LESOIHO
ESTIMAIED PROJECI COST (M '000)
D. Consultants and lechnical Assistance Services
Local        Foreign          Total
Domestic Construction Industry Study                           .085           .085
Technical Assistance to PVPS:
Two Engineers, Ihree Years                  .126           .560           .686
Four Senior Mechanics, 2 1/2 Years          .160           .711           .871
Sub-Total, 16 Man-Years (192 man-months)        .286          1.356          1.642
Technical Assistance to Roads Branch:
One Senior Engineer, 2 1/2 Years
One Field Engineer, Three Years
Sub-Total, 5 1/2 Man Yrs. (66 man-months)    .077              .342           .419
Total at 1983 Prices                            .363          1.698          2.061
Updated at 1984 Prices                          .400          1.813          2.213
Contingency for Average Duration of
2 1/2 Years                                 .047           .187           .234
lotal Cost lechnical Assistance                 .447          2.000          2.447



- 4.1 -
Annex 3
Paqe 5
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOUMTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
KINCDOM OF LESOTHO
ESTIMATED PROJECT COST (M '000)
E. Training Component
Local      Foreign       Total
Training Fellowship Program, Roads Branch,          .055         .244         .324
132 man-months 1/
Training Fellowship Program, PVP`S,                 .080         .S54         .4534
260 man-months 1/
Technical Assistance, Apprenticeship                .029         .126         .157
Training, PVPS, 18 man-months
Iraining Facilities and Equipment, Roads            .060         .622         .682
Branch
Training Equipment, PVPS                            .012         .114         .126
Total 1984 Prices                                .236        1.462       1.698
Contingencies                                       .027         .169         .196
TOTAL COST                                          .263        1.631        1.894
1/  For detail1S, see Annex -.



- 42 -
Annex 4
Page 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORI
FOUR1H HIGHWAY PROJECI
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE: TERMS OF REFERENCE
Senior Roads Engineer (Projects), Roads Branch
Job Description:
Responsible to the Chief Roads Engineer to run a section special-
izing in planning and control of all donor and other funded projects in the
Roads Branch.
Particular duties as follows:
a) preparation of documentation for road development plans and
transport policy;
b) drafting of terms of reference for feasibility and detailed
engineering studies as well as review of the same studies;
c) finalization of contract documents;
d) evaluation of tenders and consultancy proposals;
e) monitoring of contractors' and consultants' work;
f)  contract administration including payments to contractors and
consultants;
g) review of claims;
h) contract negotiatiocts;
i)  training of local engineering staff in his section; and
,;) perform other duties as delegated by Chief Roads Engineer from
time to time.
Qualifications and Experience:
Degree in Civil Engineering or equivalent qualification from a
recognized institution with at least 10 years relevant experience in a
responsible position with a government public works department or recognized
Civil engineering firms.
Desirable:
1) Membership of a recognized engineering institute with preferably
experience of working in developing countries.
2) Masters Degree in Highway Engineering or Transportation Planning
and Engineering.



- 43 -
Roads Engineer, Roads Branch
Job Description:
Responsible to the Senior Roads Engineer (Projects) for the overall
project control of the Fourth Highway Project.
Will be required to carry out all duties assigned to him in relation
to this project in respect of preparing estimates, coordinating different
sections of the project, making monthly and quarterly reports and acting
generally as advisor to the S.R.E. (Projects) on this particular project.
Qualifications and Experience:
Degree in Civil Engineering with minimum of eight years relevant
experience preferably with some experience of working in government
departments.
Desirable:
Particular experience in administering large and diverse projects
involving road construction betterment and maintenance. Some experience of
working as a resident engineer will also be an advantage.
Senior Mechanical Engineer, PVPS
Job Description:
Responsible to the Manager of the Plant and Vehicle Pool Services
for the operation of the Government fleet of Plant, Vehicles and Workshops.
Particular duties as follows:
a) maintaining a permanent equipment maintenance system to ensure
reliability and economic operation of plant and transport;
b) improving the administrative, financial and organizational
measures to make the PVPS a viable and competitive operation;
c) improve the technical and cost effectiveness of Plant, Vehicles
and Workshops;
d) periodically review the hire charges for transport and plant;
e) drawing up specifications for tenders for the supply of plant
and vehicles;
f)  define training needs and design programmes appropriate to the
available personnel and technical knowledge required;
g) formulate long-term training programmes within the PVPS;
h) implement the training programme; and
i) any other duties assigned by the Manager PVPS.
Qualifications and Experience:
A recognized degree in Mechanical Engineering or equivalent.
Ability to write, speak and understand English fluently. Minimum 15 years
experience in Plant and Vehicle Pool Management for public works or private



- 44 -
contractors.  Must have demonstrated ability to run a Mechanical Branch with
all necessary administrative functions including business systems and account-
ing. Practical experience in heavy plant maintenance and repair and the
training and supervision of Technical Personnel.
Desirable:
Ability to communicate with all grades of staff in a developing
country.
Mechanical Engineer, PVPS
Job Description:
Responsible to the Senior Mechanical Engineer for the serviceability
of Plant and Vehicles with particular reference to the equipment engaged on
the Fourth Highway Project.
He will be required to carry out all duties assigned to him and to
advise the Senior Mechanical Engineer on all aspects of the Project pertaining
to Plant and Equipment.
Particular duties as follows:
a) defined and implement all workshop and service functions
necessary to maintain the fleet in a serviceable condition;
b) implement, repair and overhaul programmes adapted to PVPS needs;
c) set priorities and work schedules to optimize workload in work-
shops;
d) introduce an efficient spare parts supply system;
e) identify critical tool and equipment requirements;
f) organize field service operations and breakduwn services; and
g) any other duties assigned by the Senior Mechanical Engineer.
Qualifications and Experience:
A recognized degree in Mechanical Engineering or equivalent.
Ability to write, speak and understand English fluently. Minimum of 10 years
experience in heavy equipment and vehicle maintenance and repair procedures.
Familiar with English language, technical literature and repair manuals.
Minimum of five years supervisory experience. Familiar with different makes
of earth moving equipment.
Desirable:
Experience in developing countries preferred.



- 45 -
Senior Mechanic, PVPS
Job Description:
Responsible to tl7e Mechanical Engineer for the management of a PVPS
Regional Workshop and for the repair, service and maintenance of all PVPS
Plant and Vehicles in the region.
Particular duties as follows:
a)  the responsibility for the security of Building, Equipment,
Plant, lools and the land area comprising the Regional Workshop
to which he is assigned;
b) the supervision oF the repair, servicing and maintenance of all
government plant and vehicles employed in the Region;
c) the supervision and the control of staff employed in the
District Workshop, 'ubih at base and on site;
d) the supervision and control of the ordering and issue of spare
parts, materials and assemblies required for the servicing,
maintenance and repair of plant and vehicles;
e) the responsibility for all matters affecting the safety of staff
and equipment in the workshop area and the compliance with
Factory regulations;
f) the responsibility for the roadworthiness of all vehicles and
road going plant employed in the Region and their compliance
with road and traffic regulations;
g) the responsibility for the recovery oF plant and vehicles broken
dpwn in the area;
h) the responsibility for the investigation of serious vehicle and
plant failure  and malfunction in the area; and
i) the incumbent Senior Mechanic shall provide training to one
counterpart officer and to the mechanical staff in the region.
Qualifications and Experience:
A minimum standard of education to matriculation or equivalent level
and Lhe abAlity to speak and communicate in English and/or Lesotho. A minimum
of eight years post apprenticeship experience with plant and vehicles,
preferably in the repair and overhaul of road making or large construction
plant and vehicles--four years of which should have been in a supervisor,
rapacity.
Desirable:
A technical background with relevant City and Guilds lechnician
Certificate, or an equivalent qualification, would be desirable.



- 46 -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT                   Annex 5
FOURIH HIGHWAY PROJECT                   Page 1
KINGDOM OF LESOIHO
TRAINING COMPONENT
A. Fellowship Program
ROADS FBtRANCIA (RB)                                                   Man-Months
Long-term fellowships:
1  Ircrnsport P:anning & EnqineeriLng                                      12
1  Highway Engineering for Developing Countries                            12
1  Construction Management                                                 12
1  Soils Mechanics & Materials lesting                                     24
1  Transport Economics                                                     12
1  Highway Design                                                          12
Sub-lotal                                                           84
Short-term fellowships:
1  Road Administration & Management (Study Tour)                            3
1  Road Maintenance Management                                              3
4  Road Construction & Maintenance (6 months each)                         24
2  Concrete Construction Technology (3 months each)                         6
Z  Soils & Materials Testing (3 months each)                                6
1  Storekeeping, Supplies                                                   3
1  Instructor Training (Road Maintenance)                                   3
Sub-Total-
TOTAL ROADS BRANCH                                                    132
PLANT AND VEHICLE POOL SERVICES (PVPS)
Long-term fellowship:
2  Mechanical Engineering (Degree Program 4 years)                         96
1  Transport Management (Diploma)                                          12
Sub-Total                                                          1OB
Short-term fellowship:
4  Plant & Iransport lanagement (3 months each)                            12
2  Plant Workshop Management (3 months each)                                6
8  Vehicle Workshop Management (3 months each)                             24
7  Vehicle Workshop Supervision (3 monihs each)                           21
7  Plant Workshop Supervision (3 months each)                             21
1  Instructor, Plant Workshop                                               6
1  Instructor, Apprenticeship                                             12
Artisan Plant & Vehicles Training                                           50
Sub-Total                                                          152
InTAL PVPS                                                            260
GRAND TOAL                                                                39'



- 47 -
Annex 5
Page 2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORI
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
KINGDOM OF LESOT-HO
TRAINING COMPONEN-I
B. Technical Assistance
Man-Months
Plant and Vehicle Pool Services (PVPS):
1  Apprenticeship Training Specialist                                      18
C. Iraining Equipment and Materials
Roads Branch:
-   Training Materials, culverts, bitumen, etc.
-   Spare parts for existing heavy equipment designated For training
-   Fuel for operation oF heavy equipment
-   Mobile accommodation including one generator
-   Field training equipment including surveying instruments, ranging
poles, etc.
-   Audio-visual equipment
Plant Vehicle Pool Services (PVPS)
5 Welding Sets
4 Bench Drilling Machines
-   Handtools including taps, dies, hacksaws, etc.
10 Drawing Board
-   Furniture including desks, chairs, book cases, etc.
-   Technical books and manuals
-   Audio-visual aids equipment



- 48 -
SlAFF APPRAISAL REPORT               Annex 6
FOUR1H H IGHWAY PROJECI              Paqo1
KINGDOM OF LESOIHO
COMPOSIlION AND COST ESTIMAIES Of RRICGADES1/
1.  Equipment. litensive Reg_ravellinq Rrigade
Exist-   For      lu Ie       tJrnIt
A.  Equipient                      _1-9 _     l re   Procured    Cost        Tot.al
:cc:78~0t 7)-__
1 Dozer (DG)                       2        -
2 Graders                          -        2         -
' Pe.d Foot Roller                  -       -         1        66,000    66,000
1  i Lru Rulacr   o.,0,            1        -         -           -         -
1 Water Bowser                     1        -         2        44,000    88,000
10 lipper Irucks                    4        -         6        39,000   234,000
2 Front End Loaders                1        1         -           -         -
4 Pick Ups                         -        -         4         11,000    44,000
1 Compressor and lools             1        -         -           -         -
1 Wheel Iractor & Trailer          -        -         1         22,000    22,000
1 lowed Fuel Bowser                -        -         2          3,500     7,000
1 MubAle Welding set               -        -         1          5,500     5,500
1 Back Hoe                         -        -         1        43,500    45,000
5 Caravans                                  -         5         11,000    55,000
lotal Equipment 1983 Prices                                                565,000
lotal Equipment 1984 Prices                                                608,000
B.  Staff                                    Annual Rate        lotal for 3 Years
(----------Maloti)--------------
I Assistant Engineer                          8,000                  24,000
1 Principal lechnical Officer                 6,000                  18,000
3 Technical Officer                           4,000                  36,000
1 Site Clerk                                  2,000                   6,000
4 lechnical Assistants                        2,000                  24,000
7 Plant Operators 2/                           _                       _
20 Drivers 2/                                                           -
30 Laborers                                    1,200                 108,000
Total 1983 Salaries                                                   216,000
lotal 1984 Salaries                                                   246,000
C.  Other  .equirements                      Annual Rate        lotal for 3 Years
(1984 Prices)(-  '000)-----(M   0)--------------
Fuel 2/
Spare Parts and
Equipment Rapair                                  171                     514
Materials                                         279                     838
1/  For totals, see Annex 3, Page 2.
2/ Included in running costs.



- 49 -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORI                Annex 6
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT                PgEe  2
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
COMPOSITION AND COST ESTIMATES OF BRIGADES 1/
2. One Labor-Intens3ve Regravelling Brigade
Exist-       lo Be        Unit
A.  Equipment Per Brigade                 ing       Procurred      Cost      Total
- - -T-Ma i oti),--- --
1 Heavy Roller                           -            1        70,500    70,500
3 Pedestrian Rollers                     3            -           -          -
1 Water Bowser                           2            1          3,300      3,300
1 Fue] Bowser                            -            1          3,300     3,300
1 Pick Up                                -            1         11,000    11,000
1 Landrover                              1            -           -          -
1 Caravan                                -            1        11,400    11,400
Total Equipment 1983 Prices                                                 99,500
1otal Equ4pment 1984 Prices                                                107,000
B.  Staff per Briyade                        Annual Rate         Total for 3 Years
-------------(aloti)        
1 Assistant Engineer                          8,000                  24,000
1 Principal Technical Officer                 6,000                  18,000
2 Technical Officers                          4,000                  24,000
12 Technical Assistants                        2,000                  72,000
1 Site Clerk                                  2,000                   6,000
Plant Operators 2/                           -                       -
Drivers 2/                    
200 Laborers                                     1,200                720,000
lotal Wages 1983 Prices                                               866,000
Total Wages 1984 Prices                                               967,000
C.  Other Requirements per Brigade           Annual Rate         Total for 3 Years
(1984 Prices)                                          (M '000)-------------
Fuel 2/                                            -                      -
Spare Parts and
Equipment Repair                                 26                     78
Materials                                        105                   315
1/ For totals, see Annex 3, Page 2.
2/ Included in running cost.



- 50 -
Annex 6
Page 3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
COMPOSIlION AND COST ES1IMATES OF BRIGADES1/
3. Culverting Brigade
Unit
A.  Equipment to be                                              Cost       Total
Procured                                                    caiotiT
1 Loader/Backhoe                                               44,000    44,000
2 Light lippers                                                33,000    66,000
1 Pick Up Truck                                                14,500    14,500
2 Water Pumps                                                   2,200     4,400
2 Concrete Bar Bender                                             500      1,000
4 Vibrators                                                       600      2,400
1 Concrete Mixer                                                3,500     3,300
1 Caravan                                                      11,400    11,400
Total__ Eqimn_9
Total Equipment 1983 Prices                                                147,000
Total Equipment 1984 Prices                                                159,000
B.  Staff                                   Annual Rate         Total for 3 Years
-------------(Maloti)--------------
1 Principal Technical Officer                6,000                  18,000
1 Technical Officer                          4,000                  12,000
6 Technical Assistants                        2,500                 15,000
4 Plant Operators                             2,000                  8,000
2 Drivers                                     1,500                  3,000
25 Laborers                                    1,200                 90,000
lotal 1983 Salaries                                                  146,000
Total 1984 Salaries                                                  165,000
C.  Other Requirements                       Annual Rate'       Total for 3 Years
(1984 Prices)                           -------------(M '000)--------------
Fuel 2/
Spare Parts and                                  -                        -
Equipment Repair                                19                      58
Materials                                       90                     271
1/ For totals, see Annex 3, page 2
f/ Included in running cost.



- 51 -
SITFF PJPRAISXL FEJRI
FaRIH HIGLY  1FJI
KIM- LF LEMUHD
PRFICT IWnLEIA¶ ]lN SCHEMLE
1983           1984            1985            19B6            1987
AUTHORITY    -                      -
MAIN ACT IV[I IES                   RESIBLE  1   2  3  4   1   2   3  4  12    3  4   1  2   3  4   1  2   34
Board Presetat i                                      IA
Sigung of Credit Acreerwt                             aL - IA                             *
Credit Effectivese                                   GL - DA                              *
a. Ca-trirtin:
1 )  FPre-i fificstion of ontractors         fL - 1_
2) Intematlaial Capetitivye Bidding         Cantr _tors
3) Evaluaticn of Bids                       GOL - IDA
4) Contrwzt  #awrd                          Q1J/Cntr.
5) Pihiitstic  Wbrk                         Catractors            __
b. Ca-strirtin Survision:
1) Design by lb-sultents                    GOL - ICA         __.
2) Contrawt Asrd for Servising Corsult- GJCoritr.                               4
ant-s
3) Comtnrction -Spervisicn                  Casultts                                                         -_ _
11. 1HIMOVDMT CF GRAVEL AND EARTH RDADS
9. Prmiart of EcqJWenEt '/:
1) Preperation of Biddiirg DCunts           GOL - IA__
2) IntermatimLal Corpetitive Bfidhm         Stppliers
3) Evaluaticn of EBics                      GOL - IlA
4) Contrwt Aiard                             ILX_
5) Del iLvery                               Stol iers
b. BrigsEs 13peraticns:
1 ) Pearatimon of Prcgran                   GCL
2) Pgreent by Govt. of Lestho & Assn.   GOL - IA
3) Execaiticn                               GM_
I I I. TEl£+LJ K151/4N
a. Peview of Dasestic Cmtrixtion Irijistry 2/:
1) Short List of Cloltants                  GL - IDA
2) Corsultart Prcpsals                      Caraultats
3) Evaluatton of Prposeas                   WIL - IOA_
4)  Eecxution                               COMaultSnts
b.  lec-rical Assistacet
1) Selection of Exqperts                    [IL-
')  IDA FLview ard Apprcvai                 IDA
3) Executcin                                Ied. Asst.
1\1. TRAINIOG
a. Nurnaticn of Cardtdates                      CXL
b.  DA Review ad Approval                       IDA_
c. Exec9ution                                   GXL                                  -       - _ = t I = _
1/  Ircludirg Traffic Conters a-d Weic-bridgs
2/  Terms of Refere Preared by IOA



- 52 -
Annex 8
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DI5BURSEMENTS 1/
(Tentatively in Maloti '000)
IDA Fiscal Year &                                            Cummulative Disburse-
End of Quarter        Disbursements During Quarter         ments at End of Quarter
1985
September 30, 1984                 1,500 2/ 3/                       1,500 2/ 3/
December 31, 1984                  1,500 *37/                        3,000 3/
rMarch 31, 1985                    1,000                             4,000
June 30, 1985                      1,Q00 4/                          5,000
1986
September 30, 1985                 1,000                             6,000
December 31, 1985                  1,000                             7,000
March 31, 1986                     1,000                             B,000
June 30, 1986                      1,000                            9,000
19B7
September 30, 1986                 1,000                            10,000
December 31, 1986                  1,000                           11,000
March 31, 1987                       750                            11,750
June 30, 1987                        750                           12,500
1988
September 30, 1987                   750                           13,250
December 31, 1987                    750                           14,000
March 31, 1988                       630                            14,630
June 30, 1988                        570                           15,200
Closing Date: June 30, 1988.
1/ Operating cost of brigades of technical assistance and of training evenly
spread over three years after mid 1984, taking account of gradually
growing contingencies.
2/  Includes US$347,000 PPF already disbursed for economic and engineering
studies.
3/  Includes Z0% advance for mobiltzation for road rehabilitation.
T/  Disbursements for brigade operations will decline from 7596 of total cost
in the first year to 50%O' in the second and Z596 in the third year.



- 53 -
Annex 9
Page 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECI
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
PROGRESS REPORTING SYSTEM
I. Project Progress Reports:
1.        Progress Reports should be submitted quarterly in triplicate, no
later than one calendar month after the end of each quarter. The first report
should cover the quarter ending December 1984,
2.        The Report should contain the following information:
a) General Information
i)    the physical progress accomplished to date of report and
during the reporting period;
ii)   actual or expected deviations from the project implementa-
tion schedule;
iii) actual or expected difficulties or delays and their effect
on the implementation schedule and the actual steps taken or
planned to overcome the difficulties and avoid delays;
iv)   expected changes in the completion dates of the project;
v)    key personnel changes in the staffs of the RB, PVPS,
consultants and contractors;
vi)   matters which may affect the project cost; and
vii) any development activity likely to affect the economic
viability of the project components.
b) A bar-type progress chart, based on the project implementation
schedule, showing the progress in each project component and
including a planned and actual expenditure graph.
c) A financial statement in the attached form showing details of
the expenditure incurred under the various components of the
project and the withdrawals f-om the credit and from AfDF
together with a separate statement showing:
i)    original cost estimates;
ii)   revised cost estimates, if any, with reasons.for changes;



- 54 -
iv)   reasons for variations of (iii) above From Eactual expendi-
ture; and
v)    estimated expenditure for the remaining quarters of the
year.
d)  Brief statement of the status of action in each of the covenants
of the Credit Agreement.
II. Project Completion Report
3.        The Borrower will prepare a Project Completion Report (PCR), to be
submitted to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing
Date.
4.        The primary objective of the PCR is to reinforce self-evaluation by
the E rrower and the Association's operating departments and to facilitate
dissenination of lessons learned through the project. In particular, the PCR
should include an assessment of the following:
a)  the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their
respective obligations under the Credit Agreement and whether
the Association could have been more helpful;
b)  the results that can be expected from the project, as compared
with expectations at appraisal, and whether the original expec-
tations were realistic; and
c)  whether in retrospect the project was worth doing or could have
been done better.
5.        For those components of the project for which a rate of return was
estimated during appraisal, the PCR should contain a new estimate of the
return the project is now likely to yield and analyze the reasons for physical
or economic deviations. However, the new rate of return calculation should be
as simple as possible under the circumstances and should absorb only a minor
portion uf the time devoted to the preparation of the PCR. An annex with the
relevant information supporting this analysis should be included.
6.        The basic documents to be referred to are:
a)  Credit Application;
b)  Appraisal Report;
c)  Credit Agreement Documents, Supplementary Letters, etc.;
d)  Supervision Reports;
e)  Quarterly Progress Reports;



- 55 -
F)  Project Correspondence Files; and
q) Miscellaneous Evalustion Reports.



KINRhX? OF LE9SIHO                                    Attacfrint
FCIUR1H HIGlffAY hCI
SIAFF APPPAISAL IREPOR1
PROJEC1 EXPENDIILRES - WAR1ERLY PF ESS IEPRIR1 FOR lIFE QLAR1FR EN)INS
Expenditures to BEgin-    Experditures Durirg Ihe    Total Experditure to
Categry                           mr  of Qjarter               Q(karter                Erd of warter              Raier1s
Local  Foreign   lotal  Local  foreilc  lotal   Local  Forea    1otal
A. Rehabilitation of Paved Roads
i)   Detailed Engrieerirq *
ii)   Cnstruction:
Project 1, miactok<eg-M39eru
(19.5 IGn)
Project II, Maseru-Leribe (68 WO)
Project A, Isoamig & LekDantlana
Br idges
111) ConstrLiction Spervislon
lotal RPe~bilitatiori
B.  Inprovenfft of Gravel/Earth Roads
I)    Equnprent Intersvive Brigade
Equlipent PurdIases
Operating Costs
S9b-Total
u)   Labor Intensive Brigadre
Equprent Purchas
Operating, Costs
Sub-Total
lotal Irprovenit
C. Traffic Counters and Virte dries
rFchase
D. Consultant & Tedrucal Assista-ce
Services
TFDms stic CaEstruction Industry
StLJy
x1)   ledncal Assistawe
a'-lotal
E. IraincN
TOTAL COS1
C+ rost financed urer PI'V.
Finecing                      lill Begirrun  of Quarter                     Durnm This Quarter                     Total to End of This QIter
IDA
AfDA
Govermnnt
Total



- S7 -
Annex 10
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
ACIUAL TRAFFIC ON ROADS 10 BE REHABILIIAIED, 1973-19B3
Daily Traffic Volume
1973           1979           1981             1983
Maseru-Leribe:
Km  0.0 -  1.7               --            8,689              --           13,000
1.7 -  2.9              527            1,899           1,643            4,000
2.9 -  6.0              449               --              --            3,000
6.0 - 19.0              424               --              --            1,500
19.0 - 40.0              453            1,208           1,072            1,500
40.0 - 51.3              419            1,020              --            1,100
51.3 -61.7               354               --              --            1,100
61.7 - 80.0              417               --              --            1,100
80.0 - 93.7              660            1,022           1,998            1,600
Maseru-Mafeteng-.
km  0.0 -  1.9               --            7,109           6,750            9,000
1.9    4.0              837            3,923              --            6,000
4.0 - 13.5              522               --           1,615            3,275
13.5 - 16.0              425                               --            z,300
16.0 - 30.9              343               --              --            1,400
30.9   37.1              274               --              --            1,400
37.1   40.7              235               --              --            1,400
40.7   50.9              Z01            1,048              --            1,200
50.9   69.2              205              974              --            1,200
69.2   75.4              238              733              --            1,200
NOTE:    1973 data refer to traffic counts undertaken by Roughton and Partners
(UK Consultants); 1979 data to counts by MOW; 1981 data to counts by
Dorsch Consult (German Consultants); and 1983 data to counts by Louis
Berger (US consultants).
Source:  Louis Berger International, Inc., Pavement Evaluation and Detailed
Engineering for the Rehabilitation of the Leribe-Maseru-Mafeteng Road
and Masianokeng-Roma Road, Pages 6-8 to 6-10, 1983.



- 58 -
Annex 1 1
Page 1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORI
FOURIH HIGHWAY PROJECT
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF REHABILITATION COMPONENT
A.  Masianokeng-Maseru - KM 6 Leribe Road (M '000)
Year         Costs                       Benefits                      Net Benefits
VC  2/         MCS 3/        Total
1984        -6810 11          --              --           --             -6810
1985                          688              72          760              760
1986                          591              82          773              773
1987                          873              91          964              964
1988                         1264             110         1382             1382
1989                         1052             125         1177             1177
1990                         1180             247         1427             1427
1991                         1299             14B         1447             1447
1992                         1383             223         1606             1606
1993                         14B2             172         1654             1654
1994        - 262            1488             329         1817             1555
1995                         1504             212         1716             1716
1996                         1467             245         1712             1712
1997                         1396            269          1665             1665
1998                         1377            407          1784             1784
1999       +1480 4/          1290             320         1610             3090
ERR = 16.4%    If costs + 20% then ERR = 13.2%
If traffic growth rate 2°% per year lower then
ERR = 13.3%
1/  Base costs (March 1984 prices) construction minus tax, plus physical
contingencies, plus supervision, plus detailed engineering.
2/  VOCS   Vehicle Operating Cost Savings.
3/  MCS   Maintenance Cost Savings.
4/ Residual Value.
NOTE: All costs and benefits are in March 1984 prices.
SOURCE: Based on Louis Berger, Pavement Evaluation and Detailed Engineering
for the Rehabilitation of the Leribe-Maseru-Mafeteng Road and
Masianokeng-Roma Road, May 1983; VOCS escalated to March 1984 by
adding 9%, MCS escalated by 10.5% to arrive at March 1984 figures.



- 59 -
Annex 11
.Page 2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECI
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF REHABILITATION COMPONENT
B.  Maseru (KM 6) - Leribe Road (1H '000)
Year         Costs                       Benefits                      Net Benefits
vocs '/        MCS '/        Total
1984        -8407 1/          --              --           --             -8407
1985                          833             292         1125             1125
19B6                          983            316          1299             1299
1987                         1156             346         1502             1502
1988                         1313             380         1693             1693
1989       - 666             1447             717         2164             1498
1990                         1833            657          2490             2490
1991                         2011           1048          3059             3059
1992                         2189            648          2837             2837
1993                         2378           1021          3399             3399
1994        - 911            2460           1003          3463             2552
1995                         2607            939          3546             3546
1996                         2747           1572         4319              4319
1997                         2839           1059          3898             4898
1998                         3012           1579         4591              4591
1999       +1816 4/          3093           1226         4319              6135
ERR   22.7%    If costs + 20% then ERR = 18.3%
If traffic growth rate ZZ per year lower then
ERR = 20.5%
1/  Base costs (March 1984 prices) construction minus tax plus physical
contingencies plus supervision plus detailed engineering.
2/  VOCS   Vehicle Operating Cost Savings.
3/  MCS   Maintenance Cost Savings.
T/  Residual Value.
NOTE: All costs and benefits are in March 1984 prices.
SOURCE: Based on Louis Berger, Pavement Evaluation and Detailed Engineering
for the Rehabilitation of the Leribe-Maseru-Mafetenq Road and
lasianokeng-Roma Road, May 1983; VOCS escalated to march 1984 by
adding 9%, MCS escalated by 10.5% to arrive at March 1964 figures.



- 60 -
Annex 11
arage 3
SIAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOUR1H HIGHWAY PROJECI
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF REHABILITAlION COMPONENI
C. Masianokeng-Mafeteng Road Including Two Bridges (M '000)
Year         Costs                       Benefits                      Net Benefits
DVO-CS 3/      MCS 4/        lotal
1984        -16631/2/                                                     -1663
1985
1986
1987       -46001/                                                        -4600
1988                         1050             338        1388              1388
1989                         1158            379         1496              1496
1990                         1210            807         2017              2017
1991                         1324            497         1821              1B21
1992                         1427             525         1952             1952
1993                         1525            700         2225              2225
1994                         1579           1195         2774              2774
1995                         1643            694         2337              2337
1996                         1718            887          2605             2605
1997          688            1713           1358          3071             2383
1998                         1759            874         2633              2633
1999                         1788           1061         2849              2849
2000                         17a7           1634          3421             3421
2001                         1918           1139          3057             3057
2002       +15305/           1856           1903          3759             5289
ERR   24.2°,o    If costs + 20% then ERR = 21.8%
If traffic growth rate 2% per year lower then
ERR = 22.0%
1/ Base costs (March 1984 prices) construction minus tax plus physical
contingencies plus supervision plus detailed engineering.
2/ Refers to the cost of the two bridges.
T/  VOCS   Vehicle Operating Cost Savings.
4/  MCS   Maintenance Cost Savings.
5/ Residual Value.
NOTE: All costs and benefits are in March 1984 prices.
SOURCE:  Based on Louis Berger, Pavement Evaluation and Detailed Engineering
for the Rehabilitation of the Leribe--Maseru-Mafeteng Road and
Masianokeng-Roma Road, May 1983; VOCS escalated to March 1984 by
adding 9%, MCS escalated by 10.5% to arrive at March 1984 figures.



- 61 -
Annex 12
SlAFF APPRAISAL REPOR1
FOUR1IH HIGHWAY PROJEC1
KINGonM OF LF.51HO
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF ROAD IMPROVEMENI COMPONENI
A.  Vehicle Opera:2riq Costs and Savinqs Earth and Grave] Roads
(Malot- / 100 KM)
Type of Road                               _           lype of Vehicle
Cars     Light Goods       Buses /7  rucks
-    (l ) Vehicle Operating Costs------
Good Gravel                               34.1          52.4              128.2
Poor Gravel                               47.8         73.3               183.2
Earth Track                               54.6         83.8               210.7
Iype of Operation                         --(ii) Vehicle Operating Cost Savings--
Regravelling 1/                           13.7         20.9                55.0
Upgrading from Earth to Gravel 2/         20.5          31.4               82.5
1/  Vehicle operating cost diFference between "poor" and "good" gravel.
f/  Vehicle operating cost diFference betv-en earth track and good gravel.
SOURCE:  Roughton and Partners, Socio-Economic and Iraffic Study for the
upgrading of the Thetsane-Rothe Road, Lesotho, March 1983, Page 42;
cost and savings updated from January 1983 to March 1984 prices (10%O
added).



- 62 -
SIAFF APPRAISAL REPORT          Annex 12
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT          Page 2
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF ROAD IMPROVEMENT COMPONENT
B. Economic Justification of Road Improvements (M '0OO/KM)
Benefits if ADT in Year 1 Equals 2/
Year        Costs 1/          40 Vehicles      35 Vehicles      30 Vehicles
l1) Regravelling
0              12.00
1                .75              3.B5            3.37                 2.89
2                .75              4.15            3.64                 3.12
3                .75              4.49            3.92                 3.34
4                .75              '.B5            4.25                 3.64
5                .75              5.23            4.58                 3.93
6                .75              5.65            4.95                 4.24
ERR                              21.6            15.8                  9.4
ERR, Costs + 30%                 12.4             7.3                  1.8
ERR, Traffic growth 4%/year    17.3              11.3                  4.8
(ii) Upgrading Earth to Gravel
0              24.00              -               _                    _
1                .75              5.77            5.05                 4.33
2                .75              6.23            5.45                 4.67
3                .75              6.73            5.89                 5.05
4                .75              7.27            6.36                 5.45
5                .75              7.85            6.87                 5.89
6                .75              8.48            7.42                 6.36
ERR =                            20.1            16.2                 12.2
ERR, Costs + 30% =               13.7            10.6                  7.4
ERR, Traffic growth 4%/year    17.3              12.6                  9.8
1/  Improvement costs in year 0 (see Note to Improvement of Gravel/Earth Roads in
Annex 3); incremental recurrent maintenance costs thereafter; residual value in
year 6 in case of regravelling is zero, in case of upgrading from earth to
gravel, the residual value is estimated at 50% of the original improvement
costs or M12.000.
2/  AD1 average daily traffic composition is 38% cars, 3B% light goods
vehicles and 24% buses and truc^'; annual traFfic growth rate is 8%,6.
Benefits consist of vehicle operating cost savings (see previous table for
unit savings).
NOTE:  All costs and benefits are in constant 1984 prices.



- 63 -
Annex 13
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECI
KINGDOM OF LES01HO
RELATED DOCUMENTS AND DAIA AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
1. Traffic at Maseru Airport, 1976-1982
2. Vehicle Registration, 1971-1982
3. Program of Action for Axle Load Enforcement
4. Fuel Consumption, 1976-1981
5. Roads Establishment and Organization, 1983
6. Notes on Staff Situation, Roads Branch, 1983
7. Third Development Plan, 1980-1985; Road Construction and Improvement
Program
8. Implementation of Road Program, 19B3
9. Traffic Counting Program
10. Design Standards
11. Louis Berger International, Inc., Pavement Evaluation and Detailed
Engineering for the Rehabilitation of the Leribe-Maseru-Mafeteng Road and
Masianokeng-Roma Road, May 1983, 4 Volumes.



El~~~~~~~ -
R~~rj     1 Rl'l-AlA   Jil 
Cr  IrsC-C-~,cal OIf-c.~K Sr. Dr,-f Uzt. 
'R,Cer   atsR                                                                     tl_RA l
Oeiqlest (fyasIr:'r3 
R-P1551 I ra-,Tr,rt I
Rfldrd
__ l-t-t ___       T  ___     t __  .     I __ _ -_t _ IA Ca- -tIl   -f i*  __
.4tvrn   Irr art lor|   5       1Stclf  r;;,;1 -ttp;
~i1ftT    5ceitflt         _ I  .~~ttt M Irestn-r of r tI(,Itt rd   _ IO Sr.frvr  r5tfsiwt:. rl5.r    J



";IN,r APIaRA1iA 'tFUl *lfta
Il(P.1m 'H0iVAY PRUfl
fH'AXAMaI UNi WRI 'aR t 1  WI.,
| Sr. P1 lJnarnir 3   e
P9:1)J kaIl ti-tfttela rg
_     __    I  ~~~~~I___  I__
rE> J Qirtilf7r H3 l lPlH s ¢1ll 1nl ) rw > 9 ?;l
qs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~%Lrl lesttr .r1 f rrc                     b r   .i  rs r   r i  P    ivz1~Ok
>+ ilPr lqR}~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4"



,L BO                                                                                                                       TO of THICHem                           28-130
- tA
e   I                        LAND,
SWAZI
'S'A
NA4118-A                                                                                                                                           FOURIESBURG
ST CHAR
LIBONO
L
10,
ALLD N                                                      A
SOUTH AFRICA                                                                                                                                    Z4 0    (11
008EL                  HAM ANE             OXBOW
U  FIA  U  I
ELEVATIONS IN FEET        ELEVAT'IONS IN METERS                                                                                                        Os
SDOO  7000.         (161  211.1
7DOO  OM                I.
PE                                             MA AK.                                                                                               E
ODOO  Ab.,             2743  At-
2900
Y\
KONG"
C                                                                                    POIEN                                                   LER iBE
0                                                                OLETSANE
I A 'IRG E 1113
IF
IC,                                                                                                               EREA
E RE                                        KA       R,\,CR
Io S
PE LANE 10
T                                                                                     ... ...
OD                                                                                                                                      E
K   L                                          NA (AI
'P     E OA A                                    NO  A   NTFIUSE
IF               OKEMA
79-30                         NIOIIIAIIIINIYAE                                                                       LIOA
us                                                                                    AKWALENG               A.
0 NIAKEIANE         MARAII
KORC
go
SI Tlfl
TL.
YA r9E NG
N                                                         IIALEGHEKA.
THA 8 A - T S E K A                                     A
N A S .  U                                                                                             ONG.O,
IG
BA                                                                                                              't h  A.s
VAN noov 11
G'Al E
MAIEO
M  A           E N                                                                                      NIONKONG                                                                    ATABEt
's
,Alt                         'ENA                                                                                                                                                   QAC  H  A  S               E  K
SF-A0                      %,0ABANA                                NAPO
TSOL                                                                                                                          I                                                        TSOCLIKE
30`111                            "I
W,                                                  'IRF tl"NU
L O'_
T
NIQ.AN                            'u-
K
Mr-) H  A  L E 5    H n  F K                                                                                                                            NEI
A-At F NG 5 (AT El:_
E NG
ASTRON
NIATATII
St NU
rC1 CEDARVILIf
5
I) L  I H  I N  G
'OA,       N Rr
71,30



_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _I_B R I R D 17 4 3 3 R
DR'OO               t BT.' oFtAAA                          28"'30                                                     DT'O0                                             FE BRUARY 10841
[CA  8ON'S Po RAULKMLS
4,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
P A. AN P
,'A~ ~ ~~~~~N
STTIREOSA                  ~~,                                         *
AN~OKONG                            "'.                
MAPOFEN                                                  E~B
ER,,          NFDF~~OETSANE                                                                                        t                           
JA rEKA      , F                                                                  $RAP,FOLANFNG.
N  <                                                                             &~~~~~~~~~~EL NFNC  N
FR   ~~~~~~~  /  )                                 '~~~~~~~~~~~'2~~~~~ ~RAI`FLATSANE
LEDIALARN            )"EIE 
3 VAFKEFANE        RRFAE                 
IOTA                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T HA BA - TS EK A                  AFA
At,A  S E R U                                                                                  SF'DF,.F,
F                   '~~~~~~~~~M1 BAIE IQ, SF008                                            UN    B
St.  --                       '~~~~~~~~~~~.'SAFF F p~~~~~~~~~~~~*. -                                                  '~~~~~~0 DOVNPAROO,,
'..~~)  -t      BOSFMAN'S NCFF
SEHLABA-TE
-  .F '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~30"00-
F                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~RARFASCAEA  L  E   S  0   T  H   0
___FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
)                /                                                                                FOA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9RTR  UFORHWAY  PROJECT
'S.* ~~~~~~~~~~..d'              C. ~~~~~~~~~~~ROADS TOR  RCEFAIARLFTATED
*~~~1~~~,.-  ---  V. ~~~~~~~~~~~PREVFOAS  BANE GROyP FRRJFC.TS
JO'                                                                                          P 11~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-SF FFIGFWAYF PROJECT
*  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....SE COND HIGIOWAY  PROJECT
'I F'0',l                                                     -      .- T~~~~%ATAIIIHIFRD HFIGHWA FnPOJECT
'.EFSFNF.  -   '.~~~~~~~~                                  S.FAFAFFF Fl                          P~~~~RAVDS UNDR CASFFCIO  TO PAVED STANDARD
-     FOOD AFFD TRACES
-- -OFHRE1 TRACKS                                              T0`3JA
VF'F"                                      '*0' -0- ~~~~~~~~~RAFFVAAVS
I'NIERNATFOTEAF AFRPORT UNDSR RCONSI RUCTFON
-I   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~t ~~~~~~~            A;nSRETPFS FAPPRDXFMiATE LOCAT7FJNSF
'"0 .%,lh.~~~~.4 55,09..                       ®~NIFATONAL CAPFTAL
5~~~~.~  ''~  ~''**~~'~'-*  ~            11"05~~'~. 'FOFIOF                           .      F'NUTIRATFONAL ROUNDAnRFS
JR FOP                      '. '*                                                       JT'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0W                                 0"'



