Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P3714-LSO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 14.3 MILLION
TO THE
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
FOR A
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
May 7, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           =         Maloti (M)1/
US $ 0.83               =         M 1.00
US $ 1.00               =         M 1.20
WEIGHTS AND MEASJRES
1 meter (m)                 =    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)            =    0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (sq km) =    0.386 square miles (sq mi)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AfDF   =    African Development Fund
CIDA   =    Canadian International Development Agency
EEC    =    European Economic Community
KfW         Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
LCU    =    Labor-Intensive Construction Unit
LNBS        Lesotho National Bus Service
ODM    =    Overseas Development Ministry, United Kingdom
PVPS   =    Plant and Vehicle Pool Services
RSA    =    Republic of South Africa
RTB    =    Road Transportation Board
vpd    =    vehicles per day
KINGDOM OF LESOT:HO
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March .31



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Kingdom of Lesotho
Amount:                   SDR 14.3 million
(US$15.2 million equivalent)
Terms:                    Standard
Project Description:      The proposed project aims to improve existing
roads and strengthen institutions in the transport
sector. It would include: rehabilitation of two
paved road sections; regravelling of 360 km of
gravel roads, upgrading of 42 km of earth roads to
gravel standard, and improvement of drainage of
123 km of gravel roads; traffic counters and
weighbridges; and technical assistance and
training.
Road rehabilitation and improvement would lower
transport costs, protect past investments and
increase accessibility of rural areas. Technical
assistance and training would improve the
operational capability of the Roads Branch and
the Plant and Vehicle Pool Services. In addition,
assistance for the Labor-intensive Construction
Unit would enhance the Government's efforts to
increase domestic employment opportunities. The
project risks relate to the scarcity of qualified
local technical and managerial staff and the drain
of qualified local staff to South Africa. The
project, therefore, includes a high level of staff
training and a substantial technical assistance
component.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii-
Estimated Cost
Local     Foreign      Total
…US$ Million------
Rehabilitation of Paved Roads               2.9        11.6        14.5
Improvement of Gravel and Earth Roads    :2.9           2.7         5.5
Traffic Counters and Weighbridges            -          0.2         0.2
Consultants and Technical Assistance        0.3         1.5         1.8
Training and Fellowships                    0.2         1.2         1.4
Total Base Cost                             6.3        17.1        23.5
Physical Contingencies                      0.3         1.1         1.3
Price Contingencies                         1.2         2.5         3.7
Extra Contingencies                         0.3         1.1         1.4
Total            13.1       21.8        29.9
=                  _
(Of which taxes)                           (].7)                  (1.7)
Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign      Total
-- -----US$ 000     … _____
IDA                                         1.8        13.4        15.2
African Development Fund                    0.3         8.3         8.6
Government of Lesotho                       6.1          -          6.1
Total            8.2        21.7       29.9
Estimated Disbursements of IDA Credit:
IDA FY                           85       86      87       88
------------…US$Million----
Annual                                       5.0      4.0     3.5      2.7
Cumulative                                   5.0     9.0    12.5    15.2
Rate of Return:            16.4 to 24.2 percent on paved road rehabilitation
and bridges.
15.8 percent on road regravelling and 16.2 percent
on upgrading from earth to gravel standard
(minimum estimate for first year of program).
Appraisal Report:          Report No. 4883-LES, dated April 24, 1984.
Map:                       No. IBRD 17433R.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
FOR A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
*   1.    I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit for SDR 14.3 million (US$15.2 million equivalent) on
standard terms to the Kingdom of Lesotho to help finance a Fourth Highway
Project. The African Development Fund (AfDF) will provide parallel
financing of about US$8.6 million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent Economic Memorandum on Lesotho (No.4415-LSO) was
distributed to the Executive Directors in October 1983. Country data
are presented in Annex I.
3.        Lesotho is a small, landlocked country surrounded by the Republic
of South Africa with which it has ideological differences but with which it
must co-exist. It is mountainous, and other than abundant water and small
diamond deposits, it possesses few natural resources. About 13 percent of
its 30,400 sq km is suitable for crop farming, but only 0.4 percent is
considered as having high potential. Productivity in crop farming is low
due to poor land quality and inappropriate technological packages.
Livestock raising is the country's principal agricultural activity, but
overstocking and inadequate herd management has led to overgrazing,
widespread soil erosion and limited production. Agriculture is still the
leading sector of the economy, however, providing employment and livelihood
for nearly 85 percent of the resident population. Development of a modern
industrial sector is limited by (a) the smallness of the domestic market,
(b) the proximity of the highly industrialized South African economy, which
supplies Lesotho with most of the goods and services it requires, (c) a
shortage of skilled entrepreneurial, managerial and technical manpower, and
(d) the necessity of importing nearly all raw materials and intermediate
goods.  Consequently, manufacturing is a small sector of the economy.
4.        The most significant characteristic of Lesotho's economy is its
heavy dependence on South Africa where more than 90 percent of its imports
originate, as do all of its electricity and most of its foreign investment



and tourism.  Its only outlets to the sea are via South Africa's transport
facilities and ports.  About one-half of the male labor force depends upon
employment in South Africa, (mainly in mining) and remittances of migrant
workers constitute over 40 percent of Lesotho's GNP; and over 70 percent of
Government revenues are derivec  from receipts from the Southern Africa
Customs Union under which South Africa levies, collects and redistributes
customs duties and taxes on behalf of the member countries (Botswana,
Lesotho, South Africa and Swaziland). In acddition, Lesotho is a member of
the Rand Monetary Area (RMA). While this arrangement guarantees payment of
Lesotho's foreign financial commitments, it limits its use of
monetary policy instruments. Gin balance, hciwever, given Lesotho's size,
location and resource constraints, the gains from membership in the Customs
Union and the RMA far outweigh ilts costs.
5.        Despite constraints on its development, Lesotho's economy grew
rapidly in the 1970s. Real GDP rose by about 7 percent per annum since the
mid-1970s, and as a result of increasing employment and wages for Basotho
in South Africa, real GNP expanded by about nine percent per annum.  The
gains in domestic output were the result primarily of large increases in
public investment and in the provision of government services. Tourism and
mining also contributed significantly t:o economic growth, the former owing
to an increasing number of visitors from South Africa and the latter
resulting from the opening of a new dieamond mine. The industrial and
agricultural sectors, on the other handt, expanded only modestly since the
mid-1970s.
6.        The strong growth in public Expenditure in recent years was made
possible by increased external assistance, and by a large rise in receipts
from the customs union. These revenues enab:Led the authorities to maintain
investment at 25 percent of GDP during the period without relying
excessively on domestic or foreign borrowing The receipt of external
grants, Customs Union transfers and workers remittances permitted a level
of imports sufficient for the needs of the domestic economy, and Lesotho's
balance of payments registered a small yearly surplus throughout the late
1970s.
7.        Lesotho's economic prospects for th.e 1980s are at best
uncertain.  Receipts from the Customs Union are expected to decline as a
result of declining imports, as is external development assistance, which
will require a cutback in public investment. No significant surge in
private investment is foreseen, given the resource constraints in
agriculture, industry and mining. At the same time, the outlook for
Basotho employment in South Africa is bleak. The number of Basotho workers
in South Africa mines declined from about 130,000 in 1977/78 to 120,000 in
1981/82, and the downward trend is likely to continue due to South Africa's
policy of increasing employment of domestic labor, the depressed prices of
metals and increased mechanization of the mines, thus lowering the demand
for unskilled, and hence new recruits from Lesotho. Consequently, migrant
workers' remittances are expected to decline rapidly in 1980s. Another
factor contributing to slow economic growth in the 1980s is the closure (in
1982) of the Letseng-la-Terai diamond mine.



8.        As a result of the Government's expansionary fiscal policy in the
early 1980s, consumption rose from 96 percent of GNP in 1977/78 to 106
percent in 1981/82 and the recurrent account budget moved from a surplus to
a deficit and the overall deficit rose from 8.0 percent of GDP in 1975/76
to 23.4 percent in 1981/82. Much of the deficit was financed by short-term
loans which led to a sharp rise in debt service payments.
9.        The Government now recognizes the seriousness of the crisis and
its causes. Consequently, since fiscal year 1982/83, it has instituted
measures to tighten financial management by monitoring more carefully the
fiscal performance of operating ministries, freezing employment in the
civil service and cutting back on the capital budget. As a result, the
deficit was reduced to M 72.5 million (9.5 percent of GNP) that year.  In
addition, the Government is actively pursuing measures to increase revenues
by improving the administration of existing taxes and finding new sources
of revenue such as the sales tax, which was introduced in December 1982,
and is expected to yield about M 12-15 milion in 1983/84.
10.       Lesotho faces the difficult task of providing domestic employment
and income opportunities for the rapidly growing labor force. Of the
500,000 domestic labor force in 1980, only 41,000, or eight percent were
employed in the wage sector. An estimated 18,000 persons will enter the
labor force each year in the 1980s, most with little in the way of
education or skills. With the modern sector expected to provide jobs for
only a small number of the new entrants to the labor force during this
decade, the agricultural sector will have to absorb the balance,
notwithstanding its own limitations.
11.       In order to achieve its objective of building a more self-reliant
economy, the Government must strengthen economic and financial management;
increase domestic savings; make agriculture more productive; raise
employment and income earning opportunities; develop human resources;
control population growth; rehabilitate its transport infrastructure; and
develop its most abundant natural resource -- water.
12.       Some progress has been made in economic and financial
management (para. 9). In addition, the Government is reviewing its
development planning institutions with a view to reorganizing and improving
them. In the agricultural sector, research results so far seem to have
proved the viability of growing high-value crops for export. However,
further studies are needed to determine appropriate marketing
arrangements. In livestock, the problem of overgrazing and over-stocking
needs to be properly addressed. The industrial sector is not likely to
contribute significantly to income and employment generation, given the
competition from the RSA and the small domestic market. However, limited
prospects exist for export-oriented manufactures which have yet to be fully
explored. In other areas, the Bank Group is assisting or planning to
assist improvements in the existing highway and rural road network, basic
education and technical and vocational training, and delivery of basic
health services and family planning.



- 4 -
13.       By far the most promising development prospect in Lesotho's
economy is the exploitation of its abundant: water resources, both for the
sale of water to South Africa and for hydro-electricity generation for
domestic consumption. In order to tap this resource, Lesotho has proposed
a Highlands Water Project on which feasibility studies are currently
underway. The project is estimated to cost about US$1.4 billion in 1980
prices. Although the feasibility studies etre not yet completed,
preliminary indications are that Lesotho may earn more than double its
present export earnings (excluding migrant workers' remittances) from the
sale of water. About 212 gwh of electricity per year may be generated at
prices substantially cheaper than the present cost of imported
electricity. Other benefits of the project would be employment for about
2,000 workers during the construction period and possible use of the water
for irrigated agriculture. The first phase of the project is expected to
be completed in 1995 and the second and final phase in 2006.
14.       As a "least developed country", with limited potential for
generating domestic revenues, Lesotho depends almost entirely on external
assistance to finance its deve:Lopment program. Grants, mainly from
bilateral sources, constitute about 60 percent of total external capital
assistance and the balance consists of loans on soft terms. IDA is the
largest single source of multilateral assistance. As of December 1982, of
the US$140 million total external public debt disbursed and outstanding,
US$40 million, or 29 percent, were IDA cred:lts. However, service payments
on IDA credits totalled only US$0.3 million, or four percent of Lesotho's
total service payments of US$8 million on medium and long-term debt.
PART II -- BANK GROUP OPERA1'IONS IN LESOTHO
15.        The Bank Group's first operation in Lesotho -- a US$4.1 million
credit for a highway construction project -- was approved in 1966, two
years before the country (then known as Basutoland) became an independent
kingdom. To-date, IDA has made 12 credits, totalling US$70 million, which
have financed three projects in highways, two in agriculture, three in
education, two in industrial development and one each in water supply and
urban development. In addition, the Bank is acting as executing agency for
UNDP-financed technical assistance for strengthening the Government's
development planning organization and for assisting the Government to
supervise preparation of the proposed Highlands Water Project (para. 13).
Also, IDA is supervising an agricultural marketing project on behalf of the
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD). IFC has made one
investment of US$330,000 in a quarrying operation.  Summary statements on
IDA credits and IFC investments are provided in Annex II.
16.       Lesotho's performance in implementing IDA-assisted projects has
been mixed. While, until recently, highway and education projects have had
relatively few problems, projects in other sectors, particularly in
agriculture, have encountered serious problems due to ineffective



coordination within Government and delays in appointing project staff.  In
addition, the disbursement rate on IDA credits, which hitherto had been
significantly higher than the Eastern Africa Regional and Bank-wide
averages (e.g., in FY78, 41 percent for Lesotho and 23 percent for the
Eastern Africa Region, and 21 percent Bank-wide), has slowed down
considerably since FY79 because of a shortage of budgetary funds which is
making it difficult for the Government to prefinance project expenditures
which are reimbursed subsequently by IDA. As a result, from FY79 to FY82
the disbursement rate on credits to Lesotho averaged about 15 percent per
annum compared with 20 percent for the Eastern 'African Region and 22
percent Bank-wide. The Government has instituted measures to resolve the
budget crisis by tightening financial management in the public
sector (para. 9).  In IDA-assisted projects, technical assistance is being
provided and local staff trained to strengthen project implementing
agencies and also, where appropriate, revolving funds are being established
to obviate the need for prefinancing by the Government of local
expenditures financed by IDA.
17.       During the next five years or so, the Bank Group expects to
continue to support the Government's development objectives of expanding
domestic employment opportunities, increasing and diversifying agricultural
production, developing human resources through training and provision of
basic health services and control of population growth, and developing the
country's water resources. To this end, the Bank Group plans to lend for
projects in agriculture, basic education and technical/vocational training,
health and family planning, industrial development and for the proposed
Highlands Water Project. The Bank's macro-economic and sector work program
is designed to support this lending strategy.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
The Transport System
18.       Lesotho depends almost entirely on road and air transport for
internal travel. The country has no navigable rivers and no railway,
except for a short (1 km) rail spur, operated by South African Railways,
connecting Maseru to the South African system. Domestic air transport,
connecting 12 airports, is quite well developed. The density and standard
*          of the road network reflects the population distribution.  Most of the
network, including most paved roads, are located in the western part of the
country where the majority of the population lives. A small part of the
network, consisting mainly of lower class roads and trails negotiable only
by four-wheel drive vehicles, is located in the eastern mountain region
which is thinly populated. At present, the pressing need of the transport
sector is to rehabilitate the main paved roads, built over a decade ago,
and to maintain properly and improve the remainder of the road network.
For external travel, Lesotho depends entirely on South Africa's well
developed road and rail network and on Jan Smuts International Airport at



- 6 -
Johannesburg for international flight connections.  Because of the large
number of Basotho migrant workers in South Africa and low level of marketed
domestic production, demand for passenger transport is relatively high.
Air Transport
19.       Lesotho has 31 airfields and airstrips, of which 12 are used for
domestic scheduled air transport. Only two are paved, while the rest have
gravel or grass surfaces. The Government-owned Lesotho Airways, which at
present operates at a loss because of low occupancy rates and aircraft
utilization, provides scheduled domestic air services and operates regional
flights to South Africa, Mozambique and Swaziland. Facilities at Maseru
Airport, the country's international airport, are inadequate for the larger
planes needed for longer distance international flights. Consequently,
international traffic to and from Lesotho must transit through the RSA.  To
decrease this reliance on RSA facilities, Government, in 1983, started
construction of an international airport near Maseru which is expected to
be completed by mid-1985.
Road Transport
20.       The road network totals about 5,000 km, of which about 400 km are
paved, 1,600 km are gravel roads, and the remainder are earth roads and
tracks. Generally, the layout and density of the network is adequate for
current traffic volumes. Road maintenance has considerably improved over
the last four years, but budget allocations in recent years have fallen
short of requirements and need to be raised (para. 31).
21.       Transport and traffic regulations, such as axle load limits, are
generally satisfactory, but are not strictly enforced because of lack of
trained staff. According to a 1980 survey, over-loading is a problem. The
vehicle fleet in 1982 consisted of about 21,000 vehicles, or one vehicle
per 70 inhabitants (compared with Malawi's 29,000 vehicles, or one per 220
inhabitants). The annual growth of the vehicle fleet over the last decade
was 12 percent. Statistics on Lesotho's transport industry are incomplete
because no records are kept of South African-owned trucks which ply
regularly between the two countries. In 1980, Lesotho-registered public
transport vehicles numbered 1,400 trucks and 340 buses, mostly privately
owned. The Government owns one trucking company (Lesotho Freight Services
Corporation) which operates 38 trucks, and one bus company (Lesotho
National Bus Service) which owns 24 buses.
Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination
22.       In the sixties and early seventies, the principal focus of the
Government's transport policy was on serving the main population and
production centers along the north-south lowland corridor along the western
border. Since the mid-seventies, however, the Government has also
emphasized a second objective: providing all-weather road links to and in
the country's eastern mountain areas so as to develop their full social and
economic potential and promote the country's political and administrative
integration. The latter objectiLve is reflected, inter alia, by the



- 7 -
construction of the St. Michaels-Thaba Tseka road in the Second Highway
Project (para. 32) and the feasibility and detailed engineering of the
Oxbow-Mokhotlong road in the Third Highway Project (para. 33).
23.       Two other objectives have influenced Lesotho's transport policy,
namely, to increase employment generation and reduce dependence on South
Africa. The Labor-Intensive Construction Unit (LCU), established with IDA
assistance under the Second Highway Project to create employment
opportunities for Basotho migrant workers returning from South Africa,
supports both these objectives, while the construction of a new
international airport (para. 19), although not justified on economic
grounds, reflects Lesotho's desire to reduce dependence on South Africa for
external air communications.  In recent years, about 25 percent of the
Government's budget has been devoted to investments in the transport
sector.
24.       IDA has supported the Government's policy in the highway
subsector since 1966, through three projects (paras. 32 and 33). The
proposed project would continue this support. The Government plans soon to
start preparing its Third Development Plan (1986-90). Priority areas for
future investments in the sector include: continued road improvement and
maintenance of existing roads; strengthening sectoral institutions; and
developing the domestic construction industry. The Government would
consult with IDA in preparing the transport section of the next development
plan (draft Development Credit, Section 3.06).
25.       The Central Planning and Development Office (CPDO) of the
Ministry of Planning, Employment and Economic Affairs, is responsible for
overall policy and planning in Lesotho and for ensuring inter-sectoral
coordination. It reviews transport policy and planning proposals put
forward by the Ministries of Transport and Communications and of Works.
Coordination among the transport modes is not a major issue, given the lack
of internal rail and water transport and the complementary functions of air
and road transport.
Road Administration, Training and Financing
26.       The Ministry of Works is responsible for the 2,386 km of
classified roads; the Ministry of Cooperatives and Rural Development, using
labor employed under the Food for Work Program, is in charge of
constructing and maintaining most earth tracks in the mountainous areas;
and the Ministry of Agriculture and Marketing has responsibility for the
construction of about 200 km of feeder roads under the Basic Agricultural
*           Services Program (Credit 795-LSO), which is assisted by a US$6.0 million
IDA credit.
27.       The Roads Branch of the Ministry of Works is in charge of
planning, design, maintenance and construction of roads under the
Ministry's jurisdiction. It also maintains some airfields on behalf of the
Civil Aviation Department. The Roads Branch has centralized services at
Maseru for planning, design and construction, while its regional offices in
Leribe, Mohale's Hoek and Mokhotlong are responsible for all routine and



- 8 -
periodic maintenance. To permit the Roads Branch to operate efficiently
over the entire country, its administrative! structure was reorganized and
strengthened under the Third Highway Project. The Plant and Vehicle Pool
Services (PVPS), is in charge of equipment procurement, maintenance and
repair and provides equipment for hire to other Government agencies; when
time permits, PVPS also maintains vehicles of these agencies. Most of PVPS
plant, some 95 percent, is being used by the Roads Branch.
28.       A major constraint on the Road Branch's operations is the
shortage of qualified staff due to the scarcity of trained Basotho and the
departure of skilled local personnel to Soulth Africa which pays
substantially higher salaries. PVPS operations are also seriously hampered
by an overall shortage of qualified staff, particularly at managerial and
technical levels, which results in operational inefficiencies and high
costs. Well-trained mechanics and equipment: operators are in short
supply. To improve the situation, a five-man team of consultants, financed
under the Third Highway Project, was engaged in 1983 to manage PVPS
operations. Improvements are noticeabLe but a lot more remains to be done
to make the agency more effective.
29.       As mentioned earlier, the shortage of skilled local personnel at
all levels in the Roads Branch and PVPS impedes efficient operations and
makes foreign technical assistance indispensible. In the absence of an
engineering faculty at the National University of Lesotho, professional
engineers are trained overseas or in neighboring countries. Many
fellowships have been granted by bilateral and multi-lateral donors to the
Roads Branch and PVPS for this purpose, but a severe shortage of senior
management staff still remains. At the middle management level, there is as
shortage of technicians and other supervisory staff. Training of
technicians is done by the Technician Training School of the Lerotholi
Polytechnic, but the output is small and the course content is too
theoretical to suit the immediate needs of the employers. Skilled workers
are trained at the Lerotholi Technical Institute which, together with two
regional technical institutes, produces annually about 100-120
graduates in mechanical, electrical and building trades. As in the case of
technicians, these graduates are not readily operational and are trained
on-the-job in PVPS and the Roads Branch befor2 independent job assignments
can be given to them. The proposed project would provide fellowships for
professional, sub-professional and managerial training abroad, and also
improve on-the-job training within the country (para. 41).
Maintenance
30.        The Roads Branch, through its Maintenance Division, is
responsible for the maintenance of classified roads (para. 26). The
Maintenance Division is divided into four regions (north, central, east and
south), each headed by a regional roads engineer. Road improvement and
periodic maintenance (resealing and regravelling) is carried out by
separate units directly responsible to the Roads Branch. As a result of
institutional improvements under the Third Highway Project, routine
maintenance of both paved and unpaved roads has been improved considerably
and the regravelling backlog reduced substantially by the regravelling



- 9 -
brigades established under the same project. The paved roads are
maintained reasonably well, but some sections are approaching the end of
their economic life and are deformed beyond restoration by regular
maintenance and require immediate rehabilitation.
31.         Revenues generated from road user charges (mainly duties and
taxes on vehicles and fuel) amounted to some M 16.0 million in 1980, well
in excess of annual road maintenance expenditures of about M 3.0 million
over the last five years. Road user charges, therefore, not only cover
maintenance expenditures, but also contribute substantially to the
Government's general revenues. Maintenance expenditures in real terms have
increased by nearly 30 percent between 1977 and 1984, while capital
expenditures on roads, financed largely from external sources, have more
than trebled. The present level of maintenance expenditures is inadequate
to keep the road network in a reasonably good condition, notwithstanding
the institutional improvements noted above. It is estimated that in
Lesotho's current financial year (1984/85), about M 4.4 million is required
for road maintenance. Accordingly, assurance was obtained at negotiations
that this amount would be budgeted in 1984/85 and that the allocation would
be maintained at this level in real terms in subsequent years (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.02(b)).
Bank Group Assistance
32.        The Bank Group has financed three highway projects in Lesotho.
The first project, for which a US$4.1 million credit (No.82-BL) was
approved in 1966, was executed between 1967 and 1969 and included the
construction of 107 km of the main north-south road from Leribe to the
Masianokeng Turnoff, and a 27 km gravel road between Leribe and Pitseng.
The work was completed satisfactorily and for less than the estimated
cost. The Second Highway Project (Credit 619-LSO of US$5.5 million,
approved in 1976) provided for construction to all-weather gravel standard
of a 147 km section of the main west-east road linking St. Michaels with
Thaba Tseka in the eastern mountain area. The project also assisted in
establishing the Labor-Intensive Construction Unit (LCU) on a pilot basis
to prepare Lesotho to provide economic employment for any sudden
repatriation of Basotho migrant workers from South Africa. Projects
suitable for labor-intensive work methods were identified and on-the-job
training was provided for local staff who would form the nucleus of an
administrative set-up if expansion should become necessary. A recently
prepared Project Completion Report concluded that the project had only been
partly successful: road construction was delayed, while the growth of
traffic and agricultural development in the area traversed by the road
t        remained well below expectations, resulting in a lower economic return than
expected. The LCU as a pilot project, on the other hand, was successful in
establishing an alternative work method more suitable for low traffic
roads.
33.        The ongoing Third Highway Project (Credit 884-LSO, US$9.0
million, approved in 1979) provides for: paving of the 24 km
St. Michaels-Molimo Nthuse section of the St. Michaels-Thaba Tseka road;
improvement of gravel and earth roads through establishment of one



- 10 -
equipment-intensive and two labor-intensive regravelling brigades;
construction and equipping of the Roads Branch's regional offices and the
PVPS regional workshops; technical assistance and fellowships for the Roads
Branch and PVPS; and feasibility study and (if justified) detailed
engineering of the Oxbow-Mokhotlong road (120 km) in the eastern part of
the country. Road paving was satisfactorily completed in 1983 and
maintenance was reorganized and strengthened by technical assistance
staff. The improvement of existing roads is progressing reasonably well
and the regravelling backlog has been reduced substantially. The two
labor-based intensive brigades, employing about 200 workers each, are
facing serious staffing problems (technical and managerial) resulting in
lower output (in terms of quantity and quality) and higher costs than
originally anticipated. Good progress is being made in reorganizing and
strengthening the Roads Branch and PVPS with the technical assistance
provided under the project. Also, a good start has been made in training
staff for the two agencies. The detailed engineering of the
Oxbow-Mokhotlong road was satisfactorily completed in late 1982.
34.       In the proposed project, an attempt is made to reflect the
lessons learned from the previous projects. For example, particular
attention is paid to technical assistance to PVPS, training and
fellowships to strengthen the staff of the Roads Branch and implementation
of traffic count and axle load limit enforcement programs.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       The project was prepared by the Government with the assistance of
consultants and the Bank Group. I]t was appraised jointly with the African
Development Fund in September/October 1983. A report entitled "Staff
Appraisal Report: Fourth Highway Project, Kingclom of Lesotho"
(No. 4883-LES, dated April 24, 1984) is being distributed separately.
Negotiations were held in Washington from March 5 to 8, 1984. The Lesotho
delegation was led by Mr. Sejanamane, Acting Permanent Secretary, Ministry
of Planning, Employment and Economic Affairs. Annex III provides
supplementary project data.
Project Objectives and Description
36.       The project aims to support the Government's transport objectives
of lowering transport costs, increasing accessibility of rural areas
and assisting institution-building efforts in the sector. In addition, it
supports the Government's general policy objective of employment
generation.  Specifically, the project comprises:                                           X
i)    rehabilitation of two paved road sections:  one rural
section from Leribe to a point 6 km north of Maseru (88 km)
and one urban/suburban section from the above 6 km point
via Maseru to Masianokeng (19.5 km) plus construction of
two bridges on the Masianokeng-Mafeteng road;



- 11 -
ii)   regravelling of 360 km of gravel roads, upgrading of 42 km
of earth roads to gravel standards and improvement of
drainage of about 123 km of gravel roads;
iii)   procurement of traffic counters and weighbridges; and
iv)   technical assistance, training and fellowships.
37.       Rehabilitation of Paved Roads - The most important bitumen paved
roads in Lesotho are: (a) the 170 km main road parallel with and close to
the western border with South Africa between Leribe in the north via Maseru
and Masianokeng to Mafeteng in the south; and (b) a 20 km road section
*          connecting Masianokeng with Roma where the national university is located.
A 1981 Ministry of Works survey found that several sections of these roads,
constructed some 10 to 15 years ago, were deformed and damaged to the
extent that routine maintenance could not restore them any longer. To
protect its capital investment, and to avoid heavy and more expensive
reconstruction in the future, the Government has decided to rehabilitate
these vital roads by surface dressing of sections with a reasonably good
existing pavement and by strengthening the existing pavement with an
overlay or, where necessary, by reconstructing both base course and
pavement. In 1983, the Ministry of Works engaged the consulting firm of
Louis Berger International, Inc. (USA) which carried out economic and
engineering studies for the reha'bilitation of the above roads. Based on
these studies, financed by an IDA Project Preparation Facility advance, and
taking into account financial constraints, the rehabilitation component of
the proposed project has been divided in the two sections -- the 88 km
rural section from Leribe to 6 km north of Maseru, and the 19.5 km section
north and south of Maseru plus two bridges. (These road sections were
first paved under the First Highway Project (para. 32)). This component
accounts for about 65 percent of the total project cost.
38.       Improvement of Gravel and Earth Roads.  To reduce the
regravelling backlog, one equipment and two labor-intensive, regravelling
brigades were established and financed under the Third Highway Project
(para. 33). In addition, one equipment-intensive brigade was established
with the Government's own resources. Since the establishment of these four
brigades in 1980/81, about 600 km of roads have been regravelled. The
Ministry of Works is using the brigades to reduce the regravelling backlog
and to upgrade some earth roads to gravel standards. This work requires a
minimal amount of engineering, such as simple sketches and specifications
which can be provided by the Roads Branch staff. The proposed project
would assist in implementing the Branch's three-year regravelling and
upgrading program (1984/85-1986/87) by providing additional equipment,
two existing brigades (one equipment and one labor-intensive) for three
years. It would also provide equipment for establishing a small culverting
brigade, as well as operating costs for all the three brigades. Effective
1985/86, updated annual programs would be submitted to IDA for approval at
least three months before the beginning of each financial year (Development
Credit Agreement, Section 3.07(b)). This project component accounts for
about 22 percent of the total project cost.



- 12 -
39.       Procurement of Traffic Counters and Weighbridges.  The Government
recognizes the importance of regular and reliable traffic counts for
planning purposes, and enforcement of axle load limits to preserve the
existing pavement against overloading.  The! Ministry of Works has prepared
a detailed work program for traffic counting. Also, coordination between
the Ministry of Works, Ministry of Transport and Communications (MOTC), and
the traffic police has improved and MOTC has outlined a program for
enforcement of axle load limits for which staff has been trained under the
Third Highway Project. The proposed project includes procurement of
traffic counters and mobile and permanent weighbridges. This component
accounts for less than one percent of total project costs.
40.       Technical Assistance.  Given the continued lack of qualified
local personnel, the project would include t:echnical assistance to fill key
positions in the Roads Branch and the PVPS. A total of 21.5 man-years
would be provided for this purpose. This technical assistance would
consist of two engineers for three years each and four mechanics for 2-1/2
years each for PVPS; and one engineer for 2-1/2 years and one field
engineer for three years for the Roads Branch. Also, the Government is
considering taking action to encourage the development of the local
construction industry. At present, local contractors are capable of
executing only minor works, but have the potential to play a more active
role in handling maintenance and small construction jobs in remote areas
which are not likely to appeal to foreign contractors who now dominate the
construction industry.  Five staff-months of consultants' services would be
included in the project to review the industry, determine constraints to
its development and recommend remedial action. The study, whose terms of
reference have been agreed with Government, would be completed by December
31, 1985 (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.08). The technical
assistance component accounts for nearly seven percent of total project
costs.
41.        Training.  As indicated in paras. 27-29, there is need for
training at all staff levels within PVPS and the Roads Branch. Engineering
training through fellowships abroad would be provided as follows: road
engineering and transport planning (84 staff-months); short-term training
in road engineering and supervision (45 staff-months); long-term training
in mechanical engineering and managerial training (108 staff-months);
short-term training in mechanical workshop supervision and management (152
staff-months); and a study tour for senior management staff
(3 staff-months).  With respect to in-country training, the Roads Branch's
existing training center would be strengthened in order to expand its
activities to include practical field training for existing staff. For
this purpose, the project would provide financing for:  training materials               a
and field training equipment; spare parts and fuel for three years for
operating the training equipment; and mobile accommodation for a field
training unit.  In addition, the project would support a proposed
apprenticeship training program for PVPS for mechanics with equipment and
technical assistance. The program would be conducted in cooperation with
the Lerotholi Technical Institute and the Technical/Vocational Education
Adviser of the Ministry of Education. The training component constitutes
just over five percent of total project costs.



- 13 -
Project Cost and Financing
42.       Total project costs are estimated at US$29.9 million equivalent
(including taxes and duties of US$1.7 million), of which the foreign
exchange costs are about US$21.8 million. Physical contingencies of 10
percent lhave been allowed for the rehabilitation works to be carried out by
contracLort; price contingencies have been calculated for foreign costs at
7.5 per^ent for 1984, 7 percent for 1985 and 6 percent annually thereafter;
and pri-^ contingencies for local costs have been calculated at 13.5
percent for 1984, 13 percent for FY85 and 12 percent annually
thereafter. In addition, a special contingency of 20 percent has been
included in the cost estimates for the component to be financed by AfDF to
reflect AfDF's procurement restrictions which exclude South Africa.  Of the
258 staff-months of long-term consultants' services (para. 40), 66
staff-months would be recruited individually and the rest provided by
consulting firms.
43.       The proposed IDA credit of SDR 14.3 million (US$15.2 million
equivalent) would finance about 54 percent of total project costs net of
taxes and duties. The African Development Fund (AfDF) has approved a loan
of about US$8.6 million (about 30 percent of net project cost) for parallel
financing of the rehabilitation of the road Section from Leribe to 6 km
north of Maseru (see para. 36(1)). External financing would cover 84
percent of total net costs, or 100 percent of foreign and 30 percent of
local costs. The Government would finance the remaining 16 percent (US$4.5
million) of net costs plus US$1.8 in taxes and duties. Fulfillment of
condition(s) of effectiveness of the AfDF loan would be a condition of
effectiveness of the IDA credit (draft Development Credit Agreement,
Section 6.01(b)).
Organization and Implementation
44.       The Ministry of Works would execute all project components,
except the enforcement of axle load limits which is the responsibility of
the traffic police and the Ministry of Transport and Communications.
Rehabilitation of the Maseru-Leribe-Masianokeng road would be carried out
by contractors supervised by consultants and would take 30 months to
complete. Improvement of the existing gravel and earth roads would be
carried out by force account by the Ministry of Works. Road improvement
would be based on a three-year program prepared by the Government which
would start in mid-1984 and be updated annually with IDA approval
(para. 38). Technical assistance would be used to fill key positions in
the Roads Branch and the PVPS, as well as to train local staff, and to
*           carry out the study of the domestic construction industry.  The project is
expected to be completed by December 31, 1987. A US$300,000 advance from
the Project Preparation Facility was approved in April 1983 to finance



- 14 -
preparation of detailed engineering designs and tender documents for road
rehabilitation. The work has been completed and US$285,000 has been
disbursed from the advance.
Procurement and Disbursement
45.      The road rehabilitation works to be financed by IDA would be
carried out under unit price contract(s) through international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits; and rehabilitation works to be financed by AfDF
will be carried in accordance with AfDF procurement regulations.  Major
equipment financed by IDA would also be purchased through ICB.  Teaching
aids and small miscellaneous equipment would be procured through local
competitive bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to IDA, or, for items of
less than US$5,000, but not more than US$30,,000 in aggregate, by local
shopping with at least three price quotations. To maintain continuity, the
same firm which prepared the design, cost estimates and tender documents
would supervise the rehabilitation works. Similarly, technical assistance
to PVPS would be provided by the same firm which is providing it already
under the Third Highway Project. Other technical assistance would be
procured in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines. Fuel, spare parts and
materials, would be procured through normal commercial channels.
Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below.



- 15 -
Procurement Methods
Force
Project Element                            ICB    LCB    Acct.   Other  Total
A. Civil Works
1.  Rehabilitation of Paved Roads
- Detailed Engineering                                    0.3 1   0.3
v                  - Construction                     18.2                           18.2
(10.0)                         (10.0)
- Supervision                                             0.9 2   0.9
(0.4)   (0.4)
2.  Road Improvements
- Operating expenses of
brigades                                          5.9             5.9
B. Equipment
- For Brigades                     0.7                              0.7
- Weighbridges and Traffic
Counters                         0.2                              0.2
C.  Technical Assistance                                            2.0 3   2.0
D.  Training                                         0.6            1.0      1.6
TOTAL                                19.1     0.6      5.9   4.2    29.9
1 Financed under PFF
2 Same consultants who did the detailed engineering
3 Consulting firm already engaged under Third Highway Project
Note: Figures in parenthesis refer to items to be financed by AfDF
46.       The credit would be disbursed on the following basis:
(a)  100 percent of foreign expenditures and 25 percent of local
expenditures for the rehabilitation of the 19.5 km
Masianokeng-Maseru road and two bridges;
(b)  100 percent of foreign expenditures and 90 percent of local
expenditures for equipment;
(c)  75 percent of local expenditures in 1984/85, 50 percent in
1985/86 and 25 percent thereafter for operating costs for
improvement of gravel and earth roads carried out by force
account.
(d)  100 percent of total expenditures for consultants,
technical assistance services, training and fellowships; and



- 16 -
e)   US$300,000 to refund the PPF advance.
47.       All disbursements would be fully documented except for
expenditures under force account which would be on the basis of statements
of expenditure. The disbursement schedule  8s a little shorter than the
profile for highway projects in Lesotho for the following reasons:
(a) expected early start of project implementation because bids for the
main project component (road rehabilitation' were evaluated prior to Board
presentation; and (b) disbursements for most of the remaining components
would be concentrated in the first two years of project implementation.
Environmental Impact
48.       The project would have no adverse environmental effects.  Road
rehabilitation is expected to result irn reduced fuel consumption and
noxious fumes, and thereby improve air quality. Improved gravel and earth
roads should also reduce fuel consumption antid also dust formation. Also,
by providing adequate drainage, soil erosion -- a serious problem in
Lesotho -- would be reduced.
Benefits and Risks
49.       The major benefit accruing from the main project component -- the
rehabilitation of 108 km of Lesotho's principal road arteries plus
construction of two bridges -- would be lower transport costs and prices of
goods and services. In addition, if the rehabilitation were postponed, it
would cost much more later. Thus, the reduction in future road maintenance
and/or rehabilitation costs would free Government resources for other high
priority investments. The benefits from improved gravel and earth roads
would be mainly in the form of transport cost savings resulting from
improved driving conditions. Improved rural roads also would stimulate
agricultural production and improve accessibility of health facilities,
schools and administrative services to the rural population. Of the
remaining project components, technical assistance and training would
provide the qualified staff critically needed to strengthen the Ministry of
Works; and traffic counters and weighbridges would contribute to better
transport planning and support control of vehicle overloading to prevent
premature deterioration of the road network.
50.       The economic evaluation in quantitative terms is limited to the
rehabilitation (including two bridges) and improvement components of the
project which together account for some 90 percent of total project costs.
No attempt has been made to quantify the impact of technical assistance,
training, or traffic counters and weighbridges. The economic rate of
return of the 19.5 km rehabilitation works to be financed by IDA is 16
percent; and the 88 km to be financed by AfDF yields a return of 23
percent. The two bridges to be financed by IDA yield a return of 24
percent. A sensitivity analysis, assuming a cost increase of 20 percent,
indicates that the return would be 3-4 percentage points lower. A two
percent decline in traffic growth would result in a 2-3 percentage point
decrease in the rate of return. The traffic volume (in the first year)
that justifies the road improvement (a rate of return of some 12 percent)



- 17 -
is between 30 and 35 vehicles per day. As all roads included in the first
year of the Government's road improvement program at present carry at least
35 vehicles a day, the proposed improvements are, economically justified.
A 30 percent increase in cost would require a break-even traffic volume of
between 30 and 35 vehicles a day which would still justify improvement of
the roads included in the first year of program.
51.       Because of the scarcity of qualified local staff in Lesotho, the
most risky project components are those requiring a substantial number of
local technical and managerial staff -- road improvement, particularly the
labor-intensive operation, and the traffic count and axle load limitation
programs -- which have also created problems in the past. The technical
assistance and training of local staff provided in the project should
minimize this risk. To minimize uncertainty about cost estimates for road
rehabilitation, bids were received before Board presentation and
preliminary evaluation indicates that the amounts are within the appraisal
cost estimates.
PART V -- LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
52.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Kingdom of
Lesotho and the Association and the recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed separately.
53.       Special conditions of the credit are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Fulfillment of condition(s) precedent to the effectiveness of
the AfDF loan would be a condition of effectiveness of the IDA credit
(para. 43).
54.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
55.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 7, 1984



ANNEX I
- 18 -                                              Page I of 5
I A B L E 3A
LLSOTio                   - SOCIAL INUICATORS DATA SHEET
LESOTdO                                   REFERENCE GROUPS (W@EIGHTD, AVR8AGES) Tia
HOST                        (tiUST RECENT tSTIMATE) /b
RECENT               HIDDLE INCOME            MIUULE IhCOuE
1960/b       1970/b  t STlMATNLŽb      AFRICA S. OF SAHARA    N. AFRICA & KID EAST
AREA (TRIOUSANO SQi. iE)
TOTAL                                    30.4         30.4         30.4
AGRICULTURAL                             27.8         24.2         22.9
GNP PER C&lPITA (US$)                       50.0        120.0        540.0               1147.9                       1340.0
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)                          ..           ..                724.2                        810.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION,MID-YEAR (TlIOUSANDS)        869.0       1061.0       1372.0
URBSA  POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)            1.5          2.6         12.1                 28.5                         47.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                    2.4
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                      7.0
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                   2130
POPULATION DENSITY
PgR SQ. 101.                          28.6          35.0         44.2                 56.5                         36.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND                31.3         43.8          58.5                131.8                       449.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (Z)
0-14 YRS                             38.8         40.0          41.1                 45.9                        43.9
L5-64 YRS                             56.9         55.7          54.8                 51.2                        52.8
65 AND ABOVE                           4.3          4.3           4.1                  2.8                          3.3
POPULATION GROWTHi RATE (T)
TOTAL                                  1.5           2.0          2.3                  2.8                          2.9
URBAN                                  7.1           7.5         16.1                  5.3                          4.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THtOUS)           42.4          42.4         42.4                 47.6                         42.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)            23.1          18.7         14.7                 15.2                         12.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   2.8          2.8          2.8                  3.2                          3.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)
USERS (Y OF MARRIED WOMEN)               ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                          104.0         94.0          90.0                 95.7                         97.5
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (Y OF REQUIREMEnNS)          95.0          90.0        107.0                 97.1                        102.3
PROTEINS (GRAJiS PER DAY)             66.0          62.0         72.0                 56.0                         72.0
OF WHICH ANItiAL AND PULSE           15.0          13.0         14.0/c               17.2                         17.8
CHilLD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE            30.9          27.2         22.2                 23.6                         15.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)           41.6          46.5         52.2                 51.9                         57.2
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOUS)          144.0         130.9        113.3                117.6                        104.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%POP)
TOTAL                                    ..          3.0         17.0/d               25.4                         59.3
URBAN                                    ..       100.0          65.07d               70.5                        84.9
RURAL                                    ..          I.0         14.0/d               12.3                         37.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(Y OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..         110         13.0/d
URBAN                                    ..         44.0         51.07.
RURAL                                    ..         10.0         12.0/3d
POPULATION PER PHiYSICIAN            23490.0      30310.0       18640.0/c            12181.6                       3536.0
POP. PER NURSING PERSON               6540.0/e    3010.0         4330.07W             2292.0                       1820.7
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                690.0         570.0        490.0/c             1075.4                       643.3
ORBAN                                 70.O/e       100.0        200.07W              402.3                       545.0
RURAL                                980.077       730.0        580.07W             3926.7                      2462.0
ADMISSIONS PER HiOSPITAL BED               ..           ..         20.0/c                 ..                          26.4
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                    ..           ..          3.9/c
URBAN                                    ..           ..          4.27..
RURAL                                    ..           ../
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                    ..           ...
URBAN                                    ..           ..
RURAL                                    ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Y OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                    ..           ..           ..                   ..                         46.2
URBAN                                    ..           ..           ..                   ..                         77.6
RURAL                                    ..           ..           ..                   ..                         16.1
-------- ------------ ----------_____________  --______   __  _ _ __ _ _  _ -- -- -- -- -  -_ _ _ _ _ _ -i _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __-



ANNEX I
- 19 -                                       Page 2 of 5
T A B L E 3A
LESOTHO                  - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LESOTHO                                  REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                       (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
lb  RECENT  lb           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1 9 60OZ-b   1970-  ESTIMATE-b         AFRICA S. OF SAHARA    N. AFRICA & MID EAST
EDCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                      83.0         90.0        104.0                 97.2                        89.6
MALE                      63.0         71.0         84.0                103.1                       104.8
FEMALE                   102.0        109.0        123.0                 88.5                        72.4
SECONDARY: TOTAL                       3.0          7.0         17.0                 17.2                        41.7
MALE                       3.0          6.0         13.0                 23.5                        52.8
FEMALE                     4.0          7.0         20.0                 14.2                        31.2
VOCATIONAL (Z OF SECONDARY)             22.6          8.4          5.1                  5.2                         10.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               54.0         46.0         49.0                 42.9                        31.9
SECONDARY                             20.0         22.0         21.0                 23.7                        23.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                   ..           ..         52.0                 37.1                        43.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP              3.0          1.5          2.4/c               18.8                        18.0
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSANL POP             4.6          4.7         22.4'                97.8                       138.1
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                 ..           ..           ..                 18.6                        45.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                  ..           ..          1.0/f               18.2                        31.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA           ..           ..           ..                  0.6                         1.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)              487.0        570.0        704.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                      45.3         44.3         43.5                 36.1                        10.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                 93.0         90.0         87.0                 56.8                        42.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                     2.0          3.0          4.0                 17.5                        27.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 56.1         53.7         51.3                 37.0                        25.6
MALE                                  62.2         60.3         58.2                 47.1                        45.4
FEMALE                                50.1         47.2         44.4                 27.0                         5.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.8          0.8          0.9                  1.3                         1.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..           ..
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..           ..
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHdOLDS
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..           ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..        304.0                534.2                       276.1
RURAL                                   ..           ..        253.0                255.9                       177.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..        113.0                491.5                       400.0
RURAL                                   ..           ..        113.0                188.1                       283.3
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (%)
URBAN                                   ..           ..          50.0                  ..                        22.0
RURAL                                   ..           ..          55.0                  ..                        30.8
NOT AVAILABLE          -
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, "Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; /d 1975; /e 1962; /f 1978.
May 1983



ANNEX I
20 -                                            ~~~Page 3 of 5
DEFIrI:Tien OP SOCIAL INDICATApi
coarrsirs beoaseof te lak o  etroardot- de$-ooaed  ocptIsd  ydffro   codfre   0                                       Jcdacdo  ithe dae   The oas-r,-hihls                 - fL to
decib    rdr  o   egiod  t- d irat - ed-do-  td firoateie   tnst-e9r  ifdrec- etrr   orods
Therefrefs goop  er  (I  ode ...t ooc:-r  g.o.p tf hir  tobj-e  ooc-y and                  -- eoir   gro..p      -h- ~obs  htg.r  Iteg   trs   that the  --Otyr gr....fth
.ojctof    aop  for'. ih             Oiooe  di  Erperoers'. gr-apshrr  "ffddl  Illoa  North Adeira end Middle hoe"  a  hose  Ito.s   faehorsoorl 
troo   hasdaisfor ira  indtcato.  hoorte  ocrg  oforhtaao                     "tetdto-o-  de0,ao.daO n  otltboity of dar  sod it to -otrrs   e  d   aarb
eseot-d on, reso           .g aeras  of or  toodraort   -noher   In-a  sor-g-ac  o-ti  osrio  to. riiapro   tirolo   ioh                   cttoet.   roar-eo-  od   --cy ,cd
MIA a (tisotad strs)                                                                                      optd-oor'dic po h                  ,,oio, dtoided br  cite- ef piece ding
¶~hst-foaoaoriseareartproi-ral-derss.dinlatldeser;it,                                              bptcaotTfWPod  a   nn iytnt
01970 aid 1990 da.                                                                                   Pooitin-                                       rdltood bf  foatro  petoo
to   ros  pet-se.  tararar  tttho -1       eo  oh cc- I--Its folos  diEt                        oortn   aoe-ott -dertt--e-lIa.
1     P7 ad .bi   ats.:                                                                       Poodar-orrtoore-ted-  otl,r-s,  nd'-cd    Pprsidc-totd
lap PER 1AITApr70LSSt-  Opeostctedstator t ste -i-ta-oslatle  to, po1,dr to0 pro osi..e.1.                                                                d  oraoadiopt               t
estdid it-etrronrso         .a o  aeArd Bst  clt(tibO Aide;                                         erardrroo-c1taa    hapthd  aret biedh-ns aIsnttlyorftd
1960, 1970, atd 1980 tata.hradeotn  phby.t-os. htilaaoeroiit    eccptrottdt
rta   t   c   oldd-0-o    raoet  Oss-ee  toddriett 
MPUPLATIONt sMD VITI. STATISTICSi                                                                          hp-tosd-d drepotad   sealndrdd ony-           o t   otd
hcced  orolador.  td-Mec lthoactd)  -A. of Joly  i; 1960. 1970, end  hOdi                  ddde -ot  erhocie  Nai -  iTt1  .o.     o   dtst                 door  it-to-ef
Otfteret deftdtioosof orho scot  say afart  csp-rsbiltlp of dat                     thOUSIN
lOrd, dM00. 000 dii>  Otto.                      Otorste dote ot heriotold. (dertona cee rootbodol- totot. reboo  endi ro-rIoII   .  -. ....
Poelat    Y..,oerton  -2   hteooldoC-do-                                                                                    f e..o.......P...d.....t.o   Otrcoqao-..t
toalP"poi,d, bY age             .  ..c t ... tire                                                                                 ..hlI    .nd ecto  oe....o-   oesarota
rates     ~         l    ...Prjttto   eeesi- - tosotlht    hcttca0h0  oftee--tioo                                                                                         ..IctOopooo-oe,hh   oloo
Y,ts   oE-esO    n    ret   oe   setnc    tetiigo i.                                                 oltht   toerol --IOotnWrohphcoottr,toh
Thpenectilrferyotity .tttaO           etdrt Orc    Eloroocyeoca--t
aaoangritedfE-ddo                       _rodt   g_tooa    teaadatoot                         ctooororclteotototoa-oo.ee,hoe
etarnt-i...        --lily. cadro-.ootot        'dtthtosaei -o-dot .od   ..e..ot                     _oonoolcllntttlooooyot-gooieaptrt
dtet-ocsry  Ioooto  -  t            1-ttoae   poploerecher:t  0  grat
dec0 nei!Oq        epeesoltc   fo.    htt  tpo-oC-Pn-cts.  T-e                                       6crc-r  o, rt-lntod,  sardtat-ecrctt.cd   c
asot  1960etootso9 otedahtotddt1oet80                    dbttdcty--tahtflatothpiaooolopeatadraIt ottr
eteato   dt  asrt ate   h  ie  at rh       hepojcedceact- r.tot.to-aecoa eto;   cesl   Ico.o   hiotoasdtd
tahrso   th  poolatooInes  porI.h a.      trtsrie.tti                                        trto....d..ttoo   toaoodcaopactte    o
feeftltfyrare  coerpiaceseor  drost.                               otortrre.taot   ottorotttedcccotortoocllsthtrsooocetrtldoo rotY
dear II ih 9tesr  coi9t7 t -di esre       hsya-hrtoihr                                                 thtt-to ooen d.ra 0IIooIIo- tot ottorrt  to-o  a. ..   ,I
oy;16, 1970ec  0990,      Imc.                                                           Ooatco-hot,"  C-ootttocrcC-OcOloo   tehtrit
orse popoetiot fcc955-60,   961-70, sd -...-..         t97apodddng.,ttOlI
pooet9    a   t  11-h.Iir-O.sd   50-1- 00roto   rtiio. opcolo00ottd   eo   o
rood  eorlo  ote   ce  rorotcdl -coo-cllo  'clohs p-   Ihja..d.ohrod
yerpb     ltlh    50  1970. t -561 toot                I                                          hoPtpn'
Oc/   oc   osle   ictrl-aboOdah    e   cocdo   t-oePe.cor     o    oto    o  boor>,  ...ot.tototo 0-000
pcclttocl19d. 100.tnt190  dto.cotsta  00tatcha  otot  tooho. erlrto  rb  ao,etoastao
drtrterdttroraoctoteoooheetra.otehcnttooooe
1990      ---eoo                                                                                                  ro ce o--ce etc   0  ta   ate   rooiaoc   0 
haclpPtoco0-costoe  ,eooWticoecdt-oooocco....teroteccI osnV.  Ftoofr (                                           caI rror.         rm    c/ .arnce-ltioeo
soetoof ohtio-teorto0o0e   Il-It ocreol .ho   oro.c00-0c0--do-c    Itod I                                            ~-1191f                 i-  f-1;  91…
Occ no co or .                                                         r    _ _                 __    __     __`9__
thor 001  '10-010ic0         li  i,-1     .)-P- ....    I"    PI                                                               -
loococrcor  cc yo027         -aotr_'05t -lI>>        dc ,  -00   b-oi                            Ir
oohot  otcr oo  1 01 Oodo-ooOoot.h~   yU~ Pooretrhorlo/t-to   tooto o    t-
00 to.                                                                                 i-oct~~--,d     --    b    A~fr.   -i      -'
tod- cbt'oortlosiort                  -  ta   aapp   96t e 65oO   atoal  asd  ted.               rtoett   90  17   0  1               dt
aCeiad   tooeebto   rpcoho.adotao   Coettheco                                                            ooocpoeo       ao   oc  1'- ,   -   atto          toto-ttce- 0tt- fe
-tdoaeco4leoOl   96169.         197  and  .9 ..a....                                                 co  eerrrlo,   otrd-t  co  tpeeooc   r  tt                       ot)otoHO
Pe  rria o-  O  oh d- ootOc El.,      ecdyl-hrtehonrirprrlt                                            17  td001.co
trcsf    r   0t  first.. l hteo  It-  d9ers  190  -tta   19ntet  00   2901otloto    o-e   c otcoml O    0~    0   o-  tInt  too -.
dato.                                                                                   totInt 0030d1",'0......0010-P.-0I  l
obdlysoel-tleotbaeelereboeool-- et-oc, dr- th   ptooctooL Ptroartectlcolco-o<-c/  .toOt
ats otto7  I-c resra , to rhtboero  Icohiasga  iecot1  trroti oo-ttooooo     chosch .- orroe....0oocto,,t-io-  -o
-toeoOc  daadcoo  o,17 ha-h.l96d   97  cc 9-    ca..h.ot...lft
Othot                                                                                               00y00000 rho,   -hO tooths-d
'Yrsotoa   paoOooa-         otoitr Iot       Odh,   7ocoldlr-a                                        ohclc,rottca'tretohdo 1-ol                                     
-cttohteoeleoctttoolcco-ott   oacooh                               co-coii-el-tootr   c.tooo'.                                                                     ..cc.l.t.....
htocecofptorteltotal ,ehao,  codereall  trcdrratohoblocrctootcOctt  otc<Ootlt.    ~         ~         ~        ~        1 ~



- 21 -
ANEX I
Page 4 of 5
Population            :  1.4 million (mid-1981)
GNP per Capita in 1982: tS$445.4
LES0li - E(XN1IC  NDICA2flRS
Amount              Share of CDP at Cirrent Market Prices                           Average Awal Growth Rate at
(million (US$                    (percmt)                                                 Ccxstant 1970 Prices
Indicator                    at current Prices)
1982            1970       1975      1980       1982                            1970-75      1975-0         198D-82
NATL As
Gross <nestic product            296.2 1            100         100       100        100                              5.8           8.9            5.9
Agriculture                     67.3               32          32        27         23                              4.4           0.3
Minirg                          12.5                1          0          9          4                            -22.2          86.7          -12.3
Other Industry                  52.9                7          13        16         18                              9.0          12.6          -10.6
Services                       163.5               50         55         48         55                              5.5          4.6            10.6
Consumption                      594.8              132         187       174        201                             13.6           9.3
Gross investment                 103.4               11         25         38         35                             22.1          22.9
Exports of Goods & NFS            50.8               11          15        16         17                               1.7          9.7
Imports of Goods & NFS           374.7               54        121        125        133                             24.1          10.8
Gross national savings            28.7               ..         15          5          7
Gross National Product           623.5
(VEWM  FINANCE                                          Cenral Covernment (1982/83)
(M Million)        % of GNP
Current Receipts 2                                         143.9               21
Current Expenditures                                       152.5               23
Current AccoLnt Surplus/Deficit                             -8.6                1
Capital Expneditures                                        54.5                8
Overall Deficit                                            -63.1                9
Finanin  of the Deficit
External Borrowirg                                        44.1                7
Internal Borrowrng                                        19.0                3
MQiEY CREDII & PRICES                                     1970     1975    1980    1981    1982
(Million Maloti, End of Nriod)
Money and Quasi Money                                      .         .     117.1  144.9   185.4
Bank Credit to Governnent (net)                            .         .      22.8  51.1    65.4
Bank Credit to the Private Sector 3.                                9.8     26.1   43.8    54.1
Percentage and Index  imbers
Money and Quasi MDney as X of CDP                                            38    42       49
Consumer Price Index (1975 = 100)                                  100     188.9  217.0  238.0
Annual percentage change in
Consumer Price Index 4.                                           14.2    15.7   14.9     9.7
Bank Credit to Government                                                       124.1    28.0
Bark Credit to Private Sector                                                    67.8   23.5
1 (DP at factor cost
2 Qxrrent receipts include grants of M 9.4 million
3 Icludes parastatals
4 Maseru Urban Area                                                                                                                    May 1984



-22 -                                    ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
TRADE PAYMENIS AND CAPTIAL FLW0
BAIANE GF PAYMNTIS
1979   1980   1981    1982    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS 1982
(Mllion  US$) -US$ Million    %
Exports of Goods & NFS       55.0   72.1   65.0    50.8   DiaDnd                      14.2    36.6
TIports of Goods & NES      327.3  430.4  480.4   425.7   Woo.                         3.9    10.1
Resource Gap               -272.3 -358.3 -415.4  -374.9   MbOLir                       2.6      6.7
Net Factor Services         204.9  255.2  266.2   252.8   Others                      18.1    46.6
Net Transfers                48.8   63.8   58.6    52.9   Total                       38.8   100.0
Balance of Current Account   -18.6  -39.3  -90.6   -69.2                                        --
EXIXRNAL DEBT, DECM13R 31, 1982
UIS$ Million
Official G(ants              21.4   30.9   24.1       9.2
Direct Foreign Invetment       -      4.5    4.8      3.7   Public Debt Incl. guaranteed   138.6
Net MLT Borrowing            24.4   31.4   31.4    24.9   Nbnr-guaanteed Private Debt         ..
DLslmrseients              24.9   31.8   32.2    25.8   Total 0utstandirg & Diskirsed   138.6
Amhrtization                0.6    0.6    0.8       0.9
Chs~ge in Reserves            0.6    0.6   -2.0   -10.0   Debt Service Ratios for 1982
Miorarizn Items                                              Public Debt irr-1. guaranteed      14.8
Qirrent A/C Ba.aEe % of GP   4.2    7.6   15.1    10.2   Non--garanteed Private Debt
Total OCitstaniling & Disbirsed   14.8
Rates of Exche                                               I]D/IDA lending as of March 31, 1983  (US$ Milhicn)
I1RD     ms
US$/Maloti                                           Outstarxiing and Disbrused            -       50.6
1980    1.2854                                               Undiskirsed                          -       19.7
1981    1.1490                                               Outstariing Incl. Undisbrsed         -       70.3
1982    0.9228
not available
May 1984



- 23 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN LESOTHO
A. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS
(as at March 31, 1984)
Amount (less cancella-
tions, reimbursed,
terminations)
US$ Million
Credit        Year      Borrower       Purpose                   Credit       Undisbursed
Six credits are fully disbursed                                  29.79             -
795-LSO       1978      Lesotho        Basic Agricultural
Services                6.00            2.53
884-LSO       1979      Lesotho        Third Highway              9.00            4.39
887-LSO       1979      Lesotho        Water Supply               6.00            2.04
985-LSO       1980      Lesotho        Second LNDC                4.00            3.07
1036-LSO      1980      Lesotho        Urban Development          6.00            2.53
1148-LSO      1981      Lesotho        Third Education           10.00            5.16
Total                                 70.79            19.72
of which has been repaid               0.48
Total now held by IDA                 70.31
of which undisbursed                  19.72
Note: The status of projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at March 31, 1984)
Investment                                                          (US$ Million)
No.              Year       Type of Business            Loan         Equity       Total
405-LSO             1978       Lesotho Quality
Aggregate (PTY) Ltd.       299,000       31,000    330,000
Total Gross Commitments;  299,000        :31,000    330,000
Less: Cancellations,
terminations,
repayments and
sales
Total now held by IFC    299,000         31,000    330,000



- 25 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.     Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: 2-1/2 years
(b) Project prepared by: Government, assisted by consultants
(c) Appraisal: September 1983
(d) Negotiations: March 1984
(e) Planned date of effectiveness: September 1984
II.    Special IDA Implementation Action
PPF advance of US$300,000 to finance detailed engineering and tender
documents (para. 44).
III.   Special Conditions
(a) Government to budget M 4.4 million for road maintenance in
financial year 1984/85 and to maintain allocation at this level in
real terms in subsequent years (para. 44);
(b) Annual regravelling and upgrading program to be agreed with IDA at
least three months before the beginning of each financial year
(para. 38).
(c)  Study of domestic construction industry to be carried out by
December 31, 1985 (para. 40);






-%u ;E EOTEVeNC  fr   ;;   - T-           ;            __________________________IB_ nm                                         BRD 17433R
\>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FBUR 1984To  A o >so
+Aw < )        E~   X
XYA&4~~~   /C         WTHARUTHF
~~; .<:   .  4     *      m      A ; _                            , z    1 R re9A ,BA                  ;AAN~~
I H;                                  A                                                            I )
-  QA0 ~~~5  PFK       T
t  oBAASkt>JX.A                                       -                 ..E  SOIhO~~~~~~~~~~ITI I t
Al                                                                                                                       2>    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   72 ~~~~~~~~~~       FOURTH  HIGHWAY  PROJECT
,A~AAW,'  '   Br T LH  A                                           1                                                          ROAD NETWORK
- t  -\,\    BA - A -$  -  -  -
IW dISsA; x~~~~~7RIH  \ 7~~~  <              C,? !> T H I NXG ,                                                     -    AYRAD
C -i-'--.i       A A> AIA A A A          J                                   BAABA-                  L    T fEClT-
.nM BtIB^A                                                                    h IirAe s~AAAAM~      D   BAT ORAL CABBBAALBBAABBAPBABABTAABB
_-A 1 5    i  nS r r >Ss r hW............. nd  F1. WXSSC ............ P W fi?2dG< I DSTR(T DUnA-I EE
B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                              9 )- eN Zn1    wc    _     ac   reo  o:sde                lTSA   IA  DIOR[
.Bj                                                                           VAE                  at('IUD                                                             I



