FL FFICIL7    CREDIT NUMBER 1481 LSO
DOCUM,.ENTS]
Development Credit Agreement
(Fourth Highway Project)
between
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated      -                      ,1984


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1481 LSO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                     Cl, 1984, between
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO (hereinafter call ed the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Associa-
tion).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
and
(B) by agreement dated March 13, 1984 (hereinafter called
the AfDF Loan Agreement), the African Development Fund (here-
inafter called the AfDF) has agreed to make a loan (herein-
after called the AfDF Loan) to the Borrower in an amount of
FUA 8,750,000, equivalent to $8,610,000, to assist in financing
part of the Project on the terms and conditions therein set
forth.
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addition-
al terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MOW" means the Borrower's Ministry of Works;


﻿-2-
(b) "PVPS" means the Plant and Vehicle ?ool Services of
MOW;
(c) "RB" means the Roads Branch of MOW;
(d) "MOTC" means the Borrower's Ministry of Transport and
Communications;
(e) "M" means Maloti, the Borrower's currency;
(f) "FY" means the Borrower's Fiscal Year which runs from
April 1 to March 31; and
(g) "'Project Preparation Advance" means the project prep-
aration advance granted 'by the Association to the Borrower pursu-
ant to an exchange of letters dated January 28, 1982 and April 1,
1982 between the Borrower and the Association.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in
this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
fourteen million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 14,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financad out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the prin-
cipal amount of the Project Preparation, Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.


﻿-3-
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1988 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the AAsociation
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without re-
strictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in. this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 1,
and December 1 commencing June 1, 1994, and ending December 1,
2033, each in tallment to and including the installment payable
on December 1, 2003, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.


﻿-4-
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
its Ministry of Works with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity   with  appropriate   administrative,   financial  and
engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out Parts A, D and E of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
engineering   consultants  and   experts   whose  qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association, such consultants and experts to
be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satis-
factory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.


﻿-5-
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the b;nefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at quarterly intervals all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association  shall  reasonably   request, on   the execution   and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performence by the Bor-
rower and the Association of their respective obligations under
the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for carrying
out the Project and shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association
that such land and rights in respect of land are available for
purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, during the preparation of
its Five-Year Development Plan (1986-1990), consult with the
Association on the transport section thereof.


﻿-6-
Section 3.07. (a) Save as provided in paragraph (b) of this
Section, the Borrower shall undertake Part B of the Project
according to the program set out in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) starting from FY 1985/1986
submit to the Association for its review and approval, at least
three months before each fiscal year, an update of the following
year's work program for brigades, such program to include an
economic justification therefor; and (ii) thereafter carry out
said program.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1985, carry out the study under Part D(2) of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records, including separate accounts, adequate to
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures,
in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts
reflecting all expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure; (ii) retain, until one year after the Closing Date,
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure; and (iii) enable the Association's
representatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as avail-
able, but in any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit


﻿-7-
by such auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Asso-
ciation shall have reasonably requested, including without
limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors
in respect of the expenditures and records referred to in para-
graph (b) of this Section as to whether the proceeds of the
Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account on the basis of state-
ments of expenditure have been used for the purpose for which
they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning said accounts, records and expen-
ditures and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause its road system
to be adequately maintained in accordance with sound engineering
practices, and shall provide funds, facilities, services and
other resoixrces required for the purpose.
(b) Without limitation upon the foregoing, the Borrower
shall make budgetary allocations for road maintenance for
FY 1984/1985 of not less than four million four hundred thousand
Maloti (M.4,400,000) and shall thereafter, until completion of
the Project, make annual budgetary allocations at least equal to
such amount in real terms.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause its equipment for
road maintenance to be adequately maintained, and all necessary
repairs and renewals thereof to be made promptly, all in accor-
dance with apropriate engineering, economic and financial prac-
tices, and shall provide promptly as needed, the funds required
for the purpose.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(i) Subject to 6ubparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds  of  the   AfDF Loan   made  to  the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall  have   been  suspended,  cancelled  or


﻿-8-
terminated  in whole or in part, pursuant
to  the  terms  of   the  agreement  providing
therefor, or
(B) the AfDF Loan shall have become due and pay-
able prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Associatton that: (A) such suspension, cancel-
lation, termination or prematuring is not caused
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of
its obligations under such agreement; and (B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to
the Borrower from other sources on terms and
conditions consistent with the obligations of the
Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof namely that the event.specified
in paragraph (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur, subject to the proviso of subparagraph (ii) of that para-
graph.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that all conditions precedent to the
effectiveness of the AfDF Loan Agreement, except for the effec-
tiveness hereof, have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The date    OcD   ,     1, 1/1 t      is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Ar-
ticle IV of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date
on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on
a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.


﻿ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01., The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P. 0. Box 395
Maseru 100
Lesotho
Cable address:                       Telex:
FINMIN                             4330 LO
Maseru                             4367 LO
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the pa6vties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their reapective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
KINGDOM OF LESOTHO
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                    Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- Ii. -
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated        % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil Works                 5,360,000       100% of foreign
under Part A of                           expenditures,
the Project                               and 25% of
local expendi-
tures
(2) Equipment                     880,000       100% of foreign
expenditures,
and 90% of
local expendi-
tures
(3) Road Improve-               2,275,000      75% of local
ment under                                expenditures in
Part B of the                              FY 1984/1985;
Project                                    50% of local
expenditures in
FY 1985/1986;
and 25% of local
expenditures
thereafter
(4) Consultants                 1,735,000      100%
and Technical
As8istance


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated        % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(5) Training and                1,335,000       100%
Fellowships
(6) Refunding of                  285,000       Amount due under
Project Prepara-                           Section 2.02 (b)
tion Advance                               of this Agreement
(7) Unallocated                 2,430,000
TOTAL         14,300,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The  disbursement   percentages  have   been  calculated   in
compliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds
of the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to  such  Category   as  required  to  be   consistent  with  the
aforementioned policy of the Association.


﻿- 13 -
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the di sbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Cate-
gory may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have
been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is incons4stent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
diture for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the project are to support the Borrower's
transport program for the lowering of transport costs and in-
creasing the accessibility of rural areas, and to support the
Borrower's institution building efforts in the transport sector.
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A    Rehabilitation of Paved Roads
1.   Rehabilitation of two paved road sections, namely a rural
section (88 km) from Leribe to a point 6 km north of Maseru and
an urban/suburban section (19.5 km) from the point 6 km north of
Maseru to Masianokeng.
2.   Construction of two bridges on the road from Masianokeng to
Mafeteng.
Part B    Improvement of Gravel and Earth Roads
1.   Regravelling of about 360 km of gravel roads.
2.   Upgrading of about 42 km of roads, from earth to gravel
standards.
3.   Improvement   of  125  km   of  gravel   roads  through  the
installation of about 240 culverts and about 12 fords.
4.   Acquisition and utilization    of equipment for the above
activities.
Part C    Traffic Counting Program and Axle Load Control
Strengthening of MOW's traffic counting program and MOTC's
ability to enforce axle load limits through the provision of
traffic counters and mobile and permanent weighbridges.
Part D    Technical Assistance
1.   Strengthening of RB and PVPS by the provision of technical
assistance.
2.   A  study   to  review  the   Borrower's  local  construction
industry.


﻿- 15 -
Part E    Training
Upgrading existing skills of RB and PVPS staff through:
1.   Provision of fellowships abroad for engineering training.
2.   Strengthening of RB Training Center by the provision of
training materials and equipment.
3.   Support for the apprenticeship training program for PVPS
mechanics.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1987.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D and F hereof, goods and civil
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in the current
edition of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification of documents
relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information
as the Association shall reasonably request; the Association will
arrange for the publication of such notice in order to provide
timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to
bid for the goods and works in question. The Borrower shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding.
3.   Bidders for the civil works included in Part A of the
Project shall be prequalified as described in Paragraph 1.3 of
Part A of the Guidelines.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.


﻿- 17 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedure
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Lesotho may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference, and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bid's    offering goods manufactured    in
Lesotho if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Associa-
tion that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Lesotho equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lwest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer


﻿- 18 -
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Category 1 of the table set forth in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement and to be procured in accordance
with the procedures described in Part A of this Schedule, the
Borrower may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to domestic
contractors, in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
1.   Contractors shall be required to prequalify, as pro-
vided in Part A of this Schedule, and applicants for qualifi-
cation applying for such preference shall be asked to provide, as
part of the data for qualification, such information, including
details of ownership, as shall be required to determine whether,
according to the classification established by the Borrower and
accepted by the Association, a particular firm or group of firms
qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding documents shall
clearly indicate the preference and the method that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect
to such preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by the
Borrower, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible for
preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.


﻿- 19 -
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for training equipment estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of $5,000 each may be awarded after the
solicitation  of   quotations  from  at  least   three  suppliers,
provided, however, that the aggregate cost of goods to be so
procured shall not exceed the equivalent of $30,000. All other
contracts for equipment may be awarded on the basis of competi-
tive bidding advertised locally in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
2.   Spare parts, fuel and materials may be procured through
local shopping procedures.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review  of prequalification. The    Borrower   shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably request.
The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of
their qualifications and, where applicable, of their eligibility
for domestic preference under Part C above and of the reasons for
the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification and for such
eligibility shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association
for its comments before the applicants are notified of the Bor-
rower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such additions to,
deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works under Part A
of the Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $1,000,000 or
more and for equipment under Parts B end C of the Project
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall


﻿- 20 -
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the A4sociation's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph (except for contracts on account of which withdrawals
are allowed from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditures), the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids, recommendations for award and such other infor-
mation as the Association shall reasonably request. The Associa-
tion shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was,
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension


﻿- 21 -
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.
F.   Procurement Without Contracting
Road improvement works included in Part B of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement shall be carried out under force account by MOW.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
WORK PROGRAM FOR BRIGADES 1984/85 - 1986/87
A.   IDA Labor Intensive Brigade
1983
Year      Road #            Description             Activity     Km   ADT
1984/85    B47        Matukeng-Mantsebo           Upgrading2/     12   52
B45        Mazenod-Moitsupeli          Regravelling3/ 23    31
1985/86    B34        A4 - Tosing                 Regravelling    14   42
B35        A4 - Ha Mosehle             Regravelling     5   38
B36        Qomo-Qomong Extension       Upgrading       11   48
B39        Maphutseng Road             Regravelling     9   40
1986/87    B451       A5 - Nyakosoba-Makhaleng    Upgrading       19   11
B451       A5 - Nyakosoba-Makhaleng    Regravelling    12   11
Sub-Total Regravelling                63
Sub-Total Upgrading                   42
1/ Average daily traffic.
2/ Upgrading from earth to gravel road.
3/ Regravelling of gravel road.,


﻿- 23 -
WORK PROGRAM FOR BRIGADES 1984/85 - 1986/87
B.   IDA Equipment Intensive Brigade
1983
Year      Road #            Description             Activity     Km    ADT
1984/85    B42        Ramohapi-Ramoihloe          Regravelling    40    122
B46        B40 - Ral-qheka             Regravelling    27     65
B47        Boinyatso-Mokema-Phohleli
Manteebo                    Regravelling    25    176
B33        Tsoelike-Sehlabathebe       Regravelling    4      32
1985/86    B33        Tsoelike-Sehlabathebe       Regravelling    71     32
A4         Mpiti-Tsoelike              Regravelling    18     48
B203       Mateka-Pulare-Sefikeng     Regravelling    12    199
1986/87    B27/B271   Levi's Nek - 'Mate          Regravelling    16     93
B20        Lancer's Gap-Makhalanyane   Regravelling    56     56
A14        Sani-Pass                   Regravelling    14     30
B21        Mohlomi-Thaba Bosiu         Regravelling    14     36
Sub-Total Regravelling                297
Total Regravelling Both Brigades           360
Total Upgrading Both Brigades               42


﻿- 24 -
WORK PROGRAM FOR BRIGAMS 1984/85 - 1986/87
C.   IDA Culverting Brigade
Activity
of     #o
Year     Road #            Description         Culverts  Fords  Km   ADT
1984/85   A14        Mokhotlong-Sani Pass         98       4     43   34
1985/86   B232/233   Mpharane-Kolojane-Bela
Bela-St. Theresa             22       -     24   38
B46-Raleqheka                48       4     16  44
1986/87              B46-Raleqheka                47       4     16   44
B172-Joel's Drift-Hlosoa     23       -     24   26
Total             238      12    123   -


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of  "A    -,
198 4.
FOR SECRETARY


