Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18664
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MALI
SECOND POWER PROJECT
(Credit 1998-ML)
December 9, 1998
Energy Unit
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS'
Currency Unit                                 =       CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$1-.                           -                    CFAF 0.001658
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
One kilovolt kV)                                      1000 volts
One Megawatt (MW)                             =       1000 kilowatts (kW)
One Gigawatt hour (GWh)                                1 million kilowatt hours (kWh)
One barrel (bbl)                              =      0.16 cubic meter
One ton of oil equivalent (toe)               =      about 7 bbl of crude oil
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB/F                 African Development Bank/Fund
CFD                    Caisse Fran;aise de Developpement (fonner CCCE)
CIDA                   Canadian International Development Agency
DGG                    Delegation Globale de Gestion
DNHE                   Direction Nationale de I 'HIydraulique et de I 'Energie
EIB                    European Investment Bank
EdF                    ElectricitW de France
EDM                    Energie du Mali
ESMAP                  Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
FAC                    Fonds d Aide et de Cooperation
GOM                    Gouvernement du Mali
KfW                    Kreditanstalt fir Wiederaufbau
MlE                    Ministry of Industry, Hydraulics and Energy
OERHN                  Office pour I 'Exploitation des Ressources Hydrauliques du Haut Niger
OMVS                   Office pour la Mise en Valeur dufleuve Senegal
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice Presidents:              Jean-Louis Sarbib / Callisto Madavo
Country Director:             Hasan Tuluy
Sector Manager:               Mark Tomlison
Task Team Leader:             Nadjib Sefta
The CFAF has a fixed exchange rate vs the French Franc which has evolved as follows: prior to the devaluation of Fcbnry 1994, the exchange rate
was CFAF 50 per French Franc; since the devaluation, the exchange rate is CFAF 100 per French Franc.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ....................................................i
EVALU TIONSU.RY ................................................... 
PARTII: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATIONASSESSMENT ..................................................I
A. Itroductio  .................................................................I
B. Project Objectives .........................................................2
C. Achievement of Project Objectives ...........................................................3
D. Project Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ..................................          6
E. Project Sustainability ..........................................................7
F. Bank Performance ..........................................................7
G. Borrower Performance ..........................................................8
H. Assessment of Outcome ..........................................................9
1. Future Operation .........................................................                                       10
J. Key Lessons Learned .........................................................                                    10
Part IH  TABLES ...................................................                                                    14
Table 1- Summary of Assessments                           ...............................,. ,.. 14
Table 2 - Related Bank Loans/IDA Credits   ...                                                                      15
Table 3 - Project Timetable ...............................                                                         15
Table 4- Credit Disbursements                        .............................. 16
Table S - Studies Included in the Project                     ..                                                    16
Table 6 - Project Costs ...............................                                                             17
Table 7- Project Financing ..........................,                                                             18
Table 8 - Status of Legal Covenants .........................,,,.,,,,.,                                             19
Table 9 - Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                       ................................................ 25
Table 10 - Bank Resources: Staff Missions ................................................                          25
PARTIIL APPENDICS ...........................................                                                          26
A. Aide-Memoire of The Last Supervision Mission of April 1998 ................................................. 26
B. Borrower's Contribution ....................,,.,                                                                 31
Map IBRD No. 27692 ....................                                                                            45
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MAIU
SECOND POWER PROJECT
(Credit 1998-MLI)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Power Project in
Mali, for which Credit 1998-MLI in -the amount of SDR 24.2 million (US$33.0 million equivalent)
was approved on March 30, 1989. The credit was closed on June 30, 1998, 2-1/2 years behind
schedule. The last disbursement was made on November 16, 1998 and an undisbursed balance of
US$0.7 million will be canceled on completion.
The ICR was prepared by Philippe Beuzelin, Consultant, and was reviewed by Nadjib
Sefta, Senior Energy Specialist, Mark Tomlinson, Sector Manager, AFTG1 and Hasan Tuluy,
Country Director, CD15. Preparation of this ICR was begun in Washington and completed
during a Bank's supervision/completion mission that took place from December 2 to 16, 1997. It
is based on material in the project file and interviews. The Borrower contributed to the ICR by
preparing its own evaluation of the project's implementation (Appendix B) and by commenting on
the draft ICR.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MALI
SECOND POWER PROJECT
(Credit 1998-MLI)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Bank Group's involvement with Mali's power sub-sector began in 1982 with the
Power/Water Project (Cr. 1282-MLI). The objectives of that project were to extend both power
and water supplies, and to rehabilitate and strengthen Energie du Mali (EDM), the parastatal
utility responsible under a concession arrangement to produce and distribute electricity and water
over most of the country. The physical components of the project were successfully completed,
but the institutional objectives were not achieved during the life of the Project. In addition to the
Power/Water Project and the Second Power Project, IDA is providing support to the energy
sector in Mali through the Household Energy Project, the Selingue Rehabilitation Project and the
Manantali Regional Energy Project.
Project Objectives
2.    The Second Power Project had four objectives: (a) the institutional reform of the power
sector, mainly through consolidating into EDM the technical responsibility for the construction
and operation of all power facilities; (b) the institutional strengthening of EDM through
improvements in all aspects of its operations, and the introduction of a performance contract
between EDM and the Government with specific efficiency targets; (c) investments in physical
facilities which were part of the power sector investment program for the years 1989 to 1995; and
(d) assisting the Borrower developing and implementing a new strategy in the household energy
sector.
3.    The Project's institutional reform  objective addressed a key issue related to the
fragmented organization of the sector which divided the responsibility of power activities among
three agencies: Direction Nationale de I'Hydraulique (DNHE); Energie du Mali (EDM); and
Office pour l'Exploitatdon des Ressources Hydrauliques du Haut-Niger (OERHN). The
objective of strengthening EDM's organization and operations was essential for improving the
sector, but the difficulty of transforming it into a viable institution was underestimated and the
plan of action agreed upon at negotiations proved to be insufficient. The objectives of the
Project related to the production and distribution of electricity were realistic and in line with the
needs of Mali. The support provided to develop household energy sector was adequate (paras 6
to 12).
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    The institutional reform objective of consolidating into EDM the technical responsibility
for the construction and operation of all power facilities was achieved by March 1995. At that



iii
time, OERHN transferred to EDM its physical assets as well as its debt obligations. The objective
of strengthening EDM was achieved partially, later than expected, and differently than envisaged
at time of project appraisal. It was done through the three following stages: (i) between 1989
and 1994 through a performance contract (contrat-plan) between EDM and the Government; (ii)
between 1995 and 1998 through a management contract with private professional partners; and
(iii) the Government's decision, in April 1998, to privatize EDM by end of the year 2000. Most of
the objectives of the investment program were achieved: all the components related to generation,
transmission, distribution in isolated centers, engineering and system studies, were completed,
while the component related to distribution in Bamako and financed by other Donors (AfDB,
CIDA), is expected to be completed by July 1999. Annex 1 provides details about each
investment component. The training and technical assistance components were achieved. The
household energy strategy study was carried out as scheduled and resulted into a self-standing
GEF financed Household Energy Project to assist the development of the sector (paras 13 to 20).
5.    Project costs and financing: The Project's estimated cost at appraisal, including
contingencies and interest during construction was US$103.2 million. The foreign exchange
component was estimated at US$82.6 million. Financing of the project was provided by IDA,
AffDB, CCCE, CIDA, EEB, FAC, KFW, and EDM. By the end October 1998, the Project had an
actual cost of US$93.9 million.
6.    Project economic performance: The project's economic performance was reevaluated
using the method used in the SAR, i.e., on the basis of incremental costs and sales resulting from
the investments. The result is a project economic rate of return slightly lower than the appraisal
estimate (14.8% versus 15.1%). This discrepancy is mainly due to the fact that revenues were
lower than estimated at appraisal, because of a lack of timely adjustments to tariffs after the
devaluation of 1994.
7.    Sustainability: The unification of the sector is irreversible. Measures taken to privatize
EDM and to restore its financial position through tariff increases, debt rescheduling, payrnent of
Government arrears, and timely payment of its bills, are very much in line with the needs of the
institution and should strengthen it significantly. Given the strong electricity demand increase, the
sustainability of the physical components of the Project is likely, provided that EDM is able to
ensure adequate maintenance of the facilities. The sustainability of the results achieved in the
household energy sector is likely since there is a new self-standing project to support
implementation of the strategy adopted for this sector (paras 27 to 29).
8.    Bank's performance: The Bank's role in identifying the Project was satisfactory. Its
assistance to the Borrower during project preparation, which included an in-depth study of the
electricity and water sectors in Mali, was also satisfactory. During project appraisal, the Bank
ensured adequate coordination with the other cofinanciers and, through the various conditions of
negotiations, helped establish the basis for a sustained development of the sector. However, it
underestimated the difficulty of transforming EDM into a sound and viable enterprise, did not
correct upfront the excessive price OERHN was charging to EDM for the electricity produced at
Selingue, and did not push for a full unification of the power sector. Therefore, the Bank's
performance in the project appraisal phase is considered as less than satisfactory. At the
beginning of project implementation, the Bank supervision was not as sustained as was required;
however, this deficiency was corrected sufficiently early in the project implementation process for



iv
the Bank supervision to be considered satisfactory. In addition, during implementation, the Bank
made significant efforts to adjust the project design to the evolving economic and political realities
(paras 30 to 35).
9.    Government Performance: The performance of the  Government during  the
implementation of the Project has been less than fully satisfactory in spite of its commitment to the
development of the sector. This is explained to some extent by the political instability which
prevailed in the early years of the Project and the significant devaluation of the CFAF in 1994,
factors upon which the Government had little control. The Government's reluctance to adequately
adjust the electricity tariff to reflect EDM's costs (particularly after the 1994 devaluation) and the
lack of regularity in paying its electricity bills, have contributed significantly to financial difficulties
of EDM. However, the Government did contribute to the implementation of EDM's financial
restructuring plan by forgiving part of EDM's debt. It also acknowledged that outside
management help was needed to strengthen EDM and took action to that end. More recently, by
making a series of decisions to reform the sector, to restore EDM's financial situation, and to
privatize EDM by the end of year 2000, the Government has clearly indicated its willingness to
create the conditions for an efficient functioning of the sector and to restore EDM's financial
situation (paras 36 to 38).
10.   EDM Performance: Although EDM's performance has been significantly affected by the
Government's actions, its management could have done much more to improve the operations
and financial results of the institution. During the first period (1989-1994), implementation of the
action programs agreed upon with the Bank during negotiations was not accomplished with
sufficient vigor to have any significant impact on the institution. The start of the Delgation
Globale de Gestion (DGG), in January 1995, marked a tuming point and, over a period of three
years, several of the most basic weaknesses of the institution were seriously addressed. The
decision of EDM's Board to prematurely terminate the DGG contract in April 1998, instead of
finding ways to develop a genuine cooperative effort with the management team, resulted in an
unfinished task. Overall, EDM's performance is considered as less than satisfactory (paras 39 and
40).
Summary of Findings, Future Operation, and Key Lessons Learned
11.  Assessment of Outcome. Even though the project was implemented in difficult
circumstances, it has reached most of its objectives: (a) the unification of the power sector, which
was a prerequisite for its adequate development and functioning; (b) improvements in EDM's
commercial operations and management capacity, (c) the implementation of the investment
program (generation/ transmission/ distribution); and (d) the development of a self-standing
project in household energy. Although the objective of strengthening EDM was reached only
partially, significant improvements have been achieved in important aspects of its operations and
the performance of its staff, particularly through the important training program which was
implemented. Therefore, on balance and taking into consideration all the achievements and
deficiencies of the project, as well as the turbulent political environment which prevailed at times
when it was carried out, the implementation is considered as satisfactory.
12.   Future Operation: The main features which are underway and are key for the future
operation of the sector and the project are the following: (a) the restoration of the facilities at



v
Selingue (under the Selingue Power Rehabilitation Project) which is a direct follow up of the
project, will provide EDM with an efficient and safer source of electricity to meet the demand; (b)
the expected start of operations of the Manantali Regional Energy Project in 2001 will similarly
provide EDM with an important additional source of power; (c) the privatization of EDM, which
the Government has decided to carry out by the end of 2000, is likely to contribute to its
transformation into a more effective institution; and (d) the financial plan to restore and
strengthen EDM's financial position is being implemented.
13.   Key Lessons Learned: Based on the experience of this project, the following lessons can
be offered:
* A performance contract between the Government and a Government-owned power company,
like the one implemented between 1989 and 1994, is not an effective mechanism to improve
the operational and financial performance of the company because it does not provide a legal
check to enforce the contract. The Government's non-compliance, in turn, makes it impossible
for the power company to comply with its own commitments. However, such a contract can
be useful as an instrument of last resort because it can help to clarify roles and facilitate a
dialogue between the Government and the power company.
*  Management contracts, like the one implemented between 1995 and 1998, can be an effective
approach to correcting significant institutional weaknesses. However, the following conditions
must be respected to produce results: (a) the management team must be given sufficient
leeway to operate and implement all changes that are necessary to restructure and strengthen
the institution; (b) the duration of its stay should be in line with the severity of the problems
facing the institutions; (c) it must prepare, as early as possible during its mandate: (i) a
succession/follow-up plan which identifies the local managers who will take over; and (ii) a
transition plan for the actual transfer of management. Furthermore, in order to ensure that the
implementation of the contract produce all its potential benefits, it is imperative to review the
situation after one year. If at that time it becomes clear that major obstacles are obstructing its
successful implementation, serious consideration should be given to immediate termination.
*  When the implementation of a project experiences serious difficulties for whatever reasons
(economic, political, sectoral), there are significant benefits to be derived from staying the
course while finding ways and means to rework and reengineer the project. This involve
making adjustments to the project design to take into account the changing political and
economic realities while keeping in mind the project's fundamental objectives.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MALI
SECOND POWER PROJECT
(CREDIT 1998-MLI)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. INrTRODUCIION
1.    The Bank Group's involvement with Mali's power sector began in 1982 with the
Power/Water Project (Cr.1282-MLI). The objectives of that project were to extend both power
and water supply, to rehabilitate and strengthen Energie du Mali (EDM), the parastatal utility
responsible under a concession arrangement with the Government, to produce and distribute
electricity and water over most of the country. These objectives were achieved only partially: the
physical components of the project were successfully completed but the institutional objectives
were not achieved. The Second Power Project was originally envisaged during the preparation of
the first power operation as the second phase of a program designed to rehabilitate and extend
sector services. Its scope was subsequently broadened to include the institutional restructuring of
the sector. In addition to these two projects, IDA is providing support to the energy sector
through the Household Energy Project, the Selingue Rehabilitation Project and the Manantali
Regional Energy Project.
2.    At time of appraisal of the Second Power Project in 1987, it was estimated that only
about 4% of Mali's population had access to electricity. About 70% of the country's electricity
was supplied from the Selingue hydroelectric plant, which had been commissioned in 1981. While
the existing installed generating capacity was deemed adequate to meet the electricity demand in
the interconnected system until the early 1990s, there was a need to rehabilitate other small
existing hydroelectric plants (Felou and Sotuba), to rehabilitate and extend the generating and
distribution facilities in the isolated centers (Kayes, Sikasso, Mopti, Koutiala, Bougouni), as well
as in Bamako, the capital city. In view of the future development of the power facilities on the
Senegal river at Manantali dam under construction by OMVS, it was also deemed necessary to
build a transmission line between Bamako and Segou.
3.    Development of the power sector had been seriously hindered by the following
combination of factors: (a) a complex sectoral organization for such a small system, which
divided the responsibility of power sector activities among three agencies: the Direction
Nationale de 1'Hydraulique et de l 'Energie (DNHE); Energie du Mali (EDM); the Office pour
PlExploitation des Ressources du Haut-Niger (OERNH); (b) poor operational performance of
EDM resulting from weak management capacity and from Government interference in daily
operations; and (c) precarious financial situation of EDM caused by a high level of accounts
receivable from both the Government and private clients. The Project aimed at correcting the
most critical of these deficiencies.



2
B. PRoJEcr OJEcrIvEs
4.    The Project had four objectives: (a) the institutional reform of the power sector, mainly
through consolidating into EDM the technical responsibility for the construction and operation of
all power facilities; (b) the institutional strengthening of EDM through improvements in all
aspects of its operations, and the introduction of a performance contract between EDM and the
Government with specific efficiency targets; (c) investments in physical facilities which were part
of the power sector investment program for the years 1989 to 1995; and (d) assisting the
Borrower developing a new strategy in the household energy sector.
5.    Activities financed in the power sector included: (a) the rehabilitation and extension of the
facilities for the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity; (b) consultant services to
assist in the implementation of the investment program; (c) studies to improve the performance of
the facilities; (d) training and technical assistance; and (e) miscellaneous items, including spare
parts, vehicles, equipment and supplies. The project also included a household energy component
whose scope was to be determined after completion of a household energy strategy study
prepared with the support of the ESMAP program (1992).
6.    Power sector institutional reform objective. The Project's institutional reform objective
of assigning greater responsibility to EDM for all activities in the power sector was relevant to
the power sector of Mali and addressed key issues related to the organization of the sector.
Coordination among the three power authorities, DNHE, EDM and OERHN, was almost non-
existent, resulting in sub-optimum planning, increased operating costs, lack of consultation in
fixing the tariff at which the electricity produced at Selingue was sold to EDM and rivalry in
project decision making. Given the small size of the power sector in Mali, the objective of
consolidating into one power utility the responsibility for planning, construction and operation of
all power sector facilities was adequate. The Government's role would be limited to overall
policy setting, control and regulation of the generation and distribution of electricity.
7.    However, considering EDM's poor performance as well as the multiplicity and
pervasiveness of its weaknesses, it was necessary to considerably strengthen its management to
unable the effective management of the power sector. Furthermore, although the Project aimed at
transferring to EDM the operational responsibility of the Selingue hydropower facilities under an
operation contract between these two institutions, it did not originally include the transfer of
physical assets from OERHN to EDM. Such a transfer would have been necessary to realize the
full unification of the power sector into one power utility. In that respect, the Bank only partially
tackled the unification of the sector and, in doing so, failed to address forcefully and upfront what
was one of its key weaknesses. In addition, by not correcting the excessive tariff amounting to
about 100% above production cost that OERHN was charging to EDM for the electricity
produced at Selingue, the Bank and the Govermment failed to remove one of the main causes of
EDM's financial difficulties.
8.    This deficiency was addressed in early 1992 when the Bank proposed an Action Plan
which aimed at effectively completing the unification of the sector by transferring all electricity
power related facilities from OERHN to EDM and at refocusing the role of DNHE on regulatory



3
functions and overall sector supervision. This Action Plan was approved at a donors' meeting
which took place in Paris in April 1993.
9.    EDM strengthening objectives. The institutional objective of strengthening EDM was
an absolute necessity if it were to assume the leadership role in the power sector that was
envisaged for it. However, EDM was suffering from many significant problems (precarious
financial situation, unsatisfactory organization structure and staffing, lack of delegation of
authority) and the difficulty of achieving the transformation into a solid and viable institution was
underestimated. As a result, the plan of action agreed upon at negotiations for achieving the
transformation proved to be insufficient to correct identified weaknesses. Furthermore, the past
failure of technical assistance to achieve any significant improvement in the performance of the
institution was not sufficiently taken into consideration. EDM's precarious financial position was
due to: (a) the high cost of electricity purchased from OERHN compared to the tariffs it was
allowed to charge to its clients; (b) the Government failure to pay its electricity bills on a regular
basis; (c) electricity cross-subsidies to water operations; and (d) inadequate financial management
of EDM. The institution's commercial operations were weak. The organizational structure of the
commercial department needed strengthening; and its administrative procedures were inadequate.
10.   Achieving the objective of strengthening EDM required a more drastic approach, like the
one subsequently taken in the framework of the Action Plan agreed upon between the
Government and the Donors in April 1993, to delegate management responsibility for a period of
four to five years to an outside partner under a contract of Delegation Globale de Gestion
(DGG), which would be funded under the Project.
11.   Investment objective. The investment objective and components of the Project to
expand the generation and distribution of electricity were realistic and in line with the needs of
Mali, where the per capita consumption of electricity was among the lowest in the world and
where the majority of the population lacked access to electricity service. At time of appraisal, the
level of electrification of Bamako was estimated at about 28%. However, regarding the
transmission line from Bamako to Segou, it might have been more cost effective to delay its
construction until a more definite schedule could be established for the completion of the
Manantali Project.  This approach would have been justified because of the uncertainties
regarding the availability of power from Manantali and the high estimated cost of construction of
the line (US$20.9 million).
12.   Household Energy Sector objective. The objective related to household energy was
highly desirable as the country faced a severe problem of desertification caused by increasing
consumption of firewood for household energy purposes and the Government did not have a
strategy in place to deal with what could increasingly become a fuel wood crisis.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OEECTIVES
13.   Power sector institutional reform objective. The institutional reform objectives were
achieved, although with some delay. The agreement reached at negotiations between the Bank
and the Government stipulated that in the future, a strengthened EDM would have the technical
responsibility for developing and operating all power facilities, with the exception of regional and



4
multipurpose hydroprojects. Within that framework, it was expected that no later than June 30,
1988, OERHN, which was the owner and operator of the Selingue power facilities, would have
transferred to EDM under a management contract between OERHN and EDM, the operation of
these power facilities, including the integration of its electricity personnel. Some delays occurred
in the implementation of this transfer which was achieved by the end of 1990.
14.   Furthermore, in 1993, it was decided, within the framework of a new Action Plan to
strengthen the sector, to proceed further with its unification by also transferring to EDM the
ownership of the physical assets of OERHM as well as the related debt service obligations. The
transfer was only completed in March 1995.
15.  In 1998, the Government decided to go further in the reform of the sector by: (a) focusing
the role of the Government on policy and regulation while disengaging from operational activities
in electricity and water; (b) eliminating all existing monopolies; and (c) encouraging actively
private sector involvement in these activities. These measures were formally announced and
discussed at a Donors' meeting in Paris on April 14 and 15, 1998. In addition, the Government
decided to initiate immediately the privatization of EDM with the objective of completing it by the
end of year 2000.
16.   EDM  strengthening objective. The objective of strengthening EDM was achieved
partially and later than expected. During project negotiations, EDM submitted a comprehensive
program, which was agreed upon with the Bank, to strengthen its organization, including the
training of its staff  At that time, agreement was also reached on a detailed plan to reduce
technical and non-technical energy losses and improve bill collection. For its part, the Government
agreed that it would make (or cause to be made) adequate budgetary provisions for public sector
consumption and arrange for timely payment of its bills. These agreements were formalized in a
performance contract (contrat-plan) between EDM and the Government which was implemented
between 1989 and 1994.
17.   While EDM  made efforts to implement this performance contract, results remained
inadequate until 1992. This led the Bank to propose to the Government, who agreed, the new
1993 Action Plan with two key objectives: (a) completing the unification of the sector by
transferring to EDM the ownership of the power facilities at Selingue; and (b) delegating to
private professional partners the management of EDM under a management contract (Delegation
Globale de Gestion (DGG)). The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
were amended in August 1993 to include the Action Plan and the partial financing of the DGG.
Subsequently the Closing Date was extended from December 1995 to December 1997.
18.   The DGG contract, which went into effect in January 1995 transferred management
responsibility of EDM to a private consortium (Groupement SHEC). It placed the emphasis on
strengthening EDM's commercial operations, collecting receivables, and training the staff From
the very beginning, the relationship between the management team and the President of EDM's
Board was antagonistic and led twice to the replacement of the General Manager. On February
11, 1998, EDM's Board of Directors, without prior consultation with the Donors, terminated the
contract with the SHEC consortiunL Officially the decision was based on the non-compliance by
the DGG with the section of the contract calling for the 1996 audit of EDM's financial statements



5
to be unqualified. The Government decided ex post to accept the Board's decision but moved
quickly in April 1998, on an action plan which included sector reforms and specific actions related
to EDM such as financial measures to rehabilitate the institution (cf. para 24), immediate initiation
of EDM's privatization, nomination of a new general manager and change of the Board
composition.
19.   Although the mandate of the DGG was interrupted eighteen months earlier than initially
planned and the DGG was not able to carry out all the changes which had been envisaged, there is
no doubt that it accomplished some significant improvements in EDM's operations, particularly in
the commercial area and in the training of staff.
20.   Investment objectives. The objectives in the investment program were achieved. The
DGG played a significant role in that respect. The three components related to power generation
were completed: (a) rehabilitation of the Sotuba hydroelectric plant; (b) extension of the Dar
Salam diesel station; and (c) installation of five new diesel units in three isolated centers. The in-
depth inspection of the Selingue's hydroelectric plant was carried out and resulted in a separate
project to rehabilitate the dam and the power generation facilities. The component related to the
construction of a transmission line from Bamako to Segou was completed. The rehabilitation and
extension of the existing distribution system in eight load centers was completed by April 1998;
and the rehabilitation and extension of the distribution system in and around Bamako, financed by
other Donors (AfIB, CIDA), will be completed by mid-1999. The household energy strategy
study was carried out as scheduled and resulted into a GEF self-standing project to assist the
development of the sector. Annex I provides details about each component.
21.   Project costs and financing. The Project's estimated cost at appraisal was US$103.2
million, including contingencies and interest during construction. Of this, the foreign exchange
cost was estimated at US$82.6 million with financing from IDA, AfDB, CCCE, CIDA, EIIB,
FAC, KFW, and EDM. Local costs, estimated at US$20.6 million, were to be financed by IDA,
CCCE, CIDA, EIB, FAC, KFW and EDM. The Project, as of October 1998, had an actual cost
of US$93.9 million, and is expected to be fully completed by July 1999 compared with the
appraisal target of June 30, 1995 for completion and December 31, 1995 for closure. Although
the investment component of the project accounted for about 80 percent of the total project cost,
the institutional aspects were crucial in the implementation, and progress made in that area also
played a determinant role in the success of the investment program. This explains why a large
portion of the ICR report is devoted to the institutional factors.
22.   Project economic performance. The project's economic performance was reevaluated
using the method used in the SAR, i.e., on the basis of incremental costs and sales resulting from
the investments. The result is a project economic rate of return slightly lower than the appraisal
estimate (14.8% versus 15.2%). This discrepancy is mainly due to the fact that revenues were
lower than estimated at appraisal, because of a lack of timely adjustments to tariffs after the 1994
CFAF devaluation.



6
D. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
23. Factors not subject to Government control. Between 1990 and 1993, the initial years
of implementation of the Project, the political situation in Mali was marked by a significant degree
of political turmoil and instability. Dunng that period of time, there were frequent changes of
Government, resulting in delays in taking decisions that would have facilitated the successful
implementation of the Project, particularly the sectoral changes that were required to create a
unified framework for the power sector. As a result of this situation, the physical components of
the Project were realized, although at a slower pace than anticipated at time of appraisal, while
the sectoral and institutional objectives were achieved with delays.
24.   Factors subject to Government controL A stricter implementation of the initial
performace contract with EDM and, in particular, the Government's timely payment of its
electricity bills would have contributed significantly to the financial soundness of the institution.
The Government's reluctance to revise upward tariffs for power and water, from 1994 to 1997,
has been an additional source of financial difficulties for EDM. The Government recently decided
on a series of measures to reform the power sector, to contribute significantly to the financial
rehabilitation of EDM and to privatize the company. These measures included: (a) immediate
electricity and water tariff increases, to be followed by further yearly adjustments in 1999 and
2000; (b) rescheduling of EDM's debt amounting to CFAF 14.6 billion, which wili result in
postponement to 2001 of principal and interest payments; (c) payment of arrears due by the
Government (CFAF 4.9 billion); and (d) acquittal of its current bills by advance payments
corresponding to one month of consumption. Although the full benefits of these decisions will be
felt mainly in the future, those concerning the financial situation of EDM (tariff increase of April
1998, debt rescheduling, and payment of Govermnent arrears) will have a beneficial impact within
a relatively short time.
25.   Factors subject to the Implementing Agency control. While EDM's influence on
implementing changes related to the unification of the sector was rather limited and the non-
payment by the Government of its electricity bills was a source of major financial difficulties,
EDM's management could and should have been more active in implementing the action
programs that had been agreed upon with the Bank at the negotiations of the Project. In
particular, greater efforts could have been made, in the initial years of the Project implementation
(1989-1994), to strengthen EDM's commercial activities, improve collections and train staff.
Technical assistance resources were available under the credit for these purposes and they were
neither fully nor efficiently used.
26.   Between early 1995 and early 1998, major actions were implemented by the DGG and
progress was achieved in several respects. Commercial operations have been considerably
strengthened and collection of arrears pursued vigorously, and some efforts were made to
combat fraudulent use of water and electricity. An intensive staff training program was actively
implemented in the various areas of activities of the institution; cost control was belatedly given
a high priority by management, as was the cleaning up of the financial situation and improvements
in the preparation of accounting and financial statements. Although much remains to be done to
transfonn EDM into a solid enterprise, a good start has been made to correct the most blatant
weaknesses.



7
E. PROJECr SUSTAINABILIrrY
27.   The sustainability of the positive outcomes of the unification of the power sector is likely,
now that the Government has taken some decisive steps to reform the sector. Focusing the role
of the Govenunent on policy and regulation of the sector while it will disengage from operational
activities in power, will create an institutional framework that will facilitate an efficient
functioning and development of the sector. Furthermore, involving the private sector will permit
the development of an environment that is expected to result in increased coverage and better
service to the consumer.
28.   The sustainability of the progress accomplished at EDM is likely now that the Government
has decided to privatize the company. In the meantime, the set of decisions taken by the
Government will contribute significantly to improving EDM's financial situation (para 24). Since
electricity demand continues to grow very vigorously, the sustainability of the physical
components of the Project is likely, provided that EDM is able to ensure adequate maintenance of
the facilities.
29.   The sustainability of the results achieved in the household energy sector is likely as it has
resulted in a new self-standing project to finance the implementation of the strategy prepared for
that sector.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
30.   Project Identification. Identification of the Second Power Project was satisfactory. The
Project was a follow-up to the First Power/Water Project (Cr. 1282-MLI) for which a credit of
$24 million was approved in 1982. That project aimed at strengthening EDM and financing the
first phase of the rehabilitation and extension of its power and water facilities as there was ample
scope for further improvement.
31.   Project Preparation. Project preparation by the Bank was satisfactory. It included an
in-depth study carried out by the consulting firm TRACTEBEL of the electricity and water
subsectors in Mali. The study recommended the implementation of an action plan to restructure
EDM, that would subsequently take over OERHN power facilities and would be given full
responsibility for all investment, production and distribution activities in the power subsector.
The Government's role would be limited to overall policy setting, control and regulation. In
addition, the Bank required that a manpower study be conducted, which would form the basis for
determining the training and technical assistance needs of the whole power sector.
32.   Project Appraisal. The Bank's performance in the project appraisal phase was less than
satisfactory. As mentioned earlier, the Bank overestimated EDM's capability to implement
vigorously a comprehensive plan of actions to improve its organization and its commercial
activities. In doing so, it underestimated the difficulty of transforming EDM into a sound power
company. In addition, the Bank did not pay sufficient attention to correcting the exaggerated
overcharge of 100 percent above production cost that EDM was paying to OERHN for the
electricity produced at Selingue, although it was one of the main causes of EDM's financial
difficulties.



8
33.   However, the Bank ensured adequate coordination with the other organizations that were
participating in the financing of the Project: AfDB, CCCE, CIDA, EIB, FAC, KFW. It required,
as condition of negotiations, that the Government: (a) send to IDA draft statutes for the
electricity and water utilities and all related legal texts (Projet de Code d'Electricite, Projet de
Code de 1'Eau) as well as the draft management contract between EDM and OERHN for the
Selingue facilities; (b) prepare a detailed program for the strengthening of EDM taking into
account the recommendations of the various studies underway (institutional assessment,
commercial operations, organization and manpower study); and (c) develop an action plan to
reduce EDM's systems losses, and to improve collection of customer accounts and reduce
arrears. In order to assist EDM in complying with the conditions of negotiations, the Bank
granted an advance of US$1,110,000 from the Project Preparation Facility for the purpose of
strengthening EDM's commercial department and carrying out the preparatory studies mentioned
above.
34.   Project Supervision.  At the beginning of  Project implementation, the Bank's
supervision was not as sustained as was required by the nature of the changes that were to be
made in the institutional organization of the power sector and the seriousness of the problems
faced by EDM. There was a gap of nine months between the first mission in February 1990 and
the second one in November 1990, and a gap of ten months between the second mission and the
third in October 1991. These gaps between supervision missions were in part due to the disturbed
political situation in the country.  Subsequently, the situation improved considerably and
supervision missions (17 in total) were carried out consistently at six-month intervals by
experienced staff.
35.   Starting in 1992, the Bank followed a persistent course of action in order to press for a
successful implementation of the Project. It also paid a great deal of attention to maintaining
close coordination with the other institutions financing the project and played a leadership role in
creating the Monitoring Committee (Comife de Suivi). In April 1993, at a donors' meeting in
Paris, agreement was reached on the Action Plan proposed by the Bank, mainly on the unification
of the sector by transferring the Selingue facilities from OERHN to EDM and the contracting out
of EDM's management to a professional partner through a management contract. In August
1993, the Bank amended the Project's Credit Agreement to take the Action Plan into account
and to finance the contract for the Delegation Globale de Gestion of EDM. Subsequently, the
Bank continued to press for a speedy implementation of the Action Plan. The Bank provided
guidance to the Government in 1997 and 1998, and contributed to the recent decisions on the
reform of the sector by advising them on their necessities. Therefore, on the basis of the regularity
and of the quality of the supervision effort after 1991, Bank supervision of the Project was, on
balance, satisfactory.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
36.   Performance of the Government. Performance of the Government in the implementation
of the Project has been less than fully satisfactory in spite of its commitment to the development
of the sector. This inconsistency is explained to some extent by factors upon which the
Government had little control i.e., the political instability that prevailed in the early years of the



9
Project and the significant devaluation of the CFAF in 1994. Between 1990 and 1992, project
implementation was very slow as a result of the Government's delay in taking the steps that were
necessary to implement the institutional reform which had been agreed upon with the Bank.
37.   It was only after the Bank repeatedly expressed its concern for the overall situation of the
sector and threatened to suspend disbursements under the credit, in a letter dated October 28
1992, that the Government took action and agreed to a donors meeting in Bamako. Subsequently,
the Action Plan was adopted. The decree authorizing the transfer of assets from OERHN to EDM
was signed only in March 1995, that is almost two years after the Paris meeting. As for the
transfer of the management of EDM to a private consortium, the selection process began in 1994
and the DGG started in January 1995.
38.   The decisions made recently by the Government to reform the sector, to increase
immediately electricity and water tariff, to reschedule EDM's debt and to pay its past bills are a
clear indication of the Government willingness to create the conditions for an efficient functioning
of the sector and to restore EDM's financial situation.
39.   Performance of EDM. Government's decisions and actions regarding both the
organizations of the power sector and its compliance with important aspects of the performance
contract have conditioned, to some extent, EDM's performance. However, as an institution, it
could have done much more to improve its operations and its financial results. For example,
there were serious deficiencies in one basic aspect of its commercial operations, namely an
accurate identification and record of its clients. In spite of fairly intensive foreign technical
assistance, which involved at times more than ten foreign experts, its technical, commercial and
financial and human resource situation remained very critical. The lack of result from the
technical assistance raises questions about the validity of the formula used to provide such
assistance, i.e., technical assistants being seconded as advisers to local managers.
40.   However, the start of the DGG operations, in January 1995, marked a turning point in
EDM's life. Over a period of three years, several of the most basic weaknesses were seriously
addressed. So far, the most important improvements have been in commercial activities, in the
collection of payments due by public and private clients, in training and in carrying out the
investment program. This experience suggests that contracting out the management of a
distressed institution to an outside skilled partner with full operational responsibility is more
effective than tlhe technical assistance formula. However, the decision of EDM's Board to
terminate prematurely the DGG contract, instead of finding ways to develop a genuine
cooperative effort with the management team, resulted in an unfinished task. On balance, EDM's
performance can be considered as less than satisfactory.
H. ASSEssMENT OF OUTCOME
41.   Even though the project was implemented in difficult circumstances, it reached most of its
objectives: (a) unification of the power sector, which was a prerequisite for its adequate
development and functioning; (b) improvements in EDM's commercial operations and
management capacity; (c) implementation of the investment program (generation/
transmission/distribution); and (d) development of a self-standing project in household energy.



10
Although the objective of strengthening EDM was reached only partially, significant
improvements have been achieved in important aspects of its operations and the performance of
its staff, particularly through the important training program which was implemented. Therefore,
on balance and taking into consideration all achievements and deficiencies of the project, as well
as the turbulent political environment which prevailed at times when it was carried out, its
implementation is considered as satisfactory.
L FUTURE OPERATION
42.   The main features which are underway and are key for the future operation of the sector
and the project are the following: (a) restoration of the facilities at Selingue (under the Selingue
Power Rehabilitation Project) which is a direct follow up of the project, will provide EDM with
an efficient and safer source of electricity to meet the demand; (b) expected start of operations of
the Manantali Regional Energy Project in 2001 will similarly provide EDM with an important
additional source of power; (c) privatization of EDM, which the Government has decided to carry
out by the end of 2000 is likely to contribute to its transformation into a more effective institution;
and (d) financial plan to restore and strengthen EDM's financial position is being implemented.
The Bank received in 1997 a request, renewed in 1998, from the Government to assist in the
preparation and implementation of a power sector reform and EDM restructuring program. The
Bank should support this program through a sector adjustment operation, now that the short-term
financial and cash flow problems of EDM have been addressed.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
43.   Based on the experience of this project, the following lessons can be offered:
* A performance contract between the Government and a Government-owned power company,
like the one implemented between 1989 and 1994, is not an effective mechanism to improve
the operational and financial performance of the company because it does not provide a legal
check to enforce the contract. The Government's non-compliance, in turn, makes it
impossible for the power company to comply with its own commitments. However, such a
contract can be useful as an instrument of last resort because it can help to clarify roles and
facilitate a dialogue between the Government and the power company.
*  Management contracts, like the one implemented between 1995 and 1998, can be an effective
approach to correcting significant institutional weaknesses.  However, the following
conditions must be respected to produce results: (a) the management team must be given
sufficient leeway to operate and implement all changes that are necessary to restructure and
strengthen the institution; (b) the duration of its stay should be in line with the severity of the
problems facing the institutions; (c) it must prepare, as early as possible during its mandate: (i)
a succession/follow-up plan which identifies the local managers who will take over; and (ii) a
transition plan for the actual transfer of management. Furthermore, in order to ensure that
implementation of the contract produces all its potential benefits, it is imperative to review the
situation after one year. If at that time it becomes clear that major obstacles are obstructing its
successfil implementation, serious consideration should be given to immediate termination.



11
* When implementation of a project experiences serious difficulties for whatever reasons
(economic, political, sectoral), there are significant benefits to be derived from staying the
course while finding ways and means to rework and reengineer the project. This involves
making adjustments to the project design to take into account the changing political and
economic realities while keeping in mind the project's fundamental objectives



12
Annex 1
Investments Financed under the Project
a) Generation
i. Rehabilitation of the Sotuba hydroelectric plan was completed in December 1993;
ii. Inspection of the Selingue hydroelectric plant, which took place in December 1992,
revealed that urgent actions had to be taken to maintain the facilities and proposed a
program for their rehabilitation, which became the basis of a specific project for that
purpose;
iii. Extension of the Dar Salam diesel station in Bamako by about 5 MW was completed in
March 1992; installation of five new diesel units totaling about 2.6 MW in three load
centers (Mopti-Sevare, Koutiala and Bougouni) was completed in November 1994; and
iv. Rehabilitation of the existing diesel stations in the four isolated load centers of Kayes,
Sikasso, Bougouni and Koutiala was also completed in November 1994.
b) Transmission: Construction of 230 km single circuit, 150 kV transmission line to extend the
grid supply from Bamako to Segou, with substations in Bamako, Segou, Fana and Diolla and
associated voltage control equipment, was completed. The system became operational in
December 1991.
c) Distribution
i. Rehabilitation of medium and low voltage lines and substations in down-town Bamako
was completed;
ii. Construction of about 200 km of new medium and low voltage lines and associated
substations in the nonelectrified neighborhoods in Bamako started in December 1997 and
is expected to be completed in July 1999;
iii. Rehabilitation of the existing distribution system in the load centers of Mopti, Sikasso,
Fana, Bougouni, Koutiala, Segou and Markala and construction of about 275 km of
medium and low voltage lines and substations started in January 1997, and was completed
by April 1998. The rehabilitation of the power generation and distribution in Kayes was
completed in August 1996.
d) Engineering: Consultant services for the engineering, preparation of bid documents and
construction supervision for the generation, transmission, and distribution components were
used as planned.
e) System studies: The generation dispatch study to optimize and coordinate hydro and diesel
generation in the interconnected system has resulted in significant improvements in the



13
management of the interconnected system. The study for coordination of system protection in
the 150 kV, 30 kV and 15 kV systems and implementation of recommendations was
conducted in 1992 by TRACTEBEL which proposed an action plan for improving and
upgrading the electrical protection of the interconnected system. This is being implemented in
the frasmework of the Selingue Project. The power tariff study, conducted by TRACTEBEL
in 1993, concluded that a tariff increase as well as a simplification of the tariffs was necessary.
Terms of reference of the loss reduction study were submitted to the Bank in June 1992 which
decided to review the desirability of conducting the study and finally decided that it should be
canceled because the DGG was already addressing the issue. It was also decided to cancel the
feasibility study for the Kenie hydroelectric project because of the progress being achieved
with the Manantali Project. Two other studies, which were not included in the initial
program, were carried out; EDM's financial restructuring and EDM's fixed asset inventory
and evaluation.



14
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MALI
SECOND POWER PROJECT
(CREDIT 1998-ML1)
PART II. TABLES
TABLE 1 - SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives                   Substantial     Partial    Negligible   Not applicable
Macro policies                                      L
Sector policies                                                  v
Financial objectives                                =
Institutional development                                        4
Physical objectives                                 l
Poverty reduction                                                                            4
Gender issues                                                                                4
Other social objectives                                                                      4
Environmental objectives                            =
Public sector management                                                                     4
Private sector development                                                                   4
Other (capacity building)                                        l
B. Project sustinability           Likely            Unlikely           Uncertain
V~~~~~~~~~
C. Bank                            Eulv
satisfactori        Satisfacto r       Deficient
Identification=l_
Preparation assistance
Appraisal
Supervision
D. Borrower perfonance             Highly
satisfactorv        Satisfactory       Deficient
Preparation
Implementation==  
Covenant compliance
Operation (if applicable)
E. Assessment of Outcome     Higljy                                         Highly
satisfactory    Satisfactor  Unsatisfactonr   unsatisfactorv



15
TABLE 2 - RELATED BANK LoANS/IDA CREDITS
. AmfahdU .lls .--poe .Year of approval                                                         ats
Precodinto
1292-ML Power/Water          Extend power supply, rehabilitate and  1982                    Completed
rngthen EDM.
Followin t rEn
GET 28304 A Dutch Orait      Implementation of Household Ener8y Strategy   1995             Under Implementstion
Algventmt Houabod Ener
2S50-M LTU-Seing  Power      Rehabilitation of S'elingue hydropower  1996                   Under InpIementation
Rdehata                      facilities
2970 ML Regional Hydro-Power   Extend power supply                  1997                    Under Implementation
Projed                                         _-
TABLE 3 - PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle                             Originsl date        Date actual
Identification (Executive Project Summamy)                                       10/84         05/01/87
Preparation                                                                                    04/11/87
Appraial                                                                                       06/24/87
Negotiations                                                                                   12/12/88
Board Presentation                                                                             03/30/89
Signing                                                                                        05/30/89
Effectivenm                                                                    8/28/89         12/19/89
Project Completion                                                             12131/95        06/30/98
Credit Closing                                                                 06/30/96        10/31198



16
TABLE 4- CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS
(7n US$ millions)
DaU     Actul Amount Cumulative   Original Amount Cunulative   Acul as a Percent of Original
Amowunt
Dec-89                                   2.16                      0%
Jun-90           2.16                    4.32                     50%
Dec-90           2.94                    7.26                     40%
Jun-91           3.40                    10.20                    33%
Dec-91           4.06                    13.86                    29%
Jun-92           4.92                    17.52                    28%
Dec-92            5.12                   20.68                    25%
Jun-93           6.03                    23.84                    25%
Dec-93           6.25                    26.12                     24%
Jun-94           8.14                    28.40                    29%
Dec-94           12.36                   29.90                    41%
Jun-95           15.16                   31.40                    50%
Dec-95           16.63                   33.00                     50%
Jun-96           18.85                                            57%
Dec-96           20.60                                            62%
Jun-97           24.67                                            74%
Dec-97           27.54                                            83%
Jun-98           30.08                                            91%
Sept-98          33.18                                            100%
Nov-98           33.27                                            102%
* This dollar amount is equivalent to SDR 23.7 million which leaves an undisbursed SDR balance of SDR 0.5
million.
TABLE 5 - STUDIES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT
; FtL;;LtStudy ;Purpose as defied                   aImpact Of sXytu
sA appraisalredefaied_______
Optimization of production   Improve the management of                        Provides to EDM
of the interconnected     the hydro-thernic system of  Completed               operational tools for
network                  the interconnected network                          mraimizing
.________________  _____________________  Selingue's  output
Coordination of protection    Assess the protection needs                     Implementation of
of the interconnected     of the systemn and propose    Completed             action plan (as part
system                    an action plan .                                    of the Selingue
rehab. Project)
Loss reduction            Determine ways to reduce
losses                    Canceled
Electricity tariff        Determine adequate tariff                           New tariff system
reflecting EDM costs of   Completed (1993)          and 1994 tariff
production                                          adjustment
KAni6 feasibility study   Assess opportunity of     Canceled because of
developing                progress made in the
hydrogeneration facilities at  development of Manantali
Kenie
EDM fuiancial             Strengthen EDM financial   Completed (1995)          1995 EDM's
redructuring              situation                                           restructuring plan
EDM fixed asset           Make an inventory of EDM   Completed (1993/94)      New and reliable
fixed assets and implement                          fixed asset inventory
system for fixed asset                              and accounting
I management              I



17
TABLE 6 - PROJECr COSTS'
(US$ Millions)
C-mpo.-mC_                           Appraisal Estimates              Actual (USS M)
:: . . . - . r~~~~~~~~US$ ME
Local     Foreign    Total   Local    Foreign       Total
A.  ELECTRIC POWER
1. Generation
Hydro Rehab. and repair                        0.6         4.0      4.6      0.0         7.5       7.5
Diesel, extensions, rehab. and spares parts    0.9        10.0    10.9       0.4        12.5      12.9
Sub-total                                    1.5         14.0    15.5      0.4        21.7      20.4
2. Transmission
Bamako-Segou bansmission line                  1.9        19.0    20.9       4.9       21.7       26.6
3. Distribution
Rehabilitation and extension Bamako system     2.4         9.8    12.2       0.8        16.0      16.8
Up-country systems                             3.5        13.3    16.8       0.9        6.3        7.2
Sub-total                                    5.9        23.1    29.0       1.7        22.3      24.0
4. Technical assistance, training and studies     1.1         9.9    11.0       0.6        17.6      18.2
5. Equipment,naterialsandmiscellaneous              -         2.5      2.5        -         2.1       2.1
6. Buildings                                      1.2         0.3      1.5      0.2           -       0.2
B.  HOUSEHOLD ENERGY
Total base costs                                 11.6        69.8    81.4       8.3        84.3      92.6
Contingencies: Physical                           1.1         5.8      6.9        -           -         -
Price                               3.5         6.2      9.7        -           -         -
TOTAL PROJECT COST                               16.2        81.8    98.0       8.3        84.3      92.6
Interest during constrtion                        4.4         0.8      5.2      1.3           -       1.3
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIRED                         20.6        82.6   103.2       9.6        64.3      93.9
TMe project is exempted from taxes and duties.



18
TABLE 7 - PRoJECr FINANCING
(USS MILLIONS)
........... ti yi i0 --i  ;i AE ALu 3TwAm(USSM)  IT=s xTnVMT (USSM)
.. . . ..S. C       LOCA.L.   FORUG    TOTAL     LOCAL   FORUONF  TOTAL
IDA                      1.0     32.0    33.0       1.3     32.4    33.7
AFDB                     0.0      11.8    11.8      0.0       4.8      4.8
CCCE                     0.4      11.8    12.2      0.2      17.8     18.0
CIDA                     0.2       8.4     8.6      0.0      12.0     12.0
_ EIB                    1.1       5.7     6.8      2.9      3.6       6.5
FAC                      0.1       1.8      1.9     0.0      0.9       0.9
KFW                      1.2      10.3    11.5      1.7     12.4      14.1
EDM                      16.6      0.8    17.40     3.5       0.6      4.1
TOTAL:                   20.6    82.6    103.2    9.6       84.3      93.9



19
TABLE 8 - STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Apesasat    Sinctisa       status    Or4g.         Descriptonof Covenat                Coanmmt
.-:__._._-  Date
Credit      3.01 (a)      CP                 Cause EDM (Socigte Energie du Mali) to
carry out the specified parts of the Project
and to perfoim all its obligations in
accordance with the provisions of the
Project Agreement.
Credit      3.01 b/c      CP                Take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable EDM
to perform such obligations; do not take
or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
Credit      3.02aW6.Ola   C                  Relend to EDM the specified part of the
proceeds of the Credit under a subsidiary
loan agreement under terms and
conditions approved by IDA.         .
Credit      3.02 (b)      C                 Exercise the nights under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement in such manner as to
accomplish the purposes of the Credit,
and do not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any provision thereof.              .
Credit      3.02 (c)      C                 Make available the specified part of the
proceeds of the Credit to EDM as equity
participation or as grant.
Credit      3.03          C                 Ensure that procurement of the goods,
works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4
to the DCA.                         .
Credit      3.05          CD                Submit to IDA not later than September    New fmiancial
30 of each year, starting with September   restructuring plan
30, 1989, a revised three-year rolling  adopted March 1998.
power sector investment program,     Implementation has
satisfactory to IDA, inclusive of the  started.
pricing policies and plans in respect of
the overall development of the sector.    .
Credit      3.06 a        C                 Cause EDM to undertake a power tariff
study
3.06 b       C                  Review with IDA the recommendations
contained in the power tariff study not
later than June 30, 1990.
Credit      3.06 c        C                 Promptly thereafter, take all necessary  New tariff adjustments
action to implement such             made in April 1998
recommendations in a manner satisfactory  (+12% electric. +30%
to IDA.                              water)
Credit      3.07 a        CD                 Carry out an inspection of the Selingue  A major rehabilitation
dam by an engineering firm acceptable to   operation was decided
IDA no later than Septemnber 30 of each    and is being supported
year.                                by a new IDA Credit
Credit      3.07 b        C                 Submit a report on such inspection to IDA
promptly thereafter.
Credit      3.07 c        C                 Review with IDA the recommendations   .



20
_greemen    :ESecSti:onE::; ::: Status    Ou     ....Description of Covenat XComents
_______          ______      ~~Dafte
contained therein.
Credit       3.07 d       C                  Promptly thereafter, take all necessazy
action to implement such
recommendations in a manner satisfactory
to IDA.
Credit      3.08          CP                 Starting with January 1, 1990, make   As part of March 1998
adequate budgetary allocations to pay for   financial restructuring
the overall estimated electricity    plan, the Govermnent
consumption and take all necessary   has paid substantial
measures for the prompt payment of the    part of its arrears.
related bills.
Credit      3.09          C                  By December 31, 1998, Cause EDM to    As of 09/30/1998, the
take such steps as necessary to reduce  ratio was 2.9 months.
consumer arrears to not more than (i) by
December 31, 1989, the amount billed for
the previous four months; (ii) by
December 31,1990, the amount billed for
the previous three months; (iii) thereafter,
the amount billed for the previous three
months.
Credit      3.10          CD                 Not later than 12/31/1993: (a) take all  As April 1998,
necessary measures for the transfer to  Goverment discussed
EDM, not later than 12/31/93 of all  with donors and made
power activities and assets of OERHN;  decision to privatize
(b) cause EDM to appoint an          EDM by end of the
internationally reputable frm to manage    year 2000
EDM under a management contract
acceptable to IDA.
Credit      6.01 b        C                  Adopt an improved institutional       This covenant is no
framework satisfactory to IDA for the  longer relevant after
power and water sector sectors providing,  EDM's management
inter alia, for: (i) involvement of EDM in   was contracted out to a
the planning of the power sector, (ii)  private operator and
attribution to EDM of the responsibilities  the Selingue facilities
for constructing & operating all power  were transferred from
facilities; (iii) integration of part of  OERHN to EDM
OERHN; and (iv) establishment and
maintenance of adequate tariff structure.
Credit      6.01 c        C                  Enact new statutes of EDM satisfactory to
________  _____                  IDA
Credit      6.01 d        C                  Execute separate performance contracts    See comments DCA
satisfactory to IDA for EDM's power and   6.01 above
water activities, with specific efficiency
targets.
Credit      6.01 e        C                  Ensure that a management contract     See comments DCA
satisfactory to IDA whereby EDM would   6.01 and DCA 3.10
operate OERHN power facilities has been  above
executed.
Credit      6.01 f        C                  Ensure that EDM has established a
Project Management Unit (PMU).
Credit      2.02 b        C                  Open and maintain in CFAF a special
account in a commercial bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to IDA; make
deposits into, and paymnents out of, the
Special Account in accordance with the
I provisions of Schedule 3 to the DCA.
Credit      2.04r2.06     C                 I Pay to IDA semiannually on March 15



21
_psiment       Sectiem       Status     orig.         Description of Covenant               Commnt
..__  _                              - .-.   .  .Date
and September 15 in each year a
commitment charge on the principal
amount of the Credit not withdrawn at a
rate to be set by IDA, but not to exceed
0.5% p.a
Credit       2.0S/2.06     C                   Pay to IDA semiannually on March 15
and September 15 in each year a service
charge of 0.75% p.a. on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding.
Credit       4.01 a        C                   Maintain records and accounts adequate
to reflect the operations, resources and
_____  expenditures in respect of the Project.
Credit       4.01 b (i)    C                   Maintain or cause to be maintained
records and accounts reflecting all
expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account
were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
Credit       4.01 b (ii)   C                   Ensure that all records evidencing such
expenditures are retained until at least
one year after IDA has received the audit
report for the fiscal year in wich the last
withdrawal from the Credit Account was
made.
Credit       4.01 b (iii)    C                 Enable IDA's representatives to examine
such records.
Credit       4.01 c (i)    C                   Have the records and accounts including
those for the Special Account for each
fiscal year audited by independent
.________  _________auditors acceptable to IDA.
Credit       4.01 c (ii)   CD                  Funush to IDA, not later than six months
after the end of each such year, the report
of such audit, including a separate
opinion as to whether the statements of
expenditure can be relied upon to support
_the related withdrawals
Credit       4.01 c (iii)    C                 Funiish to IDA such other information
cocerning said records, accounts and the
audit thereof as IDA shall reasonably
_______________   ________________   _____________   request.
Project      2.01 a        C                   Carry out the Project and provide the
__________    ___________    _________          resources required.
Project      2.01 b        C                   Establish PMU (Project Management
_____ __ _ _  Unit) with the necessary staff.
Project      2.02 a        CD                  Not later than 12-31-93 appoint an      See comments DCA
internationally reputable firm acceptable   6.02 and DCA 3. 10
to IDA to manage EDK4 under a          above
._______   __________   ___ managemnent contract acceptable to IDA.
Project      2.02 b        CD                  Execute a plan to reduce power losses   See comments DCA
and improve bill collections.          6.01 above
Project      2.02 c        CP                  By end of 1989, take such steps as      See comments DCA
necessary to reduce consunmer arrears to    3.09 above
not more than: (i) by the end of 1989, the
amount billed for the previous four
__________  ___________   _________   ______    months; (ii) by the end of 1990, the



22
Aureement )t8it;tiSetiont   Status    OtgR        Description of Covenant              Conuments
______ _                   Da.e   ________      _____Dat
amount billed for the previous three
months; and (iii) thereafter, the amount
___________                      billed for the previous three months.
Project     2.03          C                  Ensure that procurement of the goods,
works and consultants' services required
for the parts of the Project to be carTied
out by EDM and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed
by the provisions of the Schedule to the
_PA
Project     2.04          C                  Carry out the obligations set forth in  See comments PA 3.03
Sections 9.9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07  and 3.03 b above
and 9.08 of the General Conditions
(relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land
acquisition).
Project     2.06 a        C                  Exchange views with IDA at least
biannually with regard to the progress of
the Project, the performance of EDM's
obligations, and other matters relating to
the purposes of the Credit
Project     2.06 b        C                  Prior to such exchange of views, funish
to IDA: (i) a project performance review
for the preceding six months; and (ii) a
project implementation plan for the
following six months.
Project     3.01          C                  Carry out operations and conduct affairs    This was the main
in accordance with sound practices under   purpose of EDM's
the supervision of qualified and     management contract
experienced managemnent assisted by  with a private operator.
competent staff                      After cancellation of
the management
contract, a new
management team was
appointed (4/01/1998)
and will have support
of two technical
assistants
Project     3.03 a        CP                 Take out and maintain with responsible    It is difficult for EDM
insurers insurance against such risks and   as for other power
in such amounts as consistent with   utilities in the sub-
appropriate practice.                region to find local or
intemational insurance
companies having the
capacity and accepting
to insure their
equipxnent at full
__________                   'replacement value.
Project     3.03 b        CD                 Carry out periodically a proforma     See cormment PA 3.03
revaluation of the fixed assets for the  above
purpose of reviewing and updating the
.__________        _________          insurance  coverage.
Project     4.04          CP                 Make adequate annual provisions for
.                   depreciation and renewals of fixed assets  ,
Project     4.01 a        CP                 Maintain records and accounts adequate
I_______  _______   _______to reflect EDMs operations and financial



23
A eeent        Sectffh      Status    Orig.          Description of Covenant               Comments
-__ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _     D ate
condition
Project      4.01 b (i)    C                  Have the records, accounts and financial
statements for each fiscal year audited by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA
Project      4.01 b (ii)   C                  Furnish to IDA, not later than six months
after the end of each such year: (A)
certified copies of EDM's financial
statements and (B) the report of such
audit.
Project      4.01 b (iii)    C                Furnish to IDA such other information
concerning said records, accounts and
financial statements as well as the audit
thereof, as IDA shall reasonably request.
Project      4.01 c (i)    C                  Maintain or cause to be maintained
records and accounts reflecting all
expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account
were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
Project      4.01 c (ii)   C                  Retain, until at least one year after IDA
has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from
the Credit Account was made, all records
evidencing such expenditures.
Project      4.01 c (iii)    C                Enable IDA's representatives to examine
such records
Project      4.01 c (iv)    C                 Ensure that such records and accounts are
included in the annual audit and that the
report of such audit contains a separate
opinion as to whether the statements of
expenditure can be relied upon to support
the related withdrawals.
Project      4.02 a        C                  Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, do    As of 12/31/1997, ratio
not incur any debt, unless a reasonable  was higher than 4.
forecast of the revenues and expenditures
of EDM shows that the estimated net
revenues of EDM for each fiscal year
during the term of the debt to be incurred,
shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated
debt service requirements of EDM in
such year on all debt of EDM including
__________    ___________    _________  the  debt to  be  incurred.
Project      4.03 a        CP                 Except as IDA shall otherwise agree,   As of 12/31/1997, ratio
generate, for each Fiscal Years after the    was 10.8%
Fiscal Year ending on December 31,
1989, funds from internal sources
equivalent to not less than 20% of the
annual average of the capital
expenditures incurred, or expected to be
incurred, for that year, the previous Fiscal
.______  ________  _______   Year and next following Fiscal Year.
Project      4.03 b        C                  Before November 30 in each Fiscal      New financial
Years, review whether EDM will meet    resructuring plan
the requirements in respect of such Fiscal  discussed with IDA and
Year and the next following Fiscal Year,   decided upon in March
and furnish to I)A a copy of such review    1998.
_  upon its completion.



24
A        ut-  --:tSection        Status     Orisg            Description of Covenant                    Comments
_ _ _ _ _ _ D ate  _ _   _   _  _   _   _    _   _   _  _   _
Project        4.03 c          CP                    If any such review shows that EDM            New fuiancial
would not meet the requirements,            restructuring plan of
promptly take all necessary measures in     March 1998 is being
order to meet such requirements.            implemented (tariff
increases as of April
1998 and payment of
Government arrears at
__________  ______  _________  ______  _________________________________            end     of  M arch   1998)



25
TABLE 9 - BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Actual
Stap Of Project Cycle                         Staff Weeks                                   USS'OOo
Pre -App. Through Appraisl                            100.1                                       225.0
Appraisal                                              49.3                                        118.6
Board-Effectivenes                                      2.8                                          5.9
Supervision                                           227.5                                       625.9
Implementation Completion Report                        9.6                                         30.0
Total                                                 389.2                                      1,005.4
TABLE 10- BANK RESOURCES: STAFF MISSIONS
stag er*et C7de          lmeow        Number      Days I      Spedalkd staff W 9      Rating     Raua         Ty  
---r      o'ferm        Feld                                _L.    Develolp       P,km
Idenrification             04/86         2           11
Preparation                03/87         3           7    1            _       _    ___                    _    _
Pre-Apprasal__
Anwriual                   06/87         4           14
supervision               051S9          3                         FAFA..EN             HS         HS
Supervision                02/90         2           12              FAEN                S         HS
Supervision                11/90         1           10                FA               U           S            2
SUDerViSion                10/91   .      _3         10            FA.ES.EN.            U           S            2
Supervision                05/92         2           8               ES,EN              U          U             3
Supervision                11/92         4           10           FA,ES.ESOA            U          U             3
Supervision                06/93         3           4              ES,EN.EP            U          U             3
Supervision                10/93         3           6              ES.FA.EP             S          S
Supervision                06/94         3           12             ES.FAEP              S          S
Supervision                10/94         2           10              ES.EN               S          S
Supervision                06/95         2           4              ES,FA,EN             S          S
Supervision                11/95         2           9               ES.EN               S          S
SugErvision                06/96         3           17             ES,FAEN              S          S
Supervision                12/96         3           13            ES,FA,EN             S          U             2
Superison                  6/97          3           10             ES.FA.EN            U          U             3
Supervision                12/97         4           14           ES,FA.IS.EP           U          U             3
La1 SPN Mission            3/98          4           14           ES.FAEN,EP             S          S
AR - Ardilet   EP - Enewgy Plnnar                         I - Minor Pm
CON- Cnuukat  IS - hiMkuiaul Dey.                         2- Moderak Pr,Nem
EC - Eonnont                                              3 - Major Probhm
EN-  _ime
FA- FDiI Anmlyu
OA - Opaaion Asnt
Tl. - Psoject OffierT,kTmn Leder



26
PART ml1 APPENDICES
MALI: SECOND POWER PROJECT
(Credit 1998-MLI)
A. AIDE-MEMOIRE OF THE SUPERVISION/ICR MISSION OF APRIL 1998
1.    A World Bank mission comprising Nadjib Sefta, Magaye Gaye, Willem Floor, and Herin
Garcia, visited Bamako from March 31 to April 11, 1998 to supervise the implementation of
power projects, including the Second Power Project (Cr.1998-MLI). At the invitation of the
Malian Government, the mission then attended a donors' meeting in Paris, France (on April 14
and 15, 1998). The meeting was devoted to the restructuring of the electric power sector and the
privatization of EDM.
2.    The mission, received by HEs Excellency Professor Yoro Diakite, Minister of Mines and
Energy, would like to thank the Malian authorities and EDM staff for the assistance they
provided, and their readiness to facilitate its work. Annex 1 lists the persons contacted in
Bamako.
3.    This aide-memoire, together with its annexes, summarizes the main conclusions of the
mission, and agreed actions. Annex 2 contains conclusions and actions agreed to as a result of the
Paris meeting on April 14 and 15, 1998.
Completion of Project Activities/Closure
4.    The closing date for most activities was December 31, 1997, an exception being the
investment/distribution component, for which the closing date was extended to June 30, 1998,
and applications for disbursement of World Bank financing will be accepted up to October 31,
1998. The following conclusions were reached regarding implementation of a number of project
activities that were still outstanding:
*  Extension and rehabilitation of distribution systems in isolated load centers: All
works will be completed by end-April, 1998 (i.e., Segou, Sikasso, Mopti, Markala,
Koutiala, and Bougouni). Some delays occurred because of the need to replace
transformers that had been damaged during transportation. An amendment to GTMH
works contract will be prepared and immediately forwarded to the Bank, so that
additional costs of this component can be covered.
*  Extension and rehabilitation of the Bamako/Kati distribution systems: Work has
recently begun, with CIDA financing, and is expected to last until end of 1999.
Cr. 1998-MLI covers the procurement of certain equipment (low-voltage and medium-
voltage cables) from GTMH and RMT. This was delivered to the plant in February
1998, and will be made available on site by end of April 1998. Applications for



27
payment of relevant bills must be forwarded promptly to the World Bank.
* The following activities have been completed, but some of the related claims require
prompt attention: procurement of safety equipment; procurement of the Parsifal
software; consultants'services (EDF - distribution, services of the consultant (Mr.
Blaj), and MBA/Tractebel - management audit).
*  DGG contract with the SHEC Group: The contract was terminated, effective April
1, 1998. The mission pointed out that any outstanding bills under this contract (up to
the limit set for financing under Categoly 8) should be forwarded to the World Bank
byApril 30, 1998.
*  Training:  There are problems hindering the processing of payments for some
training-related activities. These arise in the case of contracts for repairs to CPP and
for the procurement of teaching materials for CPP. Because only training in the strict
sense is defined as eligible under Credit Agreement 1998-MLI, the latter would have
to be appropriately amended before Category 6 financing could be used for other types
of activity (works and supplies for CPP). It has been agreed that EDM will promptly
forward a request to the Bank that this be done. (Such a request has now been
forwarded, and is currently being processed.)
5.   Implementation Completion Report: After the previous supervision mission (December
1997), EDM and World Bank staff prepared a draft Report. Nevertheless, this must now be
updated in light of. (a) the decision to postpone the closing date for certain categories until June
30, 1998; (b) recent developments affecting the sector, and EDM in particular (i.e., finances,
management, and decisions on reforn); (c) the need for EDM to provide further analysis for the
years 1996 through 1998.
The Financial Position, EDM Management, and Reforms
6.    EDM is still in a critical financial position. After previous supervision missions, and in
light of difficulties encountered when attempting to make appropriate decisions for addressing the
problems, the World Bank -- applying its performance evaluation system -- had downgraded this
project.
7.    At the beginning of 1998, the Malian authorities prepared a financial recovery plan,
making it possible to reach decisions presented in Annex 2 (i.e., conclusions reached at the
donors' meeting). For the moment, the particularly relevant items are: (a) increases in average
tariffs amounting to 12% (electric power) and 30%/o (water), new rates being introduced in April
1998; (b) settlement of the Goverunent's debts as of December 31, 1997 (about CFAF 2.3
billion). Relevant decisions were signed on April 10, 1998.
8.    Other decisions concerned: (a) tariff adjustments for 1999 and 2000; (b) rescheduling of
EDM's debts to DGDP; (c) Government's compensation at the beginning of 1999 for EDM's
anticipated losses for 1998 (a balancing subsidy of up to CFAF 1 billion).



28
9.    Annex 3 shows the status of accounts, finances, and certain business ratios. It serves to
emphasize how necessary it is to implement all measures contained in the recovery plan referred
to above.
10.   The mission emphasized the need for EDM's financial statements (reflecting the position
as of December 31, 1997), together with the relevant audit report, to be forwarded promptly to
the Bank, and in any case not later than June 30, 1998.
11.   At its meeting on February 11, 1998, EDM's Board decided to terminate the contract with
DGG, even though it had not yet been possible to discuss the mid-term management audit report
by the MBAITractebel Group and to use it as a basis for decisions on the management of EDM in
1998 and 1999. This action has led to an entirely new situation since April 1, 1998, and was
taken without any prior consultation with the World Bank (as required under the Credit
Agreements between the Government and the Bank). Nevertheless, the authorities have begun to
take prompt action on EDM's management and administration, and on more general reforms in
the sector.
12.   A new Director General, Mr. Harouna Diakite, has taken up his position. On March 25,
1998, the Council of Ministers decided to renew appointments of all members of EDM's Board.
The final stages for implementation of these decisions will consist of: (a) the formal appointment
and empowerment of the new Director General; (b) a report from a meeting of shareholders
containing a resolution terminating appointments of previous Board members, defining how the
agency is to be managed over the next two years, appointing officials to be responsible for this
task, and identifying what their priorities are to be.
13.   His Excellency the Minister of Mines and Energy sent a letter to donors in the sector
(dated March 17, 1998) regarding: (a) the Government's decision to introduce fundamental
reforms in the sector (i.e., restructuring of the sector, participation by the private sector, and
opening up of EDM's capital structure); these reforms are to be implemented within two years at
the most; (b) EDM's financial recovery plan (short- and medium-term measures on tariffs, debt
management, and payment of government arrears) (c)[sic] decisions regarding management and
administration of EDM during the transitional period (1998/99).
14.   On April 9, 1998, the Government invited the donors to a meeting (to take place in Paris
on April 14 andi 15, 1998) to discuss this action plan and consider what support they could
provide for its implementation. The mission is pleased to note that the donors' meeting was held,
and was highly successful. As a result, conclusions and decisions were reached that should make
it possible to solve current problems and provide a basis for recovery and sustainable development
of the sector (Annex 2).
15.   The Bank mission devoted much of its efforts to discussing with various authorities,
measures that had been announced, and to seeking ways for: (a) improving and refining them
(particularly with respect to the financial plan and the transitional measures); (b) preparing the
details of sector reforms and the privatization of EDM (i.e., action plans, schedules, resources,



29
and terms of reference). Prior to the Paris meeting, the mission had put forward a working
document that could prove useful in upcoming stages. This is attached for information (Annex 4).
16.   With respect to sectoral reforms and the privatization of EDM, the views contained in the
working document can be summarized as follows:
* As regards restructuring the sector, the mission recommends that the Government take
steps to issue the legislation necessary for: (a) permitting EDM to be privatized; (b)
transferring to EDM ownership of resources used for power generation, transmission,
and distribution (and possibly for water-supply operations); (c) restructuring the
electric power sector; (d) specifying water-use rights, through legislation and/or
regulatory provisions.
*  As regards the opening up of EDM's capital structure, the mission recommends that
EDM be privatized, in the following manner and using the following processes: (a)
sale of generation, transmission, and distribution assets, after legal ownership of these
(and possibly those relating to water supply) have been transferred to EDM; (b)
selection of a strategic partner through international bidding, including
prequalification.
Actions to be Taken
Action                       Deadline       Responsible
Agency
Draft amendment to GTMH contract            End-May 1998    EDM
Request amendment re training (Credit Agreement  By end-April  EDM-Govt.
1998-MI)                                    1998
Decisions and implementation of EDM financial    Immediate   Govt.
recovery plan
Appointment of Director General of EDM - Report Immediate    Govt.
of EDM shareholders' meeting re: Board
Meeting: Govt. and donors                    April 14 and 15,  Govt.
1998
Updating of Implementation Completion Report    By end-April  EDM-World
1998            Bank



30
Annex 1
Persons Contacted
Ministry of Mines and Energy
His Excellency Prof. Yoro Diakite, Minister
Mr. Adama Sanogo, Secretary General
Mr. Bocary Sy, Adviser
Mr. Moctar Toure, Adviser
Mr. Lancin6 Sylla, Adviser
Mr. Amadou Tandia, Chief, Energy Division, DNHE
EDM
Mr. Harouna Diakite, Director of Projects
Mr. Oumar Sall, Chairman of the Board (outgoing)
Mr. Jean Pierre Noualy, Director General (outgoing)
Mr. Daouda Kane, Deputy Director General, Management and Human Resources
Mr. Cheick Oumar Traore, Directorate of Projects
Mr. Adama Sissoko, Directorate of Projects
Mr. Tidiane Keita, Directorate of Finance and Accounts
Mr. Alhaly Traore, Directorate of Finance and Accounts



31
B. BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION
Introduction
1.    The program to strengthen Energie du Mali (EDM) began with implementation of the
First Water and Power Project executed from 1983 to 1988 with financing from the International
Development Association (IDA), the Caisse fran9aise de Developpement (CFD, formerly
CCCE), the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), and the Fonds d'Aide et de
Cooperation (FAC). The project, which cost a total of US$35.5 million, focused on rehabilitation
of the Darsalan power station, construction of a power station at Mopti-Sevare, rehabilitation
and extension of the Bamako distribution grid, drinking-water-supply works in Bamako, building
construction, preparation of studies, personnel training and provision of technical assistance.
2.    The Second Power Project constituted the second phase of the program to strengthen
EDM and focused on enhancing sector reforms in order to establish an institutional and financial
framework for efficient sector operations, establishing an investment program capable of meeting
fluctuating demand and reflecting the sector's capacity to absorb debt, and promoting a firewood-
dependent economy and the use of alternative household energy sources. The project was
financed by IDA, CFD, ACDI, Afl)B, BEI, Kreditanstalt fir Wiederaujbau (KfW), FAC, and
EDM.
Project Objectives
3.    The objectives of the program were to:
* Streamline the relationship between EDM and the authorities;
* Separate water supply and electricity activities within EDM;
* Involve EDM in electric power sector planning;
* Turn power facility construction and operation responsibilities in Mali over to EDM, with the
exception of multipurpose and self-production facilities forming part of regional projects;
* Enhance the efficiency of EDM operations;
* Finance part of the power sector investment program for the periods 1988-1995; and
* Help the authorities develop and implement a household energy strategy.
Project Description
4.    The project included the following components:
Part A: Power generation
* Rehabilitation of the Sotuba hydroelectric plant;
* Repair and ten-year servicing of the Selingue hydroelectric plant;
* Increase in the capacity of the Darsalam diesel plant in Bamako; and



32
* Installation of new diesel units at Mopti, Koutiala and Bougouni.
Part B: Power transmission
Construction of a 150-kV single-phase transmission line from Bamako to Segou, with
substations in Bamako, Fana, and Segou.
Part C: Power distribution
* Rehabilitation and extension of medium- and low-voltage grids in Bamako;
* Rehabilitation of medium- and low-voltage grids in the isolated load centers of Kayes,
Sikasso, Koutiala, Bougouni, Segou, Markala, and Mopti.
Part D: consultant services, supplies, and buildings
* For parts A, B, and C of the project, consultant services for the engineering, preparation of
bid documents, and construction supervision;
3 Supplies, equipment, and premises/facilities renovation.
Part E: Studies
Preparation of studies on:
* Optimization of hydrogeneration in plants belonging to the interconnected system;
* Coordination of system protection in the 150 kV, 30 kV, and 15 kV systems;
*  Loss reduction;
* Electricity tariffs
* Feasibility for the Kenie hydroelectric project;
* Household energy;
* Future investments and other operational studies in the power sector.
Part F: Training and technical assistance
* On-site and overseas training for power sector staff;
* Short- and long-term technical assistance for the power sector.
Part G: Household energy
* Preparation of a household energy strategy.
The project was to have ended no later than June 30, 1995 and was to have been implemented
under the supervision of the EDM head office, with the exception of part G on household energy,
which was to have been managed by the Direction Nationale de l'Hydraulique et de L'Energie
(DNHE).



33
Project Execution
* Power generation
5. All planned activities were carried out:
*  Renovation of the Sotuba plant;
*  Extension of the Darsalam plant by 6 MW;
* Extension of the Sevare and Koutiala plants (by 750 kW and 700 kW, respectively);
* Construction of a new plant at Bougouni (750 kW);
* Improvement of the alternator cooling system at Selingue.
The financed Project also financed feasibility studies for the Selingue rehabilitation project.
O Power Transmission
With regard to power transmission, works planned for the ITHT Bamako-Segou project were
completed and the system became operational in December 1991:
*  Construction of a 220-km 150-kV line between Bamako and Segou;
*  Construction of three high-voltage substations in Sirakoro, Fana, and Segou;
*  Construction of a 40-km 30-kV line between Fana and Dioila;
*  Installation of approximately 20 km of 30-kV lines linking the Fana and Segou substations to
existing grids.
*: Power Distribution
With the exception of the work planned for the Bamako grid, all other components were
completed:
*  Kayes grid: work was completed in August 1996;
*  Bamako-Kati grid: work began in January 1998 and is expected to be completed by July
1999.
*  Isolated load center grids: work was completed in April 1998.
O Studies and Consultant Services
The principal completed studies dealt with:
*  Optimization of production in plants in the interconnected system;
*  Electricity tariffs;
* Financial restructuring of EDM;
*  Inventory, appraisal, and assessment of fixed assets.



34
O Training
The major training activities did not really get under way until 1995. To date, some 1250 staff
have received training in various fields: power and water production and distribution; client
management; accounting and financing, data processing, and office automation.
O Housebold Energy
The planned Project activities were limited to development of a household energy strategy.
The following activities were completed:
* Development of a detailed four-year action plan;
* Mobilization of financing needed for project implementation;
* Assistance to enable the Government to draft and adopt legislation and regulations needed
prior to donor involvement in project financing;
* Establishment of entities required for project execution: the Pilot Unit (UPS), the Household
Energy Group (CED), and the Ligneous Fuel Group (CCL).
-* Restructuring of the Sector
Following the meeting between the Government of Mali and power sector donors held in
Paris in April 1993, it was decided to consolidate the power sector by transferring OEHRN's
power-related assets to EDM and to contract out the management of EDM for a period of four or
five years (D#legaIion Globale et Temporaire de la Gestion de I'EDM). In March 1998, the
Government decided to invite capital participation by other operators within two years. Studies
which are to get under way shortly will determine the nature and extent of required sector
reforms.
> Consolidation of the Sector
The agreement by which OERHN turned its electric power production, transmission, and
distribution facilities over to EDM was signed on September 29, 1995, by EDM and the
Ministries of Finance and Commerce. This agreement was a sequel to the adoption of the act
amending the OERHN statutes and of the decree adopted by the Council of Ministers on March
3, 1995, authorizing such transfers.
> D41egation Globale de Gestion
Pursuant to the bidding procedure introduced in November 1993, with the assistance of
Castalia, a consulting firm, the contract delegating. management responsibility to the SHEC Group
was signed on October 20, 1994, with a start date of January 3, 1995. A mid-term technical and
organizational audit of the delegation process was carried out by the BDO MBA/TRACTEBEL
Group. Three years into the delegation process, EDM management terminated the contract in
February 1998 because the stated project objectives had not been fully achieved.



35
Project Costs
6.    The current estimated cost of the project is US$92.5 million, based on:
*  Actual costs of completed components;
*  Current commitments for components in progress (distribution in Bamako);
* Exchange rates between the dollar and various currencies used for project payments in 1989-
1998 were at average levels.
Detailed information on costs and their distribution appears in annex I. In 1989, IDA's
assessment report estimated that overall project costs was US$92 million. A total of million
US$111.50 was mobilized following the signing of various financing agreements. Project costs
therefore stand at roughly 83% of the initially mobilized financing.
Technical Results
7.    Following is an assessment of the technical results achieved through the operation of
facilities built under the Project:
> Power generation
Activities undertaken to improve production enabled EDM to meet short-termn demand4
However, during the Second Project, production was too low to satisfy medium-term demnand of
both the interconnected network and isolated load centers.
The delayed launch of operations at Manantali, initially scheduled for 1994 and then
deferred until 2000, was expected to result in a production shortage of 40 MW by 2000.
Construction of three plants in Balingue in 1997 and the resulting installed load of 23 MW made it
possible to decrease the shortage to 17 MW, which must be compensated for in 1999 and 2000 to
avoid power cuts. Considered individually, each project allowed EDM to generate more power
than would have been the case had the project not been implemented. The following table
(showing overall figures following rehabilitation and extension) illustrates this point:
Power plant                             Power !nerated (in GWh)                  .
1989     1990    1991   1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997
Darsalun         25.48    27.61   29.62   32.97    37.73   32.88    54.46    83.34   51.40
Sotuba           36.26    24.13   33.55   34.92    38.74   36.60    40.76   43.24   41.57
Koubiala          0.92     0.90    1.33    1.25     1.37    1.61    2.68    3.20    4.03
Bougowuu          0.67     0.86    0.83    0.69     0.89    1.21    1.49    1.77    1.91
Mopi.    5.44             5.69    6.16    6.16     6.29    9.91    8.08    9.81   11.46



36
> Traasmission
8.    The following table shows demand patterns in Segou and Fana before and after installation
of the 150-kV line in late 1991:
Year   Power Generated or          Peak Load (in MW)
Delivered (in GWh)
Fana        Segou         Fana           Segou
1989          0.64          4.07          0.22           0.83
1990          0.75          5.36          0.25           1.11
1991          0.62          4.50          0.21           0.94
1992          1.80          8.57          0.63           1.70
1993           1.96        10.03          0.57           2.05
1994          4.10         09.75          1.39           2.03
1995          5.34         12.48          1.97           2.66
1996          5.74         15.37          2.12           3.25
1997          5.78         19.42          1.85           3.76
Increased demand during the period 1989-1997 averaged 20.9 percent in Segou and 36.8
per cent in Fana (thanks to CMDT).
Although installation of the Bamako-Fana-Segou 150-kV transmission line represents
technical and economic progress, the project will prove less profitable than anticipated because of
underuse of the substations' installed capacity owing to the delayed start of the Manantali plant.
This delay required an increase in thermal energy production, the high cost of which does not
justify a rapid expansion of distribution networks from the Segou and Fana substations. From a
technical standpoint, the Bamako-Segou transmission project is the first link needed to expand the
network to Sikasso and Bougouni, the objective being to enable a substantial part of Mali to
benefit from low-cost hydroelectric power generated at SMlingu6, Sotuba, and Mantanali. From
an economic standpoint, even though installed capacity was underutilized and power was not
available from *Manantali, the fact that the marginal cost of producing power via the
interconnected network (CFAF 45/kWh pre-Manantali) replaced the cost of local thermal energy
production (a minimum of CFAF 65/kWh) enabled EDM to register savings to the order of CFAF
1 billion, calculated on the basis of overall production of 57.8 GWh in 1994-1995. It should be
noted that the total cost of the project is CFAF 7.7 billion. Savings would have been twice as
high had power been available from Manantali in 1994 at 25 CFAF/kWh.
> Distribution
* IDA financing
9.    Projects to rehabilitate and extend distribution networks at Segou, Markala, Sikasso,
Koutiala, Bougouni, Mopti, and S6vare were completed in mid-April 1998. These projects
improved the quality of service (sufficient operating voltage, fewer network interruptions),
reduced energy losses, and partially satisfied new demand. Since considerable time has passed



37
between development of these projects and their implementation, a significant number of people in
all affected towns are not served by the network extensions.  As to production levels,
improvements already made or in progress are also inadequate, and further increases and
extensions will be needed immediately to pace with the increasing demand. Accordingly,
additional financing will be required to allow production and distribution work at the isolated load
centers to move forward.
*-: CFD Financing
Rehabilitation and extension of the Kayes distribution network, which were completed in
November 1996, substantially improved service quality (sufficient operating voltage) and
prompted a significant increase in demand. Demand in Kayes rose 17% in 1997, notwithstanding
unreliable load patterns resulting in load drops at the slightest power dip affecting the units in
question. The project to strengthen one unit by 750 kV/year, which will be completed in June
1998, will not be able to resolve the production shortage at Kayes in the medium-term.
Additional funds will be sought to resolve this problem.
* CIDA, AJDB, and IDA financing
Rehabilitation of the Bamako-Kati distribution network began in January 1998 and will be
completed in July 1999. The delay in project execution has thus far prevented any significant
improvement with regard to technical losses and the quality of supplied power. In the meantime,
EDM has had to absorb a network surcharge owing to increased demand on its own funds as a
result of the strengthening exercise, and the impact is uncertain given the small resource envelope.
The CIDA-AfDB project developed in 1992 cannot adequately meet Bamako's expansion
requirements. EDM has developed a complementary project, the third distribution project. The
World Bank will pay for supplies and CIDA will pay for wooden poles. Delivery of these items is
under way and project work will begin in July 1998.
> Supplies and Equipment
10.   With funds from this component and EDM's own funds, DGG made it possible to:
* Modernize and expand the vehicle fleet, thus enabling it to respond quickly to service
requests;
* Supply EDM with a large number of microcomputers and office and technical software
(network simulation) to improve reporting and the resolution of management problems.
The following statistics illustrate this:
Number of hcle71994                               197
Number of microcomputers         50                  250
Number of vehicles       1       115                 202



38
> Studies
11.   The SIMBA software acquired during the study on optimization of production of the
interconnected network, although limited in performance, has proved to be an indispensable
tool for optimal planning of monthly hydro-thermal power production. The study on coordination
of protection of the interconnected system resulted in the signing of a contract with ABB for
complete renovation of the protection system for the interconnected network. Waddell's studies
paved the way for long-term financial simulations and facilitated cross payments of debt between
the Government and EDM through December 31, 1995, putting an end to lawsuits that had lasted
for several years. The study by Louis Berger International on fixed assets led to the preparation
of an updated EDM fixed asset inventory. Only the tariff study conducted by TRACTABEL in
1993, based on the marginal cost principle, was not followed up, and its basic data is no longer
accurate, particularly the investment plan.
Training
12.   The training budget was spent on business training, training of trainers overseas, and
firnishing the professional development center. Tangible results were achieved on the business
side: installation of the new Galatee software, improved staffing and invoicing, and a higher
collections rate. Technical training has yet to be undertaken.
Financial Results
13.   Financial results of the Project have been evaluated, taking into account the pattern of
certain data in the financial projections in the appraisal estimate, financial covenants of the Credit
and Project Agreements, and the Project's estimated rate of return.
> Financial Projections
14.   Performance objectives and criteria adopted when financial projections were drawn up in
1988 could not be met, owing either to poor management or to the fact that implementation of
project components, which were intended to affect network output and increase sales directly was
deferred for several years. The following comparative data table will help identify key factors that
led to poor financial performance in comparison with expectations.



39
1988  1989   1990   1991   1992   1993    1994   1995   1996   1997
Sales (Gwh)
?  Esfimated        161.8   177.5   193.3   219.0   239.9   262.4   284.9
7  Actual           153.8   161.5   176.3   184.3   206.8   219.5   209.8   242.5   265.3   299.2
Average Sales Price
(F/kWh)
?  Estimated         60.8    60.8    60.8    60.8    63.9    67.1    67.1
?  Actual            60.8    60.0    59.6    59.2    60.7     59.1    69.7    69.7    68.9    69.7
Overall Network
Losses
7  Estimated         19.5    18.4    17.4    16.1    15.5     15.5    15.5    15.5
?  Actual            21.8    21.2    20.5    20.5   17.2*    17.6*    20.4    21.5    21.2    22.5
Power Purchased
?  EsFimated        3.178   3.682   2.550   2.500   2.500    2.500   2.500
7  Actual           3.149   3.008   3.596   4.005   4.005    4.134   4.167
Selingue Production
?  Estimated        126.1   146.1   176.2   200.0   200.0   200.0   200.0
?  Actual           123.8    148   144.0   166.8   166.8    170.5   183.3   184.6   169.3   182.5
Total Thennal
Production
7  Estimated         39.1    35.1    35.6    27.1    40.1     66.7    93.7
7  Actual            36.8    45.3    50.0    53.1    51.6     58.8    56.0    84.3   120.2   158.8
Fuel Cost
7  Estimated        1.619   1.426    1392   1.678   1.678    2.946    4321
7  Actual           1.672   2.332    2343   2.485   2.485   2.290*    3323    4603    5775    8381
Net Result
7  Estimated         952    1020    1987    2557    2557    2.494   1.600
7  Acual             320      182     -72     -27     -27   1.294*  2.331*     822  -13616  -5.792
* Note: Unreliable data; possibly carried over from 1993 to 1994.
T The rate of sales growth was slower than expected, which accounts for the 35.7% difference
between the predicted figure for 1998 and the amount earned in 1994.
* The tariff was adjusted in 1994, not in 1992 as originally planned;
* Production at Selingue did not reach the theoretical producible output of 200 GWh;
* Although total production was lower than predicted, thermal production and fuel costs
exceeded predictions substantially.
* The unit purchase price for power generated at Selingu6 did not change during the period
under consideration. However, it was originally assumed that the sector consolidation
expected in 1990 would have the effect of replacing the purchase price with a fixed fee of
CFAF 2.5 billion, which would have been well below the actual cost paid by EDM.
* The project objective of lowering the overall network energy loss from 22.2% in 1987 to
15.5% in 1992 could not be achieved since network rehabilitation did not begin until 1996.



40
The current loss is 20%/o. This figure will not decline significantly until 1999, foliowing the
rehabilitation of the Bamako network.
> Compliance with Financial Covenants
15.   The status of Mali's compliance with the principal financial covenants of the Project
Agreement is described below.
Account audits. The Project Agreement stipulates that EDM must:
*  Maintain adequate records and accounts to reflect, in accordance with sound
accounting practices, its operations and financial condition;
*  Have its financial statements for each fiscal year audited by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA and furnish to IDA not later than six months after the end of
each fiscal year, copies of its audited financial statements and the report of such
audit.
Although audits were conducted annually, the time-frame for furnishing documents to
IDA was not adhered to because EDM was late in preparing its financial statements.
Consumer Arrears. The Project Agreement stipulates that EDM must take necessary
steps to reduce consumer arrears to not more than the equivalent of:
* by the end of 1989, the amount billed for the previous four months;
*  by the end of 1990, the amount billed for the previous three months.
Results
1989  1990  1991   1992  1993  1994   1995   1996   1997
No. of months in arrears 
8.1   6.5   9.1    9.9   11.8   8.0    8.7    5.6    4.5
Bill collection efforts must be stepped up in order to meet the three-month billing
objective established in the Project Agreement.
Debt Servicing. The Project Agreement stipulates that the debt service coverage ratio
must be at least 1.5.
Results
Ratio            1993         1994          1995    |    1996          1997
2.3          0.4          2.1          -2.3          1.2
Triennial Average Percentage of Funds Paid from Internal Sources. The Project
Agreement stipulates that EDM must generate, for each of its fiscal years after its fiscal year



41
etding on December 31, 1989, funds from internal sources equivalent to not less than 20% of the
annual average of the capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, for that year, the
previous fiscal year and next following fiscal year. This objective was not met.
Results
I 1   1993    I    1994    I    1995    I    1996    I   1997   I
Percentage           7%            0           15%             0           14%
]Internal Rate of Return
16. The internal rate of return (Annex 2) was calculated on the basis of all investment
expenditures, additional sales resulting from such investments and operating costs relating to
additional power production, average sales tariffs, thermal energy production expenses saved at
Fana and Segou following installation of the high-tension line and reflected under "other benefits,"
and the residual value of transmission and distribution investments. Accordingly, the Project
internal rate of return was 14.8 % as against 15.1% called for in the Project Appraisal.
Condusions
17.   The magnitude of the sector's managerial and organizational problems was underestimated
during the Project preparation phase, and even given new reforms, it was not possible to resolve
problems within the allotted time. These problems had a negative impact on the course of project
execution and made it difficult to achieve any immediate results or the sector's long-term
development objectives.
18.   Nevertheless, investments made (or in progress) did facilitate the resolution of many
production and distribution difficulties and provided a solid foundation for strengthening EDM's
management capacity and development of the electric power sector.
19.   The Project financing freeze, which lasted more than two years, delayed implementation of
a number of components (such as measures relating to production and distribution), with a direct
impact on improving service quality, network output, and with an inadequate production capacity
compromising consumer demand satisfaction.
20.   This negative impact was evident in lower sales than expected and minimal decreases in
technical losses. Contrary to predictions, the delayed consolidation of the sector did not result in
the expected reduction in the purchase price paid by EDM for power generated at Selingue.
Moreover, the tariff increase planned for 1992 did not materialize until 1994. Taken together,
these factors tend to distort the financial projections. Furthermore, several key components of the
Second Project -- including efforts to increase production and distribution at Bamako and the
isolated load centers -- which should have begun in 1992 did not get under way until 1996 or
1997. The technical and financial impact of these components will not come to light until 1998 or
1999, after the Project has been completed.



42
21.   The "non-financial" impact of the Project is not inconsiderable: updated management tools
and tools for technical studies (computers and software), an equipped vocational training center,
improved response capacity (larger vehicle fleet), and staff who have received training. Actions
under the Project's training component focused on training trainers and on upgrading business
capacity, including installation of the Galatee client management software. Technical training will
continue under the Selingue Rehabilitation Credit.



43
SECOND POWER PROJECT
PROJECT COST
(in millions of US$)
BREAKDOWN BY COMPONENT
Compor ta                        Estimated                           Actual
Local      Foreign     Total       local     Foreign     Total
Currency   Exchange               Currency   Exchange
A. ELECTRIC POWER
1. Production                         1.4        12.8      14.2         0.4         20.0     20.4
2. Transmission                       1.9        18.5      20.4          4.9        21.7     26.6
3. Distiibution                       5.8        23.1      28.9          1.7        22.3     24.0
4. TA/training/studies                0.6         7.1       7.7          0.6        17.6     18.2
5. Supplies and equipment             0.0         1.8        1.8        0.0          2.0      2.1
6. Buildings                          1.7         0.8       2.5          0.2         0.0      0.2
Power sub-otal                11.4        64.1      75.5         7.8        83.7      91.4
B. HOUSEHOLD ENERGY                   0.0         1.0        1.0         0.5         0.6      1.1
TOTAL BASELINE COST                  11.4        65.1      76.5          8.3        84.2     92.5
Unforeseen technical expenses        1.0         5.8       6.8
Unforeseen financial costs          3.3         5.4        8.7
Total Project Cost                   15.7        76.3      92.0          8.3        84.2     92.5
BREAKDOWN BY DONOR
Downos                         Estimated                           Actual
Local      Foreign      Total       Local      Foreign    Total
Currency    Exchange                Currency   Exchange
IDA                                 0.7         31.3       32.0          1.3        32.4    33.7
CFD                                 0.0          9.5        9.5         0.2         17.6    18.0
KfW                                 0.8          6.4        7.2          1.7        12.4    14.1
EIB                                 1.3          7.9        9.2          2.9         3.6     6.5
CIDA                                0.3         6.70        7.0         0.0         12.0    12.0
AfDB                                0.0         11.8       11.8         0.0          4.6     4.6
FAC                                 0.4          2.4        2.8          0.0         0.9     0.9
EDM                                12.2          0.3       12.5          2.2         0.4     2.6
15.7        76.3        92.0         8.3        84.2    92.5



44
SECOND POWER PROJECT
INTERNAL RATE OF RETURN
(Billions of CFAF)
89      90       91       92      93       94       95       96       97      98       99       00       01      02       03       04       05       06       07       08        09
Investments              928    6,986    3,737    1,222     658    3,654    2,426    3,410    3,500    4,670    2,170
Operating Costs
149     270      441      430    1,202    2,340    1,618    1,640    1,640    1,640    1,640    1,640    1,640    1,640    1,640    1,640    1,640    1,640    1,640
TotalCosts               928    6,986    3,886    1,491    1,099    4,083    3,628    5,749    5,118    6,310    3,810    1,640    1,640    1,640    1,640    1,640    1,640    1,640    1,640    1,640    1,640
Sals (MWh)                              10.848   19,874   28,358   28,252   52,704   83,267   69,950   71,450   72.450   73,450   74,450   75,450   76,450   77,450   78,450   79,450   80,450   81,450   82.450
Tariffs (CFAF/kWh)
60      60       60       70       70       70      70       78       86      94       94       94       94       94       94      94       94       94       94
Sales Income                               651    1,192    1,701    1,978    3,689    5,829    4,897    5,573    6,231    6,904    6,998    7,092    7,186    7,280    7,374    7,468    7,562    7,656    7.750
Other Income
Residual Values
356     356      407      457      457      457     498      539      579      579     579      579      579      579      579      579     579      579
11,944
Total Income                               651    1,548    2,057    2,385    4,146    6,286    5,354    6,071    6,769    7,484    7,578    7,672    7,766    7,860    7,954    8,048    8,142    8,236   20,274
Net Flow                -928   -6,986   -3,235      57      959   -1,699      519      536     236    -239    2,959    5,843    5,937    6,031    6,125    6,219    6,313    6,407    6.501    6,595   18,633
Intemal Rate of Retum: 14.8%



N.                        ~~~~~~~~The boundaries, colors
24                                                                                                -                                 denominotions and any                                  ALGERIA
"N,                    ~~~~~~~~other informaction show
M    A    L   I                                                            a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n this ma p  do  not
imply, on the part of       MAURITANIA
POWER  FACILITIES            !                                   \(e              s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~tatus of any territory,        .
The World Bank Group
POWER  FACILITIES                                                                                             ayjudgmnent on the legal
$   or any endorsement             ~          MALI
or acceptance of such     i.__
boundaries,
| \, N / 8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~URKINA 9 
Future     Existing       Power Plants:                                                                                                                 \TE- SWAMP  \, )UN   'IVOIRE
>   |               46   ,                                                                        (    
*            *          DIESEL                           o  j                      RIVERS .             '                                                  ji .    =      ,
20   A      A            IHYDRO                                                                                                                 ,'
Z        TOWNS
Transmission Lines:              D.
NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                 ---- 1
220 kV
REGION BOUNDARIES
__--.-       _ _-.-        150 kV
60 kV    -   -      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
360kV
30 kV                             |                            ToMBoucrou
-16n                250                   500                     %           G          O                          \   GAOS!o16 -
aoz                 ~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS                               /             ro      >,. 
2 ~~~~~~~~~NIOROa
SENEGAL                                                                                                                                                              N I G E R
5 1 \ \ B KOt *\ SJ \\ " * - ~~~~~~~B U R K I N A  \ 
12 K                      \              ,*       ,KUTIAtA 41
-12>   <tX->i2^            A         ;SUTIAL )                          F A S O                                 &)  X N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I G E R I A
G'A OILSEN    N N
-I ~~~~~ ~GHIANA                                                                                  I0
5 X  /' 2--> \  t/  <   WOTE D'l IR                                                          5'-,-.s g  rl )              /        4o i             
o.~ ~ ~~~1                                                                             S        '                                        ,48



