Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1998 MLI
                      (Second Power Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF MALI
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Dated May 30, 1989
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1998 MLI
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated May 30, 1989, between  REPUBLIC OF MALI (the
"Borrower")  and   INTERNATIONAL   DEVELOPMENT   ASSOCIATION  (the
"Association").
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the  Project  will  be  carried  out  by  the Borrower's
Ministere de l'Industrie, de l'Hydraulique  et de l'Energie and by
Societe Energie du  Mali  with  the  Borrower's assistance and, as
part of  such  assistance,  the  Borrower  will  make available to
Societe Energie du Mali  part  of  the  proceeds  of the Credit as
provided in this Agreement;
     (C)  by  agreement  dated  June   14,  1988  ("the  EIB  Loan
Agreement") European Investment Bank ("EIB")  has agreed to make a
loan (the "EIB Loan")  in  an  amount equivalent to eleven million
Page  2
European Currency Units  (ECU  11,000,000)  to assist in financing
part of the Project on the  terms  and conditions set forth in the
EIB Loan Agreement;
     (D)  by  agreement  dated  May  20,  1988  (the  "CIDA  Grant
Agreement") the Canadian International Development Agency ("CIDA")
has agreed  to  make  a  grant  (the  "CIDA  Grant")  in an amount
equivalent to  ten  million  Canadian  Dollars (Can$10,000,000) to
assist in the financing of  part  of  the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in the CIDA Grant Agreement;
     (E)  by agreement  dated  July  22-29,  1988  (the "KfW Grant
Agreement") Kreditanstalt fur  Wiederafbau  ("KfW")  has agreed to
make a grant (the "KfW  Grant")  in an amount equivalent to twenty
million German Marks (DM  20,000,000)  to assist in financing part
of the Project on the terms  and  conditions set forth in the "KfW
Grant Agreement;
     (F)  the Borrower intends to contract from Caisse Centrale de
Cooperation Economique ("CCCE")  a  loan  (the  "CCCE Loan") in an
amount equivalent  to  thirteen  million  Dollars ($13,000,000) to
assist  in  financing  part  of  the  Project  on  the  terms  and
conditions set forth in  an  agreement (the "CCCE Loan Agreement")
to be entered into between the Borrower and CCCE;
     (G)  the   Borrower   intends   to   contract   from  African
Development Fund ("ADF")  a  loan  (the  "ADF  Loan") in an amount
equivalent  to  eleven  million  eight  hundred  thousand  Dollars
($11,800,000) to assist in  financing  part  of the Project on the
terms and conditions  set  forth  in  an  agreement (the "ADF Loan
Agreement") to be entered into between the Borrower and ADF;
     (H)  the Borrower intends to contract from Fonds de l'Aide et
de Cooperation ("FAC")  a  grant  (the  "FAC  Grant") in an amount
equivalent to  three  million  Dollars  ($3,000,000)  to assist in
financing part of  the  Project  on  the  terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement  (the  "FAC  Grant Agreement") to be entered
into between the Borrower and FAC; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and  conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and in the
Project Agreement of  even  date  herewith between the Association
and Societe Energie du Mali;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of  Section 3.02 deleted (the "General Con-
ditions") constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
     (b)  "DNHE" means Direction Nationale  de l'Hydraulique et de
l'Energie, the Department of MIHE (as hereinafter defined);
     (c)  "EDM" means Societe  Energie  du  Mali,  a mixed economy
company responsible  for  operating  and  maintaining  most of the
Borrower's power and urban  water facilities, established pursuant
to its statutes;
Page  3
     (d)  "MIHE" means Ministere  de l'Industrie, de l'Hydraulique
et de l'Energie, the  Borrower's  Ministry  of Industry, Water and
Power;
     (e)  "OERHN" means Office  pour l'Exploitation des Ressources
Hydrauliques du Haut Niger, a public entity ("etablissement public
a caractere industriel et  commercial) established pursuant to its
statutes to exploit the Upper Niger water resources;
     (f)  "PMU"   means   Project   Management   Unit,   the  unit
established within EDM in accordance  with Section 2.01 (b) of the
Project Agreement;
     (g)  "Project  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  between the
Association and EDM of  even  date  herewith,  as  the same may be
amended from time to  time,  and  such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (h)  "Project   Preparation   Advance"   means   the  project
preparation advance granted  by  the  Association  to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange  of  letters  dated  February 9, 1988, and
July 14, 1988, between the Borrower and the Association;
     (i)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (j)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means  the  agreement to be
entered into between  the  Borrower  and  EDM  pursuant to Section
3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as  the  same may be amended from time
to time, and such  term  includes  all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the
Development Credit  Agreement,  an  amount  in  various currencies
equivalent to  twenty-four  million  two  hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 24,200,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall,  for  the  purposes  of the Project,
open and maintain in CFAF  a  special account in a commercial bank
on terms and conditions  satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of,  the  Special  Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount  of   the   Project   Preparation   Advance  withdrawn  and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.
The unwithdrawn balance of  the  authorized  amount of the Project
Preparation shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995, or
such  later  date   as   the   Association  shall  establish.  The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a)  The  Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
Page  4
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date  of  this Agreement (the "Accrual Date")
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled; (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the Accrual Date or at
such other rates  as  may  be  set  from  time  to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.   The  rate  set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year, specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30, 1988, shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of  any  kind  imposed  by,  or  in  the  territory  of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each  March 15 and September 15
commencing September 15,  1999  and  ending  March  15, 2029. Each
installment to and including the  installment payable on March 15,
2009 shall be one percent (1%)  of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consi-
deration by them  of  the  development  of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency  of  the French Republic is hereby
specified  for  the  purposes  of  Section  4.02  of  the  General
Conditions.
     Section 2.09.  EDM,  acting  through  PMU,  is  designated as
representative of the  Borrower  for  the  purposes  of taking any
action required or permitted to  be  taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02  of  this  Agreement  and  Article  V  of the General
Page  5
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. The  Borrower  declares  its  commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end,  without any limitation or restriction
upon any of  its  other  obligations  under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall:
     (a)  cause EDM to carry out Parts  A through F of the Project
(with the exclusion of Parts E  (e)  and E (f)) and to perform, in
accordance with the provisions  of  the Project Agreement, all the
obligations of EDM therein set forth;
     (b)  take and cause  to  be  taken  all action, including the
provision of  funds,  facilities,  services  and  other resources,
necessary or appropriate  to  enable  EDM  to perform such obliga-
tions;
     (c)  not take or permit  to  be  taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance;
     (d)  carry out Parts  E  (e),  E  (f)  and  G  of the Project
through DNHE with due  diligence  and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative practices; and
     (e)  provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the  funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for Parts E (e), E (f) and G
of the Project.
     Section 3.02.  With  respect  of  Parts  A  through  F of the
Project (with  the  exclusion  of  Parts  E  (e)  and  E (f)), the
Borrower shall:  (a)  relend  the  proceeds  of  the  Credit under
Categories 1 to 5 and 7 (b)  of  paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement to EDM under a  subsidiary  loan agreement to be entered
into between the  Borrower  and  EDM,  under  terms and conditions
which shall have  been  approved  by  the Association, which shall
include an interest  rate  equal  to  7.65%  and  repayment of the
principal after  twenty-five  (25)  years  from  the  date of this
Agreement with a grace period of five (5) years;
     (b)  exercise its rights under  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to  accomplish  the  purposes  of  the Credit, and
except as  the  Association  shall  otherwise  agree,  not assign,
amend, abrogate or  waive  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement or any
provision thereof; and
     (c)  make  available  the   proceeds   of  the  Credit  under
Categories 6 and 8 of paragraph  1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
to EDM as equity participation or as grant.
     Section  3.03.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for Parts A through F  of the Project (with the exclusion
of Parts E (e) and E  (f))  to  be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 1 to
the Project Agreement  and  procurement  of  the  goods, works and
consultants' services  required  for  Parts  E  (e)  and  G of the
Project to be financed out of  the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower  and  the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of  the  General  Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of  goods  and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and
reports,  maintenance  and   land  acquisition,  respectively)  in
respect of Parts A through F of the Project (with the exclusion of
Parts E (e) and E  (f))  shall  be  carried out by EDM pursuant to
Page  6
Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
     Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, not later than September 30
of each year,  starting  with  September  30,  1989, submit to the
Association the Borrower's revised three-year rolling power sector
investment program, satisfactory to  the Association, inclusive of
the Borrower's  pricing  policies  and  plans  in  respect  of the
overall development of the sector.
     Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  cause EDM to undertake the study under Part E (d) of the
Project;
     (b)  not  later  than   June   30,   1990,  review  with  the
Association the recommendations contained therein; and
     (c)  promptly  thereafter,  take   all  necessary  action  to
implement such recommendations  in  a  manner  satisfactory to the
Association.
     Section 3.07. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  not later than September 30  of  each year, carry out an
inspection of the Selingue  dam  by an engineering firm acceptable
to the Association;
     (b)  submit a report  on  such  inspection to the Association
promptly thereafter,  in  such  detail  as  the  Association shall
reasonably request;
     (c)  review   with   the   Association   the  recommendations
contained therein; and
     (d)  promptly  thereafter,  take   all  necessary  action  to
implement such recommendations  in  a  manner  satisfactory to the
Association.
     Section  3.08.  Without  any   limitation  upon  any  of  its
obligations under Section  3.01  of  this  Agreement, the Borrower
shall, starting  with  January  1,  1990,  make adequate budgetary
allocations to pay for  its overall estimated electricity consump-
tion and take all necessary measures for the prompt payment of the
related bills.
     Section 3.09.  The  Borrower  shall  cause  EDM  to  take, in
accordance with Section 2.02  (c)  of  the Project Agreement, such
steps as shall be necessary to reduce consumer arrears to not more
than the equivalent of:
          (i)  by December 31,  1989,  the  amount  billed for the
               previous four months;
         (ii)  by December 31,  1990,  the  amount  billed for the
               previous three months; and
        (iii)  thereafter, the  amounts  billed  for  the previous
               three months.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in respect of Parts E (e) and G of the Project of the
departments or agencies of  the  Borrower responsible for carrying
out such Parts of the Project.
     (b)  For all expenditures relating  to  Parts  E (e) and G of
the Project with  respect  to  which  withdrawals  from the Credit
Page  7
Account were made on the  basis of statements of expenditures, the
Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be  maintained in accordance
               with  sound   accounting   practices,  records  and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  ensure  that   all   records   (contracts,  orders,
               invoices,  bills,  receipts  and  other  documents)
               evidencing such expenditures  are retained until at
               least one year  after  the Association has received
               the audit report for  the  fiscal year in which the
               last withdrawal from  the  Credit Account was made;
               and
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records.
     (c)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graphs (a) and (b)  (i)  of  this Section and those
               for  the  Special  Account  for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each such year,  the report of such audit by
               said auditors, of such scope  and in such detail as
               the Association  shall  have  reasonably requested,
               including a separate opinion by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said records and  accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  EDM shall have failed to  perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development  Credit  Agreement,  an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall make  it improbable that EDM will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (c)  The  laws,  statutes   and   contracts  referred  to  in
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived  after  their  finalization so as to
affect materially and adversely the  ability of EDM to perform any
of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (d)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of EDM or for the suspension of its operations.
     (e)  (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
              (A)   The right  of  the  Borrower  to  withdraw the
Page  8
                    proceeds of  any  of  the  EIB  Loan, the CIDA
                    Grant, the KfW Grant,  the  CCCE Loan, the ADF
                    Loan and the  FAC  Grant  made to the Borrower
                    for the financing  of  the  Project shall have
                    been  suspended,  cancelled  or  terminated in
                    whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
                    EIB Loan Agreement,  the CIDA Grant Agreement,
                    the  KfW  Grant   Agreement,   the  CCCE  Loan
                    Agreement, the ADF Loan  Agreement and the FAC
                    Grant Agreement, or
              (B)   any of the EIB Loan, the CCCE Loan and the ADF
                    Loan shall have  become  due and payable prior
                    to the agreed maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the Association that:
              (A)   such suspension,  cancellation, termination or
                    prematuring is not  caused  by  the failure of
                    the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
                    under such agreement; and
              (B)   adequate funds for  the  Project are available
                    to the Borrower  from  other  sources on terms
                    and conditions consistent with the obligations
                    of the Borrower under this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Asso-
ciation to the Borrower;
     (b)  the  events  specified  in  paragraphs  (c)  and  (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
     (c)  any  event  specified  in   paragraph  (e)  (i)  (B)  of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso
of paragraph (e) (ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  the Development
Credit Agreement within the  meaning  of  Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
     (a)  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  has  been  executed on
behalf of the Borrower and EDM;
     (b)  an improved institutional  framework satisfactory to the
Association for the Borrower's  power  and  water sectors has been
adopted providing, inter  alia,  for:  (i)  involvement  of EDM in
the planning of  the  power  sector  in  the Borrower's territory;
(ii) attribution to EDM  of  the responsibilities for constructing
and operating all  power  facilities  in the Borrower's territory,
with the exclusion of  regional,  multi-purpose projects and self-
production; (iii) integration of part of OERHN personnel into EDM;
and  (iv)  establishment  and   maintainance  of  adequate  tariff
structures;
     (c)  new statutes of EDM satisfactory to the Association have
been enacted;
     (d)  separate  performance  contracts   satisfactory  to  the
Association have been executed on  behalf  of the Borrower and EDM
Page  9
for EDM's power  and  water  activities,  with specific efficiency
targets;
     (e)  a management  contract  satisfactory  to the Association
whereby EDM would operate OERHN power facilities has been executed
on behalf of EDM and OERHN; and
     (f)  EDM has established PMU  in accordance with Section 2.01
(b) of the Project Agreement.
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in  the  opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Association:
     (a)  that the Project Agreement  has  been duly authorized or
ratified by EDM, and  is  legally  binding  upon EDM in accordance
with its terms; and
     (b)  that the Subsidiary Loan  Agreement has been duly autho-
rized or ratified by the  Borrower  and EDM and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and EDM in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.03. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
     Section  6.04.  The   obligations   of   the  Borrower  under
Sections 3.05, 3.07, 3.08 and  3.09  of this Agreement shall cease
and  determine  on  the  date  on  which  the  Development  Credit
Agreement shall terminate or  on  the  date twenty-five (25) years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. Except  as  provided  in  Section  2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister of  the  Borrower  at the time responsible
for Finance is designated  as  representative  of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministere des Finances et
            du Commerce
          Bamako
          Republic of Mali
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               MINIFINANCES                      2559 MINIFINANCE
               Bamako
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
Page  10
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    REPUBLIC OF MALI
                    By /s/ Nouhoum Samassekou
                                         Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Sven Sandstrom
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Repairs and                   750,000       100% of foreign
     revision of                                 expenditures
     Selingue
     under Part
     A.2 of the
     the Project
(2)  Diesel power                3,200,000       100% of foreign
     generation                                  expenditures
     under Parts A.4
     and A.5 of the
     Project except
     for Kayes
(3)  Power Distribution                          100% of foreign
     under Part C.3 of                           expenditures
     the Project ex-
     cept for Kayes:
     (a)  for Segou              4,700,000
     (b)  other                  3,700,000
(4)  Buildings                   1,100,000       60%
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(5)  Vehicles, mate-             2,000,000       100% of foreign
     rials, tele-                                expenditures
Page  11
     communication
     and other equip-
     ment including
     installation
(6)  Training                    1,200,000       100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures
(7)  Consultants' ser-                           100%
     vices and studies
     under Parts A 2, D
     and E of the
     Project:
     (a)  studies under            450,000
          Part E (e)
          of the Project
     (b)  consultants'           1,600,000
          services and
          studies other
          than under
          Part E (e) of
          the Project
(8)  Technical                   1,000,000       100%
     assistance
     under Part F
     of the Project
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(9)  Goods, technical              750,000       100% of foreign
     assistance and                              expenditures
     training under
     Part G of the
     Project
(10) Refunding of                  800,000       Amount due pur-
     Project Pre-                                suant to Sec-
     paration                                    tion 2.02 (c) of
     Advance                                     this Agreement
(11) Unallocated                 2,950,000
                               ___________
          TOTAL                 24,200,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of  the  Borrower;  provided,  however,  that if the
currency of the Borrower is also  that of another country from the
territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in
such currency for such  goods  or  services  shall be deemed to be
"foreign expenditures".
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made  in  respect  of  payments made for expendi-
Page  12
tures:
     (a)  incurred prior to  the  date  of  this Agreement, except
that  withdrawals,  in  an  aggregate  amount  not  exceeding  the
equivalent of SDR 750,000, may be  made in respect of Category (1)
of paragraph 1 above on  account of payments made for expenditures
before that date but after  the  date falling twelve months before
the date of this Agreement;
     (b)  under  Category  (9)  of  paragraph  1  above  until the
recommendations of the study under Part  E (f) of the Project have
been reviewed with the Association; and
     (c)  under Category (3) (a)  of  paragraph  1 above until all
conditions  precedent  to  the   effectiveness  of  the  EIB  Loan
Agreement, the CIDA Grant  Agreement  and  the KfW Grant Agreement
have been fulfilled.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of  the  Project  are:  (i)  to streamline the
relationship between the Borrower  and  EDM;  (ii) to separate the
power and water activities within EDM; (iii) to involve EDM in the
planning of  the  power  sector;  (iv)  to  attribute  to  EDM the
responsibilities  for   constructing   and   operating  all  power
facilities in  the  Borrower's  territory,  with  the exclusion of
regional,  multi-purpose  projects  and  self-production;  (v)  to
improve the efficiency of  EDM's  operations; (vi) to finance part
of the power sector investment program for the years 1989 to 1995;
and (vii) to assist the  Borrower in developing and implementing a
household energy strategy.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Power Generation
1.   Rehabilitation of the Sotuba hydro-electric plant.
2.   Execution of repairs and  ten  year overhaul for the Selingue
hydro-electric plant.
3.   Increasing of the capacity of the Dar Salam diesel station in
Bamako.
4.   Installation of new diesel units totalling about 2.6 megawatt
in Sikasso, Mopti and Koutiala.
5.   Rehabilitation of  the  existing  diesel  stations  in Kayes,
Sikasso, Bougouni and Koutiala.
Part B:   Power Transmission
     Construction of a  single  circuit, 150 kilovolt transmission
line from Bamako to Segou, with substations in Bamako, Segou, Fana
and Dioila and associated voltage control equipment.
Part C:   Power Distribution
1.   Rehabilitation  of   medium   and   low   voltage  lines  and
substations in down-town Bamako.
2.   Construction of about 200  km  of  new medium and low voltage
lines and associated substations in Bamako.
3.   Rehabilitation of the existing distribution systems in Kayes,
Mopti, Sikasso, Fana, Bougouni,  Koutiala,  Segou and Markala, and
Page  13
construction of about 275 km  of  medium and low voltage lines and
substations including those for Dioila and Yanfolila.
Part D:   Consultant Services, Supplies and Buildings
     Provision  for  Parts  A,  B   and   C  of  the  Project  of:
(a)  consultants  services  for  the  engineering,  bid  documents
preparation and  construction  supervision;  and  (b) spare parts,
equipment and  supplies,  expansion  and  rehabilitation of office
space.
Part E:   Studies
     Carrying out of the following  system studies: (a) a study on
the  optimization   of   plant   production   in   the  Borrower's
interconnected system; (b)  a  study  on  the  coordination of the
protection for the interconnected  system  in the 150 kilovolt, 30
kilovolt and 15  kilovolt  networks;  (c)  a loss reduction study;
(d) a power tariff study;  (e)  a  feasibility study for the Kenie
hydro-electric project;  (f)  a  household  energy  study; and (g)
studies for future power  sector investments and other operational
studies in the Borrower's territory.
Part F:   Training and technical assistance
1.   Local and foreign  training  for  the Borrower's power sector
personnel.
2.   Provision of short and long term technical assistance for the
Borrower's power sector.
Part G:   Household Energy
     Implementation  of  a   household   energy  strategy  in  the
Borrower's territory.
                            *    *    *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1995.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible  Categories"  means Categories (1) to
(9) set forth in the table  in  paragraph  1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $750,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
Page  14
     (a)  for  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of such request or
requests,  the  Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
withdraw from the  Credit  Account  and  deposit  into the Special
Account  such  amount  or  amounts  as  the  Borrower  shall  have
requested; and
     (b)   (i)  for  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                for deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at such
                intervals as the Association shall specify; and
          (ii)  prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association the
                documents and other  evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for the payment or
                payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Association  shall,  on  behalf  of  the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit  Account and deposit into
                the Special Account  such  amount  as the Borrower
                shall have requested and  as shall have been shown
                by said documents and  other evidence to have been
                made  out  of  the  Special  Account  for eligible
                expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn
                by the Association  from  the Credit Account under
                the respective  eligible  Categories,  and  in the
                respective equivalent amounts,  as shall have been
                justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such  payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   (a)  Notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall  not  be  required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
          (i)  if,  at  any  time,   the  Association  shall  have
               determined that all  further  withdrawals should be
               made  by  the  Borrower  directly  from  the Credit
               Account  in  accordance   with  the  provisions  of
               Article V of  the  General Conditions and paragraph
               (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
         (ii)  once the  total  unwithdrawn  amount  of the Credit
               allocated  to  the  eligible  Categories  less  the
               amount  of   any   outstanding  special  commitment
               entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
               5.02 of the General  Conditions with respect to the
               Project, shall equal  the  equivalent  of twice the
               amount of the Authorized Allocation.
     (b)  Thereafter, withdrawal from  the  Credit  Account of the
remaining  unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit  allocated  to the
eligible  Categories   shall   follow   such   procedures  as  the
Association shall specify by notice  to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only  after  and  to the extent that the
Association  shall  have  been  satisfied  that  all  such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such
notice  will  be   utilized   in   making  payments  for  eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account:
          (i)  was made for  an  expenditure  or  in an amount not
Page  15
               eligible pursuant to paragraph  2 of this Schedule;
               or
         (ii)  was not justified by  the evidence furnished to the
               Association,  the  Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon
               notice from the Association:
              (A)   provide  such   additional   evidence  as  the
                    Association may request; or
              (B)   deposit into the  Special  Account (or, if the
                    Association shall  so  request,  refund to the
                    Association) an amount equal  to the amount of
                    such payment  or  the  portion  thereof not so
                    eligible or justified.  Unless the Association
                    shall otherwise agree,  no  further deposit by
                    the Association into the Special Account shall
                    be made until  the  Borrower has provided such
                    evidence or made  such  deposit  or refund, as
                    the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding  in  the  Special  Account will not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any  portion  of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the  Association  made pursuant to paragraphs
6(a), 6(b) and 6(c)  of  this  Schedule  shall  be credited to the
Credit Account for  subsequent  withdrawal  or for cancellation inaccordance  with  
the  relevant   provisions  of  this  Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the "Guidelines").
Part B:   Other Procurement Procedures
     Contracts for goods  under  Part  G  of  the  Project, may be
procured under contracts  awarded  on  the  basis of comparison of
price quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers
from  at  least  three  different  countries  eligible  under  the
Guidelines,  in  accordance  with  procedures  acceptable  to  the
Association.
Part C:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of  $100,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
Page  16
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract,  together  with  the  other information
required to  be  furnished  to  the  Association  pursuant to said
paragraph 3, shall be furnished to  the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of the  preceding  paragraphs (a) and (b)
shall not apply to contracts  on  account of which the Association
has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The  figure  of  20%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower  in carrying out Parts E (e)
and G of the  Project,  the  Borrower shall employ consultants and
experts whose qualifications, experience  and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory  to the Association. Such con-
sultants shall be selected in  accordance with principles and pro-
cedures satisfactory  to  the  Association  on  the  basis  of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as  Executing  Agency"  published by the Bank in
August 1981.
