Page  1
                                      January 31, 1992
His Excellency Mr. Bassary Toure
Minister of Economy and Finance
Ministry of Economy and Finance
Bamako, Mali
     MALI:  Credit No. 1998-MLI (Second Power Project)
            Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement
Excellency:
     We refer to the Development Credit Agreement (the "Agreement")
for the above-referenced Project between the Republic of Mali (the
"Borrower") and the International Development Association (the
"Association") dated May 30, 1989.
     We are pleased to inform you that the Association agrees with
the Borrower I o request to modify the table set f orth in paragraph
I of Schedule I to the Agreement as follows:
                   Amount of  the
                   Credit Allocation            of
                   (Expressed in                Expenditures
Category           SDR Equivalent)              to be Financed
(7)  Consultants' services                      100%
     and studies:
(a)  under Parts E (e)     450,000
     and E (f)  of  the
     Project
(b)  under  Parts  A.2,  1,600,000
     D, E (a),  E  (b),
     E (c), E  (d)  and
     E (g) of the
     Project
(9)  Technical assistance, 750,000
     100% equipment,
     training and
     operating costs under
     Part G of the Project
     The paragraph 2 of Schedule 1 to the Agreement is amended as
to include the following subparagraph:
     (C)  the term "operating costs" means incremental expenses
due to the -Project incurred for items such as: building maintenance
costs, vehicles repairs and maintenance costs,. salaries for locally
contracted staff, travel and per them for Project staff.
     The Schedule 1 is completed by the following paragraph:
     4.   Under Category (9) of paragraph 1 above, future
disbursements, above the amount of SDR 250,000 which would be to
finance the first year of activity of the implementation unit of the
Household Energy Strategy, would be subject to the Borrower
obtaining the additional sources of funds necessary for the
implementation of this component.
     Furthermore, we wish to inform you that the Association
intends to modify Section 2.02 (b) of the Agreement to read as
follows:
     "The Borrower shall open and maintain in CFAF in a commercial
     bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
Page  2
     including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or
     attachment: (i) a special account (hereinafter referred to as
     "Special Account Al') for the purposes of Categories (1) to
     (6), 7 (b) and (8) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of
     Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and (ii) a special account
     (hereinafter referred to as "Special Account Bl') for the
     purposes of Categories 7 (a) and (9) of the table set forth in
     paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.     Deposits
     into, and payments out of, any of the Special Accounts shall
     be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to
     this Agreement".
     The words "the special account" should be replaced by the
words "special accounts" in paragraph (c) (i) of Section 4.01.
     Finally, the Association intends to modify schedule 3 to the
Agreement as follows:
1.   Paragraph 1 (c) should read:
     "the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount to be
     withdrawn from the Credit account and deposited into each of
     the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
     Schedule, equivalent, in the case of special Account A, to
     CFAF 215,000,000 and in the case of Special Account B, to CFAF
     25,000,000."
2.   The words "the Special Account" should be replaced by the
words "any Special Account": (a) in paragraph 2; (b) in paragraph 3,
second line; (c) in paragraph 3 (b) (i), first line; (d) in
paragraph 4; (e) in paragraph 5; (f) in paragraph 6 (a), second
line; (g) in paragraph 6 (b) ; and (h) in paragraph 6 (c)
3.   The words "the Special Account" should be replaced by the
words "Such Special Account": (a) in paragraph 3, fourth line; (b)
in paragraph 3 (b) (i), third line; (c) in paragraph 3 (b) (ii),
last line; and (d) in paragraph 6 (a) (B), first line.
4.   The words "the Special Account" should be replaced by the
words "the relevant Special Account": (a) in paragraph 3 (a); (b) in
paragraph 3 (b) (ii), ninth line; (c) in paragraph 5 (b); and (d) in
paragraph 6 (a) (B), sixth line.
5.   The words "Authorized Allocation" should be replaced by the
words "relevant Authorized Allocation" throughout the Schedule
(except in paragraph I (c).
     A copy of this amendment will be sent separately, for
information to the Ministry of Mines, Hydraulics and Energy.
     Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing by signing and
dating the confirmation form on the enclosed copy of this letter and
returning it us.  The amendment will become effective as of the date
of your confirmation.
                        Sincerely yours,
                INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        Katherine, Marshall
                             Director
                        Sahelian Department
CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF MALI
By
   Authorized Representative
Page  3
