Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1998 MLI
                      (Second Power Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                      SOCIETE ENERGIE DU MALI
                        Dated May 30, 1989
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1998 MLI
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated   May   30,   1989   between  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the "Association") and Societe Energie du
Mali ("EDM").
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the  Republic  of  Mali  (the "Borrower") and the
Association, the Association has  agreed  to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-four
million   two    hundred    thousand    Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR 24,200,000) on  the  terms  and  conditions  set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that EDM agree
to undertake such obligations  toward  the  Association as are set
forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower and EDM,  part  of the proceeds of the credit
provided for under the  Development  Credit Agreement will be made
Page  2
available to EDM on  the  terms  and  conditions set forth in said
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
     WHEREAS EDM, in  consideration  of the Association's entering
into the  Development  Credit  Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in the  Development Credit Agreement, in the
Preamble to this Agreement  and  in  the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective  meanings  therein  set forth and the
term "Fiscal Year" means EDM's fiscal year which runs from January
1 to December 31.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section  2.01.  (a)  EDM   declares  its  commitment  to  the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 to the
Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project with due diligence  and  efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate  administrative,  financial,  engineering  and  public
utility practices and  shall  provide,  or  cause  to be provided,
promptly as  needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services and other
resources required for the Project.
     (b)  For the purposes of  paragraph  (a)  of this Section EDM
shall establish PMU with the necessary staff.
     Section 2.02. EDM shall:
     (a)  execute a program to strengthen EDM's organization;
     (b)  execute a plan to  reduce  power losses and improve bill
collections; and
     (c)  take such steps as shall be necessary to reduce consumer
arrears to not more  than  the  equivalent  of:  (i) by the end of
1989, the amount billed for the  previous four months; (ii) by the
end of 1990, the amount billed  for the previous three months; and
(iii) thereafter, the amount billed for the previous three months.
     Section  2.03.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the parts of the Project to be carried out by EDM and
to be  financed  out  of  the  proceeds  of  the  Credit, shall be
governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
     Section 2.04. EDM shall  carry  out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,  9.06,  9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and services,
plans and schedules,  records  and  reports,  maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and
Parts A through F of  the  Project  (with the exclusion of Parts E
(e) and E (f)).
     Section 2.05.  EDM  shall  duly  perform  all its obligations
under the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except  as the Association
shall otherwise agree, EDM shall not  take or concur in any action
which would have the effect  of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section 2.06. (a) EDM shall  from time to time exchange views
with the Association with regard  to  the progress of the Parts of
the Project carried out by EDM, the performance of its obligations
Page  3
under this Agreement and under  the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and
other  matters  relating  to  the  purposes  of  the  Credit. Such
exchange of views shall take place:
          (i)  for the first time not later than March 31, 1990;
         (ii)  for the second  time  not  later than September 30,
               1990;
        (iii)  not later than March  31  and  September 30 of each
               year thereafter; and
         (iv)  at  such  other  times  as  the  Association  shall
               reasonably request.
     (b)  Prior to such exchange of views EDM shall furnish to the
Association:
          (i)  a project performance review  for the preceding six
               months of Project implementation, carried out under
               terms of reference satisfactory to the Association;
               and
         (ii)  a project implementation plan for the following six
               months of Project implementation, in such detail as
               the Association shall reasonably request.
     (c)  EDM  shall  promptly  inform   the  Association  of  any
condition which  interferes  or  threatens  to  interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance  by  EDM  of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of EDM
     Section 3.01. EDM shall carry  out its operations and conduct
its affairs in  accordance  with  sound administrative, financial,
engineering and public utility  practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced  management  assisted by competent staff
in adequate numbers.
     Section 3.02. EDM shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and  other  property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make  all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance  with  sound engineering, financial and
public utility practices.
     Section 3.03.  EDM  shall:  (a)  take  out  and maintain with
responsible insurers  insurance  against  such  risks  and in such
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice; and
     (b)  carry out  periodically  a  proforma  revaluation of its
fixed assets, in accordance  with  sound and consistent methods of
evaluation satisfactory to  the  Association,  for  the purpose of
reviewing and updating  its  insurance  coverage  in  the light of
current real values of insured assets.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a)  EDM  shall  maintain  records and accounts
adequate to reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
     (b)  EDM shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
Page  4
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each such year:
              (A)   certified copies  of  its financial statements
                    for such year as so audited and
              (B)   the report of such  audit by said auditors, of
                    such  scope  and   in   such   detail  as  the
                    Association shall  have  reasonably requested;
                    and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, EDM shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures  and  internal  controls  involved  in  their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
agree, EDM shall not incur  any debt, unless a reasonable forecast
of the revenues and expenditures  of  EDM shows that the estimated
net revenues of EDM for  each  fiscal  year during the term of the
debt to be incurred,  shall  be  at  least 1.5 times the estimated
debt service requirements of EDM in  such  year on all debt of EDM
including the debt to be incurred.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  the  term  "debt"  means  any  indebtedness  of EDM
               maturing by its terms more  than one year after the
               date on which it is originally incurred;
         (ii)  debt shall be deemed to be incurred:
              (A)   under a loan  contract  or  agreement or other
                    instrument providing for such  debt or for the
                    modification of its  terms  of  payment on the
                    date   of   such    contract,   agreement   or
                    instrument; and
Page  5
              (B)   under a guarantee  agreement,  on the date the
                    agreement  providing  for  such  guarantee has
                    been entered into;
        (iii)  the  term  "net   revenues"  means  the  difference
               between:
               (A) the sum of revenues from all sources related to
                   operations and net non-operating income; and
               (B) the sum of  all  expenses related to operations
                   including administration, adequate maintenance,
                   taxes  and  payments  in  lieu  of  taxes,  but
                   excluding  provision  for  depreciation,  other
                   non-cash  operating  charges  and  interest and
                   other charges on debt;
         (iv)  the  term  "net  non-operating  income"  means  the
               difference between:
               (A) revenues  from  all  sources  other  than those
                   related to operations; and
               (B) expenses, including taxes  and payments in lieu
                   of taxes, incurred  in  the generation of reve-
                   nues in (A) above;
          (v)  the  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate  of  repayments  (including  sinking fund
               payments,  if  any)  of,  and  interest  and  other
               charges on, debt;
         (vi)  the term  "reasonable  forecast"  means  a forecast
               prepared by  EDM  not  earlier  than  twelve months
               prior to the  incurrence  of  the debt in question,
               which  both  the  Association  and  EDM  accept  as
               reasonable and  as  to  which  the  Association has
               notified EDM of its acceptability, provided that no
               event has  occurred  since  such notification which
               has, or may reasonably be expected in the future to
               have, a material  adverse  effect  on the financial
               condition or future operating results of EDM; and
        (vii)  whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the guarantor,  debt  payable  in another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
     Section 4.03. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
agree, EDM shall generate, for each  of its Fiscal Years after its
Fiscal Year  ending  on  December  31,  1989,  funds from internal
sources equivalent to not  less  than  twenty percent (20%) of the
annual average of the  capital  expenditures incurred, or expected
to be incurred, for that  year,  the previous Fiscal Year and next
following Fiscal Year.
     (b)  Before November 30  in  each  of  its  Fiscal Years, EDM
shall, on the basis of  forecasts prepared by EDM and satisfactory
to the Association, review whether  it would meet the requirements
set forth in paragraph (a) in  respect of such Fiscal Year and the
next following Fiscal Year and  shall furnish to the Association a
copy of such review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such review  shows  that  EDM  would not meet the
requirements set forth  in  paragraph  (a)  for EDM's Fiscal Years
covered by such  review,  EDM  shall  promtply  take all necessary
measures in order to meet such requirements.
Page  6
     (d)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  the term "funds  from  internal  sources" means the
               difference between:
               (A)  the sum of  revenues  from all sources related
                    to   electric   power   operations,   consumer
                    deposits and consumer  contributions in aid of
                    construction, net non-operating income and any
                    reduction in working  capital other than cash;
                    and
               (B)  the sum of  all  expenses  related to electric
                    power  operations,  including  administration,
                    adequate maintenance and taxes and payments in
                    lieu  of   taxes   (excluding   provision  for
                    depreciation  and   other  non-cash  operating
                    charges), debt service  requirements, all cash
                    dividends  and  other  cash  distributions  of
                    surplus,  increase  in  working  capital other
                    than cash and  other  cash outflows other than
                    capital expenditures;
         (ii)  the  terms  "net  non-operating  income"  means the
               difference between:
               (A)  revenues from  all  sources  other  than those
                    related to electric power operations; and
               (B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
                    of  taxes,  incurred   in  the  generation  of
                    revenues in (A) above;
        (iii)  the term "working  capital  other  than cash" means
               the  difference  between  current  assets excluding
               cash and current  liabilities  at  the  end of each
               Fiscal Year;
         (iv)  the  term  "current  assets  excluding  cash" means
               assets other than cash  which would in the ordinary
               course of business  be  converted  into cash within
               twelve  months,   including   accounts  receivable,
               marketable  securities,  inventories  and  pre-paid
               expenses properly chargeable  to operating expenses
               within the next Fiscal Year;
          (v)  the   term   "current    liabilities"   means   all
               liabilities which will  become  due  and payable or
               could, under circumstances  then existing be called
               for  payment   within   twelve   months,  including
               accounts  payable,  customer  advances,  taxes  and
               payments in lieu of taxes, and dividends;
         (vi)  the  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               fund payments, if any)  of,  and interest and other
               charges on, debt;
        (vii)  the   term   "capital   expenditures"   means   all
               expenditures incurred on  account  of fixed assets,
               including interest charged to construction, related
               to electric power operations; and
       (viii)  whenever, for  the  purposes  of  this  Section, it
               shall  be  necessary  to  value,  in  terms  of the
               currency of the  Borrower,  debt payable in another
               currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis
               of the prevailing lawful  rate of exchange at which
               such  other  currency  is,  at  the  time  of  such
               valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing
               such debt, or, in the  absence of such rate, on the
Page  7
               basis of  a  rate  of  exchange  acceptable  to the
               Association.
     Section 4.04. EDM  shall  at  all  times make adequate annual
provisions for depreciation and  renewals  of  its fixed assets in
accordance with sound accounting practices.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 5.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and of EDM  thereunder  shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
         (ii)  the date twenty-five (25)  years  after the date of
               this Agreement.
     (b)  If  the  Development   Credit  Agreement  terminates  in
accordance with  its  terms  before  the  date  specified  in sub-
paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly
notify EDM of this event.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or  at  such  other  address  as  such  party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     For Societe Energie du Mali:
          B.P. 69
          Bamako
          Republic of Mali
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                ENERMA                         2587 ENERMALI
Page  8
                Bamako
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of EDM,  or  by  EDM on behalf of the Borrower
under the Development Credit  Agreement,  may be taken or executed
by EDM's Chairman of the  Board  of Directors or such other person
or persons as the EDM's  Chairman  of the Board of Directors shall
designate in writing,  and  EDM  shall  furnish to the Association
sufficient  evidence  of  the   authority  and  the  authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Sven Sandstrom
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                    SOCIETE ENERGIE DU MALI
                    By /s/ Nouhoum Samassekou
                                         Authorized Representative
                             SCHEDULE
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the "Guidelines").
2.   To the  extent  practicable,  contracts  for  goods and works
shall be grouped in bid  packages estimated to cost the equivalent
of $150,000 or more each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Borrower's
territory may be  granted  a  margin  of  preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the  provisions  of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56
of the  Guidelines  and  paragraphs  1  through  4  of  Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
Page  9
described in Part A.1 hereof, EDM may grant a margin of preference
to domestic contractors in  accordance  with,  and subject to, the
provisions of  paragraphs  2.55  and  2.56  of  the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Buildings contracts estimated  to  cost  less  than the equi-
valent of $200,000 may  be  procured  on  the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in  accordance with procedures satis-
factory to the Association and paragraph 3.3 of the Guidelines.
2.   Items or groups  of  items  estimated  to  cost less than the
equivalent of $150,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the  equivalent  of  $1,000,000,  may  be procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis  of comparison of price quotations
solicited from a list of  at  least  three suppliers from at least
three  different  countries  eligible  under  the  Guidelines,  in
accordance  with  procedures  acceptable  to  the  Association and
paragraph 3.4 of the Guidelines.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of  $100,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set  forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the  making  of  the first payment out of
the Special Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract,  together  with  the  other information
required to  be  furnished  to  the  Association  pursuant to said
paragraph 3, shall be furnished to  the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b)  shall  not  apply  to  contracts  on  account  of  which  the
Association has authorized withdrawals  from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements  of  expenditure.  Such contracts shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section   4.01  (a)  (ii)  of  the
Development Credit Agreement.
3.   The  figure  of  20%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In  order  to  carry  out   the  Project,  EDM  shall  employ
consultants  whose  qualifications,   experience   and  terms  and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Such consultants shall be  selected  in accordance with principles
and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as  Executing  Agency"  published by the Bank in
August 1981.
