                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 32343

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (IDA-31610 PPFI-P9650)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5.2 MILLION

                                                    TO

                                            BURKINA FASO

                                                 FOR A

                      PILOT PRIVATE IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                            October 31, 2005




AFTS4
Country Department 15
Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                     (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 2004)

                                Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
                                    CFAF 520 = US$ 1
                                        US$ 1 = SDR 1.52

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                 Januray 1    December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

APIPAC     Association des Professionnels de l'Irrigation Privée et des Activités Connexes
           Association of Professionals for Private Irrigation and Related Activities
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CFAF       Currency of the West African Monetary Union
COS        Comité d'Orientation et de Suivi ­ Steering Committee
DGHA       Direction Générale de l'Hyraulique Agricole - Division for Agricultural Water Resources
GIE        Groupement d'Intérêt Economique - Economic Interest Group
HIPC       Highly Indebted Poor Countries
ICRISAT    International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics
IFDC       International Fertilizer Development Center
IRR        Internal Rate of Return
LIL        Learning and Innovation Loan
MAHRH      Ministère de l'Agriculture, de l'Hydraulique et des Ressources Halieutiques
           Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Fisheries
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
NGO        Non Governmental Organization
PAD        Project Appraisal Document
PNDSAII    Second Programme National de Développement des Services Agricoles
           Second Agricultural Services Development Project
PNGTII     Second Programme National de Gestion des Terroirs
           Second Community-Based Rural Development Project
PPID       Pilot Private Irrigation Development
PPIV       Projet Petite Irrigation Villageoise - Small-Scale Village Irrigation Project
PSSA       Programme Spécial Sécurité Alimentaire - Food Security Special Program
SME        Small and Medium Enterprises
TOR        Terms of Reference
UCOF       Unité de Coordination des Opérations Financières ­ Financial Coordination Unit



                              Vice President:      Gobind T. Nankani
                          Country Manager:         Ellen Goldstein
                            Sector Manager:        Mary Barton-Dock
                         Task Team Leader:         Ibrahim Nebie

                                       BURKINA FASO
                         Pilot Private Irrigation Development Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            10
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 13
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             28
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            33

Project ID: P050886                                                  Project Name: Pilot Private Irrigation Development
                                                                     Project
Team Leader: Ibrahim B. Nebie                                        TL Unit: AFTS4
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: October 31, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Pilot Private Irrigation Development Project             L/C/TF Number: IDA-31610; PPFI-P9650
   Country/Department: BURKINA FASO                                                       Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Irrigation and drainage (65%); Central government administration
                            (25%); Other social services (10%)
                  Theme: Water resource management (P); Rural services and infrastructure
                            (P); Administrative and civil service reform (P); Rural markets (S);
                            Infrastructure services for private sector development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 06/19/1997                                     Effective: 08/18/1999                08/18/1999
     Appraisal: 11/19/1997                                         MTR: 08/15/2001                  03/05/2002
      Approval: 01/12/1999                                      Closing: 12/31/2003                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Government of Burkina Faso (Ministry of Agriculture)/APIPAC
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager:                Ellen A. Goldstein                             Hasan Tuluy
Sector Manager:                 Mary A. Barton-Dock                            Jean-Paul Chausse
Team Leader at ICR:             Ibrahim B. Nébié                               Sidi Jammeh
ICR Primary Author:             Olivier Durand




2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The main objective of the Burkina Faso Pilot Private Irrigation Development (PPID) Project was to test
and evaluate an approach for the provision of demand-driven support services necessary to develop an
efficient, sustainable small irrigation sub-sector in Burkina Faso. The core innovative idea of the project
was that services would be provided under various cost recovery arrangements to be tested, either directly
to its membership by APIPAC, the newly-established smallholders' association, or indirectly through
contract agreements with third parties. APIPAC would contract out the implementation of such indirect
support operations to NGOs, participating public agencies, local consulting firms, on the basis of
transparent selection or competitive bidding procedures.

In the context of Burkina Faso, where for years multiple state agencies and public services have been
monopolizing agriculture development planning and execution, the objective of transferring responsibilities
of service delivery to the private sector was innovative and risky. The overall risk assessment of the project
was thus defined as being substantial. Beyond technical aspects of irrigation and other agricultural
technologies, the originality of this project relied on this objective of creating a non governmental delivery
system and network for demand-driven support services for promoting private small-scale irrigation and
developing related activities.

As such the objective of the project was fully in line with the country assistance strategy, which aimed at
strengthening the role of the private sector and improving access to services and resources. With respect to
economic and social development in rural areas, the approach to small scale-irrigation developed by the
project was also in line with the CAS's objectives of improving producers' incomes, employment and
growth opportunities, as well as opening new markets.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The project development objective was not revised during implementation. The establishment of APIPAC
and the first results achieved in the field confirmed the relevance of the project objective.

3.3 Original Components:

The Pilot Private Irrigation Development Project was subdivided in the five following components:

1. Support to the technical executing agency ­ US$1.05 million (17 percent of total project cost): This
component was to finance the services of APIPAC and its capacity-building program (including setting up
a Technical Project Unit). The objective was to enable the association to acquire the know-how and
experience needed to become a cost-effective and sustainable private delivery entity in the irrigation sector.

2. Promotion of new technologies through on-farm and off-farm support services ­ US$3.33 million
(54 percent): This component focused on providing target beneficiaries, (such as small irrigation farmers,
private operators involved in the marketing and processing of irrigation products, and providers of farm
inputs and services to irrigation activities), support services aimed at increasing their incomes and
employment. Key sub-components included: (a) on-farm demonstrations of small-scale irrigation equipment
and techniques; (b) promotion of markets for small-scale irrigation products, inputs and services; (c)
facilitation of access to financial services; (d) facilitation of access to land tenure security; and (e) technical
and managerial support to grassroots associations established by target beneficiaries.


                                                        - 2 -

3. Guarantee facility ­ US$0.80 million (13 percent): Most investments (on-farm and off-farm) expected
to result from the project required short or medium-term credit (up to two years) for 60-80 percent of total
cost. These investments were to be undertaken by groups of small producers with no track record in the
formal credit system. The objective of this component was therefore to create a guarantee facility to help
these target beneficiaries establish such a record, thereby gaining access in the future to the formal banking
sector.

4. Monitoring and evaluation ­ US$0.79 million (13 percent): The objective of this component was to
establish a strong monitoring and evaluation system.

5. Financial coordination unit ­ US$0.20 million (3 percent): The last component was to help set up a
financial coordination unit, which was responsible for the financial management of the project.

3.4 Revised Components:

The components of the project were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

The project was not subject to either a quality at entry analysis, or a quality enhancement review. The last
Bank supervision mission in charge of preparing this ICR has rated the quality at entry for this project as
satisfactory, for the reasons stated hereafter.

The approach of this project was to finance part of the Government national program for small-scale
irrigation, which would require as much as US$30.0 million in IDA contribution. However, the Bank
realized that many features of the proposed program were insufficiently elaborated and tested in terms of
techniques adapted to producers' needs, dissemination modalities and project implementation arrangements.
It was, therefore, decided to start with a more limited pilot operation that would clarify approaches for
technology generation and transfer, taking into account mixed results achieved by previous research and
development projects. Different options needed to be tested to identify cost-effective institutional
arrangements for the delivery of services to irrigation smallholders.

The decision was then taken to move toward a private delivery of services. The Bank preparation team
correctly assessed the risks of this new approach as substantial due to: (a) reversal in Government policy in
favor of transferring responsibilities to private sector and of empowering rural stakeholders; (b) APIPAC
difficulty to really start up and become efficient; (c) over-representation of larger farmers in APIPAC
management and decision making.

To mitigate these risks, adequate measures and actions were identified such as: a specific component which
aimed at strengthening APIPAC and its constituents to enhance their capacities and to ensure its
sustainability; a strong monitoring and evaluation system, and; a close follow-up of field activities at the
grassroots level (with the creation of APIPAC antennas).

Two flaws that have had impact on project implementation are noticeable in the initial design of the project:
(a) technical and fiduciary responsibilities were totally separated in the institutional set up; APIPAC was
indeed only in charge of activity implementation (technical execution) but had to rely on a specific unit
within the Ministry of Agriculture for financial management (financial execution); (b) the distinction
between internal and external/independent evaluations was not clearly understood and led to difficulties and



                                                      - 3 -

delays for the establishment of the M&E (see section 4.2 - component 4).

It should be noted however that this institutional set up was proposed in response to Government hesitation
to transfer fiduciary accountability to APIPAC and its willingness to ensure close oversight of project
implementation. In addition, APIPAC was a recently created association and without much experience in
financial management. These flaws resulted in delays in implementing activities but have been corrected in
the course of project implementation, especially at the request of the Bank during the mid-term review.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The key outcome of the project was to establish a private delivery system of demand-driven support
services to small-scale irrigation and related activities. With the existence and the strengthening of
APIPAC, as well as the experience acquired by other private service providers and the methodology
developed under APIPAC leadership, the major project outcome has thus been achieved and justifies a
satisfactory rating as regard to achievement of objective.

As a pilot experience, the project has succeeded in delivering the three expected outputs formulated in the
initial PAD as follows:

     (1) "a privately managed irrigation promotion agency, capable of delivering demand-driven support
     services to private small-scale irrigation and related activities has been established and is fully
     operational";

     (2) "Cost-effective processes and procedures for identifying demand for support services in private
     small- scale irrigation and related activities have been developed and tested";

     (3) "Cost-effective delivery systems of demand-driven support services to private small-scale
     irrigation and related activities have been developed and proven to have a positive impact on
     beneficiary incomes and employment while insuring satisfactory management of the natural resource
     base".

Detailed achievements for each of these objectives are presented in table 1 in annex 1. No target values
were defined, as it was generally the case at the time of the PPID project preparation, and no baseline data
were available. However, each activity was given target values when the project M&E system was
established in 2001. Detailed results are given in tables in annex 1 and commented in the next section.

Through its 5 antennas, APIPAC covers 80 percent of the country and provides services to more than
30,000 private operators. It helped elaborate 410 small scale investment projects submitted by private
operators. Based on producers' demands, more than 500 tests and demonstrations have been organized
resulting in the dissemination of 1,547 pedal pumps sold and in the installation of different small-scale
irrigation schemes. Through its self-help approach, the project helped private providers of equipment and
services develop their activities. Eighteen artisans have been trained to produce pumps and 380 other
artisans have been trained as repairmen. Through the dissemination of small scale irrigation equipment,
producers have been able to multiply their vegetable cropping surface by 2.3 and increase income by 50
percent.

The project adequately achieved its objectives, although all tests, demonstrations and advisory services



                                                     - 4 -

could perhaps have been delivered through a more comprehensive approach to producers' needs and to
farming system analysis. Activities were mainly implemented separately within the project team and with
outside partners (in a sense this approach ensured the quality of the achieved results). The project could
also have adopted a closer follow up of these activities in terms of economic analysis and impact
assessment. The monitoring and evaluation system was set up late after project launch and did not have
enough time (and adequate resources) to really give a comprehensive analysis of activity impact at the
grassroots and national levels.

4.2 Outputs by components:

The overall performance of the project in terms of the achievement of concrete results and outputs is rated
satisfactory. The three major components, representing 84 percent of the project cost, have obtained
substantial results in terms of institutional strengthening, technology generation and innovative financing
tools, while efficiently supporting investments of private operators. The two last components achieved
mixed results but did they represented a limited share of the total project cost (16 percent).

Component 1 ­ Support to the technical executing agency:

The output of this component is rated satisfactory. APIPAC's membership rose from 110 before project
effectiveness to 775 at project closure (see Table 2 - Annex 1). Thanks to the start-up of project activities
and the opening of regional antennas, APIPAC has expanded its clientele of professional organizations,
which have quadrupled between project effectiveness and project closure. Moreover, APIPAC has
succeeded in attracting private investors and agricultural entrepreuneurs, who usually are reluctant to join
associations or any form of collective organization. Individuals members have thus increased fourteen-fold
over the project's life. APIPAC accounts for almost 35,000 people and unites not only producers (74.5
percent) but also other private operators, such as agro-processors (16.5 percent), traders (6.5 percent), and
artisans, transporters, etc. (2.5 percent). Women's representation account for 46.6 percent of APIPAC
membership.

Thanks to this mix of constituents, APIPAC is recognized as a legitimate representative association for the
irrigation sub-sector and has facilitated the creation of the "interprofession" for fruits and vegetables. It is
now a credible private actor, recognized both at the national level (thus solicited by the Ministry of
Agriculture for the formulation of its irrigation development strategy), at the regional level (as edvidenced
by its participation in project preparation, supervision and evaluation abroad) and at the international level
(participation in international workshops on behalf of the Burkinabè Government, collaboration with
international private organizations and technical assistance to neighboring countries).

Beyond figures, APIPAC dynamism has increased and its internal governance has improved: the general
assemblies were organized on a regular basis, a regular renewal of elected members has been observed, and
more responsibilities have been decentralized to regional committees. APIPAC has progressively improved
its communication strategy, through its five regional antennas, the dissemination of 3,000 promotional
pamphlets, and the production of videotapes. However, despite a 100 percent recovery rate on membership
fees, the recovery rate of annual contributions has stagnated at 60 percent due to producers' reluctance to
fulfill their commitments, as well as the usual producers'distrust vis-à-vis fees. Encouraging progress has
been made in 2004 with the extension of field activities, which have allowed producers to be paid back for
their contribution to APIPAC. The association tested and developed a set of services paid by clients. This
may constitute in the medium term the major source of income that would ensure APIPAC's financial
viability.




                                                      - 5 -

APIPAC has kept its operational costs low by delegating activities to private operators. It has acquired
experience as an intermediary agency and has facilitated access to service providers for its members. As a
consequence, APIPAC staff is limited to 25 people, 40 percent of whom are based in the regional antennae.
Under the PPID project, APIPAC has demonstrated an ability to implement projects. This highlights a
broad and important lesson drawn from this project: private operators, empowered as implementing
agencies, constitute a promising, efficient and cost-effective alternative to public institutions for delivering
demand-driven services to producers.

Component 2 ­ Promotion of new technologies through on-farm and off-farm support services:

This component was organized around four subcomponents, slightly different from those suggested in the
PAD in order to take into account the first requests made by private operators and the priorities expressed
by producers. These subcomponents were: (a) demonstration and dissemination of small scale irrigation
techniques and equipments; (b) farming system intensification and diversification; (c) post-harvest
operations; and (d) produce marketing and commercial promotion. The issues that have been dropped from
the initial subcomponents (access to financial services, access to land tenure security and support to
grassroots associations) were addressed within the overall approach of the APIPAC advisory services.
More specifically, access to financial services was addressed as part of activities related to the guarantee
facility and throughout project implementation APIPAC has ensured that private operators benefiting from
project support had proper land tenure documents.

This component achieved substantial results in terms of technology generation and dissemination, SME
development for manufacturing and selling these technologies, demand-driven advisory services for
elaborating investment projects, and marketing horticultural produce (promotional activities, supply chain
organization and marketing infrastructures feasibility). Based on these global achievements and the detailed
outputs presented in tables 3 through 5 in annex 1, the rating of this component is satisfactory. The
objective of "promoting new technologies through on-farm and off-farm support services" has been fully
achieved. When the M&E system was designed in 2001, targets were assigned to the component in terms of
tests and demonstrations to be conducted and equipment to be disseminated. As shown in tables in annex 1,
APIPAC achieved these targets and exceeded some of them. For instance, 1,547 treadle pumps, APIPAC's
major irrigation equipment for smallholders, have been sold against an initial target of 900 units.

Beyond technology dissemination, APIPAC succeeded in two essential fields: (a) the development of
agricultural advisory services for producers: 329 producers received technical and feasibility advice for the
acquisition of irrigation equipment; a set of 10 technical pamphlets on equipment and technologies has been
published and 1,000 copies of each pamphlet have been disseminated; (b) the establishment of an extensive
network of private providers of equipment and services: more than 50 artisans have been trained in
equipment manufacturing and maintenance and have been organized in economic groups (see details in
Table 6 - Annex 1).

As part of its produce marketing and commercial promotion mandate, APIPAC helped organize the fruit
and vegetable filière to become an inter-professional entity. It supported feasibility studies for the
construction of the following marketing facilities: in-country cold chain (refrigerated silos under
rehabilitation at Ouagadougou airport with funds from the Bank-funded agricultural services project), fruit
marketing facility (in Bobo-Dioulasso with assistance from the Bank-funded agricultural services project -
PNDSAII), center for innovations in post-harvest operations and food processing (with the Canadian
collaboration; financing plan still to be finalized). As a resource center, APIPAC helped the development of
commercial partnerships within Burkina Faso and with foreign companies (for instance, 19 producer
associations signed contracts with 5 export firms; 10 agricultural and food exhibitions were supported by


                                                      - 6 -

the project).

Based on the numerous activities conducted and the results obtained in the field, APIPAC offers the
opportunity to replicate and expand these services. However, in the future, APIPAC will have to adopt a
more comprehensive analysis of farming systems, combining different technical aspects (equipment use,
pest control, water management...) into a more integrated package of advice to producers. Moreover, the
approach developed under PPID mainly focused on technical aspects of equipment and neglected economic
analysis (financial impact at the farm level and close economic monitoring of producer operations). As a
result, information disseminated to producers was only technical (explaining the interest of each equipment
and detailing technical specifications) and not sufficiently financial, providing figures on potential
profitability. The APIPAC team could also have been more selective in addressing private operators'
requests by prioritizing tests and demonstrations to avoid being engaged in many different micro-activities.

Component 3 ­ Guarantee facility:

The Government confirmed its commitment to this experience by transferring the management of this
component to APIPAC in 2001 and by depositing US$800,000 into the facility account as agreed in the
development credit agreement. The guarantee facility was fully established and operational in April 2002.
Delays occurred due to the preparation phase which was required to refine implementation modalities and
to elaborate contractual arrangements for the financial management of the facility by a commercial Bank.
Time was also required to negotiate contractual arrangements with local Banks regarding their commitment
to provide loans to private operators. A guarantee facility management committee was established with
APIPAC members and a small unit was set up within the association for the follow-up of this activity.

Between April 2002 and June 2005, 493 projects were prepared with the assistance of APIPAC and
submitted to the management committee. 456 requests were accepted and 184 have been financed.
Cancellations of requests were due to: (a) rejection by commercial banks because of requesters' poor credit
records (30 percent); (b) requesters' incapacity to provide additional guarantees requested by banks (30
percent), and (c) the abandonment of projects, although accepted by banks, by requesters themselves (40
percent) due to processing delays between project definition and final approval by the commercial bank.
For instance, 60 percent of requesters had to wait for more than six months before being able to get their
loan. Some investors may also have decided to drop their project because they realized that APIPAC credits
were real bank loans, as opposed to project (partial) credits or matching grants.         This had serious
consequences on the investment interest and feasibility with regards to the production period. However, in
the case of a second loan, the processing delay dropped to two weeks.

The 184 loans granted through this mechanism represent 314 million CFAF with a mobilization rate of the
guarantee facility of 40 percent (161 million CFAF). They are distributed as follows (details in Annex 1 ­
Table 7): production (65 percent), marketing (25 percent) and post-harvest operations (10 percent). They
benefited 42 professional organizations (30 percent) and 102 individual investors (70 percent), representing
a total of 5,685 people. To date, 81 loans have been fully reimbursed, 103 are being reimbursed and 36 are
at risk with delays in repayment (19.5 percent), mainly in the production sector. Nineteen investors
benefited from a second credit, among whom nine did not require any guarantee.

The leverage of this guarantee facility (the amount of loans extended compared to the capital of the
guarantee funds) is 78.5 percent, a bit below the minimum 1/1 ratio that one could expect. However, the
facility is relatively new and its utilization has been limited by: (a) the difficulty in processing and
managing small-scale loans (US$2,500 on average), which are not attractive for commercial banks; (b) the
concentration of investors in remote rural areas that make processing and follow-up complicated, and (c)


                                                     - 7 -

the difficulty, especially for vegetable producers, to mobilize additional guarantees requested by
commercial banks. However, to enlarge the potential clientele, the credit ceiling has been increased,
especially to allow larger investors such as traders and transformers to access the facility.

The agreement between the Government and APIPAC will end in 2007. A study was undertaken in 2004 to
analyze different options for ensuring the durability and institutionalization of the facility. Unfortunately,
this study failed to provide adequate answers based on an in-depth analysis, although one possible option
could be to replicate the model used by a similar guarantee facility for SMEs, with the creation of a
"société de caution mutuelle". But first, an in-depth and exhaustive assessment of this experience will be
undertaken in the framework of the preparation of a follow-up operation to be funded by the Bank. In
addition, the last supervision mission recommended undertaking a complementary market analysis, to better
understand the financial needs of the various actors in the agricultural sector. This would help identify the
best approach to increase access to financing resources for the targeted groups, especially smallholders.

Despite difficulties and start-up delays that limited the use and impact of the guarantee facility, this
component did succeed in piloting the experience of risk-sharing arrangements, which prepares the ground
for further experiments with financing instruments for smallholders. As such, it is rated marginally
satisfactory.

Component 4 ­ Monitoring and evaluation:

The monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system was designed with two separate entities: (a) an M&E system
internalized to APIPAC for the close monitoring of project execution, activities and results, and for
providing regular guidance for project implementation; (b) an external M&E system that would measure
project strategy efficiency, socio-economic and environmental impact; this external M&E was to be
contracted out to an independent expertise, under the close supervision of the Ministry of Agriculture.

This approach led to misinterpretation of respective roles and competition for leadership among the various
stakeholders, and it took several supervision missions to reach a shared understanding. The M&E system
was finally set up late following a first study in 2001 and has been fully operational only since 2003.
However, no baseline survey has been undertaken, making the monitoring of project activities,
achievements and impacts difficult. As mentioned by the Bank at different occasions, the internal M&E
system has been much too focused on collecting activity data and on monitoring project realizations, and
less focussed on measuring economic analysis and impacts of disseminated technologies. The recruitment
of an independent firm for the external evaluation was also delayed due to procedures and to the fact that
environmental aspects were not initially taken into account in the first TORs.

Despite efforts from APIPAC staff to catch up on delays and provide data and analysis, including technical
and economical references for some technologies developed by APIPAC, the project failed to implement a
strong M&E system and the component is thus rated unsatisfactory.

Component 5 ­ Financial coordination unit:

Following the initial project design, a specific financial coordination (UCOF - Unité de Coordination des
Opérations Financières) unit was established within the Ministry of Agriculture, as an independent entity to
APIPAC. This separation between technical and financial executions quickly led to misunderstanding in the
respective roles and responsibilities of UCOF and APIPAC. It finally resulted in administrative blockages
with a cumbersome administrative control of UCOF over APIPAC. Following an institutional and
organizational audit, the mid-term review illustrated the necessity to merge the two functions. Decided in


                                                     - 8 -

March 2002, the proposed reorganization took effect only starting July 2003.

In addition, this component's implementation encountered other difficulties, such as (a) important staff
turnover and unexpected delays in recruitments; and (b) although the steering committee (COS - Comité
d'Orientation et de Suivi) has been organized on a regular basis, its role and impact have been limited (see
section 5.2 ­ Factors generally subject to Government control). However, the final disbursement rate
reached 98 percent and no major financial management flaws have been noticed by auditors. The rating of
this component is thus marginally satisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

At appraisal, the global internal rate of return of the project was estimated at 22 percent. However, detailed
calculation was not provided in the PAD, and the late implementation of the M&E system, as well as the
lack of economic impact measurement, make the actual project IRR estimation impossible.

However, an impact study undertaken by Enterprise Works Worldwide in 2002 on treadle pumps showed a
better utilization ratio for APIPAC-disseminated equipments vs. other projects (see Table 1 ­ Annex 3). It
confirmed that the private sector approach developed by APIPAC is relevant and that the major technology
developed by APIPAC is efficient and profitable for producers (see details in section 4.4). All the irrigation
technologies tested and promoted by APIPAC have a substantial impact in numerous fields: decrease of
hardship and manpower needs, which allow an increase of cultivated surface; reduction of water losses and
increase of water availability; relatively affordable costs and easy maintenance. Post-harvest technologies
(see Table 2 ­ Annex 2) offer easier and more efficient processes that reduce losses (conservation silos),
save inputs (fuel wood for rice steaming, for instance), increase processing capacities and improve the
homogeneity and the quality of the final product (fruit driers especially).

APIPAC has undertaken soft activities such as training, commercial promotion of produce, agricultural
fairs and study tours, whose impact is difficult to measure in the short term. However, they definitely have
had an impact on the dynamism of APIPAC and the fruit and vegetable sub-sector. Activities such as
consultation among stakeholders and feasibility studies have led to the construction of the fruit processing
facility in Bobo-Dioulasso and to the rehabilitation of the cold storage warehouses at the Ouagadougou
airport.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

At the producers' levels, technologies tested and disseminated by APIPAC have had a substantial financial
impact. Beyond technical benefits, available financial data show that investment in proposed equipment is
highly profitable and quickly amortized. For instance, in the small-scale irrigation sector, for an initial
investment cost of 60,000 CFAF in a 3-year lifetime treadle pump, producers will be able to double the
surface of their irrigated plot, while multiplying their net income by 2.4, from 147,000 CFAF to 354,000
CFAF (see Table 3 in Annex 3).

Benefit-cost analyses have been calculated for the three promising equipments: treadle pumps,
engine-propelled and californian systems (see Tables 5a, b and c in Annex 3). With benefit-cost ratios
ranging from 79 to 235, field data confirm the interest of the proposed equipments and the small-scale
irrigation approach promoted by APIPAC.

For post-harvest operations, conservation techniques for potatoes reduced the final losses rate from 25 to
20 percent, but above all they helped farmers keep produce longer and wait for better prices. In the



                                                      - 9 -

example given in Table 4 in Annex 3, the price obtained by producers doubled from 175CFAF/kg at
harvest to 350CFAF/kg three months later (see Table 4 in Annex 3).

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The institutional development impact of the project is rated substantial. As mentioned in the section on the
output of the first component, APIPAC as a private institution has made substantive progresses: (a) it has
gained national and international recognition, including by the Government that solicits APIPAC for policy
formulation; (b) it federates 775 members representing almost 35,000 private operators; (c) it has
developed a capacity of advisory services and plays an important role in disseminating information through
its five antennas; and (d) it has improved its internal governance. Over the recent years, APIPAC has been
able to develop various partnerships with other donors, research institutes and private firms (see examples
in section 6.2 on transition arrangements).

Another major impact of the project has been the strengthening of APIPAC's ability to federate all along
the fruit and vegetable filière diverse categories of private operators, from producers and transformers to
traders and exporters. APIPAC now constitutes a real inter-professional institution where private operators
have learned to dialogue and work together to identify constraints in supply chain development. APIPAC
brings them together and helps them develop collaboration, and find synergies and common interests on
both technical and commercial issues.

Beyond APIPAC per se, the project has had an important impact on private operators' development. As
mentioned earlier, it helped strengthen and develop a network of service providers for: agricultural
counselling, irrigation and post-harvest equipment manufacturing and servicing, and agricultural input
supply and marketing. The project helped these private providers capture new market opportunities and
develop their businesses. Training and advice on business management and development provided under the
project have enabled operators to look for new market opportunities for services.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

The project did not suffer from major factors outside Government or implementing agency control, except
for the political crisis in Côte d'Ivoire, which may have had an impact on input prices and may have
temporarily disturbed traditional marketing channels.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

As mentioned by APIPAC leaders themselves, even if the political willingness for transferring productive
activities to private operators has long existed, the concrete ways and means to achieve it are still subject to
hesitations, and reluctance to move forward too quickly. This attitude slowed down project effectiveness
and delayed the launch of activities at the very beginning of project implementation. One example of this
was the Government choice to separate financial and technical execution, but this constraint was solved at
mid-term review thanks to a shared analysis of the blockage between the Government and the Bank.

The Government, which was in charge of the irrigation policy through the MAHRH, had difficulty in
ensuring coordination between programs, and consistency among different project approaches. Whereas
APIPAC was selling treadle pumps through private channels, other projects implemented directly by the
Government, such as PPIV (funded on HIPC resources) or PSSA, started to disseminate this equipment
free of charge. In addition, the pumps were of poor quality because they were manufactured quickly and in


                                                      - 10 -

large quantities with less emphasize on quality. This started to disturb APIPAC's efforts to build private
dissemination networks and to implement a strict quality control process. The mid term review suggested a
revision of the PPID's steering committee's (COS) mandate to make it explicit that COS's role should be
extended to coordination and complementarities/synergies seeking among national programs and projects. It
took time to reach a full harmonization of approaches but this did not undermine PPID's results.

The absence of a strong external M&E system did not help APIPAC get a broader perspective of its
activities and its impact. The external monitoring should have provided guidance to the project team to
adopt a more focused approach to producer requests. In addition, the absence of this sound M&E did not
help measure the concrete impact of project technologies, especially on economic aspects at the farm, local
and regional levels.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

APIPAC has demonstrated its ability to manage a project and its willingness to move forward by finding
ways to lift constraints. A more focused approach on a restricted number of technologies and a sound
internal M&E, with a stronger economic approach, would have increased APIPAC's impacts. The
association could have also developed a more holistic approach of advisory services to producers,
combining advice on utilization of technologies with water management, agricultural practices and
economic follow-up and analysis, which would have improved the impact of the approach.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The project closed at a total cost of US$6,585,000 slightly over the original estimate (US$6.5 million). The
IDA credit amounted to US$5.20 million at appraisal, but due to currency exchange rate fluctuations, it
represented US$5.58 million at project closure. The IDA credit has been fully disbursed with an over-run
of the "Support to executing agency" component due to the need to finance part of the APIPAC staff during
the one-year extension of the project. The Government's contribution to the endowment of the guarantee
fund represented US$800,000 and has been paid. Beneficiaries were expected to contribute to project
implementation with a total of US$480,000. They did financially participate in activities execution (tests,
demonstrations, trainings...) but the actual contribution has not been closely monitored.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The overall sustainability of the project is rated likely. Technologies have been developed by APIPAC as
part of a demand-driven process. They are fully integrated into producers' farming system and have
improved producers' incomes while decreasing work hardship for family workers. The private network of
manufacturers and sellers, developed with local artisans, is also a key element of the sustainability
approach adopted by the project from the beginning. Artisans, trained to repair irrigation and post-harvest
equipments and to sell spare parts, ensure a durable use and dissemination of these equipments. They also
act as private rural entrepreneurs in economic interest groups (GIEs). Investors do not rely on external
manufacturers and imports to access these equipments and spare parts, but have come to rely on locally
based service providers and dissemination of such equipment is likely to continue beyond the project's life.

The guarantee facility, whose contract between the Governement and APIPAC ends in 2007, will have to
be closely monitored to check whether in the future it helps least advanced producers at the grassroots level
purchase these equipments through credit. Since a guarantee fund is not the only solution, other financing
instruments will have to be tested to support this category of producers. Presently, this experience shows


                                                     - 11 -

potential but is too short to get a definitive assessment of its sustainability.

APIPAC's sustainability is the key element to sustain and expand the activities and approaches developed
under PPID. Its viability can be analyzed as follows:

   · APIPAC's institutional viability: from a small association with few key members, APIPAC has
   grown to become a major actor in the development of the irrigation sector and the fruit and vegetable
   filière. It groups different categories of stakeholders, from producers to exporters, who have learned
   under the APIPAC umbrella to work together and to develop technical and commercial collaborations. I
   addition, most members, artisans' groups for instance, have got extensive institutional supports from
   APIPAC. The interest of APIPAC is thus well understood and appreciated among members.

   · APIPAC's financial viability: The financial viability of APIPAC relies on an increase of its internal
   financial resources, which will start with an improvement of the annual fees recovery rate. However, as
   other experiences of rural and agricultural associations have shown, annual fees are not sufficient to
   ensure financial viability. The key element for APIPAC is to develop and expand further the range of
   profitable services it sells to its members (advisory services, market information, brochures...). The
   PPID experience has introduced a new approach toward agricultural extension and advisory services
   and a clear understanding among producers and private operators that quality of advice and
   accountability of service providers come from payable services. These services will be the major source
   of profitability in the near future and public resources should be directed to this sector (not through the
   direct subsidizing of APIPAC but by helping all categories of producers access/buy these). Other
   sources of financing could come from levies collected along supply chains that are benefiting from
   APIPAC support (fruits and vegetables). Experiences in this sector are well known is European
   inter-professional institutions and have been developed in some filières in neighboring countries.

Nevertheless, in the near future, APIPAC's existence is not threatened thanks to the extensive relationships
the association has developed with external partners, from co-operation agencies to international private
firms (see section 6.2 transition arrangements).

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The project has provided APIPAC with an important leverage in attracting other financiers. For example, it
recently obtained financial support from the Swiss and Danish cooperations to develop further business in
the area of input supply. It has been asked by the Government to participate in the implementation of PPIV.
APIPAC has developed a collaboration with a Dutch organization of senior experts to benefit of
institutional support. The association is an implementating partner of ICRISAT for Burkina Faso, for
testing and disseminating a drip irrigation system in the framework of a project called "Jardins Potagers
Africains" (African Vegetable Gardens). In addition, APIPAC has developed collaborations with various
private international equipment providers to test, demonstrate, and disseminate small-scale equipment for
irrigation and for post-harvest operations.

No follow-up operation specific to the PPID project is envisaged. However, a broader program is being
prepared to support the agricultural sector in Burkina Faso. It will cover areas from agricultural services
and institutional strengthening to supply chain development and marketing infrastructure. This new
operation will definitely include scaling up activities of APIPAC achievements and it will be built upon
PPID experience in private sector promotion and private sector-led implementation (see Section 8 - Lessons
learned).




                                                     - 12 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Bank performance at preparation and appraisal is rated satisfactory. The project objectives were consistent
with the Government priorities and the Bank country assistance strategy. The project was properly
designed, taking into account risks related to investments in the irrigation sector that led to the adoption of
the LIL financing instrument. Delays occurred due to difficulties in reaching an agreement between the
Borrower and the Bank regarding project implementation and detailed use of funds. But choices to work on
small-scale irrigation and to empower a private entity as the project implementation agency have finally
proven to be relevant.

7.2 Supervision:

Bank performance during supervision is rated satisfactory. Eleven supervision missions were organized in
six years and this allowed a close follow-up of project implementation and a sound and efficient support to
APIPAC. The Bank team responsible of the PPID project remained stable, with a low turnover of TTLs
(this has been highlighted by the client since it is rarely observed on Bank projects). Supervision missions
have always provided useful, thorough and relevant advice and recommendations, which have been
appreciated by the APIPAC team. For instance, the difficulties resulting from the separation between
financial and technical project executions were rapidly assessed by the Bank and solutions were quickly
identified. The project benefited also from an adequate skills mix of expertise, with regular technical
support from FAO/CP on irrigation and post-harvest technologies, in addition to the close support from the
Ouagadougou country office.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Based on the above comments, the overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory. Through this project,
the Bank has been able to actively and effectively introduce innovative ideas regarding small-scale
irrigation for smallholders and private sector promotion for service delivery. Recommendations provided to
the project were relevant and technically sound. Bank staff managed to timely and effectively find solutions
to blockages encountered. The collaboration developed with APIPAC is excellent and will be useful for the
preparation of the forthcoming operation.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Government performance during project preparation is rated marginally unsatisfactory. Despite its
commitment to investing in irrigation and to promoting private entrepreneurs, MAHRH was reluctant to the
proposed innovative approach to delegate project implementation to a private association. Negotiations
took times before a consensus was reached on implementation modalities and seriously delayed project
effectiveness. To satisfy Government request for MAHRH to keep control over APIPAC, some choices,
such as separation of financial and technical executions, led to shortcomings and blockages that slowed
down implementation and achievement of results.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The Government performance during implementation is rated moderately satisfactory. The risk that the
Government may reverse its policy of decentralization and empowerment of rural private entrepreneurs was



                                                     - 13 -

initially assessed as substantial. Despite initial reluctance to the project's approach, the Ministry of
Agriculture (MAHRH) did play the game fairly and has been more and more supportive of APIPAC's
activities and achievements. When blockages appeared, it accepted to revise the project institutional set-up.
In addition, the Government did transfer adequately funds to the guarantee facility and to the counterpart
account. As mentioned in section 5.2 about factors subject to Government control, MAHRH could have
been more proactive in coordinating projects and programs to avoid contradictory approaches that may
have led to the failure of APIPAC's private sector-led strategy.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The implementing agency's performance is rated highly satisfactory. This rating is based on: (i) the
dynamism of APIPAC both its technical team and its members; (ii) the range and volume of activities
developed during project implementation; (iii) the results achieved in the field with producers and along the
fruit and vegetable filière with all private operators; (iv) the technical and commercial partnerships that
APIPAC has developed.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Taking into account the Government's willingness to learn from this project and the good performance of
the implementing agency, the overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory. The Government's
commitment to project execution could have been stronger but APIPAC managed to effectively and
efficiently achieve its objectives on its own. APIPAC constitutes a resource for other Bank-funded projects
dealing with small-scale irrigation in the West African region.

8. Lessons Learned


As a pilot experience, the PPID project provides interesting lessons that will help design and execute
further operations. Some of these lessons are not new but confirm evidences drawn from previous projects.

1. Implementation by a private institution: The PPID project has demonstrated that a private institution,
such as APIPAC, can be competent and efficient in implementing a project using public financing
resources. This is was the main challenge of the project and a source of concern in the initial design. The
Government is now fully convinced by this approach and this project will constitute a reference for further
operation that will require public delegation of execution to private implementers.

2. Implementing agency vs. PIU: Because it has been empowered as implementing agency and was not
only considered as beneficiary of the project, APIPAC has been able to progress and improve its
institutional capacities. It will manage to pursue and expand activities beyond project closure. This
approach is obviously more sustainable than the usual project implementation unit, which exists
temporarily and disappears with project end.

3. Delegation of activities: On the other hand, one key element of success for APIPAC was to avoid
managing all activities by itself but, on the contrary, to delegate execution to subsidiary institutions and
private firms under contractual arrangements ("faire-faire" principle). This approach should include a
sound quality control process, especially to ensure that technology manufacturers do deliver equipments
with proper characteristics that match agreed standards.

4. Private sector development: The approach developed by the project has shown that rural private



                                                    - 14 -

entrepreneurs exist and can efficiently replace public services for advisory services or equipment
dissemination. However, this does not appear alone but require targeted supports: training, both on
technical aspects and entrepreneurship skills; economic organization of artisans and institutional
organization of distribution networks. Based on this pilot experience, the objective of entrepreneurship
development should be reinforced in further operations.

5. Small scale irrigation: The PPID project demonstrates that small scale irrigation can be a profitable
activity and an efficient tool to increasing producers' incomes. In that sense, small scale irrigation should
therefore represent an essential part of an irrigation development strategy. This means that public resources
should not only target large irrigation schemes but must promote the development of private networks for
the dissemination of such technologies and techniques.

6. Global approach to advisory services for producers: If APIPAC has developed an innovative
approach to technology dissemination in Burkina Faso, the advisory services should be more holistic to the
farming system needs. This means that in addition to advice regarding the use of a specific technology, a
package of advice could come along regarding water management attached to each specific crop, technical
advice on agricultural practices, and economic follow-up of farm activities with producers. This kind of
holistic advice package for producers still needs to be reinforced.

7. Monitoring and evaluation: The M&E system was too much focused on monitoring activities and on
evaluating technical results. Beyond demonstration, testing and dissemination, the M&E must provide
sound economic analysis of technologies (impact on incomes for producers and artisans, profitability...)
and develop a technico-economic referential that will serve investors' decision making. For future
operations, the design of M&E should not be too much project and results focused, but oriented by the need
of private investors to get reliable data.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower did not provide any comments on the Bank ICR. The implementing agency APIPAC has
agreed with the Bank evaluation of the project.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable

10. Additional Information




                                                     - 15 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Table 1 - Key Performance Indicators (as defined in the PAD)

 Development      Key outputs presented in the              Achievements at project completion
   Objective             PAD (annex 1)

An operational (1) A privately managed                Through its 5 antennas, APIPAC covers 80%
non              irrigation promotion agency,        of the country and provides services to more than
governmental     capable of delivering               30,000 private operators;
delivery         demand-driven support services
system of        to private small-scale irrigation    Its membership rose from 110 in 1999 to 775
demand-          and related activities has been     at project closure.
driven support established and is
services to      fullyoperational
private
small-scale      (2) Cost-effective processes and     APIPAC helped elaborate 410 small scale
irrigation and   procedures for identifying and      investment projects submitted by private
related          delivering demand-driven            operators. 391 projects were finally submitted to
activities       support services in private         the guarantee facility management committee
                 small- scale irrigation and         (95.4%) and 365 were accepted (89.0%).
                 related activities have been
                 developed and tested                 Based on producers' demands, more than 500
                                                     tests and demonstrations have been organized
                                                     resulting in the dissemination of 1547 pedal
                                                     pumps sold, in the realization of 224 hands
                                                     drilling, in the installation of 22 Californian
                                                     irrigation schemes, in the training of more than
                                                     300 producers in compost production or the
                                                     organization of 5 "foires agricoles" for instance.

                 (3)    Cost-effective    delivery    Through its "faire-faire" approach, the project
                 system     of     demand-driven     helped equipment and service private providers
                 support services to private         developed their activities. For instance, 18 artisans
                 small-scale     irrigation   and    have been trained to pump fabrication and 380
                 related activities have been        other artisans have been trained as repairmen.
                 developed and proven to have a
                 positive impact on beneficiairy      Through the dissemination of small scale
                 incomes     and     employement     irrigation equipment, producers have been able to
                 while    insuring    satisfactory   multiple their vegetable cropping surface by 2.3
                 management of the natural           and additional incomes by 1.5.
                 resources                            Through its training program, APIPAC
                                                     managed to secure almost 500 artisans'
                                                     businesses. The resulting fabricants and repairmen
                                                     network could be extended, providing job
                                                     opportunities to other artisans.




                                                 - 16 -

Table 2 - APIPAC presentation - Distribution between individual and corporate members
(associations, organizations, private companies)

      Years          1998           1999          2000          2001          2002           2003      2004

     Individual        19             33          200           275           354            430        461
     members
     Corporate         55             77          111           174           257            302        314
     entities
     Total             74            110          311           449           611            732        775




Table 3 - Summary of key outputs of Component 2 - Irrigation Technologies

  Key Outputs              Projected Targets                             Latest Estimates
                       M&E elaboration (2002)                    ICR Mission (November 2004)
Irrigation Technologies
· Test of hand and  110 tests                          124 tests done and 229 sold on producers' request;
motorized           Dissemination of technical         1,000 copies of a pamphlet on drillings distributed;
drillings          and economic reference for          2 teams of drillers installed in Ouagadougou and
                   drilling                           Bobo-Dioulasso.
· Tests and         900 Nafa pumps                     1,547 pumps disseminated + 8,500 under other
dissemination of   disseminated and 17 artisans       financing sources
pumps              trained                             18 artisans trained for manufacturing 5 models and
                    8 prototypes tested of pumps      creation of an economic group of artisans
                   using alternative energy            8 prototypes tested, including hundreds of
                    24 engine-propelled pumps         demonstrations
                   tested and 370 artisans trained     24 engine-propelled pumps tested
                   for maintenance                     380 artisans and producers trained for
                    Technical references are          maintenance; 24 artisans organized for spare parts
                   disseminated                       distribution
                                                       2 technical pamphlets disseminated in 1,000 copies
                                                      each
· Tests and         Test of the Californian            15 Californian systems installed on a total of 12ha;
dissemination of   system: 18 demonstration sites     27 additional hectares equipped on producers'
water storage and  of 0.4ha in average (7.2ha in      request; 1,000 copies of a technical pamphlet
distribution       total); references disseminated    disseminated; visits organized for 300 producers;
equipments          Test of the drip system: 10        9 demonstration sites for the drip system on
                   tests of 2 models (14,000 m2)      21,100m2; 1,000 copies of a technical pamphlet
                    10 tests of the aspersion         disseminated; visits organized for over 100 producers;
                   system
                                                       One economic group of artisans established for
                                                      installation and maintenance of the two systems
                                                      ("Faso Irri-Consult");
                                                       One sprinkler system installed on 0,21 ha; visits
                                                      for 80 producers; tests not replicated due to
                                                      investment costs for producers




                                                    - 17 -

Table 4 - Summary of key outputs of Component 2 - Farming system intensification and
diversification

  Key Outputs              Projected Targets                            Latest Estimates
                           M&E elaboration                               ICR Mission
                              (April 2002)                             (November 2004)
Farming system intensification and diversification
· Demonstration      35 demonstration plots            120 plots established; 7 varieties demonstrated
plots for new        Tests and dissemination of       for 5 crops; 25 field visits organized for a total of
varieties           Cassava varieties                 660 producers; 6 technicians trained for technical
                                                      advisory services.
                                                       6 Cassava varieties tested; 26 producers
                                                      trained for multiplication; 3 field visits organized
                                                      for a total of 95 producers.
· Improved           28 demonstration sites for        27 demonstration sites established; 312
Compost             improved compost production       producers trained; 4 field visits organized for over
production          techniques; 350 producers         300 people;
                    trained; 8 field visits for 300    one technical pamphlet elaborated and
                    operators                         disseminated (1,000 copies)
· Use of Organic     5 natural pesticides tested       5 natural pesticides tested; 18 demonstration
pesticides          and disseminated                  sites established;
                                                       460 producers trained on production and
                                                      utilization of natural pesticides;
                                                       13 field visits organized for 1,020 producers
· Access to          Quality control of                Controls done for all fertilizers available, for 5
agricultural inputs fertilizers, pesticides and       pesticides, for rice seeds and vegetable seeds;
for producers       seeds                              One study on input supply ; 15 input supply
                     10 inputs suppliers              centers established (8 suppliers supported through
                    established                       the guarantee facility)
· Disease control    Information campaign              51 plantations tested, disease vectors and
in mangoes           Plantations tested               disease potential controller identified
plantation                                             16 producers trained on disease control
                                                       One radio and TV program elaborated and
                                                      broadcasted
· EU standards       3 information workshops           9 workshops organized for 77 producers
dissemination       organized for 60 producers         561 producers trained on EU Maximum
                                                      Residue Limits for pesticides




                                                    - 18 -

Table 5 - Summary of key outputs of Component 2 - Post-harvest Operations

  Key Outputs           Projected Targets                         Latest Estimates
                        M&E elaboration                            ICR Mission
                           (April 2002)                          (November 2004)
Post-Harvest Operations
· Storage           Storage silos tested for      20 demonstrations established; 7 field visits
equipments         potatoes, onions and beans    organized for 260 people; 12 artisans trained; 3
                                                 technical pamphlets distributed at 1,000 copies
                                                 each.
· Rice              2 rice threshers tested       2 rice threshers tested, recommendations made
post-harvest        5 rice steamers in           for dissemination;
operations         demonstration                  5 rice steamers demonstrated and 5 artisans
                                                 trained for production; 3 field visits organized for
                                                 85 transformers; one technical pamphlet
                                                 disseminated at 1,000 copies
                                                  More than 100 people, mainly women, trained
                                                 in improved rice steaming
· Fruit processing  Drying techniques tested      2 solar and gas driers tested, one modified and
                    Other techniques tested and improved before dissemination; 4 technicians
                   disseminated                  trained for production; one technical pamphlet
                                                 disseminated at 1,000 copies
                                                  11 operators trained on quality juice
                                                 production, 68 on cashew nuts processing
                                                 techniques, 50 people trained on Cassava
                                                 processing




                                               - 19 -

Table 6 - Summary of key outputs of Component 2 - Establishment of a network of private providers

  Key Outputs          Projected Targets                           Latest Estimates
                       M&E elaboration                               ICR Mission
                          (April 2002)                            (November 2004)
Establishment of a network of private providers
· Private         Not applicable                  18 artisans trained to manufacture the treadle
providers for                                    pump and organized in an economic group (GIE -
equipment                                        Groupement d'intérêt économique) called
manufacturing                                    "NAFA"; these artisans manufactured 8500
and maintenance                                  additional pumps for the national program for the
                                                 promotion of village small scale irrigation (PPIV -
                                                 Projet Petite Irrigation Villageoise), financed on
                                                 HIPC resources;
                                                  8 artisans trained as drillers and organized in
                                                 two economic groups called "Faso Forage Nafa"
                                                 (based    in    Ouagadougou)      and     Djiko   (in
                                                 Bobo-Dioulasso);
                                                  creation      of     other   economic     groups:
                                                 "Faso-Irri-Consult"      for   manufacturing     and
                                                 installing drip irrigation systems; "Eveil Faso" for
                                                 the training of treadle pumps manufacturers and
                                                 the quality control of equipments;
                                                  24 technicians have been trained for motorized
                                                 pump repairs and for selling spare parts;
                                                  10 service providers have been trained and
                                                 installed to provide technico-economic advice to
                                                 fruits and vegetable producers; a database of local
                                                 service providers is available in each APIPAC
                                                 antennas.




                                               - 20 -

Table 7 ­ Component 3 ­ Distribution of loans and mobilization of the guarantee facility

Type of activity    Number of Percent            Amount of   Percent Guarantee   Percent
                      projects                      loans            mobilized
                                                   (CFAF)             (CFAF)
Production               119          64.7       157,869,305  50.2   82,132,241   51.0
Marketing                 47          25.5       101,179,290  32.2   49,777,492   30.9
Post-harvest              15           8.2       52,608,200   16.7   27,652,676   17.2
  Storage                 8            4.4       27,608,200   8.8    14,615,176   9.1
  Processing              7            3.8       25,000,000   7.9    13,037,500   8.1
Other                     3            1.6        3,000,000   1.0     1,350,000   0.8
Total                    184           100       314,656,795  100    160,912,409  100
Source: Jacques SONDA ­ Consultant ­ October 2005




                                                 - 21 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                               Appraisal     Actual/Latest    Percentage of
                                                               Estimate        Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                             US$ million     US$ million
Support to the technical executing agency                          0.95            1.82              192
Promotion of new technologies through on-farm and                  3.01            2.59               86
off-farm support services
Guarantee facility                                                 0.74            0.74              100
Monitoring and evaluation                                          0.72            0.61               85
Financial coordination unit                                        0.20            0.28              140
PPF Reimbursement                                                  0.33            0.33              100

Total Baseline Cost                                                5.95            6.37
 Physical Contingencies                                            0.20
 Price Contingencies                                               0.35            0.22               63
                          Total Project Costs                      6.50            6.59
                    Total Financing Required                       6.50            6.59


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                        1
                                                   Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category              ICB              NCB                 2        N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                                     Other
1. Works                             0.00              0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                             0.00             250.00          0.00          0.00          250.00
                                     (0.00)          (250.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)       (250.00)
3. Services                          0.00              0.00         4970.00         0.00         4970.00
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)       (4470.00)        (0.00)      (4470.00)
4. Operating costs                   0.00              0.00          150.00         0.00          150.00
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)        (150.00)        (0.00)       (150.00)
5. Guarantee Facility                0.00              0.00          800.00         0.00          800.00
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
6. PPF Reimbursement                 0.00              0.00          330.00         0.00          330.00
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)        (330.00)        (0.00)       (330.00)
   Total                             0.00             250.00        6250.00         0.00         6500.00
                                     (0.00)          (250.00)      (4950.00)        (0.00)      (5200.00)
Services include: studies and consultancies, contract between Borrower and APIPAC and contracts
between
APIPAC and Partners




                                                   - 22 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                   1
                                                         Procurement Method
       Expenditure Category                ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                               Other
   1. Works                                0.97               0.00              0.58             0.00              1.55
                                          (0.77)             (0.00)            (0.60)            (0.00)           (1.37)
   2. Goods                                0.00               0.23              0.28             0.00              0.51
                                          (0.00)             (0.25)            (0.28)            (0.00)           (0.53)
   3. Services                             0.00               0.00              3.23             0.00              3.23
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (3.20)            (0.00)           (3.20)
   4. Operating costs                      0.00               0.00              0.16             0.00              0.16
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.15)            (0.00)           (0.15)
   5. Guarantee Facility                   0.00               0.00              0.80             0.00              0.80
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   6. PPF Reimbursement                    0.00               0.00              0.33             0.00              0.33
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.33)            (0.00)           (0.33)
       Total                               0.97               0.23              5.38             0.00              6.58
                                          (0.77)             (0.25)            (4.56)            (0.00)           (5.58)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Support to the technical       1.05         0.00         0.00        1.82                               173.3     0.0       0.0
executing agency
Promotion of new               2.85         0.00         0.48        2.59                               90.9      0.0       0.0
technologies through
on-farm and off-farm
support services
Guarantee facility             0.00         0.80         0.00        0.00         0.80                   0.0     100.0      0.0
Monitoring and evaluation      0.79                                  0.61                               77.2
Financial coordination unit    0.18         0.02         0.00        0.28                               155.6     0.0       0.0
PPF Reimbursement              0.33         0.00         0.00        0.33                               100.0     0.0       0.0




                                                          - 23 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


Table 1 - Treadle pumps' utilization:

                                                           Owners of       Owners of
                                                          private pump        pump
                                                            acquired     distributed by
                                                            through      other projects
                                                            APIPAC
Number of people                                              101              45
Percentage of people interviewed                              52%             43%
Pump never installed                                          0%              20%
Pump never received by beneficiaries                          0%               4%
Irregular usage                                               5%              27%
Usage limited due to water shortage                           4%               4%
Usage for activities not related to vegetable garden          6%               0%
Source: Enterprise Works Worldwide - 2002



Table 2 - Main impacts of some post-harvest technologies developed by APIPAC:

Technology                      Impact
Conservation silos for:
- beans                          Reduction of losses by 100% and conservation time extended from 4-5
                                    months to 9 months
- potatoes / onions              losses decreased from 40% to 20 % and conservation time extended
                                    from 3 to 6 months
Rice steaming                    Increase of treatment capacity, with reduction of time and fuel wood
                                    required
Mangoes drier                    Reduction of drying time and increase of capacity
Source: APIPAC M&E system - 2004



Table 3 - Impact of treadle pump for irrigated vegetable garden:

Average vegetable garden               Without treadle pump              With treadle pump
Field size                             Ha 0.10                           Ha 0.24
Gross income / field                   FCFA 177.308                      FCFA 425.539
Net income / field                     FCFA 147.458                      FCFA 353.900
Source: Enterprise Works Worldwide - 2002




                                                     - 24 -

Table 4 - Conservation silos for potatoes

                                   Traditional conservation         Conservation silos for potatoes
                                   techniques or no conservation
Initial investment (CFAF)          -                                56,000
Quantity (kg)                      1,465                            1,465
Losses                             25%                              20%
Final quantity                     1,099                            1,172
Price (CFAF/kg)                    175                              350
Income (CFAF)                      192,281                          410,200
Source: APIPAC M&E system - 2004


Tables 5 - Cost-benefit analysis for small-scale irrigation equipment:

Table 5a - Vegetable garden (0.25ha) equipped with a treadle pump
Production: onion - Yield measured on sample: 30t/ha

                                     Unit             Cost     Quantity  Amount CFAF
 Costs                                                CFAF
 Seeds                                 kg            35,000     1.25         43,750
Manure                                 kg             5,000      5.0         25,000
Urea                                   kg              220      50.0         11,000
Fertilizer                             kg              250      87.5         21,875
Pesticides                                            6,000      3.8         22,500
 Water (labor for                  pers/day            750      40.0         30,000
 pumping)
 Labor                             pers/day            750      120.0        90,000
 Equipment amortization             CFAF                                     22,000
 Financial fees                     CFAF                                     16,136
Marketing fees                      CFAF             10,000      2.0         20,000
 Total costs                        CFAF                                    302,261


 Incomes                            CFAF               120      7,500       900,000


 Benefits                           CFAF                                    597,739
Production costs                    CFAF                                       40
Labor income                      CFAF/pers                                   5,731
 Benefit/cost ratio                    %                                       198
Source of data: Jacques SONDA - Consultant ­ October 2005




                                                        - 25 -

Table 5b ­ Vegetable garden (2ha) equipped with engine-propelled pump
Production: Cabbage Tropica cross - Average yield recorded: 30t/ha

                                      Units            Unit costs   Quantity  Amount
                                                                               CFAF
Costs                                                     CFAF
Seeds                                    g                 220       600       132,000
Manure                                  kg                5,000       40       200,000
Urea                                    kg                 220       400       88,000
Fertilizer                              kg                 250       500       125,000
Pesticides                                                6,000       30       180,000
Labor                               pers/day               750       360       270,000
Fuel                                   liter               530       700       371,000
Oil                                    liter               20        1875      37,500
Maintenance                                                                    35,000
Equipment amortization               CFAF                                      150,000
Financial fees                       CFAF                                      141,688
Marketing fees                       CFAF                10,000       6        60,000
Total costs                          CFAF                                     1,790,188


Incomes                              CFAF                  100      60000     6,000,000


Benefits                            CFAF                                      4,209,813
Production costs                   CFAF/kg                                       30
Labor incomes                     CFAF/pers                                    12,444
Benefit/cost ratio                      %                                        235
Source of data: Jacques SONDA - Consultant ­ October 2005




                                                        - 26 -

   Table 5c - 1.6ha equipped with Californian system and engine-propelled pump
   Production: Banana (1ha) and Papaya Solo N° 8 (0.6ha)
   Average yield recorded on sample:
   Banana: year 1 = 30t/ha; year 2 = 35t/ha; year 3 = 25t/ha
   Papaya: year 1 = 15t/ha; year 2 = 20t/ha; year 3 = 17.5t/ha


                                                    Year 1            Year 2            Year 3
                          Unit       Unit cost       Qty      CFAF     Qty     FCFA      Qty     CFAF
                                      (CFAF)
Land preparation            ha         25,000         1.5     37,500             -                 -
Plants                      g             75        2,500     187,500            -                 -
Pots                                                          41,250             -                 -
Manure                     tons        5,000          30      150,000   30    150,000    30     150,000
Urea                        kg           220         900      198,000  900    198,000    700    154,000
Burkina Phosphate           kg           220         500      110,000  500    110,000    200     44,000
NPK fertilizer              kg           250        1,800     450,000  1,800  450,000   1,300   325,000
Pesticides                             6,000          23      135,000   23    135,000    23     135,000
Fuel                      Liter          450         525      236,250  525    236,250    525    236,250
Oil                                                           37,500           37,500            37,500
Maintenance                                                   35,000           35,000            35,000
Labor                   pers/day         750         730      547,500  730    547,500    450    337,500
Equipment                CFAF                                 130,000         130,000           130,000
amortization
Plot amortization        CFAF                                 12,500           12,500            12,500
Financial fees           CFAF                                 205,790         205,790           205,790
Marketing fees           CFAF          10,000          5      50,000     3     30,000     3      30,000
Total costs              CFAF                                2,563,790      2,270,540          1,832,540


Incomes                  CFAF            125        22,500 2,812,500 30,000 3,750,000   26,250 3,281,250


Benefits                 CFAF                                 248,710        1,472,460         1,448,710


Production cost        FCFA/kg                                  114             76                70
Labor income          FCFA/perso                               1,091           2,767             3,969
                            n
Benefit/cost                %                                    10             65                79
ratio
   Source of data: Jacques SONDA - Consultant ­ October 2005




                                                           - 27 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              3/1/1996                  2    AG. ECONOMIST (1); ENV.
                                             SPEC. (1)
              01/24/1995                6    LEAD SPEC (1); AG.
                                             ECONOMIST (1); IRRIGATION
                                             SPEC (1); LAWYER (1);
                                             AGROPROCESSING SPEC (1);
                                             (1) CREDIT SPEC.
              04/02/1994                3    AG. ECONOMIST (1);
                                             IRRIGATION SPEC (2)
              12/13/1994                4    AG. ECONOMIST (2);
                                             IRRIGATION SPEC (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
              11/9/1993                 1    AG. ECONOMIST (1)
              07/01/1997                7    ECONOMIST (1); LEAD SPEC
                                             (1); LAWYER (1);
                                             IRRIGATION SPEC (1); AG.
                                             SERVICES SPEC (1);
                                             ENVIRON SPEC (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
              10/28/1995                6    LEAD SPEC (1); AG.
                                             ECONOMIST (1); IRRIGATION
                                             SPEC (1); LAWYER (1);
                                             AGROPROCESSING SPEC (1);
                                             (1) CREDIT SPEC.

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              11/22/1997                7    TTL (1); IRRIGATION
                                             SPEC. (1); OPERATIONS
                                             ANALYST (1); TASK
                                             ASSISTANT (1);
                                             FAO-TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             SR. AG. ADVISER (1);
                                             IRRIGATION SPEC. (1)

 Supervision
              7/29/1999                 6    CO-TTLs (2); PRINCIPAL           S               S
                                             AG. ECONOMIST (1); AG.
                                             SERVICES SPEC. (1);
                                             OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                             (1); FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1)
              03/10/2000                3    CO-TTLs (2); PROCUREMENT         S               S
                                             SPEC. (1)
              06/08/2000                2    AG. SERVICES SPEC. (1);          S               S
                                             IRRIGATION ENGINEER (1)
              10/18/2000                2    IRRIGATION SPEC. (1);            S               S



                                              - 28 -

                       EXTENSION SPEC. (1)
      06/27/2001    7  CO-TTLs (2); OPERATIONS       S    S
                       ANALYST (1); IRRIGATION
                       ENGINEER (1); AGRONOMIST
                       (1); FMS (1); PROCUREMENT
                       SPEC. (1)
      03/07/2002    12 CO-TTLs (2); AG.              S    S
                       ECONOMIST (1); RURAL
                       DEV. SPEC. (1); ENV. SPEC.
                       (1); DISBURSEMENT. SPEC.
                       (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST
                       [CONSULTANT] (1);
                       PROCUREMENT SPEC. (1);
                       TEAM ASSISTANT (1);
                       FAO-IRRIGATION ENGINEER
                       [CONSULTANT] (1); FAO-AG.
                       ENGINEER (1);
                       FAO-AGRICULTURIST (1)
      09/07/2002    10 SR. AG. ECONOMIST (1); SR.    S    S
                       AG. SERVICES SPEC. (1);
                       OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                       TEAM ASSISTANT (1); SR.
                       RURAL DEV. SPEC. (1);
                       FAO-IRRIGATION ENGINEER
                       (1); FAO-AG. ENGINEER
                       CONSULTANT (1);
                       PROCUREMENT (1);
                       FAO-AGRIBUSINESS
                       CONSULTANT (1); FMS
                       CONSULTANT (1)
      01/28/2003    2  CO-TTL (1); INSTITUTIONAL     S    S
                       DEV. SPEC. (1)
      9/10/2003     8  CO-TTL (1); AGRIBUSINESS      S    S
                       SPEC. (1); TEAM ASSISTANT
                       (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST
                       [CONSULTANT] (1);
                       PROCUREMENT ANALYST
                       [CONSULTANT] (1);
                       FAO-IRRIGATION ENGINEER
                       (1); FAO-AG. ENGINEER (1)
      6/29/2004     9  AG. SERVICES SPEC. (1);       S    S
                       AGRIBUSINESS SPEC. (2);
                       AG. ECONOMIST (1);
                       FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                       PROCUREMENT ANALYST
                       (1), TEAM ASSISTANT (1);
                       EXTENSION SPEC. (1);
                       FAO-IRRIGATION SPEC. (1)

ICR
      11/19/2004    5  AG. SERVICES SPEC. (1);       S    S
                       AGRIBUSINESS SPEC.
                       (2); PROCUREMENT
                       ANALYST (1); TEAM



                       - 29 -

                                            ASSISTANT (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation
  Appraisal/Negotiation                55.69                         149.5
  Supervision                        104.23                          279.8
  ICR                                  12.89                           34.6
  Total                              172.81                          463.9




                                            - 30 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 31 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1- Project Appraisal Document - Pilot Private Irrigation Development Project - World Bank - December
1998

2- Development Credit Agreement #3161 BUR - Pilot Private Irrigation Development Project - World
Bank - Februray 1999

3- Rapport de l'atelier de lancement du projet DIPAC - Bobo-Dioulasso 6 au 8 juin 2000 - APIPAC -
June 2000

4- Supervision Mission Report (June 18 to 27, 2001) - World Bank - June 2001

5- Mid-Term Review Aide-Memoire (February 25 to March 7, 2002) - World Bank - March 2002

6- 9th Supervision Mission Report - (August 30 to September 10, 2003) - World Bank - September 2003

7- Rapport de synthèse du suivi-évaluation interne du projet DIPAC pour la période 2000-2002 -
APIPAC - Mars 2003

8- Rapport de suivi-évaluation externe - Direction des Etudes et de la Planification / Ministère de
l'Agriculture, de l'Hydraulique et des Ressources Halieutiques - December 2003

9- Mise en oeuvre du volet suivi-évaluation externe et du volet environnemental du projet DIPAC - BERD
- December 2003

10- Joint visit report to Burkina Faso - PUM / senior Experts of the Netherlands - June 2004

11- Rapport d'achèvement du projet DIPAC - Equipe technique du Projet - APIPAC - October 2004

12- Rapport d'achèvement du Projet pilote de développement de l'irrigation privée et des activités
connexes - Direction des Etudes et de la Planification / Ministère de l'Agriculture, de l'Hydraulique et
des Ressources Halieutiques - November 2004

13- Les impacts économiques des pompes à pédales NAFA - EntrepriseWorks - July 2002

14- Last supervision mission report (November 10 to 19, 2004) - World Bank - December 2004

15- Bilan des résultats du projet DIPAC (volet par volet) - APIPAC - November 2004

15- Bilan consolidé du projet DIPAC - Composante Promotion de techniques et technologies nouvelles -
FAO/CP - November 2004




                                                   - 33 -

- 34 -

