Report No. PID2062
Project Name                     Burkina Faso-Pilot Private Irrigation...
Development Project
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Irrigation & Drainage;
Project                          BFPE50886
Borrower                         GOVERNMENT OF BURKINA FASO
Implementing Agency
Association des Professionnels
de l'Irrigation Privee et des Activites
Connexes (APIPAC)
Contact Person: Mr. Jules Dekrin TRAORE
Tel: (226) 32 041 01
Fax: (226) 30 41 67
Email: dipa@fasonet.bf
Environment Category             B
Date PID Updated                 August 11, 2000
Appraisal Date                   May 23, 1998
Board Date                       February 8, 1999
1. Country and Sector Background
1.1.    Main Sector Issues
Burkina Faso's economy is primarily agriculture-based, and rainfed
farming is the dominant agricultural enterprise. Recurrent droughts affect
production and incomes, and exacerbate poverty and income inequalities, by
reducing the production assets of the poor. Yet, the country's irrigation
potential is poorly developed, only 12t of about 165,000 hectares in total.
Most of the area is under low performing public schemes. Only 20 percent of
the irrigated area is under informal/private small-scale irrigation which has
developed spontaneously in response to the risks associated with rainfed
agriculture. The average size of these small private holdings is less than
1.5 hectares.
1.2.    Government Strategy
Significant potential exists for widespread smallholder-based
irrigation and its corollary in terms of income generation, diversification
in production, marketing and agro-industry. To promote that potential, the
Government prepared a national irrigation strategy that was premised on the
expansion of private sector involvement, leading to a significant
contribution to sustained agricultural growth. The strategy emphasizes
priority actions including: (a) providing training and technical support to
private operators for irrigation development; (b) promoting public-private
partnerships, and adopting legislative and regulatory measures to encourage
the emergence of investors in the sector, and (c) putting in place an
appropriate stakeholder-based institutional framework for managing these
investments and for coordinating donor interventions in the sector. This



strategy was translated into a national program that the government submitted
to various donors, including IDA, for financing. However, many of the
features of the program design were insufficiently tested, or could lead to
outright failures. It was therefore decided that a future national
irrigation development program should be grounded on a thorough testing of
various approaches to address the critical institutional, financial and
technical issues.
1.3.    Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choice
A beneficiary assessment showed that the potential for smallholder
irrigation was constrained, in order of priority ranking, by: (a) lack of
operational grassroots farmer groups, cooperatives and associations; (b)
limited access to financing, (c) limited marketing infrastructure and
opportunities, (d) technological shortcomings; and (e) policy distortions.
Beneficiary surveys, client consultation workshops and lessons from past
operations point mainly to "off-farm" constraints: policy and institutional
environment; and packaging of upstream and downstream services. Some
responses to these constraints already exist: (a) appropriate technologies
for profitable on-farm investments in smallholder irrigation, such as the
treadle pump and tube-well washboring are available; and (b) relatively good
experience, through agricultural support services, with the delivery of
technical messages to small-holders, especially rainfed farmers.
However, we don't know: (a) reasons for the very limited use of treadle pumps
and tubewell technologies in Burkina Faso; (b) the health, social and
environmental impact of widespread application of these techniques; (c) on
the institutional side, the responsiveness, cost-effectiveness and
sustainability of delivering systems using professional organizations to
support off-farm activities; (d) cost-effective mechanisms for sustainable
smallholder finance of agricultural production and investments; and (e) the
appropriate packaging of support services for off-farm agricultural
activities.
Thus, innovative approaches to these issues should be explored. This entails
relatively low cost pilot schemes as a means to gain experience and test
their replicability on a larger scale.
2       The Project
2.1.    Summary Description
Target beneficiaries consist of: (i) small-scale irrigation farmers
(less than 10 ha); (ii) private operators involved in the marketing and
processing of irrigation products, most of whom are women; and (iii)
providers of farm inputs and services to irrigation activities. Support
services will focus on transferring technical and managerial know-how to
these beneficiaries, aiming at increasing incomes and employment through: (i)
improvements in irrigation equipment and techniques, crop production, and
post-harvest technologies, (ii) enhancing their access to product and input
markets, and to financial services, and (iii) improving their land tenure
security. Support would also be provided to grassroots groups and
cooperatives, established by beneficiaries, to enhance their capacity to
respond to their members' needs.
APIPAC, a newly-established irrigation smallholders' association, will
provide support services, under various cost recovery arrangements to be
tested, sometimes directly but mostly indirectly through contracts with NGOs,
-2 -



public and private agencies, local consultants and lending institutions. All
on-farm and off-farm services related to training, technical assistance,
technology demonstrations and adoption will be contracted out by APIPAC.
APIPAC will facilitate and intermediate service delivery as well as perform
proper coordination, monitoring, representation and promotional functions.
Because the support services will be demand-driven, the process of support
services delivery will generally include four critical stages: (a)
identification of demand for support services; (b) establishment of detailed
implementation plans for the delivery of support services; (c) implementation
of the support operation; and (d) continuous detailed monitoring.
Key Project Components:
(Costs, including Contingencies, and excluding Taxes)
NOTE: This document contains tables that cannot be converted into text files.
However, if you have MS Word or Word Viewer on your computer, you should be
able to download the complete original version by going to
http://www.worldbank.org/pics/pid/bf50886.doc
2.2.    Institutional and Implementation Arrangements
Implementation Period. The project will be implemented over a three-
and-half-year period from August 1999 to December 2003.
Technical Coordination of the Project. APIPAC, which is an association
governed by private law, has been contracted by Government to implement the
Project, thus acting as a public service for the State account, through an
Execution Protocol. The Protocol includes mechanisms to ensure full
accountability for the use of the public resources entrusted to APIPAC, which
operates on the principles of autonomy, transparency, accountability and
cost-effectiveness. Its Board of Directors, consisting of 11 members (two of
whom are women) drawn from private operators active in subsector activities,
is elected by APIPAC's General Assembly. During project implementation it
will be carefully monitored that the most powerful larger farmers or traders
do not exercise undue influence and disproportionate control over operations,
or over government's irrigation development policies. APIPAC will be based in
Ouagadougou and its mandate will be countrywide. Initially, five regional
antennas will be established, which correspond to the concentration of
potential demand for irrigation-related services: Ouagadougou, Bobo-
Dioulasso, Banfora, Dedougou and Koudougou. These regional branches will
receive and process demands, and facilitate intermediation between
beneficiaries and service providers, as well as to ensure close monitoring
and coordination of field operations.
APIPAC's support services operations will need to be cost effective and
its intermediation costs kept low. Its staff must stay small and services to
farmers will be provided as much as possible through subcontracting to
existing institutions. APIPAC will aim at long-term financial sustainability-
-its representation/lobbying activities will therefore be financed entirely
through membership fees and the cost of support services initially subsidized
by the government will be recovered in part from beneficiaries. This aspect
will be carefully monitored during project execution, with a view to
progressively reducing the share of subsidies. Eligibility and selection
criteria to access APIPAC's services are outlined in a Manual of Procedures,
which has been reviewed by IDA.
- 3-



APIPAC's Technical Project Unit (TPU) is responsible for the day-to-day
implementation of the project. This Unit is headed by a Director and
comprises a small team of five nationals, who are appointed by, and
answerable to the Board of APIPAC. TPU is responsible for overall project
implementation performance, including evaluation and approval of requests for
APIPAC support, for processing guarantee requests, for procurement and
contract management; and for relations with Government agencies, the private
sector, NGOs and all other stakeholders, and for establishing a work program
and a budget each year. TPU's Director and staff have been appointed under
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
Financial Coordination of the Project. A Financial Coordination Unit
(UCOF) has been established at the Ministry of Agriculture and is responsible
for the financial management of the Project, including: (a) preparing the
meetings of the Steering and Monitoring Committee (COS) which will be
responsible for approving APIPAC's work program and budget; (b) monitoring
the execution of the budget, and reporting to the COS; (c) administering the
Project Special Account, including paying APIPAC for services rendered under
the Execution Protocol, and paying APIPAC subcontractors directly; (d)
coordinating the purchases of goods; (e) administering the Guarantee
Facility; and (f) accounting, reporting and audits, as well as preparing
disbursement requests.
2.3.    Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements
UCOF and APIPAC will establish and maintain adequate financial
management systems -- including accounting, financial reporting and auditing
-- that provide accurate and timely information regarding project resources
and expenditures.
The Government will establish a Project account and deposit an amount
equivalent to US$5,000 each year as its contribution to UCOF. Following the
approval of the Guarantee Facility Manual, the Government will establish an
Escrow Account, which will be used exclusively to back up guarantees, and
deposit into this account US$ 800,000 during the project.
2.4.    Monitoring and Evaluation, Supervision and Reporting
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E). The M&E system will be based on an
internal performance and impact monitoring system, and on external
evaluations and assessments of beneficiary response and impact contracted out
to agencies or enterprises external to the project.
Mid-term and End of Project Reviews. Government and the Bank will
conduct a mid-term review, by the end of the second year of project
implementation, to determine if adjustments need to be made to the design of
this pilot operation. An end-of-Project review will also be conducted
jointly by Government and the Bank, to ascertain the desirability of
generalizing all or part of the support delivery system, including the
Guarantee Facility, on a larger scale.
Project Supervision. Project activities will be subject to periodic
joint supervision missions of the Government and the Bank. A Steering
Committee (COS), chaired by the Ministry of Agriculture, will be the overall
supervisory body on the Government's side. Its responsibility will be
limited to approve and ensure the proper enforcement of the Execution
Protocol.
-4-



Reporting. UCOF and the TPU will prepare and submit semi-annual
progress reports to APIPAC's board, COS and IDA, including up-to-date
physical and expenditure data, assessment of the performance of the
contracting process and technical support and training activities.. The
Borrower would submit to IDA a Project Implementation Completion Report
within six months after the closing date of the IDA credit.
3.      Summary Project Analysis
In light of the nature of this project, economic analysis of different
prototype arrangements and investment activities will be tested by the
Technical Project Unit. The global IRR of the project has been estimated at
22 percent.
The project will improve access to financial services by the target
beneficiaries, most of whom are poor, for their diversified income-generating
activities. Results from the beneficiary assessment indicate that poor are
not necessarily bad credit risks. Rather, lacking assets, collateral and
access, the poor find it difficult to use the formal credit market. The
project would test the guarantee fund approach. As a result of project
support, APIPAC would be expected to acquire the necessary capacity to: (i)
assist beneficiaries prepare credit applications; and (ii) assess the
guarantee required for smallholders to obtain credit.
Promising techniques including those adaptable to the resources and
management capabilities of small farmers (treadle pumps, washbore and
tubewell drilling techniques, improved agro-processing technologies) will be
tested, adapted, demonstrated and disseminated.
A major focus of this project is to develop cost-effective
institutional arrangements for the delivery of a package of services to
small-holders. APIPAC was designed as a cost-effective autonomous private
agency on the basis of best practices. APIPAC would adopt transparent
contract management practices to subcontract implementation of most of the
project components to third parties.
In light of the significant role women play in small-scale irrigation
activities, special attention would be paid by the M&E system to gender in
the execution of this project. In addition, the project would provide
demand-driven support on the administrative and legal procedures to follow to
obtain secured land tenure and related property rights.
4.      Environmental Aspects
The environmental category "B" has been assigned to the proposed
project. The results of the environmental assessment for the preparation of
the national irrigation program indicate that the activities envisaged under
this project would not have any significant negative effects on the
environment. The project will not finance substantial investments in surface
water irrigation that result in a large off-take of water. Hence, riparian
rights issues are minimum. In any case, the riparian states have been duly
notified about this project. In light of the fact that irrigation projects
do have a potential for generating health problems associated with disease
transmission through water, as well as other environmental impacts, the
project will undertake studies and pilot selected best practices in
- 5 -



participatory environmental management. This will lead to a better
understanding of the complex interrelationships among water quality, supply,
use and disposal and the subsequent design of a mitigation plan for a future
large-scale operation.
5.      Sustainability and Risks
5.1.    Sustainability
The project, exploring uncharted territory, will have a built-in
monitoring and evaluation system to make adjustments as required and to test
alternatives during implementation. As such, it is expected to generate
approaches for designing sustainable support programs for private irrigation
development, based on private management, voluntary farmer groups and
professional associations, NGOs, and on public services and funding. A built-
in participatory process will ensure ownership by rural stakeholders. It is
expected that the private association (APIPAC) will, as it develops capacity
and acquires experience, be able to provide services upon demand, and assure
progressively larger cost recovery from the beneficiaries as those increase
their income as a result of the project. The cost-effectiveness of this
private delivery model, i.e. the ability of APIPAC to deliver services at
lower costs than public delivery systems will be an important determinant of
affordability and sustainability. This will be closely monitored and
evaluated. In addition, participation aspects will receive close attention
on the grounds that without strong beneficiaries' motivation and commitment
the viability of the project may be compromised.
5.2.    Critical Risks
The main risks are: (i) the Government may reverse its policy of
decentralization and empowerment of rural stakeholders; (ii) APIPAC fails to
become cost-effective; or (iii) larger farmers exercise disproportionate
influence in management of the smallholder association. Measures, in
particular, the continuous monitoring and evaluation, have been developed in
the project design to minimize these risks. There will be two independent
external evaluations of the project outcome to determine success and
sustainability of test results.
6.      Compliance with Bank Policies
This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
7.      Contact Points:
Francois Gadelle
The World Bank
1818 H Street NW
Washington, DC 20433
Fgadelle@worldbank.org
Ibrahim Nebie
The World Bank
BP 622
Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso
-6-



(226) 30 62 37/30 62 38/30 72 57
(226) 30 86 49
Inebie@worldbank.org
8. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:             (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Processed by the InfoShop week ending August 18, 2000.
- 7 -



