Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 18692-BUR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.7 MILLION (US$5.2 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
BURKINA FASO
FOR A
PILOT PRIVATE IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
December 8, 1998
Rural Development III
Country Department 15
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective)
Currency Unit = CFA Franc
CFAF 580  = US$ 1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APIPAC       Association of Producers and Traders of Irrigated Products
(Association des Professionnels de l 'Irrigation Privee et des Activites Connexes)
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CNCA         Agricultural Credit Bank
(Caisse Nationale de Criedit Agricole)
COS         Steering Committee
(Comite d 'Orientation et de Suivi)
FAO          Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
IDA          International Development Association
IFAD         International Fund for Agricultural Development
INERA        National Institute of Agricultural Research
(Institut National d'Etudes et des Recherches Agricoles)
IP           Implementation Plan
IRR          Internal Rate of Return
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
SPFS         Special Programme for Food Security in Low-income Food Deficit Countries
TPU          Technical Project Unit
(Unite Technique du Projet)
UCOF         Financial Coordination Unit
(Unite de Coordination des Operations Financieres)
Vice President:    Mr. Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:  Mr. Hasan Tuluy
Sector Manager:   Mr. Jean-Paul Chausse
Cluster Leader:    Mrs. Isabelle Girardot-Berg
Task Team Leader: Mr. Sidi Jammeh



BURKINA FASO
PILOT PRIVATE IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page
A. Project Development Objectives and Key Performance Indicators ............                                ..........2
B. Strategic Context ..................................................2
1. CAS Goal Supported by the Project ............................................... 2
2. Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy . ...............................................3
3. Sector Issues to be addressed by the Project and Strategic Choices .............                     ..........3
C. The Project ..................................................                                                   4
1. Summaiy Description ............................................... 4
2. Project Components ................................................5
3. Institutional and Implementation Arrangements ................................................              6
4. Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements .................                       ............. 8
5. Monitoring and Evaluation, Supervision and Reporting ........................................   8
D. Project Rationale ..................................................9
1. Project Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection ...................... ............ 9
2. Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership ...........................................9
3. Value Added of Bank Support in this Project ......................................... ...... 10
4. Key Policy and Institutional Reforms Supported by the Project ........................... 10
5. Benefits and Target Population ............................................... 10
E. Summary Project Analysis ..................................................11
1. Economic ................................................                                                  11
2. Financial ................................................ 11
3. Technical ................................................                                                 11
4. Institutional ................................................                                             11
5. Social ....                                                                                                 12
6. Environmental assessment ..................                                                                 12



Table of contents (continued)                                         Page
F. Sustainability and Risks ........................ 12
1. Sustainability ..................... 12
2. Critical risks .....................                               12
G. Main Loan Conditions ........................ 14
1. Conditions of Effectiveness ..................... 14
2. Dated Covenant ..................... 14
3. Other Covenants ..................... 14
H. Readiness for Implementation ........................                14
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ........................ 15
Annexes
Annex 1.    Project Design Summary
Annex 2.    Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.    Estimated Projects Costs
Table A.   Project Cost Summary
Table B.   Financing Table
Annex 4.    Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements:
Table A.    Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B.    Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.    Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 5.    Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 6.    Monitoring and Evaluation System
Annex 7.    Documents in Project File
Annex 8.    Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 9.    Country at a Glance
Map: IBRD No. 29699
The Quality Assurance Team consists of the following colleagues who have reviewed
this document and provided substantive comments.
Legal Issues:         Pascale Dubois; Hans Wabnitz.
Smallholder Finance:   James Coates; William Steel.
Disbursement Issues:   Renee Desclaux.
Procurement Issues:    Jean-Jacques Raoul.
Operations Support:   Jerome Chevallier; Gerhard Tschannerl
Peer Reviewer:        Nwanze Okidegbe.
Environmental Issues:  Jean Roger Mercier; Serigne Omar Fye.



Burkina Faso
Pilot Private Irrigation Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Region
Country Department 15
Date: December 2, 1998                               Task Team Leader: Sidi Jammeh
Country Director: Hasan Tuluy                        Sector Manager: Jean Paul Chausse
Project ID: BF-PA-50886    Sector: Agriculture       Program Objective Category: PV
Lending Instrument: IDA Credit                       Prograrn of Targeted Intervention:  [x]  Yes    [ ]  No
Project Financing Data                             [] Loan          [X] Credit  [] Guarantee  [] Other
[Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$ 5.2 million)
Proposed terms:                            []           Multicurrency   []         Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10         [            Standard Variable [ ]      Fixed         [  LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: NA%
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                    Local            Foreign          Total
Govermnent                                                            0.39              0.43            0.82
IDA                                                                   3.76               1.44           5.20
Private Sector (Beneficiaries)                                        0.26              0.22            0.48
Total          4.41              2.09            6.50
Borrower: Republic of Burkina Faso
Guarantor: NA
Responsible agencies: Ministry o f Agriculture/APIPAC
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):                 1999    2000       2001    2002    2003
Annual    0.5      1.2       1.4      1.4     0.7
Cumulative    0.5      1.7       3.1     4.5      5.2
For Guarantees:NA                                              [ ]  Partial credit  [  Partial risk
Proposed coverage: NA
Project sponsor:NA
Nature of underlying financing: N{A
Terms of financing:
Principal amount (US$) NA
Final maturity NA
Amortization profile NA
Financing available without guarantee?:                       []          Yes        [    No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity :NA
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee: NA
Project implementation period: 3 years Expected effectiveness date: 06/15/99    Expected closing date: 12/31/2003



Page 2
A:    Project Development Objectives And Key Performance Indicators
1.    Project Development Objectives:
The main objective of the Burkina Faso Pilot Irrigation Development Project is to test and evaluate an
approach for the provision of demand-driven support services necessary to develop an efficient,
sustainable small irrigation sub-sector in Burkina Faso. The key outcome of the project is the
establishment of a non governmental delivery system of demand-driven support services to private small-
scale irrigation and related activities. Project outputs, consistent with this outcome, include:
(1) A privately managed irrigation promotion agency, capable of delivering demand-driven
support services to private small scale irrigation and related activities has been established and is
fully operational;
(2) Cost-effective processes andprocedures for identifying demandfor support services in private
small- scale irrigation and related activities have been developed and tested;
(3) Cost-effective delivery systems of demand-driven support services to private small-scale
irrigation and related activities have been developed and proven to have a positive impact on
beneficiary incomes and employmen  while insuring satisfactory management of the natural
resource base..
Key Performance Indicators include:
(a) Economic impact indicators: increases induced by project activities in numbers of
beneficiaries, in on-farm and off-farm incomes, employment, and investments in irrigation and
related activities; improved access by private irrigation smallholders to product and factor
markets, and to financial services; and improved land tenure security;
(b) Institutional impact indicators: increases in the number of operational grassroots private
irrigation smallfarmers groups and cooperatives; decreases in the unit cost of delivering support
services for each type of support and benficiary and in the ratio of total support cost to economic
benefits accruing to each type of beneficiaries; increases in cost recovery ratios; and reductions
in the potentially negative environmental, social and health effects of irrigation development.
B:    Strategic Context
1.    Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) Goal Supported by the Project:
CAS document number: 15740-BUR        Date of latest CAS discussion: July 11, 1996
The objective of the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) with respect to economic and social
development in rural areas (83% of the population is rural) is to improve incomes, employment and
growth opportunities, especially for women, by strengthening the role of the private sector, improving
access to services and resources, and opening new markets. The proposed project will contribute
significantly to this objective through the development of a cost effective delivery system of support
services to private irrigation, a key subsector of Burkina Faso agriculture with high growth potential and
a central role to play in climate risk management and food security.



Page 3
2.     Main Sector Issues and Government Strategy:
Burkina Faso's economy is primarily agriculture-based, and rainfed farming is the dominant
agricultural enterprise. Crop production is unstable due to the extreme rainfall variability. Recurrent
droughts affect production and incomes, and exacerbate poverty and income inequalities, by reducing the
production assets of the poor. Yet, the country's irrigation potential is poorly developed (only 12% of
about 165,000 hectares in total). Most of the area is under large-scale, low performing public schemes.
Surprisingly, 20 percent of the irrigated area is under informal/private small-scale irrigation developed
spontaneously in response to the risks associated with rainfed agriculture (especially since the outset of
the droughts of the early eighties). The average size of these small private holdings is less than 1.5
hectares. Appropriate technical, institutional and financial support, as proposed under this operation,
would permit to harness these private initiatives and better utilize the country's irrigated sector potential,
leading to significant contributions to sustained agricultural growth.
There is ample evidence that significant potential exists for widespread smallholder-based
irrigation and its corollary in terms of income generation diversification in production, marketing and
agroindustry. The greatest challenge to the Government, however, is to find out why this process has not
occurred. To respond to this challenge, the Government embarked upon the preparation of a national
irrigation strategy to be supported by a national program. Substantial information about the sector was
gathered during this process, leading to preparation of a comprehensive irrigation development strategy
which was premised on expansion of private sector involvement. The new irrigation strategy emphasizes
certain priority actiions for the medium term including: (a) providing training and technical support to
private operators fDr irrigation development; (b) promoting public-private partnerships, and adopting
legislative and regulatory measures to encourage the emergence of private economic interest groups and
individuals interested in investing in the sector, and (c) putting in place an appropriate stakeholder-based
institutional framework for managing these investments and for coordinating donor interventions in the
sector. This strategy was translated into a national program that the government had submitted to various
donors, including IDA, for financing. The preparation of the strategy and the national program were
funded with a Japanese Grant and a PPF in the amount of US$330,000. FAO provided valuable technical
assistance support. However, upon review, it became clear that many of the features of the original
program design, which was to be financed with an IDA credit of US$30 million, were insufficiently
tested, or could lead to outright failures. It was therefore decided that a future national irrigation
development program should be grounded on a thorough testing of various approaches to address the
critical institutional, financial and technical issues.
3.     Sector Issues to be Addressed by the Project and Strategic Choice:
We learnedl from the beneficiary assessment, conducted in 1996 as part of the irrigation subsector
strategy preparation process, that the potential for smallholder irrigation was constrained, in order of
priority ranking, by: (a) lack of operational grassroots farmers' groups, cooperatives and associations; (b)
limited access to financing, (c) limited marketing infrastructure and opportunities, (d) technological
shortcomings; and (e) policy distortions.
What we know: What we know through beneficiary surveys, client consultation workshops and lessons
from past operations points mainly to "off-farm" constraints: policy and institutional environment; and
packaging of upstream and downstream services. Some responses to these constraints already exist:
(a)    appropriate technologies for profitable on-farm investments in smallholder irrigation
production, such as the treadle pump and tubewell washboring are available (Bangladesh,
Nigeria and Senegal);



Page 4
(b)    we have a relatively good experience, from the use of our agricultural support services,
with the delivery of technical messages to smallholders, especially rainfed farmers. This
is a proven public delivery system for production-related activities;
(c)    access to market information and infrastructure is critical, but vastly inadequate.
What we don't know:
(a)    the reasons for the very limited use of the treadle pump and tubewell technologies in
Burkina Faso as compared to neighboring countries;
(b)    the health, social and environmental impact of widespread application of these
techniques;
(c)    on the institutional side, we have had very little experience using professional
organizations to support off-farm activities; the responsiveness, cost-effectiveness and
sustainability of these delivery systems need to be evaluated;
(d)    cost-effective mechanisms for sustainable smallholder finance of agricultural production
and investments; and
(e)    the appropriate packaging of support services for off-farm agricultural activities.
Thus, we must explore innovative approaches to these issues. This entail relatively low cost pilot
schemes as a means to gain experience and test their replicability on a larger scale.
C:    The Project
1.     Summary Description:
Target beneficiaries consist of: (i) small irrigation farmers; (ii) private operators involved in the
marketing and processing of irrigation products, most of whom are women; and (iii) providers of farm
inputs and services to irrigation activities. Support services would focus on transferring to these
beneficiaries technical and managerial know-how, aimed at increasing incomes and employment through
improvements in irrigation equipment and techniques, crop production and post-harvest technologies,
enhancing their access to product and input markets, and to financial services, and improving their land
tenure security. Support would also be provided to grassroots groups and cooperatives, established by
small farmers and other target beneficiaries, to enhance their capacity to respond to their members' needs.
Most support services would be channeled through such groups and cooperatives in order to improve
cost-effectiveness.
APIPAC, the newly-established irrigation smallholders' association, would provide support
services, under various cost recovery arrangements to be tested, sometimes directly but mostly indirectly
through contracts with third parties, such as participating NGOs, public and private agencies, local
consultants and lending institutions. All on-farm and off-farm services related to training, technical
assistance, technology demonstrations and adoption would be contracted out by APIPAC to third parties,
on the basis of transparent selection and/or competitive bidding procedures. APIPAC will facilitate and
intermediate service delivery as well as perform proper coordination, monitoring, representation and
promotional functions. Because the support services will be demand-driven, the process of support



Page 5
services delivery will generally include four critical stages:
(a) identification of demandfor support services: needs assessment of potential beneficiaries,
assessment of market opportunities, identification of key collaborating actors and of potential
providers of such services;
(b) establishment of detailed implementation plans for the delivery of support services:
selection of key actors to be involved in the operation (beneficiaries, collaborating actors, and
support service providers); participatory determination of respective roles and activities;
preliminary assessment of costs and benefits which would accrue to each of the actors; and
establishment of an implementation plan and timetable;
(c) implementation of the support operation, including formalizing implementation
arrangements (technical protocols, contractual agreements, financing/cost sharing commitments,
etc.) and implementation proper; and
(d) continuous detailed monitoring of implementation arrangements of the impact of activities
on each of the key actors, and of the environmental, health and social effects of the project.
2.    Project Comiponents (see Annex 2for a detailed description andAnnex 3for a cost breakdown):
The project would consist of five components: (a) support to APIPAC in its role as technical
executing agency of the project, including fees to cover its services and capacity-building to make it an
effective, and representative private delivery entity in the irrigation sector; (b) on-farm and off-farm
support services with a focus on the introduction, demonstration and dissemination of low cost on-farm
and off-farm technologies to improve the productivity and profitability of irrigation enterprises; and the
funding of feasibility studies for micro-irrigation projects; (c) a Guarantee Facility including the
establishment by the Govermment of an Escrow Account, which would provide partial guarantees against
defaults for sub-loans provided by local lending institutions; the Credit would fund technical assistance
for the detailed preparation of the Guarantee Facility; (d) detailed monitoring, evaluating and learning to
continuously assess impact, identify constraints, take corrective actions, and mainstream successful
approaches; and (e) the creation and operations of a Financial Coordination Unit, attached to the Ministry
of Agriculture, and responsible for the financial management of the Project.



Page 6
Key Project Components:
(Costs, including Contingencies, and excluding Taxes)
Cost Incl.           Bank-
Contingencies  % of  financing  % of Bank-
Component               Category      (US$M)       Total  (US$M)   financing
Support to APIPAC               Institution-  1.05             16     1.05        100
l _____________________________  building                                                l
On-farm and Off-farm Support   Transfer of    3.33            51      2.85         86
Services                        know-how
Guarantee Facility              Access to     0.80             13     0.00         0
Rural Finance
Monitoring and Evaluation       Learning/
(includes studies and audits as well) Adaptation  0.79        12      0.79        100
Financial Coordination Unit     Public Finance 0.20            3      0.18         90
PPF                                           0.33             5      0.33        100
Total 6.50            100     5.20        80
3.    Institutional and Implementation Arrangements:
Implementation Period. The project would be implemented over a three-year period. Two
implementation performance reviews would be undertaken by independent consultants, one at mid-course
and one at the end of the project, to enable the Borrower and IDA to evaluate the implementation
experience.
Technical Coordination of the Project. APIPAC, which is an association governed by private
law, would be contracted by Government to implement the Project, thus acting as a public service for the
State account, through an Execution Protocol concluded for this purpose. This Execution Protocol would
include mechanisms to ensure full accountability for proper use of the public resources entrusted to
APIPAC.  This non-profit agency would operate on the principles of autonomy, transparency,
accountability and cost-effectiveness similar to such agencies as in the Niger Private Irrigation Project
(Cr. 2707-NIR) and the restructured Senegal Second Small Rural Operations Project (Cr. 1992-SE). Its
Board of Directors, consists of 11 members (two of whom are women), drawn from private operators
active in subsector activities, and who are in good moral standing. The members of the Board are elected
by APIPAC's General Assembly. For the success of APIPAC, it is important that the more influential
and powerful larger farmers or traders do not exercise undue influence and disproportionate control over
its operations, or over government's irrigation development policies. This aspect will be carefully
monitored during project implementation. APIPAC will be based inOuagadougou and its mandate will
be countrywide.  Initially, five regional antennas will be established, which correspond to the
concentration of potential demand for irrigation-related services during this pilot phase: Ouagadougou
(and its surrounding areas), Bobo-Dioulasso (les regions des Hauts Bassins), Banfora (la Como6 et
la Leraba), Dedougou (les regions du Sourou et de la Kossi) and Koudougou (la region du Centre
Ouest). The primary functions of these regional branches will be to: receive and process demands and



Page 7
facilitate intermediation between beneficiaries and service providers, as well as to ensure close
monitoring and coordination of field operations
APIPAC's support services operations will need to be cost effective and its intermediation costs
kept low. It is, therefore, essential that APIPAC stays lean and contains costs. Its staff must stay small
and services to farmers will be provided as much as possible through subcontracting to existing
institutions. APIPAC will aim at long-term financial sustainability--its representation/lobbying activities
will therefore be financed entirely through membership fees and the cost of support services initially
subsidized by government will be recovered in part from beneficiaries. This aspect will be carefully
monitored during project execution, with a view to progressively reducing the share of subsidies. The
eligibility and selection criteria to access APIPAC's services will be outlined in a Procedures Manual a
first draft of which has been prepared and reviewed by IDA.
APIPAC's Technical Project Unit (TPU) will be responsible for day-to-day implementation of
the project. This Unit will be headed by a Project Technical Director and comprise a small team of five
competent nationals, who will be appointed by and answerable to the Board of APIPAC. It will be
responsible for overall project implementation performance, including evaluation and approval of
requests for APIP'AC support, for processing guarantee requests, for procurement and contract
management; and for relations with Govermnent agencies, the private sector, NGOs and all the other
stakeholders. The I)irector of the TPU and other TPU staff will be appointed before effectiveness under
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
Under the Execution Protocol, the Government will entrust the execution of the project to
APIPAC, according to clearly specified and detailed operating procedures and internal organization. The
Project Operations Manual, will outline for APIPAC the applicable operating policies and procedures,
including: (a) procedures for the procurement of consultant services; (b) eligibility criteria and terms and
conditions of access to project support; and c) the model contract to be signed between APIPAC and its
pamers for the delivery of services to members
To ensure accountability and cost-effectiveness, APIPAC will be submitted to close ex-post
supervision by the Government and required to submit its annual work programs and detailed activity
reports for review by both the Govermnent and the Bank. APIPAC will proactively involve NGOs, local
consultants, and itnterested financial institutions in project implementation, by contracting out specific
support operationss under service contracts acceptable to the Bank. The suppliers of these support
services will be chosen on the basis of transparent selection procedures, from a list of eligible suppliers.
At negotiations, APIPAC discussed with IDA an implementation plan (IP), including a
procurement plan, for the activities of the first year. The IP for subsequent years will provide detailed
information on each component showing: the expected outcome (i.e. what is expected to be achieved); the
sequence of how these would be done; types of resources to achieve the expected outcomes; and
indicators to measure results.
Financial Coordination of the Project.  A Financial Coordination Unit (UCOF) will be
established at the Ministry of Agriculture and will be responsible for the financial management of the
Project, including: (a) preparing the meetings of the Steering and Monitoring Committee (COS) which
will be responsible for approving APIPAC's work program and budget; (b) monitoring the execution of
the budget, and reporting to the COS; (c) administering the Project Special Account, including paying
APIPAC for services rendered under the Execution Protocol, and paying APIPAC subcontractors
directly; (d) coordinating the purchases of goods by the responsible group of the Ministry of Agriculture;



Page 8
(e) administering the Guarantee Facility; and (f) accounting, reporting and audits, as well as preparing
disbursement requests. The procedures manual will be finalized prior to project start, execpt for the
procedures for the Guarantee Facility which will be adopted by June 30, 1999. The rest of the project
procedures manual, including the part executed by APIPAC, and that executed by UCOF, will be an
effectiveness condition of the Credit.
4.    Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements:
Before Credit Effectiveness, UCOF will establish and maintain adequate financial management
systems -- including accounting, financial reporting and auditing -- that provide accurate and timely
information regarding project resources and expenditures. More elaborate systems for APIPAC, a
revenue earning entity, will be developped with Credit funds. The project accounts will be audited
annually by independent external auditors acceptable to IDA. The audited accounts and the auditor's
report, including the Management Letter, and a separate opinion with respect to statements of
expenditures and the Special Account, will be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of the fiscal
year.
The Government will establish a Project account and deposit an amount equivalent to US$5,000
as its contribution to the UCOF. Funding of this account will be a condition of disbursement for
categories 1 and 3 of the Project. Thereafter at the beginning of each calendar year, the Government will
deposit US$5,000 for the same purpose. Following the approval of the Guarantee Facility Manual,
Government will establish an Escrow Account, and deposit into this account US$ 250,000. Thereafter, at
the beginning of each successive year, the Government will deposit US$300,000 and US$ 250,000
respectively. The Guarantee Facility Manual will establish that the Escrow Account will be used
exclusively to back up guarantees.
S.    Monitoring and Evaluation, Supervision and Reporting
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E).  The M&E system will be based on an internal
performance and impact monitoring system, and on external evaluations and assessments of beneficiary
response and impact contracted out to agencies or enterprises external to the project. The proposed M&E
system and the performance indicators are described in full in annex 6. It focusses on the critical primary
and analytical information pertaining to the cost effectiveness of the various approaches being tested for
the identification and the delivery of demand-driven support services. Such information will be critical to:
(i) APIPAC and its implementation unit, on a continuous basis, to assess progress, identify
implementation problems, and improve the effectiveness and efficiency of its operations; and (ii)
Government, through its UCOF and COS, and the Bank, in order to determine the need for design
adjustments (supervision missions, mid-term), abandon unsuccessful approaches, and assess the
opportunity of expanding successful ones.
Mid-term and End of Project Reviews. Government and the Bank will conduct a mid-term
review, by the end of the second year of project implementation, to determine if adjustments need to be
made to the design of this pilot operation. This review will pay particular attention to the performance
and results of the Guarantee Facility, with the view that the Government, APIPAC and IDA reach
agreement on eventual procedural adjustments in the light of experience gained. An end-of-Project
review will also be conducted jointly by Government and the Bank, to ascertain the desirability of
generalizing all or part of the support delivery system, including the Guarantee Facility, on a larger scale,
possibly at the national level.



Page 9
Project Supervision. Project activities will be subject to periodic joint supervision missions of
the Government and the Bank. Given the pilot nature of the proposed Project, the Government and the
Bank will undertake two joint supervision missions per year. In addition, the Bank resident mission will
undertake interim supervision visits to ensure rapid response to implementation problems that may occur
in between supervision missions. A Steering Committee (COS), comprising the concerned Ministries (i.e.
Agriculture, Water Resources, Finance and Commerce), and chaired by the Ministry of Agriculture, will
be the overall supervisory body on the Government's side. Its responsibility will be limited to approve
and ensure the proper enforcement of the Execution Protocol. Members of the COS will be invited to
participate in the joint supervision missions.
Reporting. The TPU will prepare and submit semi-annual progress reports to APIPAC's Board,
including up-to-date physical and expenditure data, assessment of the performance of the contracting
process and technical support and training activities, and drawing attention to the successes and problems
on the ground during the reporting period. Contracting NGOs and public agencies would also be required
to present quarterly progress reports to APIPAC. Based on the above reports, UCOF will prepare every
six months, a consolidated progress report which will be submitted to Government and IDA. The
Borrower would sulbmit to IDA a Project Implementation Completion Report within six months after the
closing date of the IDA credit.
D:    Project Rationale
1.    Project,Alternatives Considered and Reasons for Rejection:
* The initial approach was to finance a slice of the Government national program for small scale
irrigation. A PPF advance of US$330,000 was extended for the preparation of the program, which was to
be financed by a US$30 million IDA credit. However, upon review, it became clear that many features
of the original program design were insufficiently tested. It was then decided to initiate preparation of a
pilot project.
* The conventional Research/Development project approach was rejected because it is generally
supply-driven and iocuses less on local solutions than on achieving pre-determined scientific outcomes.
Typically, external consultants/TA undertake a study on specific development issues, with little local
involvement. This approach is less than desirable. Firstly, it inhibits local capacity development and
utilization. Secondly, it tends to impose external prescriptions which are frequently inappropriate to local
conditions.
* The proposed pilot project gives flexibility to venture into uncharted territory. The approach
adopted by this project is the participatory-learning and development model, where beneficiaries are fully
in charge of designing and testing various approaches. This approach is premised on the need to
experiment on a potentially good development effort and to assess the borrower's capacity before moving
if warranted to a larger scale intervention, or to demonstrate the potential of a particular way of
overcoming a development constraint in order to gain consensus among critical stakeholders before
moving ahead.
2.    Indications of Borrower Commitment and Ownership:
The Government formally adopted its strategy for irrigation development in December 1996,
following extensive review by the key private stakeholders. To implement this strategy, the government
has now decided to first launch a pilot phase (3 years), testing the new approaches and then evaluate the



Page 10
feasibility for replicating this experience under an expanded program. This is a significant change from
previous methods in which large public-driven blueprints were generally used. The Government had
designated the Ministries of Agriculture, Water Resources and Commerce as the collaborating institutions
for the preparation of this project. Each of these ministries selected some of their most senior and
experienced staff to participate in the FAO/CP preappraisal mission, which visited Burkina Faso in July
1997. To prepare for this mission, the Government organized regional client consultation workshops in
June 1997 with the active involvement of potential beneficiaries, including small-scale and commercial
irrigation farmers as well as other private economic agents actively involved or interested in
agroprocessing, marketing, equipment repairs and maintenance services and other downstream activities.
These initial discussions have generated strong stakeholder interest in the project concept. A technical
working group, consisting of three representatives from the public sector and three from the private
sector, was established to supervise project preparation, as the Bank's local counterpart; and a full time
consultant was appointed by the Government to coordinate preparation work.
3.     Value Added of Bank Support in this Project:
The Bank has played an active role in the dialogue over the direction of irrigation policy,
including supervising the consultative process and the analytical work, as input into program
conceptualization; and providing leadership in setting up a participatory process for building public-
private partnership and local ownership. These contributions have been reinforced by the Bank's non-
lending activities: the CAS, a PER, the Poverty Profile and the ongoing Agricultural Growth Strategy
Study. The proposed project, if proven to be technically, economically, institutionally successful, and
environmentally sustainable, could lay the ground for future large-scale investments in the development
of private irrigation enterprises and in capacity building to ensure the sustainability of these investments.
4.     Key Policy and Institutional Reforms Supported by the Project:
This project is key to the strategy of supporting privately-led and financed smallholder irrigation
development.
5.     Benefits and Target Population:
The activities undertaken under this project would significantly increase understanding of the
institutional, technical, economic and financial constraints which limit smallholders' capacity to make full
use of the income-generating opportunities in the irrigation sector. Successful approaches would be the
basis for larger scale replication. These benefits would substantially lower the risks associated with
further development of the sector and contribute to the realization of broader CAS objectives. The direct
support to small and poor farming families, who constitute over 70 per cent of the beneficiaries of this
operation, would contribute to improvements in productivity and incomes, and enhance food security and
the overall welfare of this group, thereby reducing rural hardships. Women, who are the predominant
actors in the marketing and distribution trade, would be specifically targetted for support. One other
incidental benefit that would accrue if the project is successful is that the Government's concerns over
transferring the provision of support services to professional entities and private sector enterprises would
be greatly reduced.



Page 11
E.    Summary Project Analysis
1.    Economic:
In light of the nature of this project, economic analysis of different prototype arrangements and
investment activiti,es will be tested by the Technical Project Unit. Past experience shows that farm
investments similar to those envisaged under this project would be profitable for all farm enterprises, as
illustrated by the following internal rates of return (IRR) for the different prototypes: model'A (plots of
an average of O.Sha)--50%; model B (average size of 1.5ha)---50%; and model C (plots of an average of
Sha)---75%. Models A and B of the above examples correspond to the operational holdings of the target
beneficiaries of thtis project, which range between 0.25 ha. to a maximum of 2 ha, with individual
holdings of the majority averaging 1.5 ha. The estimated net incremental revenues for the prototype
used as a "rough rule of thumb" are, respectively, CFAF 935,000 (model A unit), CFAF 3.4 million
(model B unit), and CFAF 4.85 million (model C unit). The global IRR of the project has been estimated
at 22 percent. However, sensitivity tests showed that it would take a 20 percent decline in benefits (due
for example to lowaer output prices) or an increase in costs of 20 per cent for the IRR to decline from 22
per cent to slightly less than 10 per cent, or below the opportunity cost of capital. A decline of this
magnitude of all ou tput prices produced by irrigation framers, or an increase of this magnitude of the real
prices of all expenditures is quite unlikely;
2.    Financial:
The project will improve access to financial services by the target beneficiaries, most of whom
are poor, for their diversified and potentially profitable income-generating activities. Results from the
beneficiary assessmnent, conducted during project preparation, indicate that the poor are not necessarily
bad credit risks. Rather, lacking assets, collateral and access, the poor find it difficult to use the formal
credit market. The project would test the guarantee fund approach which has initially shown promise in
other contexts, especially when credit is provided by NGOs and other grassroots organizations. As a
result of project support, APIPAC would be expected to acquire the necessary capacity to: (i) assist
beneficiaries prepare credit applications; and (ii) assess the guarantee required for smallholders to obtain
credit.
3.     Technical.
A number of promising techniques including those adaptable to the resources and management
capabilities of small farmers (the treadle pump, washbore and tubewell drilling techniques, improved
agro-processing technologies) will be tested, adapted, demonstrated and disseminated.
4.    Institutional:
A major focus of this project is to develop cost-effective institutional arrangements for the
delivery of a package of services to irrigation smallhoders. The agency to be entrusted with the
responsibility of i;mplementing the project, has already been established. It was designed on the basis of
best practices for a cost-effective autonomous private agency. With the exception of the demand-driven
services it would provide directly to beneficiaries, and ensuring overall coordination of technical
activities, APIPAC would adopt transparent contract management practices to subcontract
implementation of most of the project components to third parties, including the technical team of the
Special Program for Food Security in Low Income Food Deficit Countries supported by FAO, NGOs, the
National Agricultural Research Institute (INERA), the national extension services and other public
agencies as well as local consultants.



Page 12
5.    Social:
Social systems of poor rural farmers are well researched, and an adequate basis of knowledge to
conduct an efficient adaptation program exists. In light of the significant role women play in small-scale
irrigation activities, special attention would be paid by the M&E system to gender in the execution of this
project. In addition, the project would provide demand-driven support on the administrative and legal
procedures to follow to obtain secured land tenure and related property rights.
6.    Environmental Assessment:   Environmental Category    jj] A   [x] B  []C
The environmental category "B" has been assigned to the proposed project. The findings of the
environmental assessment for the preparation of the national irrigation program indicate that the activities
envisaged under this project would not have any significant negative effects on the environment. The
project will not finance substantial investments in surface water irrigation which would have resulted in a
large off-take of water. Hence, riparian rights issues are minimum. In any case, the riparian states have
been duly notified about this project. In light of the fact that irrigation projects do have a potential for
generating health problems associated with disease transmission through water, as well as other
environmental impacts, the project would undertake studies and pilot selected best practices in
participatory environmental management. This would lead to a better understanding of the complex
interrelationships among water quality, supply, use and disposal and the subsequent design of a
mitigation plan for a future large-scale operation.
F:    Sustainability and Risks
1.    Sustainability:
The project, exploring uncharted territory, would have a built-in monitoring and evaluation
system to make adjustments as required and to test alternatives during implementation. As such, it is
expected to generate approaches for designing sustainable support programns for private irrigation
development, based on private management, volontary farmers groups and professional associations,
NGOs, and on public services and funding. A built-in participatory process will ensure ownership by the
rural stakeholders. It is expected that the private association (APIPAC) would, as it develops capacity
and acquires experience, be able to provide services, upon demand, and assure progressively larger cost
recovery from the beneficiaries as those increase their income as a result of the project. The private
entrepreneurial culture and capacity developed through the actions financed under this project would
permit the private- operators to fund much of the support services hitherto subsidized by the state. The
cost-effectiveness of this private delivery model, i.e. the ability of APIPAC to deliver services at lower
than the costs of public delivery systems would be an important determinant of affordability and
sustainability. This would be closely monitored and evaluated by a team of independent evaluators. In
addition, the participation aspects would receive close attention from the evaluators on the grounds that
without strong beneficiaries' motivation and commitmnent, the viability of this operation may be
compromised.
2.    Critical Risks:
The main risks are: (i) the Government may reverse its policy of decentralization and
empowerment of rural stakeholders; (ii) APIPAC fails to become cost-effective; or (iii) larger farmers
exercise disproportionate influence in management of the smallholder association. Measures have been
developed in the project design to minimize these risks, in particular, the built-in features of continuous



Page 13
monitoring and evaluation. There would be two independent external evaluations of the project outcome
to determine success and sustainability of test results.
Summary of risks
Risk                   Risk Rating      Risk Minimization Measures
Annex 1, cell "fiomn Outputs to Objective"
Lapses in Govemrnment commitment to      Substantial  Built-in principles of public-private
partnership with empowered rural stakeholders       partnership, participation and
and slow adaptation of stakeholders to self-help    consultations among key stakeholders
rather than government aid.                         have to be intemalized and should
continue to influence policy.
"Components to Outputs"
APIPAC does not dlevelop adequate technical  Moderate   Capacity-building support during the
capacity and fails to limit intermediation costs.   pilot, plus mandatory fees from network
of producer groups, partial cost-recovery
for services provided and strict
adherence to the procedures manual
would ensure cost-effectiveness.
Moreover, APIPAC would only be
mainstreamed if it proves to be a viable
altemative to public sector provision of
services to clients in the irrigation
subsector.
Larger farmers/traders, by virtue of their  Substantial  Careful targeting of project benefits plus
influence and resourcefulness, may "hijack"         provision for a democratically elected
APIPAC and appropriate a disproportionate            Board of APIPAC by the General
share of potential project benefits.                Assembly are key design features that
would help minimize this risk.
Overall Risk Rating                      Substantial  Monitoring and design adjustment in the
course of project implementation.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Page 14
G:    Main Loan Conditions
1.    Condition of Effectiveness:
(a)   The Execution Protocol has been signed between the Borrower (though its Ministry of
Agriculture) andAPIPAC;
(b)   A Project Procedures Manual, satisfactory to the Association, has been adopted;
(c)   The Borrower (through its Ministry ofAgriculture) has established the Financial
Coordination Unit;
(d)   APIPAC has established the Technical Project Unit;
(e)   The Borrower has established the Steering and Monitoring Committee;
6/,?   The Financial Coordination Unit has established an accounting andfinancial
management system, satisfactory to the Association..
2.    Disbursement Condition for Categories 1 and 3:
(a)    The Borrower has established a Project Account and made a deposit of US$5, 000
equivalent into this account.
3.    Dated Covenant:
(a)   APIPAC shall prepare and transmit to the Association by June 30, 1999 the Guarantee
Facility Manual;
4.     Other Covenants:
(a) The Government shall open and maintain an escrow account;
(b) The Government shall deposit into the Escrow Account its contribution to the Guarantee
Facility, namely US$250,000 in Project Year One (following approval of the Guarantee
Facility Manual); US$300,000 in Project Year Two; and US$250,000 in project Year
Three;
(c) UCOF shall maintain records and accounts satisfactory to the Association;
(d) UCOF shall have its records, accounts and financial statements audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association, andfurnish to the Association no later than six
months after the end of eachfiscal year the report of the auditors;
(e) APIPAC shall maintain the TPU in a form and with functions and staffing satisfactory to
the Association;
6 UCOF shall employ suitably qualified and experienced persons for the positions of
UCOF Manager and Accountant.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[] The engineering design documentsfor thefirstyear's activities are complete and readyfor the start
ofproject implementation. [x] Not applicable.
[X7 The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[X7 The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised andfound to be realistic and satisfactory



Page 15
[X7 The following item is lacking and is discussed below:
(a)    Riparian rights: In accordance with Bank policy, the Government notified the proposed
abstractions of wager to the governments of CMte d'ivoire, Benin, Ghana, Mali, and Togo. The
Government of Burkina Faso did not receive any correspondence from the governments of the riparian
countries within the reasonable period of six months. The basic notification requirements have thus been
satisfied.
I.     Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[signature]                eh
T     ask Team    id
[signature]   7/
Sector Manag '<.Je  -1  ha se
[signature]
Country Direc:        1u uy



Page 16
Annex 1
Burkina Faso
Pilot Private Irrigation Development Project
Project Design Summary
Project Contributions to CAS Objectives
Narrative         Key Performance         Monitoring and        Critical Assumptions
Summary              Indicators             Evaluation
(CAS Objective to Bank
CAS Objective:                                                       Mission):
Creating sustainable    Increase in number   Project's M&E reports and   Government's maintains
income, employment,   of beneficiaries     external beneficiary impact  commitment to private
and growth                                 assessment surveys.       sector promotion;
opportunities by      Economic and
strengthening the role   financial viability of                      Project is successful in
of the private sector,    private investments                        delivering demand-
improving access to                                                  driven support services
services and resources,                                             to private small scale
and opening new                                                      irrigation and related
markets.                                                             activities.



Page 17
Key Performance indicators
Development objective                Key outputs                            Performance indicators
An operational non         (1) A non governmental representative,   1.1. APIPAC's TPU established, organized,
governmental delivery      privately managed agency, capable of   staffed, and ready to implement project;
system of demand-driven    delivering demand-driven support       1.2. APIPAC's TPU fully operational;
support services to private   services to private small scale     1.3. Steady increases in numbers of project
small scale irrigation and   irrigation and related activities.  beneficiaries among:
related activities                                                  1.31. small scale irrigation farmers,
1.32. micro-enterprises involved in marketing
and processing of irrigation products,
1.33. micro-enterprises supplying equipment,
inputs and services to irrigation farmers;
1.4. Steady increases in the overall cost recovery
ratio arising from increased contributions of
beneficiaries to the cost of support services
delivery.
(2) Cost-effective processes and      2.1. Economic impact indicators, measured by
procedures for identifying and        steady increases in:
delivering demand-driven support         2.11. on-farm and off-farm incomes induced by
services to induce sustainable growth    project support activities to small scale
ofprivate small scale irrigation and     irrigation and related activities; and in
related activities.                      2.12. increases in on-farm and off-farml
employment induced by project activities;
2.2. Developmental impact indicators measured by
steady increases in:
2.21. the proportion of marketed output of
small scale irrigation farmers;
2.22. use of improved seeds, fertilizer, and
other inputs;
2.23. private on-farm and off-farm investments
in irrigation and related activities;
2.24. on-farm and off-farm investments
financing and in short term credit;
2.25. the number of smallholder irrigator
having achieved land tenure security; and in
2.26. the number of fully operational grassroots
associations and cooperatives active in private
small scale irrigation and related activities.
2.3. Cost effectiveness indicators as measured by
steady decreases in:
2.31. the unit delivery cost of each type of
support; and in
2.41. the ratio of total support cost to aggregate
economic benefits accruing to beneficiaries.
2.4 .Environmental sustainability indicators, as
measured by effective mitigation of potentially
negative:
2.41. environmental effects;
2.42. health effects; and
2.43. social effects.



Page 18
Annex 2
Burkina Faso
Pilot Private Irrigation Project
Detailed Project Description
The main objective of the Burkina Faso Pilot Private Irrigation project is to test and evaluate an
approach for the provision of demand-driven support services necessary to develop an efficient,
sustainable small irrigation sub-sector in Burkina Faso. The key outcome of the project is a non
governmental delivery system of demand-driven support services to private small scale irrigation
and related activities. The services would be provided under various cost recovery arrangements
to be tested, either directly to its membership by APIPAC, the newly-established smallholders'
association, or indirectly through contract agreements with third parties. APIPAC would contract
out the imple;mentation of such indirect support operations to NGOs, participating public
agencies, local consulting firms, on the basis of transparent selection and/or competitive bidding
procedures.
Project Component 1 - US$1.05 million (total cost of component, i.e. including contingencies)
Support to the Technical Executing Agency: This component would finance the
services of AP [PAC, the Project technical executing agency, and its capacity-building (including
setting up a Technical Project Unit). It is expected that this support would enable the association
of irrigation producers and traders to acquire the know-how and experience needed to become a
cost-effective and sustainable private delivery entity in the irrigation sector. The project would
finance personnel, vehicles, equipment, periodic expatriate technical assistance and operating
costs necessary for the establishment and development of APIPAC and for carrying out its
operations at its Headquarters in Ouagadougou and in the five regional antennas. APIPAC,
through its Technical Project Unit, would be responsible for the technical implementation of the
project, including sub-project evaluation and approval, contract management (i.e. of all
contracted beneficiary services), and processing of guarantee requests.
Project Component 2 - US$3.33 million (total cost)
Promotion of New Technologies through On-farm and Off-farm Support Services
including technical feasibility studies for micro irrigation and related investments. This
component focuses on providing target beneficiaries, (such as small irrigation farmers, private
operators involved in the marketing and processing of irrigation products, and providers of farm
inputs and services to irrigation activities), support services aimed at increasing their incomes and
employment. ]Because these support services will be demand-driven, the process of support
services delivery will generally include three critical stages:
(i) The identification of demand for support services, including assessment of market
opportunities supporting the proposed supports, needs assessment of potential
beneficiaries, including training needs, identification of key collaborating actors and of
potential provider of such services;



Page 19
(ii) The establishment of implementation plans for the delivery of support services,
including selection of target beneficiaries, assessment of their specific support needs,
selection of other collaborating actors and of support service providers; establishment of
implementation timetable and preliminary assessment of the costs to be incurred by the
key actors involved in the operation, and the benefits which would accrue to each of
them);
(iii) The implementation of the support operation, including formalizing implementation
arrangements (technical protocols, contractual agreements, financing/cost sharing
commitments), and implementation proper.
Key sub-components include: (a) on-farm demonstrations of small scale irrigation equipment and
techniques; (b) promotion of markets for small-scale irrigation products, inputs and services; (c)
facilitation of access to financial services; (d) facilitation of access to land tenure security; and (e)
technical and managerial support to grassroots associations established by target beneficiaries. In
view of the need for demand-driven provision of support services, it would not make sense at this
time to allocate this component's funding envelope among these five sub-components.
Nevertheless, for cost and financing purposes, the component is divided between: services of a
general nature (promotion, demonstration, extension, applied research and studies) which will not
be charged by APIPAC (US$1.4 million); and services of a more direct nature for which there
will be partial cost recovery (US$1.9 million).
(a)    on-farm demonstrations of small scale irrigation equipments and techniques:
Under this sub-component, the project would finance a package of technical services and
logistical support for on-farm demonstrations and dissemination of simple and low-cost
equipment and techniques for smallholder irrigation, as well as of improved irrigated production
techniques. Special emphasis would be given to subsidized support for training and technical
assistance in local manufacture, and the dissemination of the treadle pump and the washbore and
tubewell drilling, as well as demonstration of alternative low-cost water lifting devices, such as
motorized bailers, small petrol-driven powered suction pumps and submersible pumps; motorized
auguring and rotary drilling systems, or water distribution systems, such as drip or sprinkler
irrigation. The project would also support dissemination of improved farm management practices,
with special emphasis on intensification and diversification. APIPAC would be responsible for
packaging and contracting out implementation of the services funded under this sub-component
to third parties, through transparent selection procedures.
(b)    promotion of markets for small scale irrigation products, inputs and services:
This subcomponent would finance market studies for high value added irrigation
products and for farm inputs and services, the establishment of a market information system for
irrigation products, the promotion of contractual arrangements between small scale irrigation
farmers and enterprises engaged in those upstream and downstream activities, and demonstration
trials on post-harvest, marketing, and processing technologies and techniques, etc. On the
processing side, the project would conduct tests and demonstrations on different fruit dryers (20
units) and alternative fruit/vegetable cottage processing plants (2 units). The program of trials on
produce marketing would include: the introduction of alternative collection, grading, packaging
and storage technologies for green beans, onions and potatoes, required by market demand. Input



Page 20
marketing acl:ivities would include support for the establishment of local input distributors,
contractual seed farmers, and of artisans trained in the manufacture, repair, and maintenance of
irrigation equipment.
(c)    access to financial services:
According to the beneficiary survey, small and poor rural households, face severe credit
constraints. Yet, access to credit is essential to increase private investments in irrigation, and
ancillary investments in agroprocessing and marketing. This sub-component will focus on
facilitating the access of target beneficiaries to financial services necessary for on and off-farm
investments, -as well as short term credit for product marketing and farm inputs and services.
Support activities will include funding contractual services for: the technical, institutional,
financial, and economic design of specific sub-projects; the preparation of well documented
credit applications; promotion of producer groups; acting as brokers between borrowing groups
and lending institutions (for application evaluation and credit supervision, thereby reducing the
transaction costs of the latter); and finally providing additional guarantees required for the credit
sub-loan to materialize (component 3).
(d)    access to land tenure security:
Support under this sub-component would focus on providing target beneficiaries with
information, and direct facilitation support when necessary, on the complex administrative and
legal or customary processes and procedures required for obtaining legal documentation,
ascertaining or enhancing their land tenure and/or other property rights status.
(e)    support to grassroots associations:
This sub-component would focus on capacity building of those grassroots associations or
cooperatives established by target beneficiaries to facilitate contractual arrangements with
marketing and processing enterprises, suppliers of farm inputs and services, and financial
intermediaries. Support will include facilitation of legal recognition, transfer of organizational
skills and of basic accounting and managerial skills.
Project Component 3 - Guarantee Facility - US$0.80 million (total cost)
Most investments (on-farm and off-farm) expected to result from the project would
require short.- or medium-term credit (up to two years) for 60-80% of total cost. These
investments would be undertaken by groups of small producers with no track record in the formal
credit system. The objective of this component is to help these target beneficiaries establish such
a record, thereby gaining access in the future to the formal banking sector. To this end, the
Government through the Ministry of Agriculture, would establish and fund a Guarantee Facility.
The detailed procedures for the operation of the Facility, including a standard guarantee
agreement between the Agriculture Ministry and the lending institution, will be included in a
manual of procedures, which will be sent to IDA for review by June 30, 1999. Preparation of the
manual will be funded under the PPF and the Credit. Terms of reference for the related technical
assistance are in the appendix.
An escrow account will be established, to be managed by a commercial bank of good
standing, and which will not be a guarantee holder. As soon as the Guarantee Facility Procedures



Page 21
Manual has been adopted in Project Year One, Govermnent will deposit into the Escrow account
US$250,000. In the following two Project years, the Government will deposit into the Escrow
account US$300,000, and US$ 250,000 respectively. Interests from the Escrow account will be
retained within the Escrow account, whose funds will be disbursed exclusively for backing up
guarantees. Upon expiration of any particular guarantee, (i.e. without any claim or only a partial
claim), corresponding funds already in the Escrow account will be used for the purpose of
backstopping future guarantees. At Project end, the Escrow Account will continue to be used to
guarantee loans by commercial banks to APIPAC members.
Project Component 4 - US$0.79 million (total cost)
Monitoring and Evaluation: The project will support the establishment of a strong monitoring
and evaluation capacity. Project implementation will be subject to independent external
evaluation. Impact indicators and other performance indicators will be geared towards assessing
the success or failure of the project, and establishing milestones and trigger points (Annex 6).
This process will provide ample time for learning and, if necessary, for rectifying something that
did not work the first time around. A consultant team consisting of a M&E specialist and a
computer programmer will establish the M&E system, including the required software for an
interactive program. The consultants will also prepare a Prototype Implementation Manual
(PIM) adaptable to this new system. Such an innovative M&E program will, if successful,
considerably facilitate project management and problem-oriented supervision.  APIPAC's
performance will be evaluated according to the following indicators: (a) adherence to the
Execution Protocol and the Procedures Manual, including in particular its performance in
managing the Guarantee Facility; (b) success in membership drive; (c) effectiveness in
representing members' interests; (d) focus on the poor and gender relevance; (e) rate of
introduction of new and improved on-farm and off-farm technologies; (f) ease of access to
smallholder finance; (g) contract management and supervision and coordination performance;
and (h) cost-effectiveness.
Environmental monitoring will focus on: (a) monitoring of shallow aquifers to study the
recharge properties and the impact of extraction and possible overexploitation of aquifers,
leading to the development of simple guidelines on efficient water management, particularly in
the valley bottoms; and (b) water quality control; this will include testing of water pollution levels
near irrigated sub-project sites to measure fecal coliform concentration and the level of
contamination by specific substances, such as chemical fertilizers and assessment of the impact
of water pollution on human health; farmers' training/workshops; and studies as well as outlining
proposals for developing mitigation measures for reduction of potential environmental, health
and social impacts of larger irrigation operations. Guidelines for use by project beneficiaries and
other partners will be prepared on: appropriate use of fertilizers, maintenance of groundwater
tables and maintenance of soil fertility.  APIPAC will contract out implementation of
environmental monitoring activities to participating institutions, following transparent and
competitive bidding procedures.
For the comprehensive review of implementation performance, the project will finance,
in addition to APIPAC's normal monitoring and supervision functions, a package of services,
consisting of: (a) non-resident consultants who will undertake one independent evaluation of the
project at the end of the project and an implementation performance review (IPR) after two years.
The IPR, which will be completed no later than December 31, of Year 2, will primarily aim at:
(a) critical evaluation of the cost-effectiveness and technical performance of APIPAC; (b)



Page 22
assessment of the technical efficiency and financial and economic profitability of the
technological innovations introduced by the project; (c) evaluation of the performance and
sustainability of the Guarantee Facility; and (d) evaluation of the social and environmental impact
of smallholder private irrigation development as well as the technical, financial and economic
sustainability of the on-farm and off-farm investments.
Furthermore, the project will support data collection and analysis for identification of the
effective constraints on the development of a dynamic small-scale irrigation sector and for
defining the Nvays and means of resolving the identified bottlenecks. The lessons learned will be
useful for designing a program to enhance the long-term viability of large-scale investments in
irrigation development and to improve the quality of sectoral policy and strategy formulation.
Constraints on development of downstream activities and crop-livestock synergy will be given
special attention. All activities related to constraint identification and policy analysis will be
contracted out to third parties, following transparent selection procedures. The Government and
IDA will meet at least once a year to discuss evaluation reports and to agree on follow-up actions.
Project Component 5 - US$0.20 million (total cost)
Financial Coordination Unit. The unit will be responsible for the financial management of the
Project, including: (a) preparing the meetings of the Steering Committee (COS), including those
for approval by COS of APIPAC's work program and budget; (b) monitoring the execution of the
budget, and reporting to COS; (c) administering the Project Special Account, including paying
APIPAC for services rendered under the Project Execution Protocol, and paying APIPAC
subcontractor s directly; (d) coordinating the purchases of goods by the responsible group of the
Ministry of Agriculture; (e) administering the Guarantee Facility; and (f) accounting, reporting
and audits.
The Credit will fund the operations of the Unit which will comprise one manager, one
accountant, one secretary, one messenger, and one driver. Funds will be for operating costs and
for strengthening its capacity through advisory services, training and acquisition of vehicles and
equipment.



Page 23
Annex 2
Appendix
Terms of Reference for a Consultancy
to Prepare a Manual for the Operations of a Guarantee Facility
*to Benefit Small Entrepreneurs of Irrigated Agricultural Products
in Burkina Faso
APIPAC is a professional association of producers, processors, and traders of irrigated
produce. Most members are very small farmers and other entrepreneurs, with no access to the
formal banking sector. Among its mandates, APIPAC facilitates the access of its members to the
formal credit channels. It has contacted several local institutions, four of which have expressed
an interest in expanding their client base, provided APIPAC assists their potential clients in the
technical and financial design of investments for which credit is being sought, and provided
adequate guarantees are provided. These four credit institutions are Caisse Nationale de Credit
Agricole, which has full bank status, Reseau des Caisses Populaires du Burkina, which has
limited status, Promotion du Developpement Industriel Artisanal et Agricole, an NGO, and
Appui a la Creation des Petites et Moyennes Entreprises, also an NGO.
To supplement group guarantees, which are usually the only form of guarantees the
project target beneficiaries can provide, the Government intends to establish a Guarantee Facility,
including an escrow account financed with government funds, under conditions set out in a
procedural manual. The objective of the proposed consultancy is to assist to prepare the manual
for the operalcions of the Guarantee Facility.
Design of the Guarantee Facility will be guided by the following considerations. The
Facility fee amd risk coverage should encourage the participating credit institutions to make an
effort to collect and also to establish over time a direct bank-client relationship with the
producers, who would be progressively phased out of the guarantee requirement. For this: (a) the
fee for the guarantee service may be split between the borrowing party and the credit institution,
thereby enticing the latter to do business without guarantee once credit worthiness of new clients
has been established; (b) the guarantee will cover no more than a given percentage of the risk for
any new loan (65% is suggested), and then decline to zero by the fourth repeat loan.
Loarn contracts, though handled through producer groups, will be formalized between the
bank and the individual borrower, to enable the latter to create his/her own credit record. There
will be a loan size cap because the Project is intended to benefit small investors. There will also
be another cap on the maximum amount of guarantees that could be outstanding at any one time
to support loans made to a single borrower. An indicative ceiling may be CFAF 7 million.
Whatever the ceiling, it will be monitored to ensure that it provides an adequate safeguard against
lending to borrowers who already have access to the banking system. The term of the guarantee
will be set so as to give incentivates to the lending institution to recover the claim before the
guaranteed amount is paid. It will have a maximum term set in relation to the term of individual
loan repayment plus a grace period (loans are expected to be for a maximum of two years). To
avoid disputes, the payment of the guarantee will be automatic when specified conditions of
default have been met. The conditions of fee income will be set in a manner consistent with
paying off the loan received by APIPAC after taking into consideration other APIPAC income
(i.e. membership and service fees). Use of the Guarantee Facility will be limited exclusively to



Page 24
Annex 2
Appendix
eligible productive investments in irrigation, upstream and downstream of production
(agricultural inputs and equipment, irrigation works and equipment, marketing and agro-
processing of agricultural products).
Other important aspects to be covered by the consultancy are: (a) potential conflict of
interest in having APIPAC process guarantee requests; (b) introduce the notion of
counterguarantees; (c) establish clear conditions and transparent procedures for the issuance of
guarantees and for lenders to claim the guarantee; (d) ensure that the escrow account is fully
insulated from tampering; (e) minimize the scope for arbitrary decisions at any level; (f)
minimize the scope for disputes; (g) introduce an appeal process; (h) evaluate the costs of
operating the facility and its; (i) accounting and recordkeeping.
Ten staff-weeks of a micro-credit finance specialist with experience in the creation or
operation of guarantee facilities have been budgeted for this task.



Page 25
Annex 3
Burkina Faso
Pilot Private Irrigation Project
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                                   Local       Foreign       Total
---------------US $ million-----------------
Support to Executing Agency                          0.77        0.18         0.95
Promotion of New Technologies                        1.92         1.09        3.01
Guarantee Facility                                   0.35         0.39        0.74
Monitoring and Evaluation                            0.55         0.17        0.72
Financial Coordination                               0.16         0.04        0.20
Total Baseline Cost                                  3.75         1.87        5.62
Physical Contingencies                             0.13        0.07         0.20
Price Contingencies                               0.30         0.05         0.35
PPF Refinancing                                      0.23         0.10        0.33
Total Project Cost                                   4.41         2.09        6.50
Government Counterpart Contributions: The Government will provide in its budget amounts
sufficient to cover its counterpart contributions to the costs of the project. In this regard, the
Government will open and maintain a Project account in a bank acceptable to the Association and
on terms and. conditions acceptable to the Association, and deposit into this account, an initial
deposit in CFA Franc equivalent of US$5,000 in project Year One, and US$5,000 by January 1
of each subsequent year.



Burkina Faso
Private Irrigation Promotion Project
Table A: Project Costs Summary
(Baseline Costs - Costs Including Contingencies)
(CFAF '000)                        (US$ '000)
S  %     % Total
Foreign      Base
Local       Foreign      Total       Local    Foreign    Total   Exchange       Costs
A. Support to APIPAC                               449,765.1    102,663.4    552,428.5    775.5      177.0   952.5          19          17
B. Support Services for On Farm and Off-Farm Activities  __ _     ____     _        __        __           _ _  __ v
B. 1. Promotion of New Technology               479,415.0    271,505.2    750,920.1    826.6      468.1  1,294.7         36          23
B.2. Direct Services to APIPAC Members          635,503.6    359,902.2    995,405.8    1,095.7    620.5  1,716.2         36           30
Subtotal Support Services                 1,114,918.6    631,407.3  1,746,325.9    1,922.3    1,088.6  3,010.9       36          53
C. Guarantee Facility                              203,027.4    224,176.0    427,203.4    350.0      386.5   736.6          52          13
D. Monitoring and Evaluation                       316,699.3     99,388.0    416,087.2    546.0      171.4   717.4          24           13
E. Financial Coordination                           92,800.0     23,200.0    116,000.0    160.0       40.0   200.0          20           4
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                           2,177,210.4  1,080,834.7  3,258,045.1    3,753.8    1,863.5  5,617.3       34         100    -t
Physical Contingencies                           95,266.8     40,935.0    136,201.8    164.3       70.6   234.8          30           4      s
Price Contingencies                             173,687.1     28,090.0    201,777.0    299.5       48.4   347.9          14           6
Total BASELINE COSTS before PPF                2,446,164.4  1,149,859.7  3,596,023.9    4,217.6    1,982.5  6,200.0       32         110
F. Project Preparation Facility                    114,608.0     76,792.0    191,400.0    197.6      132.4   330.0          40           6
Total PROJECT COSTS After PPF                    2,560,772.4  1,226,651.7  3,787,423.9    4,415.2    2,114.9  -6,530.0      32          116
(CFAF '000)                        (US$ '000)
PROJECT COSTS, Including Contingencies             Local       Foreign       Total      Local    Foreign    Total
A. Support to APIPAC                               499,239.2    113,956.4    613,195.6    860.8      196.5  1,057.2
B. Support Services for On Farm and Off-Farm Activities                         _     _
B. 1. Promotion of New Technology               571,819.5    254,055.8    825,875.3    986.0      438.0  1,423.9
B.2. Direct Services to APIPAC Members          705,409.0    399,491.4  1,104,900.4    1,216.2    688.8  1,905.0
Subtotal Support Services                 1,277,228.3    653,547.2  1,930,775.7    2,202.2    1,126.8  3,328.9
C. Guarantee Facility                              225,360.4    248,835.4    474,195.8    388.6      429.0   817.6
D. Monitoring and Evaluation                       351,536.2    110,320.7    461,856.8    606.1      190.2   796.3
E. Financial Coordination                           92,800.0     23,200.0    116,000.0    160.0       40.0   200.0
F. Project Preparation Facility                    114,608.0     76,792.0    191,400.0    197.6      132.4   330.0
Total Project Costs Including Contingencies       2,560,772.5  1,226,651.7  3,787,423.9    4,415.3    2,114.9  6,530.0



Page 27
Burkina Faso
Pilot Private Irrigation Project
Table B: Financing Table (US$M)
Components                   Cost    Beneficiaries  Government   IDA    % lDA
:_________  (net of taxes)
A. Support to -the Executing Agency        1.05        0.00          0.00        1.05      100
B. On-Farm and Off-Farm Support Services                             _
B.1. Promotion of New Technologies      1.42        0.00          0.00        1.42      100
B.2. Direct Services to APIPAC Members    1.91      0.48          0.00        1.43       74
Subtotal Support Services              3.33         0.48          0.00       2.85        86
C. Guarantee Facility                     0.80         0.00          0.80       0.00         0
D. Monitoring and Evaluation              0.79         0.00          0.00       0.79       100
E. Financial Coordination Unit            0.20         0.00          0.02        0.18       90
F. Project Prelparation Facility          0.33         0.00          0.00        0.33      100
Total Including Contingencies             6.50         0.48          0.82        5.20       80



Page 28
Annex 4
Burkina Faso
Pilot Private Irrigation Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
1.     APIPAC's technical team would be responsible for procurement and disbursement operations.
All goods and civil works fmanced under the IDA Credit would be procured in accordance with the
Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits, dated January 1995, as revised in
January and August 1996 and in Septembe 1997 (Goods and Works Guidelines). All procurement of
consulting services would be in accordance with the Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers, dated January 1997 and revised in September 1997 (Consultant
Guidelines) anid the Procedures Manual of APIPAC. In order to speed up project start, Faso Bara (an
AGETIP agency already established in Burkina Faso) would assist APIPAC with the handling of contracts
to supply goods and equipment, vehicles and consulting services while project staff receive training in the
Bank's disbursement and procurement procedures. After project staff have been properly trained, the
implementing agency would become fully responsible for project related procurement and disbursement.
Contracts for Vehicles, Motorcycles, Goods and Equipment
2.     These contracts would be grouped to the extent possible into lots. No contract is expected to
exceed $200,000, but in case this occurred, lots valued at more than US$200,000 would be procured using
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures; contracts costing US$50,000 to US$200,000 would
be procured, using National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures. Contracts estimated to cost less than
US$50,000 mavy be procured using local shopping procedures. For all national and international shopping,
at least three price quotations would be obtained for comparison. All contracts exceeding US$100,000
would be subject to IDA's prior review. For all contracts not subject to prior review, all pertinent
documentation, would be kept by the implementing agency for review by IDA supervision missions and
auditors.
Contracts for Technical Assistance, Studies and Training
3.     The project would to the extent possible encourage the participation of national consultants.
However, if such expertise does not exist or is limited, the project would finance international consultants.
The services to be provided under the project include direct support to APIPAC for overall project
implementation and associated technical support to beneficiaries, implementation support contracted out as
a package of consulting services to individual consultants or consulting firns, including NGOs and public
agencies, and training.
3.1    Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS). Except as stated otherwise in paragraph 3.2 below, all
consultants' services would be procured using QCBS. Consultant's services as listed in paragraphs 3.13 to
3.18 of the Consultants Guidelines will also be procured using QCBS.
3.2    Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants:
(a)    Selection Based on Consultant's Qualifications: Services for contracts for assignments for which
the need for preparing and evaluating competitive proposals is not justified and estimated to cost less than
US$50,000 equivalent for individual contracts and US$100,000 equivalent per contract for consulting



Page 29
firns, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of appropriate qualifications and references in
accordance with paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultants Guidelines. Services that may fall in this
category would be related to testing, product quality assurance, financial and legal advice, market
development, and proper operational procedures.
(b)    The contract for the recruitment of APIPAC will be single source since APIPAC is the only
professional association existing in the sector and the objective of the Government is to delegate to this
Association the technical execution of the Project under an Execution Protocole.
(c)    Individual Consultants. Services for consultants and other contractual staff employed by project
management would be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultants Guidelines.
3.3    Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants:
(a)    Scheduling the Selection Process. The selection process for the recruitment of consultants,
including the cost estimates, the contract packaging, applicable procedures, the short list, selection
criteria, the proposed implementation program and the disbursement schedule shall be furnished
to IDA for its prior review and prior approval, in accordance with paragraph I of Appendix I of
the Consultants Guidelines.
(b)    Prior Review.
(i) All contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1 and 2 (other than the third sub-
paragraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix I of the Consultants Guidelines shall apply.
(ii) All contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience and terms of reference of the consultants shall
be furnished to the Bank for prior review and approval.
4.4    Post Review. All contracts not governed by paragraph 3.3 (b) above, the procedures set forth in
paragraph 4 of Appendix I of the Consultants Guidelines shall apply.



Page 30
Table A: Procurement Arrangements
(in US$'OO0 equivalent)'
Total
(IDA Financed)
ICB.         NCB          Other        Total
1. Goods & Equipment                   250                       250
(250)                     (250)
2. Service Contracts                                4970         4970
(4470)       (4470)
3. Operating Costs                                   150          150
(150)        (150)
4. Guarantee Facility                                800          800
(-)          (-)
5. PPF Refinancing                                  330           330
(330)        (330)
Total                                  250          6250         6500
:_________ __________   ___________(250)  (4950)   (5200)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure Category     Contract Value      Procurement Method     Contracts Subject to
(Threshold)                                 Prior Review
Goods                 Equal or more than    ICB                    Equal or more than
US$200,000                                   US$100,000
Equal or more than    NCB
US$50,000 but less than
US$200,000
Less than US$50,000   National Shopping
Equal or more than
Services                                                           US$50,000 for
individuals and
US$100,000 for firms
Numbers may not add up due to rounding.



Page 31
Disbursements
Disbursements would be fully documented except for expenditures for operating costs, training, and
contracts for goods and consulting firms costing less than US$100,000 equivalent and for individual
consultants costing less than US$50,000 and US$100,000 for vehicles, motorcycles and goods, on the basis
of Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). Expenditures above 20% of the Special Account deposit may be
claimed through a direct payment. All supporting documentation for all expenditures financed from the
IDA Credit would be kept at the implementing agency for review by IDA supervision missions and
independent auditors.
Special Account
To facilitate project implementation, the Government would open a Special Account, benefiting the
implementing agency, in the amount of CFAF 400 million at a local commercial bank on terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA. Upon loan effectiveness, an initial amount of CFAF 200 million would be
deposited in the Special Account. The remaining balance will be made available when the total amount
withdrawn from the account of the project amounts to US$ 2.5 million. Special account replenishments
should be submitted on a monthly basis.
The Credit funds are expected to be disbursed faster than the standard disbursement profile for agricultural
projects in Burkina Faso. The implementation period is shorter because the project is in essence a private
sector support operation, which includes time-bound technical assistance and is implemented by an NGO.
Table C: Allocation of IDA Credit Proceeds
Disbursement Category                   Amounts                  Financing Percentage
(US$'OOO)
1. Goods and Equipment                    250               100% of foreign expenditures and
80% of local expenditures
2. Service Contracts*                     4200              100%
3. Operating Costs                         150              90%
4. Refunding of PPF                       330
Unallocated                              270
Total                                     5,200
*Service Contracts include:
- Contract between the Government and APIPAC for the technical execution of the Project
(Execution Protocol);
- Contracts between APIPAC and subcontractors (Consultants, Consulting Firms, NGOs, Public Services,
Projects); and,
- Contracts between UCOF or APIPAC and consulting finns for monitoring/evaluation and other studies.



Page 32
Annex 5
Burkina Faso Project
Pilot Private Irrigation Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                           Planned                 Actual
(At final PCD stage)
152.3                  65.81
B. Project Schedule                                  Planned                 Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project: Six months  06/01/97 to 11/12/97   06/01/97 to 11/14/97
First Bank mission                                   07/01/97               07/01/97
Appraisal mission departure (post-appraisal)                                05/23/98
Negotiations                                         03/15/98               10/20/98
Date of Approval                                    05115/98               01/12/99
Planned Date of Effectiveness                        09/30/98               06/15/99
Prepared by: Ministry of Agriculture, with assistance from FAO/CP
Preparation ass,istance: Japanese Grant; PPF
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                        Specialty
Francois Gadelle                            Irrigation Specialist
Dirk Prevoo                                Operations Analyst
Wilda Sajous                                 Task Assistant
Sidi Jammeh                                Task Team Leader
FAO/CP TEAM who worked on the Project:
Helhnar Trupke                                Team Leader
Simon Hocombe                            Senior Agricultural Advisor
Jean-Marc Faures                            Irrigation Specialist
Actual cost does not include time recording for FAO/CP input.



Page 33
Annex 6
Burkina Faso
Pilot Private Irrigation Project
Monitoring and Evaluation System
Project Development Objectives, Key Outcome and Outputs
1.     The main objective of the Project Burkina Pilot Private Irrigation Project is to test and evaluate an
approach for the prDvision of demand-driven support services necessary to develop an efficient, sustainable small
irrigation sub-sector in Burkina Faso. The key outcome of the project is the establishment of a non governmental
delivery system of demand-driven support services to private small scale irrigation and related activities. Project
outputs, consistent with this outcome, include:
(1) A privately managed, representative irrigation promotion agency, capable of delivering demand-driven
support services to private small scale irrigation, upstream and downstream of production, has been
established and is fully operational.
(2) Cost-elfective processes and procedures for identijying and delivering demand-driven support services
to induce sustainable growth of private small scale irrigation and related activities have been developed
and tested.
Key performance hidicators
2.     The key performance indicators, detailed in table 1 below, include two main types:
(a) Economic impact indicators: increases induced by project activities in numbers of beneficiaries, in on-
farm and off-farm incomes, employment, and investments in irrigation and related activities; improved
access by private irrigation smallholders to product and factor markets, and to financial services; and
improved land tenure security;
(b) Institutional impact indicators: increases in the number of operational private irrigation smallfarmers
groups and cooperatives; decreases in the unit cost of delivering support services for each type of support
and beneficiary and in the ratio of total support cost to economic benefits accruing to each type of
beneficiaries; increases in cost recovery ratios; and reductions in the potentially negative environmental,
social and health effects of irrigation development.
Objectives and key components of the M&E System
3.     The objectives of the proposed M&E system are to provide the necessary information needed by: (i)
APIPAC and its technical implementation unit, on a continuous basis, for improving their operations; (ii) by
Government and the Bank at critical times in the project's life (supervision missions and mid-term review) to
determine the needed adjustments in the design of the operation; and (iii) by Government and the Bank to assess, at
the end of this operation, the opportunity for expanding on a larger scale part or all of the delivery system(s)
developed by the project (end of project review). The M&E system will thus have two main components: (a) an
internal performance and impact monitoring system; and (b) external evaluations and assessments of beneficiary
response and impact of activities contracted out to agencies or enterprises external to the project.



Page 34
Information requirements
4.      Three types of information, closely linked to the key performance indicators detailed above, are needed to
achieve the objectives of the proposed M&E system. The first relates to quantitative information required for the
detennination of the cost-effectiveness of each support operation undertaken by the project and of the project as a
whole. The second is essentially qualitative and would include both descriptive and analytical information
pertaining to the processes and procedures used for determining the nature of the demand of services by
beneficiaries, and for delivering the services to the beneficiaries. The third relates, to the perception of the
beneficiaries themselves of the effectiveness of the support received.
5.      Quantitative information on the costs and benefits of support operations will include:
A.      the incremental benefits to target beneficiaries and other stake holders, comporting:
(i) the direct economic benefits accruing to the target beneficiaries of the support;
(ii) the indirect benefits accruing to other economic actors collaborating in the support operation
(buyers of product, suppliers of farm inputs and economic services; suppliers of financial services,
etc.);
(iii) the indirect benefits accruing to other stake holders through the diffusion of the techniques
and technologies promoted by the support operation;
B.      the incremental costs to target beneficiaries and other stake holders, comporting:
(i) the direct economic costs incurred by the target beneficiaries of the support;
(ii) the indirect costs incurred by other economic actors collaborating in the support operation
(buyers of product, suppliers of farm inputs and economic services; suppliers of financial services,
etc.);
(iii) the indirect costs incurred by other stake holders through the diffusion of the techniques and
technologies promoted by the support operation;
C.      the costs of delivering/receiving the demand driven support services, including:
(i) the costs incurred directly by the implementation unit, including the operation's imputed share
of overhead costs, of setting up the operation, of delivering the support services, and of
monitoring and evaluation the operation;
(ii) the costs of support service delivery subcontracts;
(iii) the costs incurred by the target beneficiaries and by other economic actors collaborating in the
support operation.
6.      Typically, the proposed M&E system should be capable of providing for each support operation (sub-
project), the summary information presented in the following table.



Page 35
Table 1: Detailed Key Performance Indicators
Development objective             Key outputs                            Performance indicators
An operational non          (1) A non governmental,           1.1. APIPAC's TPU established, organized,
governmental delivery       representative, privately managed  staffed, and ready to implement project;
system of demand-driven    agency, capable of delivering      1.2. APIPAC's TPU fully operational;
support servkes to p7rivate   demand-driven support services    1.3. Steady increases in numbers of project
small scale irrigation and    to private small scale irrigation  beneficiaries among:
related activities          and related activities.              1.31. small scale irrigation farmers,
1.32. micro-enterprises involved in marketing
and processing of irrigation products,
1.33. micro-enterprises supplying equipment,
inputs and services to irrigation farmers;
1.4. Steady increases in the overall cost recovery
ratio arising from increased contributions of
beneficiaries to the cost of support services
delivery.
(2) Cost-effective processes and    2.1. Economic impact indicators, measured by
procedures for identifying and    steady increases in:
delivering demand-driven support     2.11. on-farm and off-farm incomes induced by
services to induce sustainable       project support activities to small scale
growth ofprivate small scale         irrigation and related activities; and in
irrigation and related activities.   2.12. increases in on-farm and off-farm
employment induced by project activities;
2.2. Developmental impact indicators measured by
steady increases in:
2.21. the proportion of marketed output of
small scale irrigation farmers;
2.22. use of improved seeds, fertilizer, and
other inputs;
2.23. private on-farm and off-farm investments
in irrigation and related activities;
2.24. on-farm and off-farm investments
fnancing and in short term credit;
2.25. the number of smallholder irrigator
having achieved land tenure security; and in
2.26. the number of fully operational grassroots
associations and cooperatives active in private
small scale irrigation and related activities.
2.3. Cost effectiveness indicators as measured by
steady decreases in:
2.31. the unit delivery cost of each type of
support; and in
2.41. the ratio of total support cost to aggregate
economic benefits accruing to beneficiaries.
2.4 .Environmental sustainability indicators, as
measured by effective mitigation of potentially
negative:
2.41. environmental effects;
2.42. health effects; and
2.43. social effects.



Page 36
Table 2: Summary of Benefits and Costs of a Typical Support Operations
APIPAC   Contractor    Beneficiary    Other  Total
Cash   Labor   actors
Support costs
Overhead (imputed)                          X          X         X        X       X       X
Market opportunities and needs assessment   X          X         X        X       X       X
Identification/selection of target          X          X         X        X       X       X
beneficiaries                                   X           X         X       X       X       X
Determination of support services           X          X         X        X       X       X
Delivery of support services
Beneficiary's Incremental Benefits:                                   X       X       X       X
Beneficiary's Incremental Costs:
Investment costs *                                               X        X       X       X
Operating costs                                                  X        X       X       X
Net Balance *                                                         X       X       X       X
Note:  * For investment amortized over more than one year, use annual amortization.
7.     Descriptive and analytical information on the procedures used for determining the demand for support
services and for delivering them should specify what was done, how, by whom, and when, during the following
critical stages of the support delivery process:
(a) The identifcation of demand for support services , including preliminary assessment of market
opportunities supporting the proposed support operation, needs assessment of potential beneficiaries,
identification of key collaborating actors and of potential provider of such services, etc.;
(b) The establishment of the implementation plan for the delivery of support services, including selection of
target beneficiaries and assessment of their specific support needs, selection of other collaborating actors
and of support service providers; establishment of implementation timetable and preliminary assessment of
the costs and benefits incurred or accruing to all actors involved in the operation, etc.);
(c) The implementation of the support operation, including formalizing implementation arrangements
(technical protocols, contractual agreements, financing/cost sharing commitments, etc.), and
implementation proper.
Beneficiary response and impact assessment should combine internal and external assessments. Internal
assessments will be systematically incorporated in all support operations. There will be one external
assessment each year which will provide the basis of the joint mid-term review and of the implementation
completion reviews. These external beneficiary assessments will be contracted out to specialized
enterprises or agencies not involved in project operations.



Page 37
Annex 7
Burkina Faso
Pilot Private Irrigation Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Project Cost Tables
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Supervision Plan
C. Other
1.     Les Documents Juridiques portant creation de L'Association de l'Irrigation Privee et des
Activilts Connexes (APIPAC);
Statuts de I'Association.
Reglement Interieur.
Proces Verbal de l'Assembl6e Gdn6rale Constitutive de l'Association.
Mise au point des Documents Juridiques et Operationnels de
l'Association:
Convention entre le Gouvemement du Burkina Faso et APIPAC;
Manuel de Procedures du Secretariat Ex6cutif, APIPAC
2.     Document de Travail (Working Papers):
#1     Intensification et Diversification Agricole.
#2     Ddveloppement de l'krrigation Priv6e.
#3     Les Financements des differents acteurs de la fili6re irrigation
priv6e.
#4     Input and equipment supply, produce marketing and
processing.
#5     Monitoring and Evaluation.



Annex 8
Status of Bank Group Operations in Burkina Faso
Operations Portfolio
As of 07-Dec-98
Difference Between
expected
O'riginl Am-un- in Us$ Millions                     and actual
--scal                                                                                                                                  disbursements a.
9rnl ee . i    Year                GCrr  .er                    Purpose
IBRi        IDiA     Cancellations  Undisbursed         3rig     Frm Re. d
Numrb,er vi O-].cSa Pro jects: 36
Active Erc iect
9F-PE-58928      1999   EURKINIA FASO                     SAC IT T.00                                           15.2         0.00              15.25         9.
BF-PE-296        1996   ,DVFR]illEIIT                     AG SERVICES II                             1.y'       *i.30        0.2               40.23         5.66 .      0.00
BF-PE-283        ;99-   G:T DF BURKilpA                   MINIIIIG CAPACITY BUIL                    v.00        21.4 2.20                      19.33         1.06        0.00
SF-PE -_i        199    G^VT DF BURPINA FASO,             POST-PRIMARi EDUC .                        '.ID       26.22        0.00              23.43         3.56        0.00        p
BF-PE-29-        1995   G-V'ERIN-EIIT                     URBAIN EIV               0.0     0 _ 00 0.00                                         26.29        8.71         8.69
BF-PE-28-        1994   BURKINA FASOD                     HEALTH,'NUTRITIO-1                        J.00        29.2-        0.00              16.05         8.66        0.00
BF-PE-lI08       1994   GOVT DF BURKIilA FAS&             POPULATTONAIDS CC'NT                      0.00        26.3         0.0               14.17         8.43        0.00
BF-PE-289        1993   BURKIIIA FASQ                     PRIVATE SECTOR ASSIS                      0.00         -.0D        0.00               4.12         4.01        0.00
BF-PE- 0l        1993   GOVT                              FD00  SECURITY                             2.00 ~.50               2.00                .70          .20        0.00
BF-PE-2?6        1992   BURKIIIA FAS-                     TRANSPDRT SECAL                            2.00       66.11 O.20                     16.61        13.52        7.49
BE-PE-3r1        1992   GOVERNMENT                        PUBLIC INSTITUTIONAL                      r.00        15.01        0.0                7.03         6.40        0.00
BP-PE-2e2        1991   BURKIINA FASO'                    EDUCATION IV                              0.0'        24.0'        0.00                .10        -1.97        0.00
BF-PE-290        1991   BURKIIIA FAS2                     ENVIRON4MENTAL MGMT                       C. 0C       16.50        1.00               2.26         2.55        2.05
Total                                                                                                0.00'    3_32.21 2'.00'                  185.57        60.79       18.23
Active Projects       Closed Projects           Total
Total Disbursed iIBRD and IDA':                  149.24               557.29              706.53
of which has been repaid:                    0.00               34.77               34.77
Total now- held by IBRD and IDA:                 332.20               487.22              819.42
Amount sold                       :                 0.00                1.85                 1.85
Of which repaid                                 C'. 0.0              1.85                1.85
Total Undisbursed                 :              185.57                 1.00              185.57
a. Int-nded disbursements tov date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
IIcte:
Disbujrsement data is updated at the end of the first ;:eek of the month and is currentl',' as of 30-Nov-98.



Page 39
Annex 8
Burkina Faso
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 3 1-Oct-98
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                              IFC
FY Approval             Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic
1997                   Ecobank-Burkina         0.00      .25    0.00    0.00    0.00      .25    0.00    0.00
1998                   SGBB                    0.00      .38    0.00    0.00    0.00      .38    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                    0.00      .63    0.00    0.00    0.00      .63    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equitv   Quasi  Partic
1999                   AEF FASOMINE             1.00     .52    0.00    0.00
Total Pendinig Comnnitiient:         1.00     .52    0.00    0.00
(ienerated by the (O)perations hifonuation System (OIS) on 12/11/98



Page 40
Amnex 9
Burkina Faso at a glance
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                Burkina  Saharan       Low-
Faso     Africa  income       Development diamond*
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                       10.9      614      2,048                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas mewhod, USS)                    240       500       350
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                       2.6      309       722
Average annual growth, '1991-97
Population (%)                                         2.8       2.7       2.1     GNP                              Gri\
Labor force (%)                                        2.1       2.6       2.3      p                               Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                              capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)   ..                   .
Urban population (% of total population)               17        32        28
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       46        52        59
Infant mortality (per 1, 000 'Wive birtls)             97        90        78
Child malnutrition (% orchildren under 5)              33                  61                Access to safe water
Access to safe waler (% o!populatIon)                  78         44       71
Illiteracy (% ofpopulation age 15+)                    81        43        47
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  38         75       91                   Burkia Faso
Male                                                 46        82       100                   Low-income group
Female                                               30        67        81
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS, and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986       1996      1997
Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                           0.87      1.9       2.5       2.4
Gross domestic investment/GDP                25.8    21.6       24.8      25.4                     Trade
Exports of goods and serv ces/GDP             9.3      9.4      12.2      13.8
Gross domestic savings/GOP                    6.5    -1.4        7.5       9.2
Gross nalional savings/GDP                    6.5      9.4      12.7      14.1
Current account balance/GDP                 -13.4   -12.2      -12.0    -11 4      Dmst
Interest payments/GDP                         0.2      0.6       0.6       016     Domestic                    Investment
Total debt/GDP                                9.9    34.3       51.0      54.2     Savings
Total debt service/exports                    3.0     10.1      11.3      11.2
Present value of debt/GDF'                                      25.9
Present value of debtlexports                                  152.5
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97    1996       1997   1998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  3.6      3.0      6.0       5.5       5.6                   Burkina Faso
GNP per capita                       1.2      0.0      3.2       2.9       3.0                   Low-income group
Exports of goods and ser\ices       2.6      0.4       1.8      14.2-      5.5 5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996      1997      Growth rates of output and investment (%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                  34.8     33.4      34.8      32.1
Industry                                     30.1     22.1      25.2      26.8     40                     /
Manufacturing                              19.6     16.2        ..               20
Services                                     35.1     44.5      40.0      41.0      0         95                   7
-   20     92  -      S~9         6 9
Private consumption                          82.0     86.9      79.3      78.5    -40
General government consumption               11.4     14.5      13.1      12.3                     G01    -GDP
Imports of goods and services                28.5    32.4       29.5      30.1
1976-86  1987-97      1996      1997      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growt Ii)
Agriculture                                   2.2      3.6       7.4       0.7    40
Industry                                      2.0      1.1       3.3      10.6    20
Manufacturing                               2.6
Services                                      7.6      2.9       6.5       8.0      o
Private consumption                           3.1      2.6       2.6       5.7   -20 -
General government consumption                7.3      1.6       2.6       5.7
Gross domestic investment                     5.4      2.4      35.0       0.2   -40
Imports of goods and services                 3.8      0.4       9.8       0.9                   Exports   -Imports
Gross national product                        3.7      2.8       6.0       5.7
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the counlry (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 41
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986      1996      1997     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                          30 -
Consumer prices                                 ..    -2.7        6.1       2.3     20
Implicit GDP deflator                          6.7     -7.3       4.5       2.0
Govemment finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                               93    94   95   96   97
Current revenue                              144.1     10.6      14.4      13.7    -10
Current budget balance                       62.0       0.0       4.0       3.6             -     GDP deflator   OCPI
Overall surplus/deficit                      -36.5   -21.8       -7.2      -9.4
TRADE
1976    1986       1996      1997      Export and import levels (USS millions)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                             ..       ..       231      251      500
Cotton                                         .        .        97       128
Meat                                           .                 65        57
Manufactures                                                                      400
Total imports (cii)..                                    .        560      544
Food                                                              8        7
Fuel and energy                                                 1846       59
Capital goods18                                                           13 
Export price index (1995=100)                   .1   92   93   94  95   96   97
Import price index (1995=100)                   ..       ..        ..        ..              E Exports     m Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                       ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
m1976    1986      1996      1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                 100      176        310      331       
Imports of goods and services                 244      605        748      721                           94
Resource balance                             -144     -429       -438     -390
Net income                                      -8      10        -11        -5
Net current transfers                          37      191        143      123
Current account balance                      -116      -228      -306     -272    -10
Financing items (net)                         117      276        303      233
Changes in net reserves                        -2      -48          3        39
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)          ..    234         445      350
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)             239.0   346.3      511.5    583.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986      1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                      Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed           85      640      1,294     1,297
IBRD                                          0        0          0        0                  F: G66
IDA                                          17      186       636       636                  F4
Total debt service                              5       37         49        49            E:132
IBRD                                          0        0          0        0
IDA                                                    39                  9
Composition of net resource flows              2: 636
Official grants                              26      112        237      229         D 367
Official creditors23                                  873                 4
Private creditors                             2        -           
Foreign direct investment                     2        3          0        0
Portfolio equity                              0        0          0        0                      C: 92
World Bank program
Commitments                                  29        0          0       89      A - IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 7       32         50       35      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                          0        1          4        4      C -IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                     7       32         46       30   1                                            3
Interest payments                             0        2          4        5
Net transfers                                 7       30        42        26
Development Economics                                                                                                 9/30/98



4o                   go                                                          0                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAURITANIA 
BURKINA FASO                                                                                                                     M A L I                                  A
PILOT PRIVATE IRRIGATION                                                                                                                  ._-A L I
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                          ---                                                                    -RK FASONqER
PROJET PILOTE DE DEVELOPPEMENT                                                                                                                                    M.rk.ye                                     > .) uadod>a
DE L'IRRIGATION PRIVEE                                                                      __                                   G  Gt                                                  GUINEA
.-.    (11                    G ... m-Goomm.T                                                                    G (-1
0            50            100            150          200                                 I                                                          I ;                                            Dl C IRE  J|
I                                                    g_ %KILOMETKS  I                   ji  MBERIAT /E
-14'                                                                                                                                                            IA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~      ~0
1                                       KlLDMel's /oMopti                                                                            ___,sco                                 ) mDii. . kk.tio  s' .o
Thit nap  atpred-td by the                                                                                                                                         /
Map Dteign Uni of The Wodd Rank. B .A
The band-rie, olor-, denoninotion-                                   >                         U        \                                                                                                           , \        2I
and-nyother infortionOUAHIGO Yo 
thi, nap do not imply, on the part of
Tho World E=nL Group, ny jodqmont                               r,.   _-~.               ,.                                            B r \s a lto                                                                                      1
on thelgopl status nnny territory,or                          L > bOO / o\ ,vS f 3  g     u     f     3    aega Otga         lo 0 0* i B-o
any endorsementOr- cceptanc of                      -                                                                     o
-h b-2,Z4"    _'                >t                                                                                                                                                                                                            j-
rndar  Di ib=E N I GER
|' t BANF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ORD.                                                                                             0Boga.& 
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
DED0U7~~~                                             Ziaiar~~00-ZC
Te Keotiala                                                      eooI                                                                                                                                 alh
;12                   COMOE TEN,LZoJESDUfRO
Nieny-?                                                                                   OUrom  QUIGA\ <                                 "Toeltodogot
P0 m           o~r
TaStkaaao4lsRf             rra 
r                             'CEINTUR              ~        ~         ~        ~        ~        ~        ~        ~ ~ ~ ~ j413BMPIEG'N                                                                          E N I N
Oro~~  -~~     DI EOUGOU                                                                                   >s         TaRatt'ka                             To Na~~G,1wtitittg-
ISONYETS IN MILLIMETERS (AVERAGE ANNUAL RAINFALL)
ISOHY'EG EN MIIIIMETRES (QUANTIIE MOYENNE DE PLUIE ANNUEU)
ISOHYETS IN MILLIMETERS IRAINfALL, ONE YEAR IN FIVE)
angelNia    oo                                                                                                                   I V   G a o u a   tSe  =  lSOtHYErS EN MILLIMETRES (GUANTIl-E DE PLUIE ONE ANNEE SUE SUR CINQI
a & j v55 / j <4 N | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PAVED ROADS
T.0   A1                                   -                                                                                                          ROUTES BITUMEES
10'  ToAbiden                     >. _                       -       1200                                                               UNPAVED ROADS (NATIONAL, PRIMARY, SECONDARY) - ALL WEATHER USE                                10'
_-       U NPAVED ROADS (PRIIEMARpY AMNAD SECOTNDAcYN)  INTRMITEN USAEIERITN
ROUTES NON-RITUMEES (NATIONAUF$, PRIMAIRES, SECONDAIRES) - USAGE TOUTES SAlSONS
ROUTES NON-BITUMEES (PRIMAIRES ET 5ECONDSAIRES) - USAGE INTERMITTENT
, ~ RAILROADS
JrsnJ,</                                                       <<>                             ;                                                                     CHEMINS DE FERS
RIVERS
FL EUVyES
a0    r T    r   z t    I   'j\/ Irsil                                               D                                                 - -     _ _ _ INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
rnl~~~~~~6    E   D                              R LE  l VI1                                                                                                   FRONTlERES INTERNATlONALES                                                                         >
'0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      On L  {  20  oo  2  2 
aa_                                                       I ,        LtI_                                                                                                                                         



