Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3161 BUR
Development Credit Agreement
(Pilot Private Irrigation Development Project)
between
BURKINA FASO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 8, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3161 BUR 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated February 8, 1999, between BURKINA FASO (the Borrower) and the 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement.
Page  2
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15): 
“12.
“Participating Country” means any country that the Association 
determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 
1996; and “Participating Countries” means, 
collectively, all such countries.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“APIPAC” means Association des Professionnels de l'Irrigation Privée et 
des Activités Connexes, established pursuant to its statutes, dated August 22, 1997;  
(b)
“Beneficiary” means a farmer engaged in irrigation or an enterprise 
involved in the marketing, transportation or processing of irrigation products; 
(c)
“CFAF” means the currency of the Borrower; 
(d)
“Escrow Account” means the account to be opened pursuant to paragraph 6 
(b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(e)
“Execution Protocol” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and APIPAC, referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement and paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes any attachments to the Execution Protocol;
(f)
“Fiscal Year” means the period from January 1 to December 31; 
(g)
“Guarantee” means a guarantee issued, or to be issued, by the Borrower 
against risk of non-performance by a Beneficiary, to a Participating Lending 
Institution (as hereinafter defined) in respect of a loan made by such Participating 
Lending Institution to a Beneficiary; 
(h)
“Guarantee Facility” means the guarantee facility referred to in Part D 
of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(i)
“Guarantee Facility Manual” means the manual referred to in paragraph 6 
of Schedule 4 of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes any schedules to the Guarantee Facility Manual; 
(j)
“MAGRI” means Ministère de l’Agriculture, the Borrower’s ministry 
responsible for agriculture; 
(k)
“Midterm Review” means the midterm review referred to in paragraph 5 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(l)
“Participating Lending Institution” means a lending institution, 
satisfactory to the Association, which makes or proposes to make loans to a 
Beneficiary and for whose benefit the Guarantees are issued, or are to be issued, by 
the Borrower;
Page  3
(m)
“Procedures Manual” means the manual referred to in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement and adopted pursuant to Section 5.01 (b) of this 
Agreement outlining the procurement, disbursement and other arrangements for the 
implementation of the Project, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes any schedules to the Procedures Manual; 
(n)
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.04 of this 
Agreement; 
(o)
“Project Account Deposit” means an amount in CFAF equivalent to $5,000 
referred to in Section 3.04 (b) of this Agreement and in paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; 
(p)
“Project Director” means the head of the Technical Project Unit (as 
hereinafter defined); 
(q)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower by letter dated July 29, 1996 between the 
Borrower and the Association; 
(r)
“TPU” means the Technical Project Unit, the project execution unit within 
APIPAC, to be established pursuant to Section 5.01 (d) of this Agreement and referred 
to in paragraph 4 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(s)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(t)
“Steering Committee” means the Comité d’Orientation et de Suivi, an 
inter-ministerial committee comprising, inter alia, members of the Ministries of 
Agriculture, Environment and Water Resources, Economy and Finance, Commerce, Industry 
and Crafts, Territorial Administration and Labor, chaired by the Ministry of 
Agriculture, to be established pursuant to Section 5.01 (e) and referred to in 
paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 
(u)
“UCOF” means l’Unité de Coordination des Opérations Financières, the 
financial coordination unit in the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture, to be 
established pursuant to Section 5.01 (c) of this Agreement and referred to in 
paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to three million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 3,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFAF a special deposit account in the name of UCOF in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement. 
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Page  4
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish at the request of the Borrower.  The Association shall 
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each May 1 and November 1, commencing May 1, 2009 and ending November 1, 2038.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on November 1, 2018 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Page  5
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.  
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
Parts A, C, D and E of the Project through MAGRI and Part B of the Project through 
APIPAC with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, environmental and agricultural practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) For the purposes of carrying out part B of the Project, the 
Borrower shall enter into the Execution Protocol with APIPAC, pursuant to which the 
Borrower shall: (i) entrust APIPAC with the execution of Part B of the Project; 
(ii) employ APIPAC in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement; (iii) cause APIPAC to carry out Part B of the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
environmental and agricultural practices; and (iv) take any action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources necessary or appropriate 
to enable APIPAC to carry out Part B of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall duly perform all its obligations under the Execution 
Protocol and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with the carrying out of Part B of the Project. Except as the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the 
Execution Protocol or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.04. Without limitation on the provisions of Section 3.01, the Borrower 
shall: 
(a) 
open and maintain, until the completion of the Project, a Project Account 
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association; 
(b)
deposit into the Project Account the Project Account Deposit referred to 
in paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(c)
thereafter, following the deposit of the Project Account Deposit, deposit 
annually into the Project Account the amounts required for further implementation of 
the Project which shall not be financed from the proceeds of the Credit, as follows: 
(i) $5,000 equivalent for the second Fiscal Year; and (ii) $5,000 equivalent for the 
third Fiscal Year; and (d) ensure that the amounts deposited into the Project Account 
in accordance with paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this Section will be used 
exclusively to finance the Borrower’s contribution to the expenditures under the 
Project and not otherwise financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the sustainability of the Project; and 
Page  6
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
accounting 
practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one 
year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year 
in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section 
and those for the Special Accounts for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested, including a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
The Execution Protocol, in form and substance acceptable to the 
Association, shall have been executed. 
(b) 
The Procedures Manual, in form and substance acceptable to the 
Association, shall have been adopted. 
(c)
UCOF, referred to in paragraph 3 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, shall 
have been established and shall be operating with an accounting and financial 
management system acceptable to the Association. 
(d)
APIPAC has established the TPU in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 4 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
(e)
The Steering Committee, referred to in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this 
Page  7
Agreement, shall have been established. 
Section 5.02. The date one hundred and fifty (150) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit 
Agreement shall terminate or on the date 15 years after the date of this Agreement, 
whichever shall be earlier.
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01.  The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministère de l'Economie et des Finances
03 BP 7050
Ouagadougou 03 / Burkina Faso
Cable address: 
Telex:
SEGEVOUV
5555
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
BURKINA FASO
By /s/ Bruno N. Zidouemba 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo 
Regional Vice President 
Page  8
Africa 
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods, equipment
   180,000
100% of foreign
and vehicles
expenditures and
85% of local
expenditures
(2)
Service contracts,
 3,000,000
100%
training and studies
(3)
Incremental operating
   100,000
90%
costs
(4)
Refunding of Project
   230,000
Amounts due pursuant
Preparation Advance
to Section 2.02 (c) 
of this Agreement
(5)
Unallocated
   190,000
TOTAL
 3,700,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”; 
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means the incremental expenses 
incurred by UCOF on account of Project implementation, financial management and 
monitoring, including office supplies, vehicle operation, travel and supervision 
costs, but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower's civil service; and 
(d)
the term “service contracts” means each of the service agreements entered 
into, or to be entered into, between, inter alia, (i) the Borrower and APIPAC, 
pursuant to the terms of the Executing Protocol; and (ii) APIPAC and private sector 
and other providers of services pursuant to the terms of the Procedures Manual.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for: (a) expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) expenditures under Categories (1) and (3) unless the Project 
Account has been duly opened and the Project Account Deposit has been deposited 
therein.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) operating costs, 
training, contracts for consulting firms, goods, service contracts, vehicles and 
motorcycles, all under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; and (ii) for 
Page  9
individual consultants under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, all under 
such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to test and evaluate the development of an 
efficient and sustainable irrigation system and a system for the provision of 
demand-driven support services to induce growth of private irrigation and related 
activities.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Support to APIPAC 
Strengthening the capacity of APIPAC to carry out Part B of the Project through 
the provision of technical advisory services, including the carrying out of an 
information campaign, training of its personnel and acquisition of vehicles and 
equipment.
Part B:
Promotion of Techniques and Technologies through On-Farm and Off-Farm 
Support 
Services 
1.
Demonstrations of Small-Scale Irrigation Equipment and Techniques
Carrying out of testing, demonstration and dissemination of low-cost irrigation 
production techniques and farm management techniques, through the provision of 
technical advisory services, training and equipment. 
2.
Promotion of Markets for Irrigated Products, Inputs and Services
Development, testing and demonstration of innovative marketing and processing 
techniques relating to: (i) irrigated products; and (ii) agricultural inputs and 
services, through the provision of studies and technical advisory services. 
3.
Access to Financial Services
Facilitation of the access by Beneficiaries to financial services, including the 
preparation of credit requests to lending institutions, through the provision of 
technical advisory services. 
4.
Access to Land Tenure Security
Assistance to Beneficiaries on actions required to comply with the legal or 
customary procedures necessary in order to obtain land tenure security and other 
property rights, through the provision of technical advisory services. 
5.
Support for Grassroots Farmers’ Associations
Strengthening of the capacity of grassroots farmers’ associations to provide 
support to their members related to entering into agreements with: (i) marketing and 
processing enterprises; (ii) suppliers of agricultural inputs and services; and (iii) 
financial intermediaries, through the provision of training and technical advisory 
services.
Part C:
Monitoring and Evaluation 
1.
Establishment of an independent and external monitoring evaluation system to 
monitor the performance of APIPAC and the implementation of the Project, and the 
design of a program to overcome any constraints encountered during the implementation 
of the Project, through the provision of technical advisory services and the 
acquisition of equipment. 
Page  10
2.
The carrying out of a study on the environmental impact of private irrigation on 
aquifers and water quality and the design of proposals to overcome any negative 
environmental impact, through the provision of technical advisory services.
Part D:
Guarantee Facility 
Provision of technical advisory services in order to assist the Borrower in the 
establishment of the Guarantee Facility, including the Escrow Account, to test whether 
the provision of guarantees to lending institutions to provide against risks of 
non-performance by a Beneficiary would facilitate a Beneficiary’s access to credit.
Part E:
Support to UCOF 
Strengthening the capacity of UCOF to carry out the financial management of the 
Project through the provision of advisory services, training of its personnel and 
acquisition of vehicles and equipment.
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General 
1.
Goods shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of Section I of 
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and in September 1997, 
subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the 
Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I. 
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country.”
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures National Competitive Bidding 
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  11
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in paragraph 2 of 
this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following Parts 
of this Section II. 
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country.”
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The shortlist of consultants for services for training and studies under Parts A, C, D 
and E of the Project, estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for service contracts under Part B of the Project estimated to cost 
less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for studies under Parts A and C of the Project which are estimated to 
cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract and services under Part B of the 
Project may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for preparing the follow-up project under Part A of the Project shall 
be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
Page  12
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for 
Part A estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program 
1.
General
For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall: (i) carry out 
the Project in accordance with the procedures set out in the Execution Protocol and 
the Procedures Manual; and (ii) not amend or waive any provision thereof which, in the 
opinion of the Association, may materially and adversely affect the carrying out of 
the Project.
2.
Responsibility of the Steering Committee
(a)
The Borrower shall establish, under terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Association, and thereafter maintain, the Steering Committee.
(b)
The Steering Committee shall be in charge of the overall supervision of 
the Project and shall be responsible, inter alia, for:
(i)
monitoring the proper enforcement of the Execution Protocol; and
(ii)
approving APIPAC’s annual work program and budget.
3.
Responsibility of UCOF
(a)
The Borrower shall establish, under terms and reference satisfactory to 
the Association, and thereafter maintain, UCOF.
(b)
UCOF shall employ competent staff in adequate numbers with qualifications 
and experience satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.  The personnel of 
UCOF shall be appointed by the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture.
(c)
UCOF shall be in charge of the overall financial supervision of the 
Project and shall be responsible, inter alia, for:
(i)
preparing the meetings of the Steering Committee, including 
reports on the 
financial implementation of the Project;
(ii)
monitoring the execution of APIPAC’s annual work program and 
budget;
(iii)
administering the Special Account, including remitting payments to 
APIPAC for 
all services rendered pursuant to the Execution Protocol and 
remitting 
payments to any consultants retained by APIPAC to 
execute Part B of the 
Project;
Page  13
(iv)
coordinating the purchase of goods necessary for the carrying out 
of the 
Project; and
(v)
monitoring all reporting, accounting and audits related to the 
Project.
4.
Responsibility of APIPAC
(a)
APIPAC shall maintain, in a form and with functions and staffing 
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association, the TPU.  The members of the TPU 
(i) shall be employed in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement; and (ii) will report to the Project Director.  All positions within 
the TPU shall be maintained at least until the completion of the Project, and such 
positions shall be at all times filled by persons with qualifications, experience and 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association.
(b)
The TPU shall operate under the financial supervision of UCOF and shall 
be responsible, inter alia, for:
(i)
executing Part B of the Project, including responsibility for the 
processing 
and proposing of Beneficiary requests for APIPAC support to 
the Board of 
Directors of APIPAC, entering into agreements with 
consultants who shall be 
employed in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, recommending any 
modifications in the design and execution of Part 
B the Project, and 
relations with Beneficiaries, governmental agencies, the 
private 
sector, non-governmental organizations and any other stakeholders;
(ii)
preparing semiannual reports, not later than March 31 and 
September 30, for 
review and comment by the Association, relating to 
the implementation progress 
under Part B of the Project, taking into 
account the input received from any 
non-governmental organizations 
and any other entities involved in the carrying 
out of the Project; 
and
(iii)
preparing, by September 30 of each year, starting September 30, 
1999, for the 
approval of the Steering Committee and the 
Association, its annual work 
program and budget, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request. 
5.
Midterm Review
(a)
The Borrower shall, jointly with APIPAC and the Association, carry out, 
not later than December 31, 2000, a Midterm Review on the progress made in carrying 
out the Project. The Midterm Review shall, inter alia, assess: 
(i)
the progress made in carrying out the various components of the 
Project, 
including compliance with financial, audit and other 
covenants relating to the 
Project;
(ii)
the progress made in carrying out the Guarantee Facility and the 
operation of 
the Escrow Account under Part D of the Project;
(iii)
the progress of the implementation of the Project, in accordance 
with 
indicators satisfactory to the Association; and
(iv)
any corrective measures that need to be taken including changes, 
if any, in 
the scope and content of the Project or the implementation 
arrangements relating 
thereto. 
(b)
The Borrower shall, at least three weeks prior to the Midterm Review, 
furnish to the Association a report describing the status of the items listed in (i), 
(ii), (iii) and (iv) above and in Project implementation generally. 
(c)
The Borrower shall, following such Midterm Review, undertake to act 
promptly and diligently in order to take any corrective action deemed necessary to 
Page  14
remedy any shortcoming noted in Project implementation or to implement such other 
measures as may have been agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of the 
objectives of the Project.
6.
Guarantee Facility
(a)
For the purposes of Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall, by June 
30, 1999, prepare and transmit to the Association the Guarantee Facility Manual, 
acceptable to the Association, giving details of operational guidelines governing the 
Guarantee Facility, including (i) procedures relating to the Borrower’s deposits of 
funds into the Escrow Account; (ii) eligibility criteria for the provision of 
Guarantees; (iii) procedures for submission and processing of Guarantee applications; 
(iv) criteria for the determination of applicable Guarantee fees and risk-sharing 
arrangements; (v) model forms of Guarantees; (vi) procedures for the processing of 
claims and for the resolution of claim-related disputes; and (vii) procedures relating 
to payments to the Participating Lending Institutions out of the Escrow Account.
(b)
 Promptly after the Borrower shall have received notification that the 
Association has approved the Guarantee Facility Manual, the Borrower shall (i) open 
and maintain an Escrow Account in the form of an interest-bearing account in a 
commercial bank, on such terms and conditions as shall be satisfactory to the 
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment; 
and (ii) deposit into the Escrow Account funds required to fund Guarantees issued or 
to be issued by the Borrower pursuant to Part D of the Project, as follows: (A) not 
less than $250,000 equivalent for the first Fiscal Year; (B)
not less than 
$300,000 for the second Fiscal Year; and (C)
not less than $250,000 equivalent for 
the third Fiscal Year.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means 400 million CFAF to be withdrawn 
from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 200 million CFAF until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed 2 million U.S. 
Dollars.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Page  15
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for the Special 
Account shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be. 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
Page  16
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
