Document of
The World Bank
fiOtd OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11827-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
NTPC POWER GENERATION PROJECT
JUNE 4, 1993
MICROFICHE COPY
Report No.:11827-IN         Types (SAR)
Title:  NATIONAL THERMAL POWER CORPORA
Author: STORM, T.
Ext. :81461 Room:G 3074 Dept.:SA2EG
Energy Operations Division
Country Department II
South Asia Region
Thiscna           d      iat   n and may be used by reidpients only in the peato
thi flja  uis  ts conents may gm Otherwise be disc.ied wi.t_   W.1d Dan _uthori=6io.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of April 26, 1993)
Currency Unit              Rupees (Rs)
Rs 1.00           -        Paise 100
Rs 1,000,000      =        US$ 33,113
US$1.00                    Rs 30.2
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 Kilometer (km)                =  1,000 meters (m) = 0.6214 miles (mi)
1 Meter (m)                     =  39.37 inches (in)
1 Cubic Meter (m3)              =  1.31 cubic yard (cu yd) - 35.35 cu. ft.
1 Ton tt)                       =  1,000 kilograms (kg) = 2,200 lbs
1 Kilovolt (kV)                 =  1,000 volts (V)
1 Kilovolt-ampere (kVA)         -  1,000 volts-amperes (VA)
1 Megawatt (MW)                 =  1,000 kilowatts (Kw) = 1 million watts
1 Kilowatt-hour (kWh)           =  1,000 watt-hours
1 Megawatt-hour (MWh)           =  1,000 kilowatts-hours
1 Gigawatt-hour (GWh)           =  1,000,000 kilowatt-hours
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB       Asian Development Bank
AEC       Abmedabad Electricity Company
BSES      Bombay Suburban Electric Supply Ltd.
CEA       Central Electricity Authority
CESC      Calcutta Electric Supply Corporation
GOI       Government of India
HVDC      High Voltage Direct Current
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
LCB       Local Competitive Bidding
LICB      Limited International Competitive Bidding
LRMC      Long-run Marginal Cost
LTIPS     Long Term Issues in the Power Sector study
MOP       Ministry of Power
NHPC      National Hydroelectric Power Corporation
NTPC      National Thermal Power Corporation
ODA       Overseas Development Administration
PFC       Power Finance Corporation Limited
POWERGRID Power Grid Corporation of India
SEB       State Electricity Board
SCF       Standard Conversion Factor
The Act   Electricity Supply Act of 1948
USAID     United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



IFOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
NTPC POWER GENERATION PROJECT
STAF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Pate No.
Loan and Project Sumary  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . iv
Ie  SECTORAL CONTEXT                                                       I * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * e * * 1
Eoergy - Economy Interface  .        . . . . . ..  ... . . 1
Organization and Regulation of the Power Sector   . . . . . . . . 2
Electricity Supply, Demand and Tariffs  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Past Bank Group Operations in the Power Sector  . . . . . . . . . 5
Power Sector Reform   . . . . . . . . . * . a . . . . . ...      7
Rationale and Strategy for Bank Support for
Power Sector Reforms        . . .      . . . . . . . . .      10
II. THE BORROWER - NATIONAL THERMAL POUR CORPORATION  . . . . . . . . . . 11
Zntroducetion  . . . . . . . . . . . ......... 11        te*00        
Recent Power Sector Policy Reforms Affecting NTPC . . . . . . . . 12
organization and Mansement   . . . . . . . . . . ... .....1
Staffing and Training    . . . . . . . .... . .. .... .. 14
Generation Facilities and Operational Performance   . . . . . . . 15
Environment, Rehabilitation and Resettlement  . . . . . . . . . . 1S
NTPC Tariffs and the Emrging Bulk Power Market . . . . . . . . . 16
.TPC's Investment Program .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
NTPC'sFuture Role in the Indian Power Sector   . . . .*. . .* . .  23
This report was prepared by Messrs. Tjaarda P. Storm van Leenwen (Senior
Financial Analyst), Argun Ceyban (Senior Power Engineer). Hiroyaki Fujii
(Power Engineer), Iara Hyman (Energy Economist), Alfred Picardi (Environmental
Consultant) with contributions from David Butcher (ASTIR), Gregor Dolenc
(SA2CI), Ashraf Ohani (ASTIR), Akbar Eaaja (Financial Analyst), Tod Ragsdale
(Consultant) Sam Thangaraj (NDO) and Yaacov Ziv (ASTEN). Administrative
assistance was provided by Ms. Vivi Scott. The report has been endorsed by
Mr. Heinz Vergin, Director, India Department and Mr. Jean-FranBois Bauer,
Division Chief, Energy Operations Division, India Department.
This dcuont has a reatticted distributloo ad may be used by teipients only ir the. premc
of their oficial duties. Its conts may not otherwise be disclosed wtht World  isuthordon.



- At -
EPLe go.
ProjectDesciptives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
ProJect DOb3cCtIves   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Project Components  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
3mCI' Investment Program and Fnancin  Plan  ... . . . . . .  . 27
Basis for Cost Estimates  ........      ........ *             2
Lending Arrangemento and Security Arransements  . . . . . . . . . 29
Generation Capacity Additions   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
Procurement . . * . *. . . . . ...*... .a  . . ..... - a . . . .  s30
Disbursements   . . . . . . . . . . .      *                   32
Enviromental Aspects   .....................33
Resettlement and Rehabilitation   ..........                   34
Project Monitoring and Implmentation Review  . . . . . . . . . . 35
I.   FINNCE    .  .  .   . *  9  *  9  9  *     9   *  * ......  .  .  .  35
wnancial Managemt       . 9 * * *  * * ..* .*. 9 9 9 9 9 9 9  9 9 9 35
Paver  Sales  .  .  .  ..............  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . 37 *   37
Billing and Collection  . .................... 38
NTPCsHistoricFinancialPerformnce    .............. . 5S9
NTPC's Current inancialPosition   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .40
Financing andInvestmt Program  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
Future Finances   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
V.   PKOJECT JUSTIFICATION  * *  *..  * # .   . .  . * . . . .. ... . *. * 44
Economic Analysis   . . . .*. . . .*. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
NeedforIncreasedPowerSupply   . . . . . . . . . .. o. 0 9 9  945
ProjectRisks   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .9. .9.9 . . ..... 46
VI. AGREDE5NTS AND RECXfENDATION  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47



- tiii -
PART II -ARM                           Page no.
1.1       Previous Loans and Credits to the Indian Power Sector   . . . . . 1
C
2.1       NTPC Organization Chart   ....   ...... . .........  2
2.2       Transfer of Transmission Assets   . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . .  3
2.3       NTPC Main Plant Characteristics and Operating Perforance   . . . S
2.4       NTPC Environmental Perfornmnce and R&R  .      . . . . . . . . .. . . 8
2.5      Termsof Reference Tariff Study   . . . . . . ..  . . . . . .  . . 34
2.6      NTPC Power Development Program  . . . . ..... .......  . 41
3.1      Detailed Project Description Vindhyachal II and RLhand It   . . . 49
3.2      Environmental Action Plan   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
3.3       Project Component Cost lstimstes  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 78
3.4       Project Managemsnt Arrangements   ................SO * * 0
3.5       Project  Implementation Schedules     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81
3.6       Procutement Arrangements and Packaging  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 88
3.7       Schedule of Estimated Disbursements   .  . . . . . . . . . . . . 89
3.8      FAS of Rlihand II and VindhyachallI    . ......... ... .90
3.9       Supervision Pian  . . . . . . .        .......              .   95
4.1      NTPC Actual Financial Statements   ......... ..... .98
4.2      NTPC Projected Financial Statements    . . . . . . . . . . . . 101
4.3      Assumptions Used for Financial Projections  . . . . . . . . . . 104
4.4      Terms of Reference Study on Alternative Strategies for    . . . 107
Financing.NTPC s Long Term Development
5.1      Economic Analysis    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110
6.1      Related Documents in the Project File   . . . . . . . . . . . . 113
MAP       Project Site for Rihand II and Vindhyachal II Power Stations
IBRD no. 24799



- iv -
INDIA
PM  POWER  ENEATION PROJECT
Loan and Proiect Summary
iorrowers           National Thermal Power Corporation Limited
(NtPC)
Guarantors          India, acting by its President
Amounts             US$400 million
Terms:              20 years, Including five years grace, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate. NTPC would bear the
foreign exchange and Interest rate risks.
Guarantee Fees      The Government of India (GOI) would charge a guarantee
fee of 12 on the outstanding amount of the Bank Loan.
Project
Description:        The project comprisess (a) Generation CaLacity Additions:
a five year time-slice of NTPC's least cost investment
program of new coal and gas-based power stations for
which full funding has not yet been arranged; (b) Private
Sector Components support to NTPC to un4ertake several
joint venture operations; and (c) EnviLronmental
Strengthening and Resettlement and Rehabilitations
implementation of an Environmental Action Plan (RAP)
which Includes environmental upgrading projects, training
and technical assistance for the strengthening of NTPC's
environmental and R&R management capability and the
Implementation of the RAP.
benefits8           The proposed project would: (a) improve commercial
discipline In the power system in India through the
implementation of NTPC'8 new commercial and investment
policies; (b) help NTPC meet its targets for capacity
additions through Increased mobilization of funds fro
internal resources, domestic and foreign capital markets
as well as from the private sector through joint venture
operationsa (c) upgrade environmental performance of WTMC
power stations and make its new power plants
environmentally more sustainable; and (d) strengthen
NSPC's environmental and resettlement and rehabilitation
management capability. Of India's proposed inwestments
in thermal generation capacity, those of NMPC are among
the lowest-cost options and warrant support when overall
investment resources are constrained and an increasing
share of the total funds available is devoted to
rehabilitatlon of ezisting generating facilities and
strengthening the transmLssion and distribution system.



- v '
It would help meet the energy needs of the Indian economy
at a relatively low cost and high efficiency to support
the far reaching macro-economic and structural adjustment
program.
Risks*              The project does not pose any particular technical risks
as proven technologies will be utilized and project
implementation will follow practices well-established at
NTPC. Its Investment program is constrained more by the
availabilityof financing than by the demand for
electricity or by its implementation capability. The
core investment program has been prepared taking Into
account NTPC's capability to raise resources through
internal cash generation and from the capital markets.
NTPC's main risk is financial and relates to its ability
to recover its charges from its clients, the State
Electricity Boards. As long as it recovers, the level
and structure of the tariff will safeguard its financial
position and provide adequate self-financing for the
implementation of its investment program. Special
attention has therefore been paid during project
processing to developing satisfactory commercial policies
and arrangements which would ensure satisfactory revenue
recovery, and would allow NTPC to divert supply fron non
paying customers and direct investments to the
financially viable SEBs. The environmental risks
associated with this project will be minimized through
the implementation of an Environmental Action Plan (ZAP),
which Includes an institutional strengthening component
and provides for implementation of improved resettlement
and rehabilitation policies. Implementation of the ZAP
will ensure that NTPC power stations will operate in an
environmentally sustainable manner.



- i -
Estimated Cost and FauaCila Plans
c..pon.nt.                        ,VOI~v    1119-rnooa    FTMuvo    pV,s-u,Oo
-b b.i I I leo-    -. USt m 1  lo_-aa-
Fmdim R      s
Oning Project*                        .6        10.7           208            68
- To L Initiatod During 6h Plan   9U.S       1.6            1,64?         6,412
- To be Initiatod Ourting Vh PIFa  -          99.9             -          2,124
- Subol - NW Projecs              98.0        60.6          2,647          ,76
Total -  o.retlon                 178.8       J80.2          4,1SO         9,08@
Jolnt Seator Project(s)              4.0         -              110          -
Total Fnanclog Requirement         177.8       J86.           4,910        9,O*D
F!inacna Plan
NTPC's Nb4 Internal Cash Rnaraetlon    41.4     16.6          1.187         1,680
Sorrosi no I
Loans Contracted                    86.0         -            1,978           -
Proponed Bank Loan                  14.8                        400 _
Future Bak Lmadln1                  10.4        10.0            610          m7
Obber Loans to :: rraaw d86.9                  246.6            987         5,62
Bonds                               1.          48.0            604         1,140
Total Borrowing                    124.6       804.4          8,44S         7,216
EquIty                              11.1         -              no            -
Total Sourc                        177.8       J80.2          4.900         9,089
-~~
Estimted Bank Disbursements:
Bank Fiscal Year           FY94           FY95        FY96       FY97
Annual                        80           160          120        40
Cumlative                     80           240         360        400
ltate of returns 14.7?



MIA
NTPC POUER GENERATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
T. SECTORAL CONTEXT
Eneray - Economy Interfaces
3.1       Develo2Lent Dolicy, energy production and use.  India's long-
standing development policies sought to promote self sufficiency and growth
through a combination of public ownership and control of key strategic
institutions, planned investment, administered pricing of key coumodties,
control over domestic markets, and protection from external competition. This
strategy resulted in a capital- and energy-intensive pattern of development
and inefficient production and use of energy - in a capital and, in relatlve
terms, energy-poor country. Cost-plus pricing provided no incentive for
efficiency to fuel producers and bulk power generators; below-cost retail
prices of electricity have caused substantial losses and severe financial
difficulties to many power utilities. Agricultural and residential sectors
have enjoyed artificially low energy prices, and have had no reason to focus
on efficiency. Cost-plus pricing in protected markets and lack of competitive
pressures have provided little incentive for effieient use of energy to
industries and commerce, even if energy supplies to them have generally been
more appropriately priced.
1.2       New Directions in Energy Strategy.  The energy sector has accounted
for nearly 30Z of Plan expenditures. This heavy investment has yielded
substantial results in terms of increases in output, but earlier achievements
in meeting energy demand increasingly from domestic sources have not been
sustained. Indigenous energy development has not kept up with the increasing
demand and is now being curtailed by public finance constraints. In the face
of the current and medium-term budgetary difficulties, the sector can no
longer rely on net budgetary support by the Government of India (GOI) along
the lines of the past. GOI's new energy strategy reflects the financial
realities and has begun to pay more attention to efficiency issues is
production, use and pricing of energy. ihereas previous Plans gave highest
priority to accelerated exploitation of domestic energy resources, the Zighth
Plan (FY93-FY97) places more emphasis on sustainable development, giving
greater attention to development of renewable energy, demand management,
conservation and efficiency. GOI is also relying to a greater extent on
private initiative and investment. However, given the long gestation period
of most energy projects and the time required for the consumers to respond to
GOI's ongoing economic liberalization efforts, further deterioration of the
supply/demand situation and increasing reliance on energy imports, with
adverse balance of payments implications, are expected in the coming years.
Unless India is able to implement fundamental changes in the structure,
management and financing of the sector and shift to a less energy-intensive
development path, increasing cost of energy and supply limitations threaten
future economic growth.
1.3       Power Situation and Challenge.  Over the past decade, electricity
consumption in India increased at an average annual rate of about 91, but with
a per capita level of about 270 Kwh per annum, remains among the lowest in the
world. Power shortages persist and, in FY92, were equivalent to about 9t of



- 2 -
total energy and 18Z of peak capacity,yequirements. As pointed out in a
recent Bank study of the power sector- in India, increased emphasis needs
to be placed on improving the efficiency of supply, consumption and pricing of
electricity.  Supply capacity expansion alone will not substantially improve
the critical power demand/supply situation and is likely to be financially
unsustainable. A major challenge for 001 in the power sector In the 1990.
will, thus, be to strike a better balance between supply expansion and
efficiency improvement. Demand is expected to continue to expand at an
average growth rate of 8? per annum and massive investments in rehabilitation
and new power supply facilities are required even taking into account
efficiency improvements. GOI funding of the sector's investment program is
likely to be insufficient and the sector will have to rely increasingly on
internal resources of state aud central government-owned utilities as well as
private investment.
rgranization and Regulation of the Power Sector
1.4       Regulatory Framework.  Responsibility for electricity supply is
shared constitutionally between GOI and the states. The Electricity (Supply)
Act (The Act) of 1948 as amended, provides the overall regulatory framework
for the sector. The Act charges the Central Electricity Authority (CIA) with
developing a national power policy and planning, coordinating and regulating
sector development. The Act also empowers the central government, currently
the Ministry of Power (MOP), to make rules for carrying out CeA's objectives,
by notification in the Official Gazette. The Act created state electricity
boards (SEBs) and entrusted them with primary responsibility for public power
supply as well as for related state-level regulation - i.e., the SEBs were
envisioned as largely self-governing entitiev, including tariff setting (para.
1.6). The Industrial Policy Resolution of 1956 subsequently defined aspects
of generation and distribution which were to be the exclusive responsibility
of the states and the once significant role of private utilities has gradually
diminished (para. 1.8). While it is recognized that various sections of the
Act could be modernized, following recent amendmnts (para 1.8), there are no
fundamental legal obstacles for the power sector entities to operate on a
commercial basis or for the private sector to enter into the sector.
1.5       Central Sector.   The central government has been actively involved
in power development since the 19708, by establishing its own utilities to
complement the efforts of the states in order to accelerate power development
in India. GOI currently ownss (a) several generating companies including the
National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC), the National Hydroelectric Power
Corporation (NHPC); and (b) the Power Grid Corporation of India (POWERGRID), a
transmission company and grid operator. These utilities were incorporated
under the Companies Act - the Electricity Act covers them as generating
companies. Tariff setting principles for the centrally-owned entities are
approved by MOP, actual tariff proposals are reviewed by CIA as the regulatory
authority and notified for implementation by MOP. Tariffs are determined on a
cost plus basis and provided the utilities collect tariff revenues, their
.1/ Long Term Issues in the Indian Power Sector CLTIPS), December 1991. The
study was prepared in 1990-91, with financing fromz the Overseas Development
Administration (ODA) of the United Ringdon and the United States Agency for
International Development (USAID). It was formally discussed with 0OI in
February 1992.



W3..
financial viability Is ensured to the extent that they would be able to fully
cover their operation cost including debt service. More ambitious financial
objectives have been adopted for POWIERORID (under Ln. 3577-IN for the
POWSRGRID System Development Project) and for NTPC under the proposed project.
GOI also owns two power sector financial intermediaries, Power Finance
Corporation (PFC) and the Rural Electrification Corporation (REC). The
Ministry of Von-Conventional Energy Sources administers 60I's renewable energy
program, which seeks to supplement conventional po.-er supply with alternative
energy systeme, e.g., mini-hydro, biomass, wind and solar energy, as vell as
meet the decentralized energy needs of the rural sector.
1.6       State Sector.  The states own the SEBs and the State Generating
Companies (SGC), which together generate about 75X of electricity supply and
provide most of the distribution to final consumers. The ElectricIty Act
explicitly requires the SEBs to operate 'in the most efficient and economical
manner' and also mandates the SEBs to adjust their own tariffs so as to
achieve a minimum (and no maximum) return after interest of 32 on average
fixed assets in operation. The Act furthers (a) allows a state to specify a
higher minimum return for its SEB; (b) specifies that interest on loans from
the state governments is to be paid by the SEB only after meeting the minimum
return; and (c) introduces the concept of subventions to be paid by the states
to help the SEns meet the minimum return requirement, in compensation for
using the SE  as8 administratively convenient vehicles for agricultural input
subsidies. For most SEBs meeting the 32 after-interest return would allow
them to cover operating cost and debt service, provided rural electrification
subsidies are fully paid in time and bill collection is reasonable. Most SEBs
do not, however, reach the Act's statutory minimum returns and their aggregate
operating losses ranged from Rs. 3.2 billion in FY86 to Rs. 14.7 billion in
FY92 (in total about US$3 billion). Net internal cash generation has been
negative every year since FY86 and all capital expenditures were financed from
borrowing and/or state budgetary resources. "his is attributable to the poor
operational efficiency of the SE8s, low tarix-a amd even more importantly,
to political interference by the state governments. Although the Act grants
the state utilities considerable autonomy, in practice they must obtain state
government approval (often at the highest political level) for most major
decisions including those on investments, tariffs, borrowing, salary and
personnel policies.
1.7       SEBs and SOCs are grouped into five regional interconnected power
systems in the Eastern, Northern, North-Eastern, Southern and Western regions
of India. GOI created the Regional Electricity Boards (REWs) in 1964 to bring
together the concerned SEBs and central and joint sector utilities to
coordinate system operations in their respective regional grids and also
entrusted CEA with the development and operation of Regional Load Dispatch
Centers (RLDCs) to support the REBs. In 1991, GOI strengthened the authority
of the REBs and RLDCs by an amendment of the Electricity Act requiring
generating companies and licensees to follow their instructions. The transfer
of RLDCs and CEA's operational responsibilities to PONERGRID, to be completed
by December 31, 1995, was agreed under Ln. 3577-IN approved on March 23, 1993.
1.8       Private Utilities.  At independence, private utilities and
licensed local authorities together provided about 80Z of public
electricity supply. Most licensees have since been taken over by the SE8s
when their licenses expired, and no new licenses have been granted since 1956.
OAly five private utilities remains   BSES Ltd. (BSIS) and Tata Electric



-4-
Companies (TEC) in Bombay, Ahmedabad Electricity Company (AEC), Surat Electric
Company, and Calcutta Electric Supply Corporation Ltd (CzSC) in Calcutta.
Their generation capacity totals about 2,800 MW and additional plants are
under construction. India's long-standing private power policy was radically
reversed in 1991* power was removed from the list of activities reserved for
the public sector in the Industrial Policy Resolution and the Act was amended
to lift many of the regulatory disincentives to private investment in the
power sector. This is fully in line and consistent with GOI's economic
liberalization objertives, to tap the financial, technical and managerial
capabilities of the private sector into areas previously reserved to the
public sector. India now allows full ownership of power companies by the
private sector (local and foreign), an extended period of license of 30 years
with 20-year renewals and increased financial returns. Provision is also made
in the Act for private generating companies and captive plants to sell powmr
to the SEBs. Additional incentives were introduced in GOI budget for FY94,
includings (a) a reduction of import duty on power projects to 20?; and (b) a
five-year tax holiday for new private (as well as public sector) power
projects. These changes have resulted in remarkable business development
activity by private developers (para. 1.19).
Electricity SuDSl.L Demand and Tariffs
1.9       India's power system has an installed capacity of over 70,000 MW,
in size comparable with that of the United Kingdom. In FY92, this system
generated about 283,500 Gwh, about 70X from coal-fired power stations, 25?
from hydro stations, and SZ from gas, oil and nuclear stations. Supply has
expanded quicklys in FY82 installed capacity was only 32,350 MW, and
generation 114,000 Gwh. In parallel with the growth of supply, operational
efficiency hbs improved. For example, the plant load factor has increased
from 442 to about 552 over the last ten ),ars and the rate of coal consumption
by power stations has been cut by about 10X. These improvements reflect a
strengthening of plant maintenance and operations and are commendable in view
of the deteriorating quality of coal supply. The actual improvements have,
however, been uneven among the SEBs and reflect the performance and increasing
share of NTPC, which in FY92 provided about 212 of India's total and almost
30X of its thermal power supplies. The operational efficiency of NTPC's
plants has consistently surpassed that of the state utilities. Power station
auxiliary consumption in India exceeds 10?, technical and commercial losses in
transmission and distribution are estimated at 222 of net generation and
interruptions and reductions in supply and voltage are common. The poor
quality and unreliability of public supplies cause consumers to purchase
costly back-up generating capacity: an estimated 6,250 MV of captive
generating facilities are operated by industries.
1.10      Industry consumes almost half (472) of all electric power;
agriculture uses 272; residences 16Z; commerce S2; and public services the
balance. The growth in electricity demand has been accelerated by relatively
low power tariffs which have fostered wasteful end-use of energy. Average
retail tariff rates have increased only slightly since FY82 in real terms and
remain at about 50 of the long-run marginal cost (LRMC). Increases in real
costs (particularly for fuel and wages) have offset the increases in
efficiency and real tariffs. In the meantime, tariff differentials among
consumer groups have widened. Rates to Industrial consumers are in most
states now close to, and in some cases even above, LRMC. Agricultural
tariffs, on the other hand, have fallen in absolute terms to an average of



-5 -
about paise 16/Kwh in FY92 and cover less than 10 of LRMC. Partly as a
result of this subsidization, agriculture's share In total consumption has
grown from about 17Z in FY82 to about 27Z in FY92. Compounding the problem is
the poor collection from farmers, and the high transmission and distribution
losses for rural supply. They contribute to an increasing financial burden
imposed by agriculture on the power sector.  A similar situation applies to
the residential uses of electricity.
Past Bank Group Operations in the Power Sector
1.11      Lending.  The Bank group has made 36 loans (US$6.8 billion) and 19
credits (US$2.4 billion) for power projects in India (Annex 1.1)1!. IFC has
made five investments totalling Us$203 million to AEC and TEC in FY89, TIC and
CESC in PY90, and BSES in FY91. The physical implementation of most Bank
power projects in India has proceeded slowly, but eventually, after
significant initial delays, has broadly met expectations. While the
disbursement profile of the portfolio is well in line with the Bank average
1ower disbursement profile. loan and credit disbursements of the Indian
portfolio continue to show large outstanding balances (US$3.8 billion as of
March 31, 1992). These are due primarily to the long construction periods for
generation projects compounded by frequent delays in procurement, in foreign
exchange and import license clearances by the various ministries and in
counterpart fund releases from state governments. Undisbursed balances have
been pushed up further by frequent cost underruns on major equipment
contracts. The latter are due, in some instances, to the softening of
international markets in the mid-19809 and, in others, to the depreciation of
the Rupee. The Bank has reviewed its power loan portfolio for India and has
since December 1991 canceled US$864.2 million.
1.12      Past Stratesy.  Over the last decade, IBRD followed a three-pronged
strategy in its lending to the power sector in India. Firstly, it supported
agencies owned by GOI, STPC in particular, as a means of effecting sector-wide
Improvements. Secondly, it financed a selected number of SEBs whose
management and state government appeared to be committed to reforms. Finally,
and in close cooperation with IFC, it financed existing private power
utilities to improve their financial and economic efficiency and to encourage
00I to lower entry barriers for new investors. The success of this strategy
has been uneven, in line with fundamental sectoral weaknessess despite some
progress, SEBs in general did not respond to GOI's initiatives and there was
no mechanism to enforce compliance or elicit cooperation, even in case of non-
payment for central sector electricity.
1.13      Experience from Previous NTPC OCerations. As of January 31, 1993,
the Bank Group had invested US$ 3 billionJ in 15 operations with NTPC. The
total undisbursed balance under five ongoing projects amounted to US$461
2/ Loan and credit amounts are net of cancellations.
S/ Net of cancellations and after transfer of the transmission assets to
POVEIGRID (para 2.6).



- 6 -
million. Project completion reports for the first nine NTPC operationsV
and the Performance Audit Reports for the first seven recognize the
achievements and success of NTPC in implementation; despite some delays in the
pre-construction stages, NTPC generally completed the projects on schedule and
within budget, reflecting the strong project management capability it has
developed.  Quality control procedures introduced by NTPC helped improve the
quality standards of power equipment supplied by Indian manufacturers. On the
negative side, the financial health of NTPC has been threatened by the
accumulation of receivables from the SEBs. Intensified collection afforts and
central appropriations (direct payments by 600 from budgetary support intended
to the concerned states) have reduced NTPC's accounts receivable and further
improvements have been achieved after the approval of NTPC's new investment
and commercial policies (para. 2.2) by the Government in Oct ber 1992 after a
prolonged dialogue with the Bank.  The Bank's latest Audit i/ and Project
Completion Reports noted that its own efficiency notwithstanding, NTPC did not
bring about the expected sectoral improvements. In addition to the above-
mentioned commercial issues, the reports also identified areas for further
improvement for NTPC itself, highlighting the need to pay more attention to:
(a) internal resource mobilization by NTPC for its future investment; (b)
adequacy of coal supply arrangements; (c) environmental impact mltigation and
rehabilitation and resettlement of project affected persons; and (d) pra-
implementation activities including preparation of tender documents and timely
award of contracts. These issues have been discussed with NTPC and have been
incorporated in the design of the proposed project.
1.14      Experience with SEBs.  Beginning in the mid-1980s, IBRD attempted
to improve the performance of SEBs by direct involvement at the state level.
This approach, involving close lending relationship with the SEBs, has been
successful in a few cases, such as Maharashtra. Projects with institutionally
and financially weaker SEBs have not met expectations, forcing the Bank to
apply increasingly strong remedies, up to suspension of disbursement and
subsequent cancellations of loans to the Delhi Electric Supply Undertaking
(DESU) and the Uttar Pradesh State Electricity Board, and threat of
suspensions of loans to the SEBs in the States of Nimachal Pradesh and Kerala.
The Bank's stance has yielded positive responses from some of the concerned
state governments, including substantial tariff adjustments in Nimachal
Pradesh, Kerala and Uttar Pradesh. Tariffs in Uttar Pradesh were, however,
rolled back in June 1992. This event, combined with the failure to implement
agreements to settle current power bills of NMPC and fundamental weaknesses in
the operations of UPSEB forced the Bank to cancel the US$350 million Ln. 2957-
IN for the Uttar Pradesh Power Project in August 1992. The two power loans to
Karnataka were suspended on April 8, 1993 due to non-compliance with financial
covenants and unresolved environmental and resettlement and rehabilitation
issues. Close and frequent supervision of the remaining SEB loans is
necessary to help ensure continued compliance with loan agreements, setting
effectively a limit to the number of the Bank's direct SEE operations.
4/ Singrauli (Credit 685-IN); Korba (Credit 793-IN); Ramagundam (Credit 84-IN
and Loan 1648-IN); Singrauli II (Credit 1027-IN); Farakka (Credit 1053-IN and
Loan 1887-IN); Korba II (Credit 1172-IN); and Ramagundam II (Loan 2076-IN).
5/ OED Performance Audit Report No. 10854: [orba Thermal Power project,
Ramagundam Thermal Power Project, Second Singrauli Thermal Power Project and
Parakka Thermal Power Project, February 3, 1993.



1.15      Exoerience with Private Utilities.  The Bank and IFC's experience
with the private utilities has been generally satisfactory. Unlike the SIBs,
private utilities have been allowed by their respective state governments to
operate autonomously and in a technically and financially viable manner. They
have not suffered from the Institutional and financial problems of the GOI-
owned entities either, because the power they generate is largely fed into
their own distribution networks which supply financially lucrative urban
residential and industrial consumers.
Power Sector Reform
1.16      GOI Strategy in the Power Sector.  The growth targets of GOI's
economic stabilization and liberalization program will be threatened as long
as power supply constrains industrial development and the financial losses of
the power sector burden public finance. GOI has adopted a three-pronged
approach to remedy the root cause of the sector's efficiency and resource
mobilization problems, the poor performance of the SEDs. First, ¢O! imposes
financial discipline on the SEBs through central agencies (PFC, NTPC and
POVMEGRID); second, GOI presses the states to adjust their power tariffs; and
third, GOI opened the sector to private investment.
1.17      Central Sector Agencies as Agents of Reform.  India's federal
structure makes it difficult to condition central assistance to the states as
budgetary allocations are set by an automatic allocation formula. Within this
overall budgetary and central assistance framework, GO! uses its own agencies
to promote operational and financial improvements in the SEBss
(a) PPC, supported by the Bank, ADB and USAID, will provide resources
only to utilities, which have committed themselves to improve their
performance, under time-bound Operational and Financial Action Plan
(OFAP), endorsed by their state governments and aimed at improving
the utilities' resource mobilization, operational efficiency and
commercialization;
(b) GOl has adopted new investment and commercial policies and
electricity tariffs allowing its main generating utility, NTPC, to
shut-off or restrict power supply if its clients are in default
with their bulk supply agreements (para 2.2). They are designed to
introduce better commercial discipline at SEBs, along with
improving NTPC's own operational and financial performance,
Including improving revenue collection; and
(c) GOI established POWERGRID to: (a) improve the efficiency in power
transmission and system operations, through an extensive
restructuring of the transmLssion sector; and (b) complement lts
policy initiatives to encourage private generation and competition
in power generation.
1.18      Progress at State-Level Tariff Reform.    GOI's intensified
pressure on the states to raise agricultural tariffs has yielded encouraging
results. The State Power Ministers agreed in their April 1992 and
January 1993 meetings to implement a minimum Rs. 0.50tKwh agricultural
tariff (this would bring agricultural tariffs to about 202 of LRMC). At the
moment, seven SEBs (Assam, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Orissa,
Rajasthan and West Bengal) have introduced the new minim= rate. The tariff



reform process has at best only just started and the challenges ahead are
formidable: regular tariff adjustments and better collection practices,
starting with but going well beyond the implementation of the agreed minimum
tariff, are needed to restore the financial viability of SEBes.
1.19      Progress with Private Power.  Faced with a growing power gap and
diminishing public resources available for the sector, GOl has opened in 1991
the power sector to private sector participation in generation, transmission
and distribution. Increased reliance on the private sector will also
contribute to improving financial discipline among the SEBs since private
investment would only go to states with an attractive policy environment and a
financially sound SEB. Following the amendments of the Act (para. 1.8), a
High Powered Board chaired by the Cabinet Secretary was established in October
1991 to promote private investment and accelerate the clearance of projects.
The policy changes and high-level promotional efforts have been successful in
encouraging in power projects. About 43 proposals are currently under active
consideration; for 38 of them, various SEBs have signed Memoranda of
Understanding (HOU) with private developers; eight projects are at an advanced
stage of negotiation. In spite of substantial interest, exploratory activity
and MOUs, no agreements have yet been finalized. Progress in the
implementation of the proposed projects has been slow due to: (a) unresolved
policy and regulatory issues (such as collection and exchange rate safeguard
mechanisms and import tax and duty concessions); (b) unclear administrative
processes (project clearances, CEA's involvement) and insufficient preparatory
work to make these project proposals bankable projects; and (c) the poor
financial position of most of the SEBs.
1.20      Further Actions.  GO1's strategy, though ambitious and demanding,
still constitutes only the first steps to effectively address the sector's
pressing institutional, efficiency and resource mobilization issues. Further
actions are required on two fronts to improve the sector's investment mix and
to accelerate reforms at the state level:
(a) the balance in the sector's investment program between supply
expansion and efficiency improvement needs to be improved. 001's
power sector investment priorities recognize the need to
rehabilitate existing plants and increase investments in
transmission and distribution relative to investments in generation
and the Eighth Plan is an improvement over previous plans In terms
of investment balance. This shift from supply expansion to
efficiency needs to be continued and pursued more vigorously.
Central sector agencies, NTPC in particular, have demonstrated the
capacity to implement power generation projects and operate the
facilities efficiently, well over the record of most SEBs.
Therefore logically the main resource shift would take place at the
state level, from new SED generation projects to transmission and
distribution investments, along with rehabilitation of existing
generation facilities. This would accelerate the realization of
the emerging industry structure outlined in paras. 1.21-23; and
(b) at the state level, the SEB would need to be given the financial
and operational autonomy foreseen in the Act. Up-front actions
should inclu'des (a) financial restructuring to establish a
reasonable debt to equity structure and satisfactory financial
objectives for the SEBes, including an increase in internal cash



- 9 -
generation to make a reasonable contribution to future investment,
(b) tariff adjustments to meet the revised financial objectives
including significant increases in agricultural tariffs; (c)
improvements in billing, collection and payments to central
utilities; (d) adjustments in investment programs from supply
expansion to efficiency; and (e) contracting with the private
sector or NTPC the rehabilitation and operation of poorly
performing stations and other services.
1.21      Emerging Industry Structure.  With the establishment of POWERGRID
(assisted under Ln. 3577-IN), India has taken an important strategic step
towards a functioning national power grid with an increasingly competitive and
coordinated generation and transmission system. The emerging industry
structure would consist oft (a) competing central, state and private
generating companies; (b) POWERGURD as the national grid company; and (c)
state and privately-owned distribution. SEBs are likely for the time being to
remain integrated state-level utilities, but are expected to focus more on
distribution and, with POWERID's assistance on trading and improved
coordination of their system operations. Power purchases from central sector
utilities (NTPC in particular) and competitive procurement of private
generation would account for a steadily increasing share in their overall
supply. (Long-term prospects also include power imports from Nepal). As a
result, the commercial pressures on the SEBs would increase as generators
(both private and public) focus their investments and operations to serve
financially viable and comercially disciplined clients and divert supplies
from non-performers; at the same time generating companies would have to
increasingly compete to sell their output to the performing SEBs.
1.22      In the medium-tarm the role and structure of the state sector and
pace of reform will not remain uniform across India. A few states are
expected to undertake reforms ir. line with the agenda outlined in para. 1.20
and let their SEBs operate along commercial lines. The most progressive
states may also be able to push through more ambitious restructuring,
Involving corporatization of the SIB and splitting them into generation,
transmission and distribution companies, possibly with private sector
participation. It is, however, likely that many states will be unable to
create the broad political consensus, and will choose the status quo and the
resulting continuing deterioration of power supply.
1.23      This industry structure, in particular any significant involvement
of the private sector, will require a workable regulatory framework, which is
only developing. At the central level, CRA is progressively giving up its
operational responsibilities. The Regional Load Dispatch Centers (RLDCs) are
being transferred to POVERGRID) and de-emphasizing its role in supervising
project implementation, to focus on regulatory functions. With increased
competition in generation and eventually in distribution, a key component will
be the regulation of transmission access and pricing.  Ln. 3577-IN includes
technical assistance to examine this issue and review the role of CEA and the
functions of other bodies directly and indirectly involved in transmission and
power trading. As concerns state level regulations, there are no easy answers
and experience from other countries does not provide a one and only dLrectiont
solutions adopted elsewhere range froms heavy regulatory processes with
independent regulatory authorities (e.g. United States) to reliance on
competition with either light incentive regulation (e.g. United Kingdom) or
mainly a threat of government regulatory intervention (e.g. Finland, New



- 10 -
Zealand) with operational and financial autonomy of the utilities. Without
prejudging the evolution of state level regulation in India. a suitable
medium-term target would be to effectively give the SEBs the operational and
financial autonomy envisioned in the Act (para. 1.20).
Rationale and Strategy for Bank Support for Power Sector Reforms
1.24      Coimitment to Reform. As explained above, 001's actions through
NTPC, POWERGRID and PFC and opening the sector to private investment
demonstrate a clear conmitment to reform. GOI's program supports policies for
effective institutional, regulatory and financial reform in line with the
recently approved guidelines for Bank lending to the power Sector. The
following paragraphs measure GOl's reforms against those guidelines and
present ongoing and planned Bank support for the reforms.
1.25      Transparent regulation.  India has in place, in its Electricity
Supply Act, a workable regulatory framework for the sector (paras. 1.4-1.6)
and transmission regulation is being studied under Ln. 3577-IN. Progress has
been made in designing a regulatory framework making private investment in the
power sector more attractive, by amending the Act (para. 1.8). The major
remaining regulatory area which needs to be tackled is that applicable to the
SnIs as in practice the state governments do not allow the SEBs to operate
with the autonomy provided by the Act. The next step in the dialogue with 0OI
on institutional and regulatory arrangements, in particular at the state
level, is an institutional seminar in October 1993 sponsored by the Indian
Energy Operations Division and IENIESMAP.
1.26      Pricing and Demand Side Management. New two part bulk tariffs for
NTPC coal fired stations became effective in November 1992 (para. 2.2).
Further reforms in bulk power and transmission tariffs will be studied and
implemented under Ln. 3577-IN.  At the state level progress on tariff reforms
has been generally unsatisfactory, although GOI has succeeded in making states
begin to adjust agricultural power tariffs (pars. 1.18). Apart from the need
to improve cost recovery and meeting financial targets, major changes are
required in the structure of the SEB tariffs to ensure that it provides
appropriate incentives to conserve energy. Demand side management (DSM) is
being introduced in India and incentives for conservation are only emerging
with the ongoing trade liberalization, which will introduce the required
competitive pressures (paras. 1.1-1.2) and with state-by-state electricity
tariff reform.
1.27      Importation of Services.  As part of its llberalization program,
India has opened up its power sector to entry by foreign investors and import
duties on advanced technology and equipment have been reduced. The use of the
Bank's standard bidding documents, initiated with Maharashtra in 1989 and
since continued with PlC and POVERORID, as well as under the proposed project
with NTPC, will encourage competition and exposure to foreign manufacturers,
contractors and consultants. Compared to most other developing countries,
India has an abundance of educated and trained manpower and the use of foreign
consultants would mainly be required in high-technology projects (such as
POVERGRID's regional power system coordination and control investments) and in
the management of projects of less-efficient SEEs/states.
1.28      Commercialization and Coruoratization.  The centrally-owned
entities in the power sector are all incorporated under the Companies Act and



- 11 -
already enjoy reasonable autonomy in decision making and day-to-day
operations. The main challenge is the application of the commercial policies
now granted by MOP to the central agencies. The process of establishing
commercial contracts between the SEBs and the central utilities is cumbersome,
but progress is being made with strong Bank support under Ln. 3577-IN and the
proposed project. NTPC's new bulk power purchase agreements with the SEBs are
equivalent to the power purchase agreements negotiated with private
generators. Efforts are also being made under these operations to improve
NTPC's and POWERGRID's access to domestic and international capital markets.
As discussed above the dialogue on commercialization and corporatization of
the SEBs has been initiated and the Bank in its future operations will seek to
support those states who wish to commercialize their SEBs (para. 1.30).
1.29      Private investment. India, unlike most developing countries, has a
few large private utilities already in operation (para. 1.8). The Bank has
been actively involved, in close cooperation with IFC. in supporting their
investment programs. Following the opening of the power sector for new
private developers, the Bank is supporting the implementation of the new
policy under the Second Maharashtra Power Project (Ln. 3498-IN, approved in
June 1992) by helping Maharashtra develop its private power policy and
regulatory framework and negotiate contracts with private developers for major
power generation projects. These activities are partly financed by two grants
from the Japan Grant Facility. The Bank is currently preparing a Technxical
Assistance Project for Private Power Development to provide 001 and the
concerned entities the required specialized expert services to help resolve
the remaining policy, regulatory and administrative issues and assist in
project preparation. Under the proposed project the Bank would assist NTPC in
establishing joint ventures with private domestic and foreign investors.
1.30      Bank strategy.  The Country Assistance Strategy seeks and supports
reforms by GOI to address the fundamental operational, financial and
institutional issues in the power sector. The reform process in the power
sector has only just begun and much remains to be done particularly at the
state level. The Bank's leading program will be used to continue the dialogue
and provide some of the incentives needed to make the required tough
decisions. In addition, the Bank will continue to use the management of the
existing portfolio to support the needed reforms. Bank lending is focused on:
(a) promoting domestic and foreign private investments; (b) supporting GOI's
agents of reform, PFC, NTPC and POWERGRID; and (c) assisting SEBs which
perform in a satisfactory manner or have started implementing credible plans
underwritten by their states to improve their performance and finances.
Preparatory work is underway on an SEB Restructuring Project to assist states
willing to undertake up-front reforms towards the corporatization of their
SEBs and a more transparent regulatory processes along the lines of the agenda
described in para. 1.20.
II.  THE BORROWER - NATIONAL THERMAL POWER CORPORATION
Introduction
2.1       Since its creation in 1975,  NTPC has become a major actor in
India's power sector. NTPC commissioned some 30Z of the sector's new
generating capacity over the period PY82-FY92. It is estimated that by the
end of FY93, NTPC operated about 18Z of India's total installed generating



- 12 -
capacity and 262 of the thermal capacity. Its share in India's total power
supplies has reached about 222 of total generation and 29Z of all thermal
generation. NTPC has demonstrated that Government owned power utilities can
be operated at efficiency levels comparable to those of privately owned
utilities In India and well run utilities outside of India. It has managed to
create and maintain a "corporate culture" based on professional pride of doing
things well, through highly motivated staff. The Bank Group's support has
gone much beyond financial assistance and the close relationship betwees NTPC
and the Bank has helped NTPC to become an example to follow in the Indian
power sector through emphasis on (i) long term strategic corporate planning;
(ii) a systems approach as a primary management tool making it possible, at a*
early stage, to combine a high degree of centralization with adequate on-site
authority; (1ii) establishment of a systematic quality assurance program;
(iv) build-up of high quality in-house engineering capability helping to
Identify technical innovations; and (v) implementation of a comprehensive
manpower development program, that contributed to attract the best
professionals, thus keeping the quality of staff at a high level.
Recent Power Sector Policy Reforms Affecting NTPC
2.2       As part of the ongoing dialogue between GOI and the Bank during the
preparation of this project, GOI has introduced a number of policy reforms
aimed increasing commercialization and efficiency of the power system as well
as fostering participation of the private sector in power generation which
will change the way NTPC operates and directs its future investments. These
reforms include:
(a) following the creation of POVERGRID in 1989 (para. 1.2), NTPC's
transmission systems and corresponding liabilities were transferred
to POWERGRTD with effect from April 1, 1992, including associated
personnel (para. 2.6);
(b) new comercial and investment policiess Following directives issued
by MOP in October 1992: (1) NTPC has been permitted to shut-off or
restrict power supply from its concerned power stations, whenever
physically and technically feasible, in case of non-compliance with
the agreed terms, including appropriate payment coverage by letters
of credit tLCs), of the bulk power supply agreements (BPSA) with
the SBss; (ii) if the above is not possible, the defaulting
state(s) would be charged penal rates for drawals (power Imports)
exceeding LC coverage; (iII) for new power stations, NTPC and
POWERGRID have been instructed to design the system in such a way
that it would allow the shut-off or diversion of supplies in case
of non-compliance with the BPSA; (iv) NTPC would delay new
Investments in a state if that state is not in compliance with the
BPSA; and (v) NTPC is permitted to undertake projects in one region
with a substantial part of the output to be allocated to other
regions;
(c) in January 1993, NTPC was authorized to enter Into ioint ventures
with foreian and local private partners and to develop with those
partners power projects either from its own investment program or
those offered by others; and



- 13 -
(d)  a new two part bulk tariff came into effect on November 1, 1992 for
coal fired stations in the Southern, Western and Northern regions
and for the Eastern region with effect from January 1, 1993. New
BPSAs covering both coal fired and gas fired stations are being
signed on a regional basis. (pars. 4.9).
2.3       The Impact of these policy reforms on NTPC is substantial.  It io
now only a generating company and will soon have a transparent contractual
relationship with all its customers.  It is allowed to follow commercial
practices by only supplying customers who pay and by diverting supplies to
paying customers. NTPC cac now manage its portfolio of projects more
aggressively by entering into joint ventures with private partners and selling
electricity across regions. The new two part tariff provides NTPC with
incentives for further increasing its operational efficiency.
Organization and ManaRement
2.4       ITPC, the borrower of the proposed loan, was incorporated as a
Government owned company in 1975 under the Company's Act of 1956. The
Corporation is governed by the general provisions of the Electricity (Supply)
Act, 1948, as amended, and is under the supervision of the Ministry of Power.
It is responsible for designing, constructing, and operating large thermal
power stations and selling the power it generates to the SEBs. NTPC enjoys a
considerable degree of autonoty in its day to day operations (in particular
compared to the SE8s) but like other public enterprises, decisions on tariffs,
anual capital budgets, salary scales, investment program and major financing
decisions are subject to Government approval. Since FY88, NTPC has signed
every year Memoranda of Understanding with GOI requiring it to meet specific
operational and investment objectives during the year.
2.5       NTPC's operational policies are determined by its Board of
Directors which consists of a Chairman and Managing Director, five full time
Directors for Finance, Personnel, Technical, Operations and Projects and six
part time members representing relevant ministries and Government agencies.
The overall organizational structure is based on a corporate headquarters and
five operational regions. In 1991, the Indian Institute of Management,
Ahmedabad, completed a detailed diagnostic study of NTPC's operational
mnAgement policies and culture building process along with a review of
organization structure. NTPC also carried out an internal assessment of the
need for decentralization of its day-to-day operations. As a result, the five
regions - Northern, Western, Southern, Eastern and National Capital Region -
are now each headed by an Executive Director responsible for the management of
power stations. Regional headquarters have been strengthened with a
Commercial and Operational Services group. Project Engineering and
Procurement personnel has been regrouped on the bas1s of various projects
under implementation in the different regions to Improve co-ordination in pre-
award and post award activities. NTPC has a Consultancy Division and has been
increasingly successful in obtaining domestic and international contracts.
Its current organization chart is shown in Appendix 2.1. Two major
organizational changes took place recently namely the transfer of transmlssion
as ets to POWERGRID and the acquisition of the Feroz Gandhi Unchahar Thermal
Power Project (Unchahar project).



- 14 -
2.6       Transfer of Transmission Assets and Liabilities to POWERORID.  NTPC
underwent a major organizational change on August 16, 1991 following GOI's
decision to entrust the management of transmission iLas and associated
engineering and contracts work to POWERGRID prior to the de jure transfer of
the assets. The full manpower of the regional transmission line groups
responsible for construction, operation and maintenance of transmission lines
and about 60Z of the personnel of Power System group at Corporate Center
associated with transmission lines engineering and procurement activities was
transferred to POWERGRID, a total of about 2,229 persons of which 657
executives. On January 8, 1993, the NTPC, KHPC and NEEPCO (Acquisition and
Transfer of Power Transmission Systems) Ordinance, 1993, was promulgated by
the President of India. This Ordinance provides for the transmission systems,
including all the rights, titles and other interests related to the
transmission systems of each of the corporations to be transferred to
POWERORID retroactively, with effect from April 1, 1992. For NTPC a total of
15 Bank loans and credits were involved. All were granted to GOI and onlent
to NTPC. Total net Bank commitments to NTPC are reduced from US$3,694.2
million equivalent to US$3,002.8 million (Annex 2.2). Bank has agreed in
principle for this transfer of assets and loan documentation is being amended.
2.7       On February 14, 1992, NTPC acquired the Unchahar Thermal Power
Project, 2x210 MW belonging to the Uttar Pradesh Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam
(UPRVUN), a State Government Undertaking. The transfer of assets was in lieu
of the receivables outstanding from the Uttar Pradesh SEB. Most arrears
outstanding at that time (Rs. 4,837 million) were eliminated as a result of
the take over and as part of the agreement, nearly all non-executive cadre
(1,164) has been transferred to NTPC. Most of the executives stationed at
Unchahar power station were on deputation from UPSEB and are being gradually
replaced by NTPC executives from other power stations to ensure a smooth
transition. This transaction demonstrate the efforts NTPC has made to reduce
*the level of receivables from one of its principal defaulting clients. The
Unchahbr power station is now being run in the same way as other NTPC power
stations. The second phase of the power station will be constructed by NTPC
utilizing the US$ 160 million assistance from the Asian Development Bank (ADB)
earlier granted to the Government of Uttar Pradesh.
Staffing and Training
2.8       As of March 31, 1992, NTPC employed 21,917 persons, of which 2,066
were employed in corporate head-quarters and 19,851 in the regions. About
6,401 are executives and the remainder are supervisory, technical, support
staff and trainees. Manpower growth has slowed down over the last few years
and total number of staff decreased by about 600 hundred because of the
transfer of transmission assets to POWERGRID, despite the take over of the
Unchahar power station. Quality of NTPC staff is good and continuous training
is provided to upgrade technical and management skills. Where necessary
external recruitment is undertaken to acquire specialized staff skills. The
slow down in NTPC's investment program has caused a certain under-employment
of engineering staff, but they are being deployed in other parts of the
organization.



_ 1S -
2.9       Training.   Since 1981, NTPC provides specialized training in
management and other aspects of power sector operations in its Power
Management Institute (PHI) located in Delhi. In 1991-92, PMI conducted 50
management development programmed Involving 905 participants. Most of the
programs are for NTPC staff, but the PMI also opens its courses to a limited
number of participants from SEBs and other public enterprises. The Bank is
providing financial assistance to the PMI iunder Ln 2845-IN. NTPC owns a
Central Simulator Training Center at Korba, equipped with two full simulators
for 200 and 500 MV coal fired thermal units. A combined cycle gas plant
training simulator will be installed at Xawas. Smaller technical training
centers exist at all project sites.
Generation Facilities and Cperational Performance
2.10      NTPC commenced generating electricity in 1982. By the end of FY92,
NTPC was operating 11,333 MK of capacity ( 9,900 MW coal based and 1,433 MV
gas based, Annex 2.3), generating 61,350 Gwh in the same year, accounting for
21.4Z of India's total generation and 29.42 cf the thermal plant generation.
NTPC also operates the 720 MV GOI owned Badarpur station near Delhi and has
been responsible for the construction and operation of the 270 NV captive
power station established at Korba for the Bharat Aluminum Company, on a
management fee basis. In FY92, NTPC's average plant load factor was 70.172,
14.872 point higher than the all India PLF of 55.32. In the same year, the
availability of NTPC's coal fired stations was 83.52, auxiliary power
consumption 8.08S, specific oil consumption only 1.73 al/Kwh and the heat
rate, a measure of thermal efficiency, was 2,490 kcal/lwh. For NTPC's gas
based stations the average availability was 77X; specific gas consumption 0.25
SMC/Kwh and the heat rate 1,869 kcal/Kwh. (Annex 2.3). Plant efficiency and
reliability parameters compare well with other utilities in the world.
2.11      The good performance of NTPC's stations can be credited to the
sound operation and maintenance practices established within NTPC and
consistent deployment of trained personnel. Operational plant performance is
systematically reported to and analyzed at NTPC's headquarters. Pre-
established maintenance schedules prescribed by manufacturers are strictly
observed and remedial actions are taken when revealed by operating
characteristics. Where necessary assistance is obtained from the
manufacturers.
Environment, Rehabilitation and Resettlement
2.12      NTPC has made considerable efforts in recent years to respond to
increasing environmental requirements, address environmental problems and
improve its Resettlement and Rehabilitation (R&R) programs. During the
preparation of the proposed project, a detailed assessment was made of NTPC's
performance. It was observed that environmental data including data for
monitoring R&R programs were not collected in a systematic way and that
remedial actions were often taken only in response to stricter GOI/State
regulations rather than on the basis of scientifically collected environmental
and socio-economic parameters. Most of NTPC's existing power plants were
designed and built at a time when India's environmental standards were less
stringent than they are today. Therefore NTPC's power stations do not operate
at todays GOI environmental standards, but a program to upgrade the
environmental performance of its existing stations is already in place and
will be implemented as part of the project (para. 2.19). Annex 2.4 gives an



- 16 -
overview of NTPC's current environmental performance and describes the
pertinent GOI and World Bank environmental standards. In August 1992, NTPC
constituted a Committee to review its environmental management needs,
including those for R&R. Their environmental practices were also reviewed by
consultants from British Electric International (SET),UK In November/December
1992. A number of organizational changes were recently  introduced (pars. .14
to 2.19), and once fully implemented, would help to correct the problems
identified.
2.13      Resettlement and Rehabilitation.  RTPC operates in several states
and to ensure a common approach, it formulated in 1991 its own comprebensive
(R&R) policy for project affected families, which was approved by the Ministry
of Power. Although it shared the same objective, it was not fully compatible
with the Bank's guidelines on involuntary resettlement. During project
preparation agreement was reached on a revised NTPC R&R policy, which is
broadly consistent with the Bank's operational directives and applies to all
NTPC operations. The basic objective of the policy is to ensure that after a
reasonable transition period, the affected persons improve or at least regain
their previous standard of living. A number of options like 'land for land'
(if required on a willing/buyer willing/seller basis through a land purchase
committee), training to upgrade skills, allotment of shops with seed money as
loan, self-employment with seed money as grant, jobs with NTPC in the
unskilled and semi-skilled categories etc. are included in the policy. The
policy also provides for the rehabilitation of Project Affected Families
(PAFs) of existing NTPC projects, if required, who have not been able to
regain or improve their previous standard of living. NTPC's latest R&R policy
is reproduced in Annex 2.4.
2.14      NTPC's Current Organization for Ehvironmental Management and R&R.
Eavironmental responsibilities at NTPC corporate headquarters are divided
between three divisions: (i) the Environmental Engineering Group (ERG) in the
Engineering Department under Director (Technical) is responsible for the
environmental aspects and obtaining clearances from regulatory agencies;
(ii) Director (Operations) is responsible for the recently created (September
1991) Environmental Management Group (ERH); this group monitors the collection
and analysis of environment related data of power stations; (iii) the
Personnel and Administration (P&A) division created in February 1993 a
corporate Community Development Group under Director (Personnel) to oversee
all aspects of R&R and to provide support for similar groups at the plant
level. The Corporate Planning (CP) department interacts with all funding
agencies on environmental issues.
2.15      The ERG currently employs about 12 people of various disciplines
and frequently uses outside consultants and expertise of other NTPC
departments. Its main responsibilities are: (i) association in site selection
for new projects with engineering services; (ii) preparation Environmental
Impact Assessments (ETA) for new projects and obtaining clearances;
(iii) finalization of specification of equipments for pollution monitoring;
(iv) special studies relating to environmental problems; (v) interaction with
the Ministry of Environment and Forestry (MOEF) and the State Pollution
Control Boards (SPCBs); and (vi) coordinating the overall EIA studies; and
(vii) provide assistance to the sites in overcoming specific technical
problems related to environment.



- 17 -
2.16      Compliance with environmental regulations and environmental
management used to be the responsibility of the general manager of each power
plant, but environmental data were not provided to headquarters an a regular
basis. The Eavironmental Management Group (DMG) was created In September 1991
and is now staffed with 6 professionals. It is responsible for#
(i) coordination with power stations, regions, engineering divisions on all
environmental matters: (ii) maintenance cf an environmental data bass, trend
analysis of pollution monitoring data and preparation of exception reportss
(iii) environmental auditing of power stations: (iv) providing operational
feedback to Engineering for carryitg out necessary modifications in
existinglfuture power stations; and (v) providing corporate support to
stations through organization of meetings on environmental management, status
of implementation of remedial actions, obtaining management approvals etc.
2.17      The Corporate Community Development Group is responsible fort
(i) supervising the socio-economic studies carried out by consultants:
(i1) finalization of R&R and community development plans for new projects: and
(iii) policy review and follow up and implementation of RR and comumnity
development plans. Socio-economic studies are generally carried out by
external consultants. At the corporate level, the group has presently three
professionals but staff will increase when required, depending on the volume
of work.
2.18      Organization at the Plant level.  The environmental organization at
the plant level mirrors the corporate set-up and in April 1992 Environmental
Management Groups were formed at each operating coal based plant headed by a
full-time Senior Manager, Environmental Management Group, who is
administratively responsible to the Plant General Manager through the head of
Management Services, and coordinates with the ENG at corporate headquarters.
The basic responsibilities of the EIG at the plants includes (i) coordination
with the State Pollution Control Boards (SPCBs9) (ii) pollution monitoring:
and (iii) data analysis and implementation of corrective measures. The PEA
department at various NTPC sites is directly responsible for R&a and community
development plans and interacts with the displaced persons, local NGOs and
authorities. It facilitates land acquisition and is responsible for
compensatory payments. The staffing level varies for each station, but for
example at the 2,000 MW Singrauli Thermal Power station, 42 full time and 65
part time staff vould be involved in environmental protection and RUR
activities.
2.19      To make the operation of NTPC's existing plants and the design of
its new power plants environmentally more sustainable, a comprehensive
Environmental Action Plan (EAP) has been prepared by NMP, in consultation
with the Bank. The RAP covers all NTPC operations and addresses the required
further institutional strengthening of NTPC to deal effectively with
environmental and R&R problems. It includes investments and technical
assistance required to implement remedial actions to bring existing plants in
compliance with the latest GOI and SPCB environmental standards. It also
inciudes socio-economic studies to ascertain the present economic status of
the PAPs of existing NTPC power stations and implement appropriate romedial
action plans. The RAP is discussed in para 3.30 and Annex 3.2.



- 18 -
NTPC Tariffs and the Emerging Bulk Power Market
2.20      NTPC's Original One-Part Tariff.  Since the beginulng of its
generation operations until November 1992, NTPC has charged for its
electricity supply using a one-part tariff structure, which combined fixed
costs (mainly capital costs) and variable costs (mainly fuel costs) into one
energy (Kwh) charge. A separate tariff was determined for each power station,
on the basis of its actual capital and fuel costs, using prescribed normative
operational parameters, as well as a 122 return on equity. Whlile the level of
such tariffs was high enough to enable NTPC to pass on its full costs for each
station and achieve a reasonable overall financial performance, NTPC's one-
part pricing contributed to the operational Inefficiencies in the Indian power
system and some of the tariff parameters were increasingly contested by many
SEBs. The main issues with NTPC's one-part tariff were:
(a) it distorted plant dispatch. Merit-order dispatch would place the
generally more efficient and lower variable cost NTPC plants ahead
of the generally less efficient and higher variable cost SEB
plants. One-part tariff, by adding NTPC plants fixed cost to the
variable cost, made aach additional unit of NTPC power more
expensive to the SEBs than the variable cost of their own plants.
This has resulted in the reluctance of SEB1 to back down their
units in off-peak periods, in spite of their higher variable cost,
and system frequencies well above 50 Hz are not uncomon;
(b) it contributed to the poor grid discipline. There was no mechanism
for penalizing SEEs which took more than their shares of
electricity from central sector plants. This in turn has resulted
In some SEBs getting less than their share, and system frequencies
falling well below 50 Ha during peak periods;
(c) it enabled over-recovery by NTPC. Whenever the plant load factor
(PLF) exceeded the normative parameter used in the tariff
calculation, NTPC effectively over-charged SEEB for its fixed
costs. In addition, as there was no mechanism to compensate NTPC
for backing down its plants, NWPM stations contributed to the high
system frequencies in off-peak periods by continuing the generate
more than required; and
(d) it did not promote efficiency improvements by NTPC. The normative
operational parameters (such as plant heat rates, auxiliary fuel
and electricity consumption, PLF) were not updated and although
regarded ambitious when first set (as the parameters exceeded the
average SE8 performance by a wide margin) over the years JTPC's
performance exceeded these original expectations by a wide margin.
2.21      The New Two-Part Tariff.  A review of NTPC's tariffs was undertaken
in late 1980s by a committee headed by Mr. K.P. Rao, former Member (Economic &
Commercial) of CEA. The K.P. Rao Comnittee proposed the separation of NTPC's
fixed and variable costs in a conventional two-part tariff and making rates
dependent on NTPC's operational performance. These were, In the Indian
context, ground-breaking recommendations. Two-part tariffs have been
introduced since November 1992 for VTPC's coal-fired stations in the Northern,
Southern and Western regions and from January 1993 in the Eastern region. New
bulk tariffs for NTPC's gas-fired stations will be Included with the new
a



- 19 -
BPSAs. With the new tariff parameters, including the recently approved
Increase to 162 In return on equity on NTPC's new Investments, NTPC's tariff
for incremental supply to the SEns (sales from new power stations) will
initially be well in line with its long-run marginal cost. The fixed cost
part of the tariff will, however, slowly (in line with inflation) fall below
LRMC as assets are not revalued. The average tariff revenue from NTPC's
existing stations, resulting from the new two-part tariffs, is below LRMC for
the same reason. The variable cost part of the tariffs of both new and
existing stations is domitated by the GOX-administered prices of coal and gas.
After significant adjustments In recent years, coal prices reflect economic
costs reasonably well; while the recent depreciation of the Rupee has brought
the delivered price of gas down to about 75Z of the targeted fuel oil parity.
Pressure to raise both coal and gas prices is mounting in order to raise
sufficient resources for coal and gas development and help attract private
investment. The two-part tariff policy allows NTPC to pass future fuel price
adjustments to the consumers.
2.22      The new two-part tariffs allows NTPC to recover its costs and earn
a satisfactory return on its investments, subject to meeting performance
targets on plant availability and efficiency and auxiliary fuel and power
consumption:
(a) NTPC has an effective tariff Incentive to generate efficiently and
is penalized for inefficiency. Performance over the efficiency
(heat rate) target enables UTPC to increase its profits as it
retains the resulting fuel cost savings. Performance below the
target reduces its profits as it is not allowed to recover the
additional fuel costs;
(b) NTPC has an incentive to improve the availability of its plants.
Fixed costs are recovered and target return on equity is achieved
only once generation meets the specified availability, calculated
on the basis of a plant load factor adjusted for deemed generation
(defined below). Lower availability initially reduces NTPC's
profits (lower return on equity), and then results in less than
full recovery of fixed costs;
(c) NTPC is compensated for backing down. Deemed generation (amount of
electricity not generated when the plant was available for
generation, but backed down at the Instruction of the Regional Load
Dispatch Center) is taken into account in the calculation of the
PLW for tariff purposes. NTPC no longer has an incentive to
contribute to over-frequency by generating over the system
requirements in off-peak periods; but
td) NTPC has an incentive to exceed the normative availability/PLF
target to help meet system requirements during peak periods (yet
can not over-recover its fixed costs, as the fixed-cost part of the
two-part tariff allows recovery only up to the availability/PLF
tarset.) Performance exceeding this target is rewarded by allowing
an additional profit element in the variable-cost portion of the
two-part tariff. The higher the actual generation during times of
system demand (off-peak periods are covered under the deemed
generation provision), the higher the bcaus per unit of additional
generation.



- 20 -
2.23      The hmerinu   Bulk Power Market and Future Tariff Reforms. The
introduction of the new two-part tariffs by NTPC is an essential element of
India's reform program for power transmission and system operations.   The
two-part tariff structure enables merit-order generation dispatch Irrespective
of contracts between generators and their clients and are a prerequisite In
the development of a competitive market structure in the power sector. Power
trading In India's emerging industry structure (para. 1.21) is expected to be
dominated by capacity contract trading (long-term contracts between generators
such as NTPC and their clients such as $Bs). The generators are able to
recover their fized costs and earn a return an their equity Investments as.
long as their stations are available for generation, and will have no reason
not to back down their stations in favor of a lower variable cost plant to
help mlnimise the overall cost of system operations. At a later stage
capacity contract trading will be supplemented by spot trading in a short-term
market with prices reflecting supply and demand on a short-term basis. NtPC
Is expected to participate in spot trading to the extent that its 8PSAs with
the SBs do not cover the full output of its stations or vhen it diverts
supplies from non-paying clients under its new commercial policy. A study to
help develop bulk power tariff recommendations for capacity and spot trading
has been commissioned under Ln. 3577-IN, for completion by the end of 1993.
The recommendations of the study will be reviewed with GOI and the Bank not
later than June 30, 1994 and thereafter implemented in accordance with tlme-
bound action plans satisfactory to the Bank. The detailed terms of reference
of the study are given in Amnex 2.5.
NTMO's Investment Prosram
2.24      During FY1992193, NTPC put into operation an additional 1,721 NW of
generating capacity into operation (920 MV coal at Farakka and Dadri and 801
NW gas-based combined cycle at Kawas and Dadri). This brings the total
Installed capacity of its power plants In operation at 13,054 MV, out of which
10,820 MW is coal and 2,234 MN gas-based combined cycle. Table 2.1 shows
NPG's power plants in operation and currently under construction. A
graphical presentation of NTPC'8 past and planned capacity additions is shown
on page 21.



bodb
NTPC POW Pome   ft
NTPC: Actual and Projected Geneatdon Capaclt Addidons
30000
25000
20000
jiB000
810000
5000
0
Pisca Yewar ndIn March 31.



- 22 -
Tebl 2.1 P -NTPC Powr t.
(In Oineton and Unb CoFi - uon)
r¢I nlom led Caelb
In rKlomn   _UbrConKictlen
External 'oal                                     a"
Pe*]et Na        St.  Finncanl  EroloceO
Northern !=Ion
Slnr ull VUI*It Cool U.P.   IDA, KfW   2,000        -           -             -
OPEC
RUiand I      co*l u.P.    I0(Ta) 1,000             -           -             -
UK,Sw.dsn
Nor,w,
Dadrl         0"  U.P.   Kfr          -             524         -             2
Ante          Gas Rajsthn IRD,Japan   -             41          -             -
Auratl)?      G   U.P.      RD,Japan   -            MI          -
Unchhabr I    Cool U.P.               420           -           -             -
Nat.Cap.(Dadrl) Coal u.P.   IMP       680           -           210           -
fbtogrn R glon
Korb I a II    Coal M.P.   IDA, KfW   2,100         -
OPEC
Kawas         Sao Gujarat WR.Japan   -              045         -             -
France
elgium
Vindhyachnl I   Cool .P.    USR     1,200          -           -             -
Gendhar       Gas Gujarat OECF        -                         -             46
Southen Ret on
eagundam MII Coal A.P.    ZDA9,1     2,100          -           -             -
OPEC KfW,
Saudi Fund
Japan
Eastern R slon
h FiEion  Co l .B.  DASI'N  1,100         -           COO           -
KfV,staly
Japan
Kahelgeon     Coal BOher   Ru,l.      210           -            B0o
Teicher I     Coal Orlsa  I9R0,Frane   -            -         1,000           -
Total                               10,020        2,284       2,40           941
~   m   -
2.25      Four ongoing projects, three coal-fired (Farakka, Talcher and Dadri
- under the National Capital project) and one gas based combined cycle (GBCC)
(Kawas) plants are funded under ongoing Bank loans. The Dadri and Gandhar
GBCC projects are funded by Rf of Germay and OZCF of Japan, respectively.
The Kshalgaon coal-fired project is executed with financial assistance from
the former USSR. All the above projects would be completed during the 8th
Plan period (PY93-FY97) and NTPC's total installed capacity In operation would
reach 16,625 MV (13,450 MW coal and 3,175 MV gas). NTPC's investment program
also includes remaining capital expenditure on existing stations such as ash
disposal systems, upgrading of electrostatic precipitators and other remedial
environmental projects as well as retention payments.
2.26      NTPC's current investment program includes nine coal-fired power
plants with an aggregate installed capacity of 8,260 NV and one 400 MW gas-
based combined cycle power plant expected to be initiated during the Bighth
Plan (Table 2.2). Salient parameters of these projects are given in Annex 2.6
In addition, NTPC is planning to develop several projects as a minority
partner in joint ventures with private companies (para 3.9). During the Ninth
Plan, NTPC expects to start construction of seven projects (six, coal-fired,
and one gas-based combined cycle) for a total capacity of 8,400 MV.



- 23 -
Tabl 2.2 - NTPC Power Plant to be InitLtWed Durlns 8th Plan
total J.lled Ceeltd  -
DurAng_ te 5th Plan:
Uthfnd it            Coal Northern U.P.          1,000          -
VtadhyaChel II       Coi Westrn  M.P.           1,000          -
UnMhahor             Coal Northen U.P.             420          -
FPrldabad I          oa   Northern U.P.            -           400
Tolch.r 1U           Cool lebtern  Ortlas        2,000          -
Kayenkulam I         Coal Southern Kerala          420          -
naalb r S            Coal Southern Tamtl bdb       420
lb                   Coal Western  Orloa         2,000          -
Rnaeundaa USS        Coal Southern A.P.            S00          -
Farekka SS           Coal Eo tern  5..             600          -
Sub-Total (6th Plan)                             8,200         400
m              -
2.27      The pavoer plants included in NTPC's investment program form a part
of CEA's long-term least-cost power development program for India. The
majority of NTPC's proposed power stations are pit-head coal fired stations,
often extensions of existing stations, which have relatively low generating
costs. The feasibility studies for stage II developments of Rihand,
Vindhyachal and Unchahar as well as the gas-fired station at Faridabad, were
reviewed and generally found technically and economLcally viable, subject to
the availability of gas for Faridabad. The viability of the other proposed
stations remains to be confirmed upon completion of the feasibility studies,
in particular for the two proposed coastal stations at Kayamkulam and
Mangalore. The investment program vill be reviewed and updated annually,
taking into account NTPC's new investment policies (para. 2.2) and progress
with projects proposed to be executed with private sector partners. The size
of N5PC's investment program would also depend on MTPC's level of internal
resource mobilization and its capability to raise funds from foreign and local
capital markets. Subject to these qualifications the Bank concurs with NTPC's
proposed investment program.
NPM's Future Role in the Indian Power Sector
2.28      The transformation from a major construction oriented organization
to one of the largest generating utilities In the developing world has not
been without problems. With the rapidly growing demand for electricity, the
SBs were keen to obtain power from FMP power stations, but their poor
financial situation limited the ability to pay. Bill collection became such a
problem (para 4.10) that it started to undermine NTPC's financial position to
the extent that some international lenders, including the Bunk, refrained from
providing fresh financial assistance to finace ITPC'8 Investment program,
until collection performance improved. The reality of Indial's continuing
constraints oan public resources requires the mobilization of substantial
amounts of funds from internal resources and a financial strategy much less
dependent on the exchequer than in the past. With the new comuercial policies
and new two part tariff in place, WMP should be able to collect bills and
mobilize sufficient resources from Internal cash generation to finance its
ambitious Investment progrqm.
2.29      In addition, to the implementation of its own investment program,
ETPC is expected to form over the next few years several joint ventures with



- 24 -
the private sector (para. 3.9) and it expects to be responsible for
engineering as mell as operation and maintenance. Although the take-over of
the Unchahar power plant was successfully completed in a relatively short
period of time Cpara.2.8), NTPC does not have immediate plans for taking over
other power stations from the SEBs, partly because of a lack of financial
resources, but also because it would like to first complete the integration of
the Unchahar power station personnel.  At a later stage NTPC might be willing
to consider taking over other SEB power stations.  Through its consulting wing
NTPC is however willing to assist SEBs with the rehabilitation of existing
stations. A dialogue has been initiated by the Bank on what should be NTPC's
future role in the Indian power sector and whether further institutional
changes would be desirable. Another question raised is whether NTPC's
experience in supervising major projects could not be used for improving the
execution of hydro power stations. Such major institutional reforms cannot be
expected to materialize in the short run. Although the dialogue on these
issues will continue the emphasis for NMPC in the short run will be on
commercialization of its operations and building a resource mobilization
strategy which would maximize the use of private resources, possibly through
raising private equity capital.
1II. THE PROJECT
Project Obiectives
3.1       The project has been designed to support 001's reform program in
the power sector. The project objectives are tos
(a) help Improve commercial discipline in the power system through the
Implementation of new comercial and investment policiess
(b) help NTPC meet its targets for capacity additions through Increased
mobilization of funds from internal resources, domestic and foreign
capital markets, as well as from the private sector through joint
venture operations;
(c) upgrade environmental performance of NTPC power stations and make
its new power stations environmentally more sustainable; and
(d) strengthen its environmental and resettlement and rehabilitation
management capability.
Proiect Descri2tion
3.2       The proposed project comprises:
(a) Generation Capacity Additions: a five year time-slice of NTPC's
least cost investment program of new coal and gas-based power
stations for which full funding has not yet been arranged;
(b) Private Sector Component: support to NTPC to undertake several
joint venture operations; and
(c) Environmental Strengthening and Resettlement and Rehabilitation:
implementation of an Environmental Action Plan (RAP) which includes
onvironmental upgrading projects, training and technical assistance



- 25 .
for strengthenfing of NTPC's environmental and RiR management
capability and the implementation of the WA.
Project Components
3.3       Generation Capacity Additions.  NTPC'8 total investment program
(para 2.24) and implementation schedules for each station may change depending
on the availability of fuels (coal and gas), obtaining environmental and other
goverment clearances and availabilLty of financing. During negotiations
agreement has been reached that NTPC furnish to the Bank not later than
December 31 of each year its investment program and corresponding finaneial
projections and financing plan for the Bank's review and comments. Agreement
has also been reached that to be eligible for Bank financing, NTPC new power
plants would have to meet the following criteria:
(a) satisfactory technical, economic and financial viability of the
proposed power plants including fuel and transmission linkages;
(b) all necessary 001 clearances including Public Investment Board
(PIB) and environmental for the power station would have been
obtained; the Environmental Assessments would have to be carried
out in accordance with Bank guidelines and for "A* projects an
Eavironmental Assessment Summary would have to be circulated to the
Board before issuance of tendet documents;
(c) the state in which the plant is to be located would be in
compliance with the terms of existing BPSA;
'd) satisfactory financing plan; and
ie) preparation of a satisfactory Resettlement Action Plan, where
required, duly endorsed by the State authorities.
3.4       Under the proposed approach, NTMC wvuld have the flexibility to use
the proceeds of the Bank loans for power stations even if they are currently
not included in its investment program, provided they meet the eligibility
criteria. The first two power stations in NTPC's investment program for which
Bank finance has been requested are Stage II expansions of the Rihand and
Vindhyachal thermal power plants. For Vindhyachal II, all eligibility
criteria have been met. For Rlhand II also, except for the PIB clearance.
This is expected not later thau September 1993.
3.S       Expansion of the Rihand Thermal Power Plant (Stage II).  The Rihand
TPP is located in the State of Uttar Pradesh on the southern bank of the
Gobind Ballabh Pant Sagar Reservoir (3ihand Reservoir). The ultimate capacity
of the power plant would be 3,000 KW and would include six units of 500 MW
each. Stage I (2x500 NOV was constructed with part financing from the
Government of the United Kingdom and has been in operation since FY91. Stage
III (2xSOO MW) would be built at a later date. The proposed Stage II would
Include two 500 MV coal-fired units involving steam generators, turbo-
generator sets complete with auxiliaries, closed-cycle cooling mater system
with cooling towers, coal transportation, coal, ash and fuel oil handling
plants, a water treatment plant, a 275 meter high chimney, miscellaneous
electrical and mechanical equipment, environmental safeguard and monitoring
equipment, associated civil works and engineering and consulting services.



- 26 -
3.6       Expansion of the Vindhyachal Thermal Power Plant (Stage II).  The
Vindhyachal TPP is located in the State of Madhya Pradesh on the western bank
of the Rihand Reservoir. The ultimate capacity of the power plant would be
2,260 MV. Stage I (6s210 MV) was constructed with part financing from the
Government of the former Soviet Union and has been in operation since FY89.
The proposed Stage II would include two 500 MV coal-fired units involving
equipment components similar to Rihand Stage TI above.
3.7       Fuel Supply and Associated Transmission Lines. Coal and gas for
NTPC's power stations are allocated by 001's Coal and Gas Linkages Committees.
Adequate and timely supply of coal and gas for the new power plants is part of
the eligibility criteria for funding under the proposed loan (para. 3.3).
Rihand II and Vindhyachal II projects would initially be supplied from
Dudhichua Phase IT coal mine in the Singrauli area owned by Northern
Coalfields Ltd. (NCL). The first phase of the Dudhichua mine was developed
with World Bank assistance under Ln. 2353-IN (1984). Environmental clearance
for the mine expansion for a production of up to ten million tons per year was
obtained in July 1990. The coal would be transported to the power plants
through an existing Merry-Go-Round (MGR) system. Coal for Vindhyachal II may
also be supplied at a later stage from the Nigahi mine expansion, also in the
Singrauli area and owned by NCL. The environmental assessment is under
preparation and is scheduled to be submitted for clearance later in 1993.
3.8       The switchyards for Rihsnd II and Vindhyachal II power stations and
associated transmission systems will be constructed by POWERGRID and are
included in its investment program. POWERGRID has obtained forest clearance
for the Rihand to Kanpur 400 kv line. For the Kanpur to Ballabhgarh 400 kv
line no forest land is involved. A detailed survey of the 50 km Rihand to
Singrauli 400 kv line is being conducted. In case forest land cannot be
avoided. the necessary forest clearance will be obtained from MOEF. Forest
clearances for Vindhyachal to Bina 800 kv line and Korba to Bhilai 400 kv line
have been obtained and no forest land is Involved on the Bina-Nagda-Ranason
400 kv line. The substation sites will not displace any homesteads. As
required by MOE?, compensatory forestry will be carried out whenever forest
land is involved. During negotiations, 001 confirmed that adequate and timely
supplies of fuel and financing for the associated transmission systems for
Rihantd II and Vindhyachal II will be made available and that adequate measures
have been taken to ensure the coordination of construction schedules.
3.9       Private Sector Component.  In January 1993, GOI has given NTPC
approval to enter into joint ventures with local and foreign private partners
to Implement projects out of its own investment program and to bid for and
implement projects proposed by SEBs to the private sector. NTPC has signed
MOUs with several potential foreign investors to participate in bids invited
by the states for generating stations and/or is in advance stages of
negotiations for implementation of such projects. NTPC would be a minority
equity partner, but expects to be responsible for the engineering and
operation and maintenance of the power plants. Details for at least two such
projects are expected to be finalized over the next 6 months and a provision
has beean made under the loan so that part of the proceeds of the loan can be
used for financing NTPC's contribution in the venture. The proceeds of the
loan would finance goods and services procured in accordance with the Bank
guidelines and counted as NTPC's contribution to the project. During
negotiations agreement has been reached that to be eligible for Bank financing
the joint venture projects would have to meet the same eligibility criteria as



- 27 -
for NTPC's own projects, suitably modified vith respect to Government
clearances and approvals and the signing of a Power Purchase Agreement (PPA)
satisfactory to the Bank.
3.10      Environmental Strengthening and Resettlement and Rehabilitation.
Implementation of a comprehensive RAP is a significant component of the
proposed loan. The objectives of the ZAP ares (i) to rationalize and improve
NTPC's organizational structure for environmental management at the corporate
and plant levels; (ii) to improve environmental monitoring and the preparation
of environmental impact assessments; (iii) to execute a specific program of
remedial environmental measures for NTPC's existing power stations and make
its operations environmentally more sustainable; and (iv) to address
outstanding R&R issues in existing stations and to upgrade NTPC's capability
to prepare and execute R&R programs. The EAP covers all NTPC power stations
and addresses the required institutional strengthening of NTPC to deal
effectively with environmental and R&R problems. It includes investments
required to implement remedial actions to enable existing plants to meet the
latest GOI environmental standards. The EAP also includes training of NTPC
staff and technical assistance to help undertake studies and implement
environmental projects. Further details of the RAP are provided in paras.3.29
to 3.34 and in Annex 3.2.
NTPC's Investment Program and Financins Plan
3.11      NTPC's FY93 - FY2002 investment program (Annex 2.6), together with
the corresponding financing plan are presented in Table 3.1 below.
Table B.1s NTC'. Investment Progrm and Financing Plan
(FY94 - FY02)M/k/a/
Comonent.                     FPY9-FY97   FY9-FY2002    FY98-FY97  FYOs-FY2002
---Ra.bti gloo-n---US8 mel iIon-
Funding Recuiremeute
Ongown Projec                    78.5        10.7        2,208          2"8
NeW ProJect.:
- To be Initiated During 8th Plan   90.8  289.C        2,64?        6,452
- To be Initiated During 9th Plan    -     909.9          -         2,824
- Subtotal - NMm Project.       99.6      869.5        2,647        8,776
Total - venration                178.8      8S0.2        4,850        9,089
Joint Sector Project(s)           4.0        -             110          -
Total Financing Requirement.     177.8     S80.2         4,SB0        9,089



- 28 -
Table 8.1: NTPC's nvestment Program and Financing Plan
(FY04 - FYO2)1/i/7 (contcD
Copont.                        PYOS-4YrO    FY98-FY2002    RU-FYF?   FY9S-112OO
Flnanoing Plan
NTPCa Not Internal Coah OGneration   41.4    75.5         1,1B?        1,508
Borrowing:
Loans Contracted                  8.0         -           1,078          -
Proposed Bank Loan                14.8                      400
Futur. Bank Leadhig               20.4       10.9           SRO         271
Othor Loans to b Arranged         8.9       246.C           087        6,826
Bonds                             16.2       48.0           604        1,140
Total Borrowing                  124.0      804.4         8,448        7,285
squity                            11.1        -             850          -
Total Sources                    177.8      880.2         4,960        9,089
==a==        __           ___
*/ Includes taxes and duties of about USS1,384 tillIon *nd lndir et foreign costs of
local contracts of about US82,200 milIIon.
w Includs int rest during construction.
j At forecat average exchange rates.
3.12      NTPC's Investment requirements including interest during
construction (IDC) during the FY93-FY97 (Eighth Plan) period amount to Re. 177
billion (US$4,960 million equivalent) and Rs. 380 billion (US$9,039 million)
during the Ninth plan period. The investment program includes capital
expenditures for the implementation of the RAP. MTPC's proposed investment
program was discussed and agreed during negotiations. The actual composition
of NTPC's ten year investment program would depend on the project feasibility
studies and the necessary GO0 clearances (para 2.28) and availability of
financial resources. NTPC's overall resource mobilization strategy including
the possible use of an Expanded Cofinancing Operation (ECO) to supplement the
Bank's assistance is further discussed in pars 4.17.
Basis for Cost Estimates
3.13      Cost estimtes for the power stations included in the program are
based on available cost data from NTPC's own stations and those recently built
by the SZBs. Base prices were updated to March 1993. Physical contingencies
of St on equipment and materials and 10? on civil works were assumed on the
basis of NTPC's experience. Price contingencies are based on the expected
annual domestic and International Inflation rates. Moreover, uncertainties
arising from 00I's recent decisions to allow Indian suppliers to bid in
foreign currencies for procurement under ICB, to decrease customs duties and
to rescind some of the *deemed export benefits' have been reflected in the
price contingencies. The domestic inflation rates used for the cost estimates
are as follows: 8.02 for FY94, 7.02 for PY95, 6.OZ for FY6, 5.5? for FY97,
and 5.02 thereafter. The international inflation rates used are 3.1 for FY94
and thereafter. Bank projected US dollar/Rupee exchange rates were used for
currency conversion purposes. Detailed cost estimates for Vindhyachal II and
Rhaud II thermal power plants are given in Annex 3.3.



- 29 -
Lendint Arrangements and Security Arrangements
3.14      The proposed loan of US$400 million is the first of a series of
proposed three operations to support NTPC's investment program which would be
presented for consideration of the Board at intervals of 18 to 24 months for a
total of about US$1.2 billion, provided that WMPC remains In compliance with
the Bank's conditions. The total amount is expected to be disbursed over a
maximum period of five years. The three Bank loans would covers (i) about
8.86 of the total financing requirements of NTPC's ten-year investment
program; and (Ui) about 192 of NTPC's financing requirements for its
investments during the PY93-FY97 period.
3.15      The proposed Loan would be made directly to NTPC with a 001
guarantee, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate, a 20 year maturity
including a five years grace period. Go! will charge a guarantee fee of 12
p.a. on the outstanding amount of the proposed Loan. NTPC would bear the
interest and foreign exchange risks. NTPC has created liens on some of its
assets, including floatation of a series of bonds in the domestic market. They
also have Negative Pledge provisions in their external borrowings. During
negotiations, agreement has been reached that NTPC will create an equitable
mortgage in favor of the Bank on its unencumbered assets by way of security
for the proposed loan by December 31, 1993. The Bank will have no objection
if other external lenders want to share the mortgage with the Bank on a pari
passu basis.
Generation Capacity Additions
3.16      NPC's Engineering and Proiect Preparation Capability.  NTPC would
be responsible for implementing all the physical components of the proposed
project.  In the course of implementing previous Bank and non-Bank financed
power generation projects, NTPC has developed, with the assistance of several
international consultants, adequate capability and expertise on the
mngine-ing of thermal power plants equipped with 2001210 NW and 500 MV coal-
fired units, and gas based combined cycle power plants. NTPC designs and
manages its projects with little use of outside consultants and while
suppliers are generally responaible for erection works, NMPC retains the
responsibility for Iaplementatiou coordination.
3.17      Status of Engineering and Project Preparation.  The general
characteristics and layout for the coal-fired and gas-based combined cycle
power plants would be similar to those of existing TPC projects. The
feasibility reports for the projects included in the early phases of NTPC's
investment program have beer. prepared by NTPC. Those for Rlhand UI and
Vindhyachal II were reviewed by the Bank and found acceptable.  Design
reports, draft tender documents and tecbnical specifications for the boiler
and turbine-generator contract packages for Rihand SI and Vindhyachal II were
prepared by NTPC and agreed to by the Bank. Specifications for the other
contract packages for Rihand II and Vindhyachal It, and for packages for the
other power plant projects becoming eligible for financing under the proposed
loan would also be prepared by NTPC.
3.18      Status of Clearances. NTPC has obtained all GOI clearances
required for Rihand Il and Vindhyachal II, except for the Public Investment
Board clearance for Ruhand II, which is expected not later than September
1993.



- 30 -
3.19      Prolect Implementation and Mana&ement.  NTPC has adequate
experience and organizational capacity in managing simultaneously the
construction of large power stations which it has demonstrated during the
construction of the previous projects. In late 1980s NTPC managed the
construction of eleven power plant projects semultaneously. Headquarters
support the design, procurement, contracting and financial operations. Day-
to-day implementation is undertaken at the sites headed by a General Manager,
with close monitoring from the senior management. NTPC's project management
structure for typical coal-fired power plant projects are shown in Annex 3.4.
The site General Managers chair monthly review meetings attended by project
staff and senior executives of concerned headquarter departments to review
progress and authorize payments to suppliers an#; erection contractors. The
site General MNangers report through the field organization to the Executive
Directors of their respective regions. NTPC senior management receives
monthly progress reports and reviews each project in detail in quarterly
Management Committee meetings. Additional management-level meetings are also
convened at short notice when needed to resolve urgent issues in project
implementation. NTPC is upgrading its computerized project management systems
to help schedule and monitor project implementation and facilitate
comprehensive and timely progress reporting.
3.20      The power plant projects eligible for funding under the proposed
loan would be implemented in line with NTPC's standard project management
philosophy. Suppliers would, in general, provide the final designs and would
supply and erect the major equipment (boilers, turbine-generators, coal and
ash handling plants, cooling water system, control and instrumentation
systems, etc.). NTPC staff would be responsible for the approval of final
manufacturing and construction drawings, would supervise and monitor all
tests, oversee the plant construction and be responsible for coordinating the
procurement and erection activities.
3.21      NTPC has over the years, built-up adequate engineering capability
(para. 3.16), and it does not employ independent consultant-engineers to
supervise the construction of its conventional power plant projects.
3.22      Project Implementation.  The detailed implementation schedules for
Rihand II and Vindhyachal II are given in Annex 3.5.  The bid documents for
the boilers and turbine-generators of Vindhyachal II would be issued in June
1993, bids would be opened in September 1993, the contracts would be awarded
in March 1994. This timetable would mean that the first 500 MW unit would be
synchronized with the transmission system by March 1999. These units would
then be commissioned (put in commercial operation) by September 1999. The
second 500 MW unit wvould be synchronized and commissioned in March 2000 and
September 2000. The units of Rihand II would be commissioned about three
months later. Annex 3.5 also includes the overall implementation schedules of
other projects included in NTPC's investment program and key milestone data.
Procurement
3.23      Procurement Philosophy and Bidding Documents.  As in previous
projects it implemented, NTPC designed its contract packages with due
consideration for simplifying project management and encourage as many
competent manufacturers and contractors as possible to bid by appropriately
packing the various contracts. Major power station equipment would be



- 31 -
procured on a supply and erect basis in accordance with a bidding document for
Supply-cum-Zrection of Goods, which has been agreed between the Bank and NTPC.
This document would be used until the Bank's standard bidding document for
supply and erection of goods is issued. For procurement of all other Bank
financed contract packages, including those for the RAP, the Bank's standard
bidding documents for civil works, supply of goods and supply-cum-supervision
of erection would be used.
3.24      ITPC's Procurement Strately.  NTPC intends to procure most of the
major contract packages of the power plant projects eligible for Bank funding
under international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures, in accordance with
Bank guidelines. In selected cases, NTPC will use Bank funds only for partial
payments of the ICB contracts; the balance would be paid from export credits,
other commercial sources, bonds or STPC's own resources. Other contract
packages will be financed directly through export credits. It is expected that
contracts for large equipment packages such as boilers, turbine-generators,
electrostatic precipitators, transformers, etc. would be attractive to
offshore official and commercial lenders with an interest in supporting their
client contractors. This would be agreed between the Bank and NTPC during the
finalization of the financing plan for each particular power plant. In such
cases, NTPC would specify in the tender documents that foreign exchange
financing is sought at OECD consensus terms or better. Non-provision of such
financing would be cause for rejection of the bids under this scheme; and the
criteria to be used for evaluating the financial offers would be clearly given
in the tender documents. Contract packages funded by other bilateral or
multilateral donors would be procured in accordance with their respective
guidelines.
3.25      Procurement Arrangements under the proposed loan. The procurement
arrangements and packaging for Rihand II and Vindhyachal II are summarized and
msjor milestones of the procurement process are given in Annex 3.6. The major
part of the contract packages for Rihand II and Vindhyachal II (totalling
about US$1.5 billion and including all Bank financed items) as well as Bank
financed packages of the RAP would be procured through ICB, in accordance with
the Bank's guidelines and following the overall NTPC procurement strategy
outlined in paras 3.23 and 3.24 above. NTPC has also requested that part of
environmental projects under the ZAP be financed from savings under Lu. 2844-
IN National Capital Power Supply and Ln. 2845-IN Talcher Thermal and it is
proposed that the legal agreements be suitably amended. Under the proposed
loan, procurement under ICB is expected to total US$374 million or 94Z of the
loan amount. The following additional specific procedures vould apply to all
procurement under the proposed loans (i) all contracts for materials and
equipment or for erection services financed under the proposed loan and
estimated to cost US$300,000 equivalent or more would be procured through ICB,
in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines and using standard
bidding documents; (Ui) all contracts for materials and equipment financed
under the proposed loan and expected to cost less than US$300,000 equivalent
and not exceeding in the aggregate US$5 million equivalent, may be procured
under Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures satisfactory to the Bank;
(iii) civil works contracts would only f- financed by the Bank if it is
included in a Bank financed equipment p-;age and essential for functional
purposes; and (iv) specialized equipment. qich as environmental monitoring
instruments and control equipment costing less than US$100,000 may be procured
by inviting quotations from at least three suppliers and items of a
proprietary in nature may be procured directly from suppliers, provided the



- 32 -
aggregate amount does not exceed US$20 million equivalent. NTPC would furnish
In advance lists of proprietary items to be procured directly for review and
approval by the Bank.
S3.26     Local manufacturers would be expected to bid for materials and
equipment packages, and a domestic preference of 15X or the corresponding
import duty, whichever is less, would be applied in the comparison of bids
submitted by local manufacturers for materials and equipment contracts. Prior
Bank review of bid documents and approval of contract awards would be
mandatory for all contracts expected to cost the equivalent of US$5 million or
more. Smaller Bank-financed contracts under ICB would be subject to selective
post-award review, but the aggregate value of such contracts is not expected
to exceed US$30 million. Bank financed consultants would be appointed in
accordance with the Guidelines for the Selection of Consultants. Consultancy
contracts estimated at US$100,000 or more would be subject to prior review.
3.27      Procurement under further Bank loans. The proposed loan would be
the first of the series of three Bank loans to NTPC that would be proposed to
support NTPC'8 investment program provided that NTPC remains in compliance
with the agreed loan conditions. It is anticipated that part of the proceeds
of the second and third Bank loans would be used to finance the balance
portion of payments for contracts earlier awarded in accordance with Bank
procurement guidelines under the proposed loan.
Disbursements
3.28       Disbursements under the proposed loan would be made against for up
tot (a) 1002 of the foreign currency expenditures (CIF), 1OOX of the
ex-factory cost and 802 of local expenditures for other items procured
locally; (b) 702 of expenditures for civil works and erection services; and
(c) 1OOZ of the services rendered by consultants and for training.
Disbursements fors (a) equipment contracts valued less than US$300,000
equivalent; and (b) civil works and erection contracts valued less than
US$500,000 would be made against statements of expenditures (SON), the
documentation of which would not be sent to the Bank, but would be retained by
NTPC for inspection by supervision missions. All other disbursements would be
fully documented. To facilitate disbursements, a special account would be
established for the Bank loan with an authorized allocation of US$25 million,
equivalent to four months of average disbursements under the proposed Loan.
Annex 3.7 shows the estimated disbursement schedule as derived from the
construction programs of the project components, assuming normal terms for
commercial payments, including use of lank guarantees for retention payments.
The disbursement profile for the loan does not fit IBRD's standard profiles
because of the time-slice nature of the operation. The closing date for the
loan wmuld be September 30, 1997. Expenditures for materials, equipment and
services for the Environmental Strengthening component, incurred by NTPC
within 12 months prior to the sigLAng of the loan agreement, under contracts
resulting from advance actions by NTPC, procured in accordaice with Bank
guidelines and awarded with prior Bank approval, would be eligible for
retroactive financing under the proposed loan up to an aggregate amount of
US$10 million.



- 33 -
Environmental Aspects
3.29      Under existlng 001 procedures NTPC has to prepare a detailed
Envaironmental Impact Assessment (EIA) in order to obtain an environmental
clearance from the Ministry of Environment and forests (OEF). Further
details of the current environmental regulatory framework pertaining to NTPC
and a description of pertinent GOI and World Bank standards is given in Annez
2.4. The ZIA required by M40F is in substance and form similar to
Environmental Assessments required by the Bank for category A projects and
full Environmental Assessments have been carried out for Rihand II and
Vindhyachal II the first projects to be taken up under the project. The
designs of these stations are compatible with both 001 and World Bank
standards and the Environmental Assessment Summaries (EAS) were distributed to
the Board on April 14, 1993. A brief summary of both EAS' and an overview of
the specific environmental issues pertaining to the Singrauli area is given In
Annex 3.8. Agreement has been reached with NTPC that for all subsequent Bank
financed power plants under the project, category A environmental assessments
would be completed and reviewed with the Bank before issuance of tender
documents for Bank financed procurement packages. An EAS would be circulated
to the Board.
3.30      The Environmental Action Plan. The RAP can be divided into four
main categoriess (i) Institutional strengthening; (1i) Eavironmental
management and monitoring; (Wi) Environmental projects and;
Civ) Rehabilitation and Resettlement (para 3.33). Implementation of the RAP
has already started (Annex 3.2) and the remaining actions will also be
undertaken largely by NTPC's own personnel, but with the help of consultants.
Implementation of the ZAP will be the responsibility of the respective
environmental groups namely lEG, EMG and CDG at the Corporate Headquarters and
plant levels. The progress of the overall lmplementation of ZAP will be
monitored by the Corporate Planning Department. Technical assistance will be
provided by consultants in areas like review of existing environmental
policies and standards, training and a number of specific technical studies to
design further remedial actions. The detailed implementation schedule of the
ZAP is shown in Annex 3.2, most of the actions are expected to be completed by
the end of 1996.  Implementation of the RAP dated May 10, 1993 agreed with
the Bank during negotiations is a condition of the proposed loan.
3.31      The consultants arrangements for the implementation of the RAP are
as follows. NTPC already has a twinning arrangement with British Electricity
International Ltd. (BRI) of United Kingdom and experts have visited the NTPC
facilities to assess their needs. Under this arrangement SRI will continue to
assist NTPC in (a) conducting environmental appraisal; (b) developing
guidelines for environmental management; and (c) exa;a1ning current laboratory
and monitoring practices and recommending additional requirements.
3.32      I  addition the E-7 network, a group of internationally reputed
utilities !1 have agreed in principle to provide assistance to NTPC for the
lmplementation of the RAP. The assistance will be by way of grant of about 50
man-months time of their experts and cover the cost of visits of NTPC
6/ The group consist of seven major utilities: Electricitd de France,
Hydro-Quebec, Ontario iydro, Tokyo Electric Power Co., Kensai Electric Power
Co., BRUAG and EMNL.



- 34 -
personnel to their facilities. These major utilities are well versed with
international practices, govenwmental regulations and would have a pragmatic
view on environmental matters concerning large coal based power projects.
Under this program, NTPC's expertise will be developed in (a) developing
overall targets for pollution and waste reduction (including energy
conservation); (b) development and engineering of effluent treatment and
emission control systems; (c) power stations operations from environmental
view point and utilizing of ash; (d) establishing computer center and data
bank for atmospheric emission dispersion models, effluent discbarge data
collection and analysist and (e) strengthening of NTPC's human resources by
way of training of personnel and exposure to operations at E-7 facilities to
fully appreciate the current international environmental management and RUR
practices. An agreement, satisfactory to the Bank will be concluded between
NTPC and E7 as part of the EAP. The scope of the Z7 network assistance is
given in Annex 3.2.
Resettlement and Rehabilitation
3.33      NTPC has revised its R&R policy (para 2.13) and all R&R related to
the construction of its new power stations will be handled in accordance with
the new policy. The institutional strengthening of NTPC and manpower
development to effectively deal with RUR issues forms an integral part of the
RAP. As part of its new RR policy NTPC will also carry out socio-economic
surveys to ascertain the present economic status of project affected families
(PAls) and provides, where found to be needed, for the funding and
implementation of community development programs, including necessary income
restoration measures. More specifically, during negotiations agreement was
reached that NTPC would undertake such studies not later than ecember 31,
1994 for PAFs of the Second Parakka Thermal Power project (Lu. 2442-IN, 1984),
the Combined Cycle Project (Ln. 2674-IN, 1986) and the National Capital Power
Project (Ln. 2844-IN, 1987). Based on these surveys NTPC would draw up
whenever necessary, remedial action plans In consultation with the Bank which
have as their objective the phased restoration of the economic base of the
persons affected. Under the Talcher Thermal Power Project (Lu. 2895-IN, 1987),
a Rehabilitation Action Plan, satisfactory to the Bank, is already under
iplementation.
3.34      NTPC has prepared Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) satisfactory to
the Bank for Rihand II (67 PAFs) and Vindhyachal II (119 PAPs) in consultation
with the local authorities and people concerned. The draft RAPs were
discussed during appraisal and they have been further revised to bring them in
accordance with NTPC's revised R&R policy. Implementation of the agreed RAPs
is a condition of the loan. During negotiations, an understanding was reached
that NTPC will review with the Bank on an annual basis: (a) the application of
the revised RUR policy; (b) implementation of the ongoing RAPs in Bank
financed thermal power projects and other R&R aspects under the RAP as agreed
with the Bank. The 87 PAFs of the Stage 1I of the Dudhichua coal mine are
being resettled in accordance with the Integrated Environmental Management
Plan (EMP) for the NCL coal fields approved by MOEF in 1987. For subsequent
power plants to be financed by the Bank under the project, the preparation of
a Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) satisfactory to the Bank and where required,
endorsed by the State authorities is one of the eligibility criteria (3.3).



- 35 -
Proiect Monitoring and Implementation Review
3.35      Under ongoing Bank financed projects NTPC is required to prepare
quarterly reports covering the work of consultants, procurement, physical
progress, project costs, disbursements, administrative and financial aspects
of the project. Progress reports under the proposed project will be prepared
along the same lines, but their scope will be expanded to: (a) cover NTPC's
overall financial and institutional performance; (b) progress in the
implementation of the RAP; and (c) present key quantitative measures of
implementation performance for power stations financed by the Bank. Progress
reports will be sent to the Bank within four weeks of the conclusion of the
reporting period; the first report is to be submitted for the period ending
December 1993. Because of its nature the project will require more than
regular Bank supervision time and is estimated at about 30 staff weeks per
year. Staff inputs for the preparation of the second and third loans should,
however, be lower than the current norms. The BSank's project supervision plan
is outlined in Annex 3.9.
3.36      Mid-Term review.  The proposed operation is expected to be
completed within two to three years. Therefore, a mid-term review would not
be required. However, the following issues would be revisited during the
appraisal of the second and third Bank loan for supporting NTPC's investment
program: (i) status of GOI's reform program in the power sector and NTPC's
role in it; (ii) overall progress in the physical execution of the projects
funded under the proposed loan; (iiI) review of the adequacy of the level of
self financing agreed under this loan; and (iv) compliance with legal
covenants, including satisfactory implementation of the RAP, including
performance on R&R.
IV. FINANCE
Financial Management
4.1       Organization.  All financial and commercial functions of NTPC are
under the control of the Director (Finance) who is assisted by an Executive
Director and two general managers. Finance staff at regional 6ffices, power
stations and projects report administratively to the executive directors and
general managers of projects, but functionally to finance staff at corporate
headquarters. The regional Heads of Finance are responsible for billing and
collection of dues from the SEBs and for the coordination between finance
staff at the project sites and corporate headquarters.
4.2       Because of the lack of adequate facilities in India, NTPC has built
up an efficient communication network between various remote project sites,
the regional headquarters and the Corporate Offices at Delhi. The Corporation
was amongst the first in India to lease channels of the communication
satellite, INSAT, to link the headquarters to its sites. Augmented by radio
frequency wireless, the Corporation has voice, facsimile and computer links to
its stations and regional offices. These communication linkages have
facilitated development of an advanced Management Information System and being
used to exercise operational and financial control.



- 36 -
4.3       Accounting and Budgeting.  NTPC keeps its accounts in accordance
with the commercial accounting systems defined in the Companies Act, taking
Into account the relevant provisions of the Electricity (supply) Act, 1948.
NTPC's accounting system was originally designed in 1979 by M/s A.F. Fergusons
and Company, Chartered Accountants, it has kept pace with the rapid growth of
the corporation. It has well conceived computerized systems for financial and
cost accounting, project accounting, inventory control, billing. fized assets
accounting, and payroll. The project cost accounting system is now being
supplemented by cost accounting for operations. Computerized financial
accounting systems have been Implemented at all sites. NTPC has developed
budgetary control systems for capital investment and operation and
maintenance. Its accounting and budgeting systems have been effective tools
for planning, tariff calculations. monitoring and control of expenditures at
all levels of the organization and has raised cost awareness amongst its
managers. Current cost accounting, including revaluation of assets, is not
prescribed by GOT, but in order to obtain more accurate information about its
actual financial performance and to assess the Impact of inflation, NTPC has
been preparing since FY88 summarized current cost accounts to measure the
Impact of inflation and the current costs of NTPC historically valued assets.
Most financial management systems were developed by NTPC's own staff.
Treasury management both in local and foreign currencies requires now more
attention, because of the situation in the capital markets and increased
foreign exchange exposure. It was therefore agreed that a review of NTPC's
financial management systems be undertaken within the framework of its
twinning arrangement with BRI, UK. At negotiations agreement has been reached
that NTPC submit to the Bank not later than December 31, 1993 the scope of the
financial management review and to discuss with the Bank not later thAn June
30, 1994 the implementation of the recommendations.
4.4       Audit. The Internal Audit function is under General Manager,
Finance, who reports to the Director of Finance. In addition, there are audit
cells at project sites. To supplement NTPC's in house capabilities, audit
firms have been engaged to undertake internal audit of selected projects. The
Internal audit covers financial transactions, works and accounts, contracts,
and review of operations and systems of functional departments. As per the
Companies Act, NTPC accounts are audited annually by a group of private fimss
of chartered accountants appointed (generally for a three year period). In
addition, the Comptroller & Auditor General of India (CAG) carries out an
annual audit which is more limited in its scope. The audit arrangements are
satisfactory. Agreement has been reached at negotiations that NTPC will
submit annually to the Bank, not later than seven months after the close of
the fiscal year, its audited financial statements, together with the audit
report from the private auditors and the comments of the CAG, as well as the
audit reports of the special account and withdrawals made against statement of
expenditures for the project.
4.5       Insurance.  NTPC follows sound insurance practices, generally
consistent with power utilities practice. Goods in transit from overseas to
India are insured, as are both projects under construction (except in the case
of turnkey contracts, where the contractor is required to take proper
coverage) and units in operation.
4.6       Taxes. With regard to income taxes, NTPC is required to file
returns following the norms established by the Companies Act and the Income
Tax Act. Taxes are payable at the rate of 45Z of the net taxable income. In



- 37 -
addition. a surcharge of 152 is also payable. However, because of its high
level of capital investment and the much higher depreciation rates allowed for
incme tax computation, NTPC has hardly paid any income tax so far. IT
addition, both NTPC and the SEBs are exempt from a norm that requires tax
payment whenever book profits are shown. In regard to customs duties, NTPC is
subject to a reduced rate of 20? on most imports related to its projects. No
excise taxes are levied on bulk supplies of electricity, but NTPC has to
reimburse manufacturers the excise taxes paid by them in respect of NTPC's
capital equipment purchased from them. Electricity duties are levied by some
States on the electricity sold by NTPC.
4.7       Financial Planning. NTPC two year rolling budgetary systems for
capital investment and for revenues. Their preparation begins in
SeptemberlOctober of each year with an update of the current year budgets.
The revenue budget is used for determining profitability, working capital
requirements and internal cash generation. In addition to its yearly budgets,
NTPC prepares five year investment plans for the Planning Commission, which
are also updated annually. NTPC's corporate planning department in
cooperation with other units within the corporation, has developed a
computerized model for long term financial projections, which is being used to
analyze long term financing needs and for sensitivity analyses such as size
and composition of the investment programs, inflation, foreign exchange
fluctuations etc. The model has been used for the preparation of this project
and is being applied as a tool for management decision making.
Power Sales
4.8       The graph below shows NTPC's rather spectacular growth of
electricity sales and revenues since it started generating in 1983.
During the period FY88 to FY92, electricity sales grew with an average of 26Z
per annum and revenues with 36Z per annum. In FY92, NTPC revenues about 45S
to the Northern region, 32Z to the Western region, 18Z to the Southern region
and the balance (5Z) in the Eastern Region.
NTPC's Revenue, Receivables, and Sales Volume
40,000                                                                 60,00o
34AOo                                                                  60,000
30A00
194wo                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~40,000
120000                                                                  30,000'-
{30,000- .                                                    /0
6,000-0.0
0                                                                   0
1983  1984  198S  1986  1987   1S88  1989  1990  1991  1692
~MTMOWM t.               M  eoM  -                 E.*Um(W



_ 38 -
Billing and Collection
4.9       Monthly bills for energy drawn by the SEBs of the four regions are
prepared at the Commercial Department within about two weeks of the month
following the consumption. Depending on the facilities available and co-
ordination among the beneficiaries, three to fifteen days are required in
different regions to compile the simultaneous meter readings with
representatives of the SEBs involved and to send the accounts to headquarters.
The process includes the compilation of inter-system exchanges and preparation
of regional energy accounts by the Regional Electricity Boards. (REBBs). Bills
are due for payment 30 days after issuance. If the bills are paid through a
letter of credit upon presentation of the bills, a rebate of 2.52 of the
amount paid through LC is granted. NTPC has had difficulties in concluding
Bulk Power Supply Agreements (BPSAs) with the SE8s. During the period 1983 to
1985 four BPSAs were signed with the SEBs for Singrauli, Korba, Ramagundam and
Farakka power stations, but for most stations commissioned after 1985, bills
were issued at ad hoc rates, without having a transparent contractual
framework in place. Following the notification of the new two part tariffs
(para 2.2), bills are now issued on that basis and NTPC is in the process of
concluding new BPSAs for each region which will cover both coal and gas based
power plants. A draft BPSA was reviewed during appraisal and found
satisfactory. To help NTPC in concluding the BPSA's, the Ministry of Power
has issued an advisory to inform all NTPC's clients that NTPC's new commercial
policies (para 2.2) will be applicable to all supplies of power by NTPC.
This includes NTPC's right to cut off power to defaulting clients. One
regional BPSA (for the Eastern Region) was recently signed. During
negotiations, agreement has been reached that two more regional BPSA be signed
by December 31, 1993 and the last one be concluded not later than March 31,
1994.
4.10      Bill collection has been a persistent problem for NTPC, because of
the poor financial situation of many SEBs and the lack of an appropriate
contractual framework. (See graph) A covenant specifying the level of accounts
receivable not to exceed an amount equivalent to the proceeds of its sales of
power for the two preceding months, was first introduced for NTPC under Ln
2555-IN Rihand Power Transmission Project approved in May 1985 with effect
from the end of fiscal year 198511986. The covenant was repeated in three
subsequent NTPC Bank loans, but NTPC has never been able to comply. At the
end of FY91 NTPC's level of account receivable was equivalent to 5.4 months of
sales. In June 1990, 001 took the drastic measure of introducing Central
Appropriations (CA) to recover an amount of Rs. 10,205 million (about US$340
million at current exchange rates) of arrears accumulated as of the end of May
31, 1990 over a period of four years. In October 1992, 600 agreed to recover
an additional amount of Rs. 7,500 million of arrears through CA over a period
of four years. In February 1992, NTPC acquired the Unchahar power station in
lieu of arrears (about Rs. 4,800 million, para 2.8) and combined with other
bill collection efforts, NTPC was able to considerably reduce its level of
accounts receivable despite the rapid increase in sales. In PY92, it realized
about 792 of total billing in cash from the SEBes, but combined with the CA and
the take over of Unchabar, bill realization rose to 992 and the level of
accounts receivable came down to 3.4 months of sales equivalent. In FY93,
NTPC realized 83Z of billing in cash from the SnEB and 91Z including payments
made by GOI through CA. At the end of FY93, the overall level of accounts
receivable was 3.3 months of sales equivalent, but excluding the amount still
to be paid through CA, it is 1.4 months of sales equivalent. More encouraging
is that during the last three months of FY93, 93Z of billing was realized



- 39 -
directly from the SEB8. The new comercial policies and lPSA. should enable
D5PC to reach a level of bill collection close to 1002 during FY94. In
several states 100? realizatLon was already achieved In PY93. During
negotiations agreement has been reached that NTPC maintains its accounts
receivable (excluding the amounts still due from Central Appropriations (CA))
at a level not exceeding an amount equivalent to the preceding two months
billing and G00 has given an undertaking to pay to NTPC the remaining CA
during PY94 (Rs. 4,582 million), PY95 (Rs. 1,999 million) and FY96 (R8.1,999
million).
UTPC: Historic Financial Performance
4.11      NTPC's financial statements for the period FY83 to FY92 are given
In Annex 4.1 and a summary for the last five years is given in Table 4.1
below.
Table 4.1t NTPC'e Obetina Perforsnar. FYS-OQ
FY End19 March St
i19s                         1091      1m
Average Mt FiiW Assets              28,64      S6,07S    5856T    76,482   102,946
Worko, In P        milleon)         52:1S7    57,002    52,850    U6,089   70,050
al,ectS let   l  (h                 17,5    t4,075    86,411   40,306    60,6
Averge ulk Tarff (PabKwh)             41.1      40.1       51.9     62.7     60.0
Not Inco  (R. mil li)                2,662      ,w80      5,866    7,009   10,071
Rat of Return on Hlisoric
AJets ()                            16.4      14.8       14.0     12.6      15.8
Return on Capital Employe (1)         12.1      10.6       10.0      9.7     11.9
Debt Service Cov9rag Ratio (S)         8.9       2.4       2.6       2.5      2.4
D     Pe *   ro oDEqu1t                43         47        8T        48       48
$*If F1nasctn Ratio (Annual ;)        8X.9      I-.8)      18.8     17.0     28.2
Salt Finaci na Ratio ( YrAvgS)        85.6     R18         17.5     18.4     44.2
Curent Ratio                           1.7       1         1.5       1.0      1.6
AcGoestt Re¢ iv bla 0 of day1)         177       176       210       288     14
4.12      NTIC's operating data reflect the growth the Corporation
experienced. Net fixed assets in operation increased more than fourfold since
1988, mostly because of continuing capacity additions (para 2.25), but also
because of the take over of the 420 M Ulnchahar power station (para 2.8). The
continuing growth of the level of work-in-progress reflects the NTPC's large
expansion program. NTPC's cost plus tariffs combined with high operating
efficiency and an automatic fuel adjustment clause have enabled it to achieve
relatively high rates of return on net fixed assets In operation achieved
(well in excess of the 9.5Z required under the Bank loans, starting from
1990/91). Its debt service coverage remained comfortable during the whole
period, but it should be noted that debt repayments only started in FY89 as a
result of the relatively favorable terms at which 001 used to onlend
multilateral and bilateral funds in the early stages of NTPC'e development.
The relatively high level of self financing ratio in PY92 is however somewhat
misleading, because it largely reflects an accounting change (essentially a
shift from current to fixed assets) resulting from the take over of the
Unchahar power station. Working capital requirements declined, but it did not
ease NTPC's liquidity problems as it did not provide any cash. Excluding the
effects of the Unchabar power station, NTPC's net contribution to its FY92
Investment program would be about 20?.



- 40 -
Table 4.2: NIs nFlanacin of Investments FYOS-92.
qW.    Ion)
ItM  Endinr Iarch al
X~~~ FYWf                           I
CS!it4l Expenditure
acluding DDC                     63,172     100          185,926    100
Grio Internal Canh
Generation (otter tax)            8,89D      16         652,6ac     so
Les Debt Service                    2,218       43          20,840     15s
increae tn Working
Capltal                        $,g98n     7s            ,697      6o
Net Internal Cash
sn.rati.on                        2,4B4      6I           22,816     171
Total Financed troe
External Resourcos               626ss       95s          118,100    88X
Financed by:
Borrowing                        20,679     8             SO 8,97   405
Bond"                            5,984      11X           22,228    lox
Capital Rbeeipts                   142        no.e       270          n.
00G Equity Contribution          25,787     47X           85,684    27X
Total External Sources             52,668      S¢t         118,106     881
4.13      As shown in Table 4.2, NTPC financed more than half of its rapid
growth by borrowing.   Over the last 10 years, 001 financed a total of Rs. 63
billion, -- or about t32 of NTPC's total capital investment requirements, --
through equity contr jutions; the balance from loans and bonds. About 302 of
all loans raised were loans made to C00  by multilateral and bilateral donors
and onlent to NTPC. This denotes a heavy reliance on G00 support, which
during NTPC's initial period of growth was a sound policy. The Bank including
IDA provided almost US$ 3 billion equivalent towards NTPC's total financing
requirements over the past ten years. Initially the Bank assistance was
partly passed on  z equity and partly as loans, but all recent Bank loans were
onlent in full. 60I's loans generally have a total maturity of 20 years,
including 5 years of grace and an interest rate which has changed over time
and but currently is 16? p.a. NTPC also floated bonds in the domestic market
for a total of about Rs. 28 billion, mostly through private placements. In
addition, NTPC raised funds in Japan through a syndicate of banks and
financial institutions and has obtained credits through European suppliers
associated with the construction of Its power stations and the HVDC
transmission line. Over the years NTPC received financing directly or through
001 from the OPEC fund, the Saudi Fund, the governments of Germany, the United
Kingdom, the Soviet Union, Sweden, France, Belgium, Norway and Italy and
untied funds from Japan.
NTPC's Current Financial Position
4.14      At the end of FY92, NTPC still had a relatively solid financial
position. Its long-term debt was only 48? of its capital structure, in
striking contrast with the position of most SEBs In the country, and well
below the typical financial leverage -of 60? to 80X- found in most power
utilities around the world. NTPC's exposure to foreign exchange fluctuations
has been Increasing and at the end of FY92, about 45? of its long term debt
was denominated in foreigu currencies. Increases in fuel can be automatically
passed on to NTPC's clients, but NTPC was, before the introduction of the new
two part tariff, not automatically protected against foreign exchange
fluctuations nor was it able to fully recover Increased operating cost.
Despite this, the return on net average fixed assets In operation in FY92 was



- 41 -
about l52 , while the debt service coverage was 2.4. NTPC's liquidity
problems have been increasing, not only because of its bill collection
problems explained above and the additional working capital requirements for
Unchahar, but also because Coal India Ltd started its cash and carry policy.
Increasingly NTPC has had to make use of cash credits to tie over short-ter
liquidity problems. Following the transfer of transmission assets to
POWERGRID (para 2.6), with effect from April 1, 1992, NTPC's assets and
labilities were reduced by an estimated value of about Rs. 35 billion. The
transfer, however, has not affected NTPC's financial situation.
4.15      The improvements in bill collection in FY93 have helped NTPC to
ease its liquidity problems, but an additional set back during FY93 was the
adverse situation in the domestic bond market, which prevented NTPC from
raising any bonds during the year. This factor combined with the lack of
fresh financial assistance from the multilateral and bilateral donors forced
NTPC to have to delay the start up of new projects. This explains the
constderable drop in the size of NTPC's investment program during the period
FY93-95 as many projects started in the 80's are now close to completion.
Financing of NTPC's Investment Program
4.16      A su"mary of NTPC's Investment program and proposed financing plan
is shown in table 4.3 and detailed In Annex 4.2.
Table 4.8s NtPC Inent_ Prosrm and Finanolno ReguItrM9nt
FY05-B?                   FYOS-O
Re. IIIton    VW      x        R . mIIlIo  USIM
Fundtog Requirements
Capitol Expenditure
(Including ID            177.26M   4,060    6           60,220   90.08    68
Debt Service                78,448    2,18    271        175,15     4,138    295
Tax and Mlsoellineous
Provielone                11,089      308    41         22,745      639     4#
Increae In Working Capital
(including cash)          21,477      0o    ex          22,66      705    o1
Total Fundtng RequirmenOt  266,209    6,009   1005       807,986   14,416   1005
To be financed by:
Gros Internal Cash
Generatton               150, 2     4,216    a8s       803s66     7,180   s0o
Equity Contributions        11,180      860    45        -          -        -
Borrowings
Loans Contracted         386,02    1,073    181      -          -         -
Proposed and Future
Bank Loans               84,70      02    12s         10,926      m       21
Bonds                    18,180     604     e         48,000    1,140     ox
Other multi ltral/
eI ateral                27,56s     720   lo        15765,4    8,734    261
Cne_rclal and
Export Credits            68,65     216    3s         67,647    2,091    14X
Tout Source                286,209   6,000   1o0         80,6    14,416   100



- 42 -
4.17      The composition of the NTPC's Investment program is discussed in
paras. 2.25 to 2.29. The financing plan takes into account all loans already
arranged for ongoing projects and the proposed series of three loans and
assumes the full disbursement of the series of three Bank loans over a maximum
of five years. The revenue levels are driven by the assets in couercial
operation and the financial projections assume the full application of the new
two part tariffs. The assumptions are given in Annex 4.3. Under Under the
current part tariffs increases in fuel cost and actual interest cost can be
automatically passed on. As part of the new two part tariff NTPC is also able
to pass on the foreign exchange risk on foreign borrowing, provided CEA
agrees. NTPC's revenues are driven by its asset base and its ability to put
new assets into com nrcial operation. Like in the case most regulated public
utilities in the world, resource mobilization from internal resources is
restricted because of the normative tariff parameters, but NTPC has often be
able to operate at higher efficiency levels. Assuming that NTPC would be able
to collect its bills with the new cojmurcial policies in place the projected
level of internal cash generation can be considered reasonable. The financing
plan assumes GOI equity contributions amounting to US$350 million equivalent
during the Eighth Plan period, which are entirely financed by GOI through
already coumitted loans made directly to GOI by various bilateral donors. No
new equity support has been assumed. The remaining financing gap during the
Zighth Plan, estimated at US$1.4 billion equivalent is expected to be covered
by domestic bonds and loans from bilateral sources, export credits and other
cinmercial borrowings, including a possible EGO from the Bank. OECF has
appraised the Paridabad gas fired power station and NTPC hopes to conclude
negotiations before the end of 1993. NTPC has also plans to raise about
US$100-150 million from private sources, possibly through a private placement
of securities in the international capital markets to help finance their
investment program and it might be able to mobilize more funds from export
credit agencies. Most of NTPC's funding needs will however be from FY1995
onwards and it is considered that the financing gap is manageable.
4.18      Current interest rates in the domestic bond market are relatively
high and NTPC has not been able to raise any bonds in the domestic markets
during FY93. Discussions with local institutional lenders such as LIC, UTI,
IDBI and IPCI about a possible loan are in advance stages. These funds would
be used until such time that the domestic bond market improves.
4.19      With the adoption of the time slice approach and the expected
continuing paucity of GOI resources, NTPC would have to develop a medium and
long term financing strategy to maximize the mobilization of internal and
external resources both from official and private resources including equity.
During negotiations agreement has been reached on the terms of reference of a
medium and long term financial strategy study, which will be discussed with
the Bank not later than September 30, 1994 and thereafter implement the agreed
recommendation. The terms of reference are given in Annex 4.4. Agreement has
also been reached that NTPC would furnish annually by December 31 its
financial projections, including its investment program and financing plan,
for Bank review. In general, the Bank's dialogue with NTPC and potential
lenders on its financing strategy will form an important element of
supervision.



- 43 -
Future Finances
4.20      NTPC's projected financial statements for the period FY93 to FY2002
are shown in Annex 4.2 and related assumptions are detailed in Annex 4.3. The
susmary of the operating results for the period FY93-FY97 are presented in
Table 4.4.
Table 4.4: NMC Progte Fltnncll Pertonem.
1998      MM9        1995      1996w     1997
Average Nobt Fixed Asset.
(ft. mllioo)                 111,761   115C,68    142,785   164,494   177,586
Work In Progr  (fR. millon)    71,64     06,260     67,766    70,680   107,427
Electricity Sales (Owh)         00,464    70,017     70,866    76,668    61,224
Averag Bulk Tariff (Pa/Kwh)      72.9       85.7       96.4     106.$     114.1
Totel Revenue. (Re. tilton)     46,196    01,466     7Y.090    82,695    94,817
Net Income (fR. mtillon)         5,154    10,418     11,4)1    12,227    18,701
Rate Return on HlI orleal
Assebs (X)                      11.8      15.8       15.8      1C 6      16.7
Return on CApital Employed (M)    12.0      12.8       12.5      18.6      14.2
Debt Service Coverage Ratio       2.0       2.0        2.2        2.0       1.6
Self-flunncleg Ratio (Annual X)    14        16         24        20        21
Self-finauqins Ratio (S YrAvgI)    10        16         22        20        20
Debt Equity Ratio               44/68    44/50        46/65     48/62     51/49
Current Ratio                     1.8       1.6        1.7        1.0       1.8
Aecounte Recevable.
(No of dys)                     128       105         s0        75        75
4.21      NTPC's financial position will be monitored by the Bank on the
basis of the annual submissions of the financial projections and its financing
strategy will be regularly discussed with the Bank. With the improved bill
collection NTPC should be able to remain financially sound and be able to
implement its proposed investment program with a substantial contribution to
investment from internal cash generation. At negotiations agreement has been
reached that NTPC shall take all necessary measures, including, adjustments of
tariffs to produce, starting from FY94, funds from internal cash generation
equivalent to not less than 1S5 of its capital expenditures (three year
moving average) and not less than 20Z in each fiscal year thereafter. For the
Ninth Plan period, it is difficult at this stage to make a definite assessment
about the feasibility of the financing plan, but based on past trends and the
projected level of self financing the funding gap could be met. Possibilities
in the international capital markets will be further explored during the
coming months. Only relatively short maturities are currently available in
the domestic bond market. Experience from NTPC and other public enterprises
has shown, however, that these debts can be rolled over at maturity to help
ease cash flow problems. Increased capital and interest cost can be largely
recovered from its customers, but NTPC's liquLdity position remains sensitive
to reductions in bill collection and delays in project implementation as cost
recovery only starts after commissioning. NTPC should also seek to limit its
short and medium-term borrowing, to better match the fixed asset depreciation
permitted under the Act. Sensitivity analyses have demonstrated that these
problems are manageable, as long as NTPC is able to collect its revenues. If
bill collections deteriorate again, NTPC's internal resource mobilization
would be affected and this in turn would force NTPC to delay investments in
new power plants.



- 44 -
V. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
8conomic Analysis
5.1       The analysis focuses on NTPC's core investment program, which is
supported in part by the proposed Bank loan. The two generation projects
which meet the selection criteria for Bank financing and are ready for
implementation under the proposed loan, Vindhyachal and Rihand 2xS00 NV coal-
fired power station extensions, form an integral part of this core investment
program.
5.2       Economic Viability of NTPC's Investment Program.  The economic rate
of return (ERR) was calculated on the basis of the incremental cost and
benefit streams associated with the 1993-1999 time-slice of NTPC's investment
program. Capital costs include the costs of generation facilities
commissioned during the time-slice period.V The investment plan is
discussed in paras. 2.25-28. Financial costs of the program have been
converted to economic terms by excluding taxes and duties and by applying a
standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.8 to the residual local costs. Economic
cost of NTPC's main fuel (local coal) was updated from the Bank's study of the
Long Tern Issues in the Power Sector (para. 1.1), gas was priced at fuel oil
parity. The prices NTPC pays for its coal supplies are generally slightly
higher than the estimated economic costs, the price of gas is about 75Z of
fuel oil parity. Other operating and maintenance (O&M) costs were taken from
estimates prepared for NTPC's financial projections and converted into
economic terms by applying the SCP. NTPC's incremental tariff revenue was
used as a proxy for economic benefits. NTPC's tariffs are discussed In paras.
2.21-23, billing and collection In paras. 4.09-4.10. Tariff revenue is
regarded to be the minimum measure of the actual benefits as tariff revenue
reflects only a portion of the total benefits of NTPC's operations (paras.
5.6-5.7)g yet the ERR of the program is satisfactory at about 14.72 with this
conservative revenue-based benefit valuation (Annex 5.1).
5.3       Robustness of the Program.  NTPC's time-slice ERR is not
sigr.ificantly affected by changes in the costs of the investment program and
in the implementation schedules of its individual components. This is due to
NTPC's ability under its tariff setting principles to fally pass on to its
clients its actual investment and fuel costs and these account for the major
part of NTPC's total costs. The tariff includes a provision for recovering
operating and maintenance (0&M) costs using normative tariff parameters, i.e.
not on the basis of actual costs. The impact of adverse changes from the most
critical normative values was examined in sensitivity analysis. A 1O0
increase in heat rate (reduction in efficiency) brought the ERR down to 13.42;
a 10? reduction in plant load factor (PLF) reduced ERR to 12.3?. Should both
of these adverse changes take place simultaneously, the ERR is reduced further
to 11.0?. It should be noted that NTPC may also be able to exceed the
normative performance (heat rate, availability etc.) targets, in which case
the ERRs would correspondingly increase from the base case EM.
7/ Associated transmission investments will undertaken by POVERGRID. The
economic viability of PONERGRID's investment program, including transmission
associated with NTPC's power stations, has been established under Ln. 3577-IN
approved on March 23, 1993.



- 45 -
5.4       NTPC's investment program is constrained by the available
financing, not by demand for NTPC-generated electricity. Power supply is
projected to constrain electricity consumption In India well beyond the year
2000 and the risk for lower than projected generation due to low demand is
margiual. A 101 reduction in demand would reduce the ERR to 14.12. In the
case of NTPC, its *demand forecast is essentially a supply forecast
(projected output of the generating stations) and will be lower than projected
only in case the supply does not materialize, i.e. in case the stations do not
generate as much as projected, e.g. due to insufficient fuel supply or lower
plant availability. That scenario was tested in the sensitivity analysis, by
reducing the PLP by 102 as discussed above.  the ERR results are sumarized in
Table 5.1.
tebl. 6.1. Th. Rslts oft the ERR and S.nstevtyt Analnis
Cm*                            ERR %
1. Base Case                        14.?
2. Efficiency down by 105           18.4
S. Coneration down by 10X           12.8
4. Dmand down by 10                 14.1
S. Comblnation of (2) and (3)       11.0
5.5       Vin&dhachal and Rihand Proiects.  These two proposed NTPC projects
are included in India's least-cost generation expansion plan, following
techno-economic generation expansion planning studies performed by CEA. This
was reconfirmed in additional project-specific appraisal studies performed by
CiA. Vindhyachal and Rihand projects are included in NTPC's core Investment
program; in fact they are NTPC's two lowest-cost projects. Both are
extensions at existing power station sites and can thus take advantage of the
existing site infrastructure. Both are also mine-mouth stations, resulting in
low coal transport costs and lowest overall fuel costs among NTPC stations.
The associated transmission development needs are relatively minor, again due
to the fact that these projects are extensions of existing power stations and
therefore already have the basic transmission facilities in place (Rihand) or
mostly in placelpartly under construction (Vindhyachal). The total cost of
Rihand and Vindhyachal power (generation and associated transmission) is the
lowest among new thermal power generation options available to the SEBs in
India. SEBs capable of implementing and operating similar 500 MK projects,
such as those of Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu (and other
generating companies) may achieve comparable construction costs and
operational performance, but due to higher fuel costs they will have higher
total cost of power. Due to the station-specific tariff setting, project-
specific EMRs are in line with the base-case ERR of NTPC's time-slice
investment program. The results of the time-slice sensitivity analysi
summarized in Table 5.1, are similarly applicable to these two components of
the program.
Need for Increased Power SuPply
5.6       The growth targets of GOI's economic stabilization and
liberalization program will be threatened as long as power supply continues to
constrain industrial development and massive investments in power supply
continue to be required (paras. 1.1-3). NTPC's investment program is needed



- 46 _
to help meet the growing demand and contain the power gap (difference between
projected demand and available supply) - the closing of the power gap is
unlikely in the foreseeable future, given the current low level of electricity
consumption, projected demand and available Investment resources. In the
absence of grid-supplied electricity, consumers are partly able to respond by
resorting to costlier Imported petroleum fuels (for captive diesel generation
in industries, diesel pumping in agriculture and kerosene lighting in
households and small commercial establishments), and are partly forced to
reduce the level of their economic activities due to the higher cost and/or
unavailability/unsuitability of alternative fuels. The use of NTPC's
electricity tariff as a proxy for the economic benefit of electricity
therefore underestimates the value of the incremental electricity supply to be
generated from the stations in its investment program.
5.7       Of India's proposed investments in thermal generation capacity,
those of NTPC are among the lowest-cost options and accordingly command high
priority and warrant support when overall investment resources are constrained
and an increasing share of the total is being allocated to rehabilitating the
existing generation facilities and strengthening the transmission and
distribution system (para. 1.20).
Proiect Risks
5.8       Technical Risks in Implementation and Operation.  The project does
not pose any particular technical risks as proven technologies will be
utilized and project implementation will follow practices well-established at
NTPC. NTPC'e investment program is ambitious but achievable (constrained
mainly by financing, as discussed in para. 5.9) and implomentable, in fact
NTPC has undertaken a larger program during the peak of its expansion in the
19809. Tender documents are to be finalized prior to Board presentation
(paras. 3.23) to accelerate project implementation and disbursements after
loan approval. NTPC has a proven track record in operating its power
stations, similar to those to be constructed under the project, with
satisfactory availability and efficiency. Therefore, once commissioned the
project facilities are expected to be operated without particular operational
risks.
5.9       Financial/Commercial Risks.  NTPC's investment program is
constrained by the available financing, not by the demand for electricity or
NTPC's implementation capability. The core investment program has been
prepared taking into account NTPC's capability to raise resources, to minimize
the risk of starting too many projects in an attempt to meet the projected
demand for electricity. NTPC's new two-part tariff system is designed to
enable NTPC to recover its costs, including the cost of the project, and earn
a reasonable return on its investments. The costs of the investments to be
made under the proposed project will be recovered under these standard
arrangements. The financial viability of NTPC's investment program is not
significantly affected by changes in key variables: tariff allows NTPC to
charge its customers in addition to investment costs also the cost of working
capital, actual interest charges and a GOI-prescribed return on equity.
Sensitivity analysis established the impact of adverse changes in NTPC's
critical operating parameters on the ERR of the investment program to be
acceptable (paras. 5.3-5.4). NTPC's main financial risk therefore relates to
its ability to recover its charges from its clients. As long as it recovers,
the level and structure of the tariff will safeguard its financial position



- 47 -
and provide adequate self-financing for the implementation of its Investment
program. Special attention has therefore been paid during project processing
to developing satisfactory commercial policies and arrangements to ensure
satisfactory revenue recovery (para. 4.9).
5.10      Environmental Risks.  Environmental Impact assessments of the
generation projects proposed to be financed under the Bank loan demonstrate
that plant emissions will be within COX/Bank guidelines. Special attention
has also been paid during project processing to ensuring that NTPC develops
comprehensive environmental and resettlement policies and implements these
policies by undertaking satisfactory resettlement action plans and programs
for the environmental rehabilitation of its existing power stations.
Supervision missions will review the implementation of the agreed
Eavironmental Action Plan to ensure that: (a) the environmental impacts of the
proposed project remain acceptable and within applicable GO and Bank
guidelines; and (b) the agreed mitigatory measures are strlctly pursued by
NTPC and concerned GOI agencies tor (i) the resettlement of affected persons
and (ii) the reduction of emissions from existing power stations.
5.11      Institutional/Contractual Risks.  Apart from the commercial
(revenue recovery) risk, the main project risks relate to the implementation
of NTPC's joint-ventures with private partners. Vhile the technical and
operational aspects are expected to be handled in a satisfactory manner (NTPC
even by itself being able to take of these aspects), there is a considerable
risk of delay in the implementation of the envisaged joint-sector projects due
to contractual issues. The financial impact of such delays on NTPC is likely
to be modest, as contractual delays typically delay the start of project
implementation, i.e. take place before significant amounts of funds are
actually spent and tied in assets under construction. The major impact is
therefore the resulting delay In the availability of additional electricity
supply to fuel the Indian economy (para. 5.6). The Bank is providing
assistance to GOI and executing agencies in the power sector in the
preparation of model documents for private power, as well as helping 001
address the remaining policy and regulatory issues constraining private power
development. Such assistance will help mitigate some of the contractual risks
of NTPC's joint-venture operations as well. Protracted negotiations can not,
however, be ruled out in the finalization of fuel supply and power purchase
agreements with clients such as the SEB's and DESU. In addition, contractual
issues among the joint-venture partners may also arise. Supervision missions
will review the implementation of NTPC's joint-venture projects and further
technical assistance will be provided, if necessary, to help NTPC overcome
institutional/contractual issues in its joint-sector operations.
VI. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1       During negotiations agreement has been reached that:
(a)  The following, general eligibility criteria will apply to projects
to be financed under the proposed Bank loan(s) (para. 3.3):
(i) satisfactory technical, economic and financial viability of the
proposed power plants including fuel and transmission linkages;



- 48 -
(ii) all necessary 001 clearances Including Public Investment Board
(PlB) and environmental for the power station would have been
obtained; the Environmental Assessments vould have to be
carried out in accordance with Bank guidelines and for 'Al
projects au Environmental Assessment Summary would have to be
circulated to the Board before issuance of tender documents;
(iiI) the SEB of the state in which the plant is to be located would
be In compliance with the terms of existing BPSA;
(iv) satisfactory financing plan; and
(v)  preparation of a satisfactory Resettlement Action Plan where
required, duly endorsed by the State authorities.
(b) NTPC shall furnish to the Bank, for the Bank's review, not later
than December 31 of each year, starting December 31, 1993, its
financial projections, including its investment program and
financing plan (para. 3.3);
(c) GQI confirmed that adequate and timely supplies of fuel and
financing for the associated transmission systems for Rilund II and
Vindhyachal II will be made available and that adequate measures
have been taken to ensure the coordination of construction
schedules (para. 3.8);
(d)  for joint venture projects to be eligible for Bank financing the
same eligibility criteria as for NTPC's own projects would apply,
suitably modified with respect to Government clearances and the
signing of a Power Purchase Agreement satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 3.9);
ge) NTPC shall create, not later than December 31, 1993, an equitable
mortgagelcharge in favor of the Bank on its unencumbered assets by
way of security for the proposed loan.(para. 3.15);
(f)   MPC will implement the Enviromental Action Plan dated May 10,
1993 agreed with the Bank (para. 3.30);
(g) NTPC wi1l implement the agreed RAPs satisfactory to the Bank (para.
3.34);
(h) NTPC shall carry out socio-economic surveys not later t..an December
31, 1994, to ascertain the present socio-economic statt. of PAls of
ongoing Bank financed projects and draw up and implement an agreed
remedial action program thereafter (3.34).
Mi) NTPC shall submit to the Bank not later than December 31, 1993 the
scope of the financial management systems review to be undertaken
in framework of the twinning arrangement with BEI and discuss with
the Bank not later than June 30, 1994 the implementation of the
recoamendations (para. 4.3);



- 49 -
(j) NhPC shall furnish to the Bank, not later than seven months after
the close of each fiscal year, its audited financial statements.
together with the audit report from the private audltors and the
comments of the Comptroller & Auditor General of India, as well as
the audit reports of the special account and vithdrawals made
against statement of erpenditures for the project (para. 4.4);
(k) MMPC shall, not later than March 31, 1994. enter Into regional
BPSA& satisfactory to the Bank with all the SEBs with at least two
more such agreements be signed not later than December 31, 1993
(para 4.9);
(1) COI to settle remaining S8B8 arrears through Central appropriations
I' accordance with an agreed schedule (para. 4.10);
(a) NTPC shall take all necessary steps to maintain its accounts
receivables at a level not exceeding an amount equivalent to the
preceding two months (para. 4.10);
(n) NTPC shall discuss with the Bank the results of the study on
alternative strategies for financing NTPC's long term development
not later than September 30, 1994 and shall thereafter implement
the agreed recommendations (para. 4.19); and
(0) NMPO shall take all necessary measures to produce, starting from
FP1994, funds from internal cash generation equivalent to not les
than 15Z of its capital expenditures (three-year moving average)
and not less than 201 In each fiscal year thereafter (para 4.21).
Recommendation
6.2       On the basis of the above agreements, the proposed project would be
suitable for a Bank loan of US$400 mlIlion equivalent to NTPC with the
guarantee of India, for a period of 20 years, including five years of grace,
at the Bank's standard variable Interest rate. NWPM would bear the foreign
exchange and interest rate risks.



I
II
W    I N
I 3



INDIA                                            alEnt 1.1
NP Power GwnrtIon Projecat
~~~~~............. ..................- ---..--
Prevous LMOaI en Credits to Indian Powr Sector (as of Merck 31, 199)
(Dmumt nt  USS M Nittfon)
Aproat    ctesirs        Amut
orrwe   INtOub Las                                          Date      Cat (OO) lds  AStatos
1 Inda       PIrst V   -  okero - K r23                         4/50        2/56        18.5               Complete
2  ldle      Second WVC * Naton- PW ot                 72        1/53       6/5         19.5       10.5   Copts"
3 lat        To bey PoW                               106       1154        9/66        16.2       13.9   Coupl*t.
4 TO         SOnd Traba                               14         5/57       9/6          9.8        9.7   Copt.
S  tndle     Third SW - Ourw                          23         rim        6/65        25.0       22.0   Coplts
6  Indio     KO                                       22P        4/59       4/65        25.0       1.7   Coupteto
India       Pwr Trmnuseaon                           416       6/65       120          70.0       50.0   Couptet
a Tatu       Se-  KOtb4dW Powe                        417       6/65       12/70        14.0       13.8   Cpmltet
9 Ta         Third Trmdy TFme t a.we                 1549       4/78       12W84       105.0      105.0   Coplet
10  ladde     RaMogmism Thermt POw      )             164S       1/79        6/87        50.0       45.6   towtupe
11 IndIa      Faret  Thmt Poe C)                      1887       6/80        6189        25.0        2.5   Couplet
12 Iade      Second Rauavim Terml Pow   M            2076       12/81       3/92       277.2      2m7.0   Coupets
13  India     Third Rural slectrlfloetlan             t165       6/82        6/48      304.5       295.S   Couplete
14 Indfa      Uppr Idravati ll1rO                     2N7        5/83       1291          0.4        0.4   Cuplet
15 Iadls      Catr  Poe Tr        "an C)              2283        3/83        /92       200.7      128.7   Coplet
16 Iradl      Indle Saroar                            2416       5/84        6/93        17.4        8.9
17 Indlo      $econd ferekk Themt Poe )   t           242        6/6        12/93      m2.8        240.0
Is Tat        Furth Tray Therml                       2452       6/84        6/92 -   13.4         136.4   Coplts
19  lnadle    ow     u   hml Powe                     2544       5/85       12/93       200.8      192.2
20 Indla      Rlhand oer Tranmmiossen C')             2555       5/85       1V92        202.0      193.2   Couplete
21  lrdle     Kerta Stat Pow                          2582        6/0        9/93       176.0       52.0
22 Indle      Cobirned Cycle C')                      2674       4/86       1293        485.0      49.8
23  radle     K    take Pw                            2827        6/87      12/95       260.0       79.5
24  lndla     National Capital Pow    ply (')         2844        6/8        695        425.0      269.6
25 ladil      Taleher Thel PoW  (IN)                  2845       6/87        396        375.0      131.9
26  India     Second Karnta  Power                    2938       5s8        129         220.0       41.7
2  lfde       Utter Pradeh POeWr                      2957       6/88       12t96        24.4       24.4   Couplet.
28 Indil    NIthp Jakrf Powr                          3024        3/89      12/97       485.0       38.7
29  lirda     Nawrahtra Pwr                           3096        6/89      12/96       354.0       41.2
30 Iadle      Northern RegIon Trn IssIon              327         6/0        9/98       485.0       35.0
31 Tate       Private Pow  UtflitIes (TATA)           329         6/90       6/95        98.0       24.3
32 33         PrIvate PoW  UtilIties CUES)            334         691       129         200.0       58.7
35  ande      Powr UtIlft ties 1ftfIcIec  luprovua    343         1/92      12/97       265.0       14.0
34 U Ia       Second Nba tr Powe                      3498        69         6/96       350.0        0.0
35  Ildle     Renewab  Resocs Oelont                  3544       12/92       6/99        7.0        13.1
36 ladle      PUORID System Devenlount Proct          3577        3/93      12199       350.0       26.9
.........  .......... ....
Tout                                                                               6700.8     3099.
(Total Lea   or Nw C Projec")                                                 C   2318.7)
IDA Credits
Ilndal        ourth                                    I9         62       12/69        21.9        9.9   Cwpete
2  Iadl      Second Ke    Power                        24        8/62       9/70        21.1       21.1   Coplete
3  lial      Kothaegdm  ower             s                       56        12/68        24.1       24.1   Coplets
4ldle        ses. qup t                                89        6/66       67          26.6       26.3   Coplete
linda         cod  wr  Tr        sn                  242        4m         3r          75..       72.9   Couplets
6  ladfl     Third Powr transmission                  377        3/n        9/7n        85.0       85.0   Cauptet
7 lfde       Rural tlectrIfitIton                     572        715       12/0         57.0       57.0   Coplts
8  ndl       Fourth Powr Trenalnslon                  604        1176       6/3        150.0       149.9   Couplete
9  lndle     Singraull Therml Por                     6S5 Sd3               6/0        15.         150.0   coupet.t
10  ladle     Krba Themal Per  ')                      79        4/78        3/86       200.0      199.9   Couplets
11  ladle     Re_mgm  Thermal PoW    )                 874        1/79       6/87       200.0      200   colete
12  lndea     Seod Rural ElctrIfication                911       5/79        38         175.0      171.7   Cpltet
13 Indle      Scond Slnoraull Therl POWr               1027       5/0         3/89      300.0       292.8   Cooplets
14 tlal       Ferk Thewl POW    O                     15          6/80      12188       225.0      225.0   Coplet.
15 ladle      Second Korba Thmtl Powr                 1172        7/81      IV91        388.7      367.1   Couplet.
16  ndl       Uppwr Indrm l Nydro                     1356        sin       12192       170.0      179.4
17 ladle       Idira Sarr                            am020        Sim        6/93        13.8        0.6
18 IrdIa      Indira sarovw                           1613       586        6/93        13.2        0.0
19 Inla       Rwable Resoures  lot        t                      12V92       6/9        115.0        3.0
20 IndIa       Awis Nine Fire Ceratot TA              2450       12192      12/94        12.0        0.0
..i ... ........  .... ....
Total                                                                              262.4       2245.7
(Total CredIts for WT  Projects)                                              (   1463.7)
..................... .......................................... 
M} NMl polecX                (a) Ibt of crecellatirns



munim ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~          Wo16uiw
WMLSMW              wdEYDYV               dllIoMows                                     WV
I~~~~§ -
(.4gu                  ANN
wJnionJiS uoiwziue0io
J.O0D'OUd NOLLVH3N3D H3MOd OdIN
VIUINI



lOtA
NIMC NMlOESME     I PECt
TREISPE Of 3511K nlhhOw TMIKSSNIM  UTS M    E M TPC no  Wm IAO C To TN tISSD
.............
A. OC trdits ad LMe
.*......................                                  Appront Cloiig Credit/Loon mea tSfsfwsd   *hdIsrted Esimted * up 
Cediton        er                                       Dats    atsX orriginl Coetted         et   (Itslim9      (IlSimi       NMn 
1. Cr. 6-11           Sng full Thera Powe                 3        6/         150.0             150.0     1.0                        12.3       21.7
2. Cr. 793-33         Krbe Thermal ower P7     3/6                            200.0      6.1   199.9      199.9              *       1.5        36.4
3. Cr. 8746-1        R3me     e Therml owetr              1/79    6/7         200.0        -   200.0      200.0              -       159.7      40.3
4.  tn. 1648-1l       3mpuwS  Tberml PoWer                1/7t    6/8?         S0.0      4.4    4S.6       65.6              *        36.0       9.6
S. Cr. 102-IN         seon Sinreull Thereml Power         5180    3/89        300.0        -   300.0      300.0                      260.0      40.0
6. tr. 1053-13        FWraika Tbermal POWer               6/80    12W         225.0             225.0     225.0              *       210.0      15.0
7. Ln. l1187.3        Feraik TherTma PoWer                6/80    6t8          25.0     12.2    12.6       25.0              -        12.7       0.1
B. cr. 1172-3         Second Kofbe TherMa Power           7/81    12/91       400.0     13.6   366.4         .4 1/                   343.9      42.5
9. Ln. 2076-11        Second R3aMOAgnM TheWmal Power      12/81   3/92        300.0     22.8   277.2          2I/            -       233.2      44.0
10. 3grb 233-t.      Ctntral Pamer itrs       "ion Project  S8i    s/92      250.7    119.2   1. .1                         *         3.4     128.1
11. Ln. 2442-l1       Second feraOMc Thermal Power        6/84    12/95       300.8     22.0   27.8       209.2           69.6       197.9      C0.9
12. In. 2555-3b       Rlh_il Power Tomsad slon Project    5/si     12/92      250.0     40.0   202.0      193.2            8.8         6.7     195.3
13. in. 267W4-13      to bned Cepto Prolect               4/8     12W93       485.0        -   485.0      456.5           28.5       485.0         .
14. in. 2844-13        atioml Capital Pwer s4pl4Y         6/87    6S          485.0     60.0   45.0       m3.r            19.3       421.9       3.1
I5. in. 284S-S3       tatdebr Tbermt Power                6/87    3/96        375.0        -   375.0       87.1          287.9       3460.      3466
Total NTM  Credits *nd Loen             3,96s.5    302.3 3,694.2   3,122.3           584.1    3,002.6      691.4
of ihbcht 3M Credits                    1,475.0     13.7 1,461.3   1,461.3             0.0    1.260.5      195.0
IOU Lowls                     2,521.S5    2     2,232.9   3,122.3          5MA.1      ,7m.3      495.6
8. Mc loee                                                                                                                               C    kw
............. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~    ~    ...    ....     ...
t. in. 3237-EU       NorthernD legion  frm ssio           6/90 @  9/98        485.0        *   485.0       27.6          457.4        10.0     415.0
3a"ested  itiatlon after d-wrsue truinfera                UTPC     P6C    UUPC
IA ctrdit           12.5M   195.1
ISIS Loams           l,73.3   90.       10.0
.... ..... ... ......... ....... .......... 
Total                3,002.6  1,166.4    10.0
MrsE  IDA Credit  aounts to 138       Inted tredits ar expresse  In tamer  of
their uS dulltr espdvlente, as establid at  th  time of Credit _egtlatios
mad asw smheently presonted to th  hted.
1/ Dldwowemd   mnt Includes fiadi disbursed wntl lotn aeeount wee clue.L
S,



-IAD
NMPC PNM  UIENgUTIOU UJECt
tfANh  OF  NM  RAMS TRAUUISSU S A             ltl F tPC NM UIMIIPC TO TNE t Duao
CU   million)
.............
A. On Cred to ard Lom                                                                 (3/31/92)                (3/31/9)              Toul
..........................                                       1lt        ,       ., .... .                              .. .,..
Credit/Lon  mer                                              Amw_  t            NMPC   PO E0         NMTPC     EDI        UTPC    IPAOID
.............................................................................................................................................
1. Cr. 605-tl          slnresi lemal Por                         1S0.0               128.3      21.7                     -     123.3       21.7
2. Cr. 7ff11           bobe Ibema Pos                             199.9              163.5      36.4                           163.5       36.4
3. Cr. 874-tU        ".rinu   Thema Pos                           200.0              1S9.7      40.3                           IS.        40.3
4. Ln. 1648-E1U        Unusdm Thmtt Pos                            4S.6               36.0       9.6                            36.0        9.6
S. Cr. 102-1           SecsdSIu afisu  Therlvt Per                300.0              360.0      40.0                     *     260.0       40.0
6. Cr. 1OS3-III        faraka Theml Por                           22S.0              210.0      1S.0          -          .     210.0       15.0
7. Lii 18-IN           Fraka Tebmal Pow                            12.8               12.7       0.1                            12.7        0.1
8. Cr. 1172-Il         Seod a           thml PoFew               36.                 343.9      42.L S             -          343.9        42.S
9. La  2?6-1i          Secosd 11_gam   Thma Poeur                 277.2              233.2      4.O I         -          .     233.2       44,0
10. Ln. t225l          Contrl Pr lTromllon Project               131.S                 3.4     128.11/                   -       3A       128.1
11. Ln. 2442-1i        SeIoIdp Fu i Theml Po                     278.8               177.2      32.0       57.T      12.0     234.9        44.0
12. I. 255S-II         Rtibl Po         fra fsn o  roJect        20L.0                 6.7     166.5          .       6.8       6.7       195.3
13. Ln. 2674-10        Cinesd Cvcte Projet                       485.5               456.S       0.0       28.5         -     485.0         0.0
14. tn. 2844-10        lotlo l Capital Posur  WiY                425.0               230.1       S.6      18.7        1.6     417.8         7.2
15. In. 2845-Il        Tlder Therma Ps                           375.0                87.1                253.3      34A      340.4        34.6
......................................................................... .......
39.7               2511L1.3    601.8     S27.2         S7    O3M.S        MA$
B. MC Loan
1. Las. 32S7-111       llortliras lolhn Tnmlaslon                485.0           NMC       POSRIRD    oftPC       EhID        weC  eItID
...................    ............................ .................................. ......... 
7.6        10.0     47.4       10.0       475.0
............................... 0................................................................................*,
1/ Dlbrw    mase Incltudm fb dI_se w tIl lou           n la sast Vs cbosed.
2/  rwt of thse erd a   louim  am  orIulamIly pssed on ma e.ity to  NM.
frmo te rlInsng pat, orIgInally pss   on as   loon to  NC, an sont
o,f   11,312 Altlion h o    onowrted lnto oity.



*                        ~~~~~~~~-5-                AK 2.3
* --  -   -  -Z   -  -    -                           61f
-1 --          -            -    -        i } eG
-l          --  -      i  -    -   -l .12 
§i0~~~ ii     lQ al                         ___ _       gii
J&    X        lU MJ X 
-t]~~                        -   .1§l l;     ij]



-6-
INDIA
NTPC PQUER GENRAiONI PROJECT                ANNEX 2.3
PERFORMANCE OF NTPC STATtONS                Paoe 2 of 3
(units under ccmerial operation)
........................... .......................................................^. ..................................
Power
Load      Average    Specific t   pec1tfl
weneration    Factor    Factor       01l         Coal    ledt Nate
Station                Tear         (NUS)        (X)        Cl)       (Mt/lah)    IW/tb   =Ca/laH
...............  _. ..................................... ........... ..................... ................................
1982-83       1108.90      63.64      68.29       5.44       0.54       2706
1983-84       3082.50      58.49      58.66       2.78       0.53      2a32
tss4-85       5199.77      61.40      69.79       3.20       0.64       253
1985-86      6420.40       72.25      77.03       2.14       0.57       2518
1986-         629.95       77.97      79.46       1.45       0.56       2506
1987?8e       9970.16      82.51      87.57       1.47       0.60       2484
1988.89      12390.14      72.20      85.22       1.02       0.59       2463
1989-90      13195.33      75.32      85.26       0.64       0.58       2469
1990-91      12341.14      70.44      84.42       0.60       0.56       2467
19.1-92      11481.15      78.17      85.19       0.60       0.58       2441
Ka" CNDMA)
1983-84       1077.11      66.98      78.52      10.06       0.74       2761
1984-85       2700.84      54.41      63.16       7.82       0.75       2612
1985-86       4104.80      78.10      81.20       1.86       0.68       2385
1986-87       4448.03      84.62      86.35       1.34       0.68       2355
1987-88       4287.54      75.99      83.76       1.88       0.69       2389
1988.89       7187.54      74.S9      84.11       1.85       0.69       2395
1989-90       9781.45      69.79      83.79       1.94       0.69       2446
1990-91      11307.60      64.01      79.86       1.52       0.70       2442
1991-92      10816.84      70.14      84.23       1.12       0.69       2477
1171 (RAMAMUDA)
1983-84        103.00      69.20      88.90       7.16       0.53       269
1984-85       1347.30      54.40      64.40       7.23       0.58       2602
1985-86       3739.90      73.16      77.14       1.n        0.57       2405
1986-87       4305.49      81.92      86.S3       1.91       0.59       2498
1987-88       4070.24      77.23      83.01       0.91       0.58       2447
1988-89       5104.40      72.22      81.06       1.52       0.59       2438
1989-90       7733.14      63.49      77.80       2.59       0.62       2474
1990-91       7267.40      51.85      70.18       2.11       0.64       2517
1m91-92       9013.70      58.45      77.41       1.41       0.67       2488
9tl (FARAIKA)
1986-8?        337.62      46.58      79.58      32.72       0.8?       2970
1987-88       1049.66      39.83      68.71      23.32       0.89       2982
1988-89       16870.       37.32      61.95      26.23       O.ff       2969
1989-90       2811.42      53.49      75.03       4.85       0.89       2723
1990-91       2949.40      56.12      74.42       4.84       0.86       2662
19s1-92       2716.88      61.66      81.64       9.17       0.93       2706
VSS CVIONYACHAL)
1988-89        924.30      60.72      79.53       7.86       0.57       2574
1989-90       2496.82      62.79      76.64       4.57       0.61       2655
1090-91       4096.36      62.19      75.88       4.10       0.67         57
1991-92       5322.36      69.02      81.82       4.19       0.60       2641
353791 (11R533)
19s9-90        749.78      69.05      83.33       2.75       0.57       2555
1990-91       3053.64      5S.93      72.59       1.47       0.55       2503
1991-92       5567.11      75.80      86.06       1.57       0.53       2396
NM  CTotal Coat)
1982-83       1108.90      63.64      68.29       S.44       0.54       206
1983-84       4262.61      60.66      80.80       4.73       0.58       2s58
1984-85       9247.90      58.13     6".88        5.19       0.61       26s8
1985-86      14174.10      74.10      78.21       2.02       0.60       2449
19ff-87      15921.90      79.62      83.20       2.21       0.61       2471
1987-88      19377.60      75.60      83.85       2.63       0.63       2483
19W8889      27293.90      68.39      81.36       3.10       0.64       2475
1989-90      36763.94      68.0S      81.53       2.02       0.64       2498
1990-91      41015.54      61.67      77.60       1.84       0.65       2505
1991-92      44918.03      69.11      82.57       1.88       0.64       2493



- 7 -
InDIA                                      ANNEX 2.3
*.                                         Page S of 3
NTPC P0111 GEIIERAlOl PROECT
PERFORME OF NTPC GAS BAS    STAtlORS SINCE FIRST SYNCHRONIZATION
Generetfon    Poer Load Factor   Average Factor Specffic Gas   Noat Rate
Station            year       (WAX) SIC/Kmb                                                    LCeI/l
...........................................................................................................
AANGPP (ANtA)
1989-90     1364.46            66.63               67.90         0.30
1990-91     1763.00            55.41               64.62         0.23
199192      2046.8?            67.48               76.57         0.22            1920.00
AUGPW (AtAITA)
1990-1     1187.12             48.35               S.46         0.23
1991.92    3269.18             68.27               77.29         0.25            1869.00
Note:   9fp.....................                           1
:oa    1991-92  sta is for tile period April 1991 to January 1992.



ANNEX 2.4
INDIA
NTPC POWER GENERATION PROJECT
NTPCs Current Environmental Performance and R&R
Introduction
1.1       As early as 1981, an Environmental Engineering Department was
established at NTPC's corporate headquarters. It has developed over the years
into a multi-disciplinary environmental group whose principal responsibility
is the preparation of Environmental Impact Assessments (EIA) which are
required by the Ministry of Environment and Forest (MOEF) before granting the
environmental clearance for any power generation project. MOEF, Central and
State Pollution Control Boards have been imposing progressively stricter
environmental standards and requiring greater attention to rehabilitation of
people affected by the construction and operation of NTPC's power stations.
Over the years, NTPC has responded by recruiting specialized staff in social
and environmental sciences and by reviewing the environmental and
rehabilitation and resettlement (R&R) aspects in its existing power stations.
The Bank has been particularly involved in the Environmental Study of the
Singrauli Area (the EdF study) financed under the Second Singrauli Thermal
Power Project (Cr. 1027-IN) carried out by EdF International and Groupe
Charbonnage de France and completed in July 1991. An overview of GOI's
current environmental regulatory framework and pertinent COX and World Bank
environmental standards is given in Appendix 1.
1.2       NTPC realizes that its environmental management systems need to be
further developed beyond the mere compilation of environmental data for
compliance purposes towards the pro-active identification and management
increasingly complex environmental and socio-economic problems and issues.
During the preparation of the proposed project. NTPC has formulated a
comprehensive Environmental Action Plan (EAP) in consultation with the Bank,
in order to strengthen its environmental management practices and to address
outstanding environmental and R&R problems. The EAP includes mitigatory
actions for all NTPC's power stations and will be implemented as part of the
proposed project.
NTPC's Performance
1.3       When evaluating NTPC's environmental performance, it should be kept
in mind that when most NTPC's power plants were designed and built
environmental standards were less stringent.
1.4       Technical Environmental Compliance:  The data shown in tables 1
through 3 reflect the principal environmental parameters as required to be
submitted to the state pollution control boards. They include stack emissions
and ambient air quality for suspended particulate matters (SPM) and sulfur
dioxide. Wastewater quality data were compiled for Ph and total suspended
solids (TSS) at the ash pond outlets and at the main plant drains. The tables
also show that the older NTPC plants were built under more lenient standards
then currently required and generally operate within design standards.



- 9 -
Without upgrading of the existing ESP equipment, the new GOItstate emission
standards will be difficult to meet. NTPC has completed an ZSP performance
analysis in all its power stations and a program for retrofitting its power
stations with suitable ESP equipment to meet the new standards is being
iMplesented as part of the RAP. Full compliance with the new standards is
expected by the first quarter of 1995.
1.5       In the Singrauli area, there is problem with ambient air quality
with respect to dust. A study of the sources carried out by EdF (1991) has
however shown is soil erosion as the cause with ground level sources In the
coal mines contributing to one third of the total local concentration. The
impact of power plant emissions was considered to be negligible. NTPC is
currently taking measurements of ambient SPM at its Singrauli area plant sites
to identify potential occupational SPM exposure problems. This part of the
occupational health monitoring program is being undertaken at NTPC facilities
under the UAP. Remedial actions within NTPC's purview could include
improvements in the dust extraction and suppression system at the coal
handling plant and installation of sonic water spray nozzles or a *chemjet*
(additive) system.
1.6       The performance data for total suspended solids (TSS) in ash pond
effluent and in some cases main plant drain effluent are also indicative of
consistent problems at some of the NTPC plants. In Ramagundam. the pH of the
ash pond effluent was consistently above standards. A retrofit program for
conversion of the ash slurry system for recycling of the slurry water at
Ramagundam was initiated by NTPC and has now been agreed to be implemented
under the EAP for other NTPC power stations.
1.7       NTPC was monitoring environmental parameters and submitting the
results to State Pollution Boards regularly. Now, agreement has also been
reached with NTPC on an Expanded Monitoring Program. Sampling and analysis
will be performed with schedules at varying frequencies depending oan the
particular parameters to establish a proper scientific basis for analyzing the
environmental impact of NTPC's operations. The environmental parameters to be
monitored are presented in Appendix 2. Monitoring of potential occupational
health problems will be developed. The monitoring results are reported
regularly to the Environmental Management Group at corporate headquarters, to
ensure that adequate remedial actions are taken.



Table Is mmle Nonitor1ns M'2 -                i                   a ii 
Deuigd Stack ,                                         orent            I of
aS Sm                                                  m1  ot        Families  )
site        Secifieation                       mm.   Kin.  &vg.   State          over COrent
IMa         Design Date                 e      value Vaue Value  Limt.              Limits        commnts             RelediAl ACtoIM
Nam         SO@mA . (Px200  I)   Stack ON        348    73   153   150 mg/Ma          10                              8BP  pade progrm to be cowleted
1m/mW  (3w500 M                                        No seified                                         by the first quater of 1995.
ebuary 1979            8%            553   531   539   lit               n/a
R11_M  Z O0g019/10  M200 80    Stack  8RI)  163   101   I2   115  I/0                 66   lb           S0 or S  l   3?SP uwade progrm to be completed
CASO01mg   (33200 SIS)                                                                 data fot           by the first quarter of 1995.
Febtupy1980            s:m          1669  1035  1194   800 VS/mm         100           stage II  )        Due to uaailability of coal frm
linkd min"e, cual from other
souces I bein  fired. sulfut
content monitored.
FUAm *P 513mg9 t200              Stack MP)    920   224   310   150 mg/it            100           All stacks         sop ugradi   progtam
150mg/  (l2S0o  mM)                                                                                       to be completed by the first q tet
May 1981               I0gm) 117    426   830   1200 g/11m                 0                              of 199S.
SmUA=    sOmgA' (15s200 1    Stack 8am           689    83   174   150 Mgl/'          24                              U8P uwadig proram 
367mg/n3 (I2SOO S1                                                                                        to be completed by the first qutet
1970 - 1980            8%           600   510   565   No pecifled                                        of 1995.
limit            n/a
Vz-UTaIL 345mhW                  stac  am        137    48    04   150Img/t3           0           ODly  PIH data     ImSP qpgadia  proga
reported.         to be completed by the first quater
Mach 1984              8%             me   No  No    No Dpeified          n/a          No otack 8%        of I995.
dua data data   l2dt                               data reported.
RIMMD       100mg/A              stack gm        150   71  125    150m/At'            0                                8P uprading pogram to be completed
1982                                                                                                      by the filrt qutet of 1995.
80s    tO0  360600    No specified          n/a
1. All of the data compiled from april I"l throug  Decdtber 1992.
*2. MYxiwam for any location or unit. of the samples taken, the petcentage that were in violation of staonada.
3. oo2 limits Issued about two years agow Fatrakk and Raagupdam designed priort to 1984.
4. Ramagdwoum Stage IT SON and OVA mnitorin units not yet installed in stacks.
5. The aSm limits woe first specifld In July 1984. All faecilities, no matter when they wete designed ot built, are required to meet the current
regulatory standatd by Deceeer 13993, ecept In Andhra Pradesh, where WMIC Ramagndman was sequited to comply with  ore stringent k.P. standard
by 198S.  The  TPC facilities were designed to leos  stringent liits pzior to 1984 as showz.'
6.  stack gas  SV  limits fot samagundm veore lowered to 115 mgNm by the andbra Pradesh Pollution Control Por9 d Consent otder of 12/31/91.
7. Stack gas So, limits fot Ramagundam wsee oet by Consent Order of Andbra Pradesh Pollution Control Boatd on 12/31/91.
a. stack ga SO, limits  a  beem b et by the West Bengal Pollution Control Bord.



- 11 -
= = =- = -' -; - -:
|~~* g-   -  @0 0
Z Fr44 4



(4-1- - m
am     M    SA1U PON            PARAWT         CURR_N        MAIGNUM    MINIMU        AVERAGE    SOF SAUK=               cUmmE3
La=           VALUE        VALUE      VAU         OVER01LIMt
iOlWrATIt
Koo"       AjbDU*.                   pH        5J-9             73          7.0        7.1            0                 __
=s        100 ugh         266.0        89.0      178.0           65 
Main Haa                    iSS        IOou/l          65.0        42.0       50.0            0
RAMAGUNDAM  AADIb DkP5R5-9    l I $                                         11.1      11.             1oo
_1[           100         32.0        11.0       183             0O
mePAM                        pH        s5.5-9          8 3A                   8.0            0                 __
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _   =  100        1 .O         I9.0                      6         .
- -l
SINRAU   AshDIM                      pR        5.5-9            7.       7_            7.4            0                 ___        __
in             1oo        137.0        373       97.0            25                 TSSand pHAvoas
MaIaPIui                     pH        5.5.9            7.71        7.2        7.             0                 _ _ _ _
IS             100        363.0        20.0      88.0             6
VINPRYACHL Ah DD                     PR        5.5*-9           8.1         73         7.J             0
_U             10O         94.0        58.0      79.0             0                 NoebM 4192-9192
Mal out                      pH        5.5-9            82          7.2        7.7            0
TSS            100         94.0        48.0      64.0             0                 No dat M"
FARANKA    Ads DI                    PR        5,5-9            5J          7.9         3              a
[88           1oo         800o         53.0      3603            36
Ml ea                        pH        5.5 -9           79          7t3        7.5             0
___-  -  -_ t
1US            100        4199         36.0      146             18
_ _ ~n                                                  _ --;'i_-. |'l--s-11  -SW-II|'g  wRl1WlSl



i ---- 
:=I    - -- -
0    lg  0 q. X         11§
" ll~Vbt              d   Ij
- - - ---
i                 111



- 14 -
1.8       Resettlement and Rehabilitation.  While resettlement and
rehabilitation (R&R) associated with hydro-electric projects has long been a
prominent  environmental issue, R&R associated with thermal power plants has
in the past not received the same attention in planning as hydro power, even
In some of the earlier World Bank projects with NTPC. Despite this historical
lack of attention, considerable attention on R&R has been a part of thermal
power plant development in NTPC. Table 4 below shows that with the 12 NTPC'a
power completed or under construction a total of 26,623 families were
affected. In total, 4,966 families were displaced. Table 5 gives an overview
of the kind of community development activities, which were undertaken by NTPC
at the various projects.
1.9       Though state laws and regulations applicable at the time power
stations were built provided for payment of compensation only, NTPC on its own
implemented various R&R measures for PAFs. In recent years NTPC has also made
efforts to improve its planning and execution of R&R programs associated with
thermal power projects. Examples are: (i) under the Bank financed Talcher
Power Project a comprehensive R&R plan was formulated in close consultation
with the project affected families (PAFs) and the local authorities and this
is now being implemented; (ii) the EdF regional environmental impact study in
the Singrauli area which included an overall socio-economic survey;
(iii) detailed socio-economic studies were completed in 1992 at two plants
(Farakka and Ramagundam) to determine whether existing R&R plans could be
further improved and additional community facilities action plans are being
formulated. A similar study is being completed at Korba.
1.10      Two particularly innovative aspects to the Talcher R&R Plan ares
si) a primary, jobs-oriented, strategy based on a survey of existing education
and training among the PAFs correlated with a manpower needs study to set up a
program for hiring oustees in un-skilled and semi-skilled positions directly
with the power plant or indirectly through long-term maintenance contractors;
and (i) an experimental Land Purchasing Committee to implement a Land-for
Land option, with cash assistance from the project.
1.11      Various spontaneous and pro-active pilot programs for improving
conditions in communities surrounding NTPC's thermal plants have been
undertaken, both with respect to community facilities and to facilitate income
generating schemes, with special attention to rehabilitation colonies and to
communities in the immediate vicinity of the project. The approach at Rihand
STPP is especially noteworthy. Here the administrative task for R&R has been
divided between two groups. One group, in the Personnel and Administrative
section handles the routine matters such as land acquisition or payment of
compensation for complying with official regulations, as is done by this
section at all the plants. The second group has been formed on an informal
basis under Management Services, which normally handles such things as
planning and systems, computer data processing and field engineering.



ma
llTPC Po      amTI£" rm
Table 4s   Detailg of  mliLe  Affected Il Different PZobate  of II=
ND. of L.O.
Total lad       Total No.        No. of     NO. of lAnd         Given      L.O. bployed   L.O. given    L.O. Given
SR.                    Reqtired      of Families      Families       oustees          Casual          with            Shape/    Contracts
10.   Ptoject           (Acles)       Affect         Dimplaced      kplayed           Jobs        Contxactor          Kioss       Licemes
I    Auraiya             511.24          306              4             43            69               200               2            6
2    NC1PP             2,464.60         1,927                           76             1                183              4            3
3    R1haM             6,654.00        1,215            678            126                              350              9            26
4    silgrauli         4,753.00        1,457            721            399                              550             25            19
S    torba             3,142.40        1.057            560            308                              S00               7            2
6    Vindhyacbal       5,008.00        2,011          2,011            232                                              21           120
7                     10,289.00        3,685            782            376                              108              7
a    Parakka           4,208.00       10,64B                           353                             3000               6          75
9    Kabalgoan        3,357.80         3.089            170            110                                               2           20
10   Taicher 6        3,125.00         1,025                            71            32                350                          27
11   ANI'                336.00          161                            27
12   flAS               568.15            40             40             16                                               2
13   TOTML           46.417.1,        26623           4.966          LA              L03                                             29l  U  A
6 193 persons sponsored ITm training.
1. These figures will be updated and reconciled as data coipilation systems are strengtbened.



-I
autsits an _09mict suaws. gua               mdows. vauasom a              ftu4tt*i,                      e      i gt u    1 _.  l  _t-5   e    e                good
Rbfts-2iem  te                       *S    -* f orAd   t  otl                              es       6   t             tle. semi
"Oneft ~ ~         ~         ~         ~        S4 _t X 
-tue:                               isw estli s.  _ egas. _ aellv .  a  s       n. _l   .
> = * ~~~~~-    maOJ. e  bl 
itrtml  bptel 5U_. hetetb                     g. Samil bel                bi   b.1 wiliu. bla             baittmili Wi # eta              S U  _11b 1e~  mb
dlethlAt biu1. Utt** 1.65*        2 sesami                            esIIO feb. Itt1l
SIMM Nm ditaut,t bAe.                                     am__                                                   ae        * _t_  I  Xl
abno                                                  *$Scott"e.U) baCOMaM!I budaSm
tatase cat_e                       had tak  uls" a
plattfom beale to fboom
vilism ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ied~wisalu
Slede.) 813bibe.I,ag. .lee  mess                                         bi  eMbt. seI                                                      VAtlso 2piq    s. MM    e
Vietgict S b . dUlite 1*                                                     g egt totAil. is I dl
Wiodsbvaetal DIMdietlet 55611.       mustt. Uim       _     "XD   5*.    bib   Como.  atmo. jeasv                         a1 of           le we edpipe ha  lS
*at owsa   diou                                                                                                 atimeat VIUN"~~~~~~~~~~~~wllOs. ibtiteegeae
OM 55 oleesit mmzttm*s.gal.A                       .flapll           tagueseb sosb. tatenal 2Mbof     CostuteionAS5of                 was t, it boa imil ske Ish mMl
M*wmhbi                              oubsepamflpSb2b1.eiies                                               ptssyhimloo
RtUsualg   1"nMdl                    odiet*tcW                            mastusti                        ech ). s  slle  o.f ibi         dfteae flans
Amu Gm     Amu* fttosla a wadhai                          of         som       ComuncU~~~~~abattem mae, 4 pe  su
district iee.                                                              s    s                         legal 9010611 1, two willas
mat @d 601EIt SW"me uste:    Isft *va



3ii|       I'P   '        iii [ig1
.     j '    ,11              
|§W '4  ti   {W §   
j    !   5'I    F! t                  Is
| ~     9.   1              I } "             i (I



- 18 -
1.12      This second group reports directly to the General Manager and works
with both PAFs and the wider project affected communityO through an NOO
(project-established and sponsored) to explore self-employment options and
broader community development possibilities. The activities of the group are
based on the premise that efficient plant operations rely on a healthy
relationship with the community, that this 'buffer- community reflects how the
rest of the views NTPC. This group very strongly emphasizes economic
upliftment of the neighboring community so as to minimize the disparity
between those deriving benefits from the project and the others.
1.13      These efforts at Rihand and Talcher thermal power plants are recent
innovations, addressing what had been seen as inadequate R&R plans. As in the
case of the former. They are by no means the only such creative innovations
at NTPC sites, but they illustrate best what NTPC staff are capable of when
they wish to improvise new solutions to R&R problems. With its more liberal
R&R policy and the proven capability of many of its staff, NTPC has obviously
been taking impressive steps forward in this area.
NTPC's Rehabilitation and Resettlement Policy
1.14      A comprehensive R&R policy was formulated by NTPC in 1991, but
although it shared the same objective, it was not fully compatible with the
Bank's guidelines on involuntary resettlement. During project preparation
agreement was reached on a revised R&R policy (Appendix 3), which is now
broadly consistent with the Bank's operational directives. This policy will
be applicable not only for Bank financed power stations, but also for other
operations of NTPC as applicable. The policy does not yet fully meet the
Bank's directives relating to (a) the treatment of tribals, particularly with
respect to the land tenure rights and (b) the rehabilitation of people
affected by the ongoing projects for which additional income restoration
measures may need to be taken.
1.15      With respect to the treatment of tribals, it is not clear to GO,
how the Bank's directives on land tenure rights could be implemented, given
the current legal framework in India, and the various and changing socio-
economic and cultural conditions under which tribals live in India. In its
site selection process, NTPC would normally avoid tribal areas and PAFs of the
Rihand II and Vindhyachal II projects do not include any tribals. However, in
case tribals (or rather, aindigenous people" as defined under the Bank's
operational directives) would be involved an appropriate Rehabilitation Action
Plans (RAPs) would be prepared by NTPC consistent with GO0 guidelines on the
basis of a detailed socio-economic baseline survey. If Bank financing would
be involved, the RAPs would have to be consistent with the Bank's directives.
1.16      With respect to PAPs from earlier NTPC projects, the new R&R policy
provides for NTPC undertaking special socio-economic surveys to ascertain the
present socio-economic status of these PAFs. On the basis of these surveys
and where found necessary , NTPC will, in consultation with these PAPs and
appropriate State authorities, formulate a remedial action plan which would
(a) focus on developing or enhancing community facilities for the benefit of
these PAPs; (b) provide training an other facilities to upgrade skills and
opportunities of these PAPs in order to Improve their standard of living and
thereby their earning capacity; and (c) using its good offices to assist PAPs
to achieve such improvements through ongoing Government assistance programs.
For the three ongoing Bank financed projects (Second Farakka, Combined Cycle



- 19 -
and National Capital Project), agreement was reached during negotiations that
these socio economic surveys would be carried out not later than December 31,
1994 and that based on these surveys, NTPC in consultation with the Bank would
draw up where necessary, remedial action programs which have as their
objective the phased restoration of the economic base of the persons so
affected. This forms part of the Environmental Action Program to be
implemented under the proposed loan.
Organizational Development
1.17      NTPC has made considerable efforts in recent years to respond to
increasing environmental requirements to address environmental problems and to
improve its R&R programs. During the supervision of ongoing UTPC projects and
the preparation of the proposed project it was observed that environmental
data, including those for monitoring R&R programs were generally not collected
systematically and that remedial actions were often taken in response to
stricter GOI/State regulations rather than on the basis of scientifically
collected environmental and socio-economic parameters.
1.18      In August 1992, NTPC constituted a Committee headed by one of the
general managers of its power stations to review the environmental management
needs. Environmental management aspects were also reviewed by BEl consultants
in November/December 1992 under an existing twinning arrangement. Their
report also confirmed that environmental management need strengthening. In
February! March 1993, the NTPC committee has made the following
reconendations:  the environmental activities of the Company fall broadly in
the three categories - Environmental Engineering that closely associates with
the power project engineering division, EMG that works along with the power
station operations groups and Community Development Group which builds up the
R&R and community development activities as a larger welfare measure. The
coordination of their activity be taken by Corporate Planning in-so-far as
funding agencies are concerned. Quarterly review be conducted by Regional EDs
who are directly responsible for all operations of the stations and for
projects implemented in the region. Recent organizational changes v±thin NTPC
to meet the future environmental challenges are given in para's 2.14 to 2.19
of the main report. Such changes once fully operational, include systematic
data collection and monitoring, development of environmental and R&R policies,
regulations and standards, as well as human resource development and training.



- 20 -
ANNEX 2.4
Appendis 1
ReRulatory Framework and Environmental Standards
1.1       Technicals  The Government of India's (GOI) Department of
Environment (DOEN) in the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MOEF) has
developed Environmental Guidelines for Thermal Power Plants. Standards for
emissions are stipulated by the Central or State Pollution Control Boards, and
regular monitoring reports are required to be submitted to the State Pollution
Control Boards.
1.2       An Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) is required by the DOEN
for environmental clearance of proposed projects. The DEN has specific
guidelines concerning the content of EIA submittal. The project EIA proposals
are placed before the DEN's Coumittee for Environmental Appraisal. The
Committee's actions can includes rejection of the project; relocation of the
project; or environmental clearance of the project, with or without
incorporation of specific environmental safeguards. The stipulations of the
environmental clearances can be enforced under the Water (Prevention & Control
of Pollution) Act, 1974; the Air (Prevention & Control of Pollution) Act,
1981; and the Environment (Protection) Act. 1986; or their subsequent
amendments. The clearances often carry the clauses that the stipulations can
be varied or new ones imposed, that the clearance can be revoked in the event
of non-implementation of the conditions, or that it can be revoked in the
Interest of protection of the environment.
1.3       Additional environmental regulations which are relevant to NTPC's
operations Includos
aEnvironmental Audits, conforming to GOI requirements, are to be
included in corporation annual reports (as of March 1993).
*    Every facility which stores hazardous materials over specified
threshold quantities must have Disaster Management Plans (developed
In coordination with the State Pollution Control Boards and not a
regulatory local emergency response agencies, Including hospitals)
(regulation currently in effect).
*    All industrial facilities are required to carry liability Insurance
to cover hazardous material spills and other environmental damages.
The liability cap is set at 500 million rupees. State Pollution
Control Boards are including this requirement Consent Order
renewals.
1.4
The various environmental acts include crImlnal penalties for the factory
occupler for non compliance with environmental regulations. A new Public
Liability Act requires damages compensation for accidental environmental
releases. Under the executive action can be taken to close a factory, and
under the 1986 Environmental Protection Act, the Air & Water Act, power and
water supply to a plant can be cut. Recently, NGOs have filed in the Supreme
Court for compensation of damages suffered by the public due to environmental
pollution caused by a group of Industries. This case is currently pending. A



- 21 -
private citizen can file a criminal complaint against an industry that is out
of compliance with pollution laws. The citizen must first ask the regulating
agency to control the pollution, and if the agency fails to control it within
60 days. the citizen can file a criminal complaint. The citizen need not be a
sufferer; any concerned citizen can take this action.
Summary of GO0 and World Bank Environmental Standards for
Power Stations
Current GOI standards for existing and new thermal power stations
Environmental Media Parameter 001 Standards
Ambient air quality SPM  500 ugila'  Industrial area
200 ugINm8 Residential area
100 ugINm8 Sensitive area
NO 120 ulNms Industrial area
s0 ug/Nm       Residential area
30 ug/1ms      Sensitive area
S0^120
80
30
Stack emissions          SPM150 mg/Nm8
NO.No standard
SO.No standard
Waste water discharge    pH0.5 - 8
TSS100 mg/l
BOD 30 mg/l
Oil & grease 10 mgIl
Temperature rise 5°



- 22 .
World Bank Environmental Standards for
New Power Thermal Stations
Environmental Media Parameter World Bank Standards
Air quality               SPM1OO uf Im   Annual avg.
500 ugle Maz 24 hr.
NO0lO0 ug/nm Annual avg.
500 ugIm Max 24 hr.
SO 100 uglm' Annual avg.
500 Max 24 hr.
Stack emission       SOx  500 tonlday/facility
with maz contribution ofSO ug/m8
Waste water               Temperature rise3°



- 23 -
ANNEX 2.4
Appendis 2
Expanded Monitorins Program
NTPC has agreed to an expanded environmental monitoring
program for all its power stations. The monitoring will cover air emissions
and wastewaters. The reporting formats have been agreed wlth the Bank. The
sampling and analyses will be performed with schedules of varying frequencies
according to the particular parameter. The environmental sampling parameters
are as follows:
Stack Gas:
1. Suspended Particulate Matter (SPM)
2. Oxides of Sulfur (SO.)
Ambient Airs
(Once every two weeks, from at least three different stations
surrounding the plant)
1. Suspended Particulate Matter (SPM)
2. Oxides of Sulfur (SO )
3. Oxides of Nitrogen (AO )
Vastewaters
1.  Boiler blowdown (weekly)                5.  Main Plant Effluent (quarterly)
oil and grease (O&C)                        iron (Fe)
copper (Cu) (monthly)                       copper (Cu)
iron (Fe) (monthly)                         cadmium (Cd)
phosphate (PO4) (monthly)                   hexavalent chromium (Cr+6)
total suspended solids (TSS)                total chromium (Cr.3)
lead (Pb)
2.  Condenser Cooling Effluent (daily)            arsenic (As)
free chlorine (CI-)                         mercury (Hg)
zinc (Zn) (monthly)                         zinc (Zn)
hexavalent chromium (Cr+6) (monthly)
total chromium (Cr+3) (monthly)       6. Main Plant Effluent (daily)
phosphate (PO4)                             temperature influent
total suspended solids (TSS)                temperature effluent
temperature                                 acidity (pH)
dissolved oxygen (D.O.)                     biological oxygen demand
(BOD5)
3.  Ash Pond Effluent (weekly)                    total suspended solids (TSS)
effluent flow                               oil and grease (O&G)
acidity (pH)                                total dissolved solids (TDS)
conductivity                                conductiv.lty
total suspended solids (TSS)                effluent flow
total dissolved solids (TDS)
oil and grease
heavy metals (quarterly)



_ 24 -
ANNEX 2.4
Appendix 3
INDIA
NATIONAL THERMAL POWER CORPORATION (NTPC)
REHABILITATION AND RESETTLEMENT POLICY
PREAMBLE
Most of the NTPC Projects are located in remote areas. NTPC
acquires large stretches of rural land for its projects which may displace
people. In those instances, NTPC will take measures to resettle and
rehabilitate Project Affected Persons (PAPs) with the objective that the PAP
will improve or at least regain their previous standard of living.
Thus, NTPC's effort is complementary to the Government's efforts in rural
development. As and when any national Rehabilitation and Resettlement CR1R)
guidelines/policy/Government order is finalized and adopted, NTPC will review
and modify its R&R policy as is suitable for thermal power projects. The REX
policy will be implemented in close cooperation with the concerned state
authorities and to the extent that endorsement by the State authorities is
warranted, NTPC will seek to obtain such endorsement.
This policy will be implemented within the framework of local
applicable law.
1. CHAPTER
NEED FOR R&R OF DISPLACED PERSONS
1.1       Improper resettlement and rehabilitation is the root of
discontentment and alienation of the PAPs. It may be difficult to operate a
project efficiently without the cooperation of the local people.
1.2       The land that is acquired for thermal power projects is for a
public purpose and generally the displacement is involuntary. The PAPs often
face forcible eviction and, in fact, have no choice but to face the new social
set up.
1.3       The age old rural environment is often transformed to semi-urban
onvironment in a short period of time. While there is usually a rise in the
cost of living, the scope for traditional sources of income is likely to be
reduced. In most of the cases, PAPs find it increasingly difficult to cope
with the new environmental set up.
1.4       The landed property is handed over to the holders through
generations. Land acquisition and consequent displacement disrupts the
traditional social system.
1.5       Drastic changes in the land use pattern substantially alters the
agro-based rural economy and the life style of people affected. Further, even
though the assets like cattle etc. may not be disturbed, the PAPs may have to



- 25 -
sell them off in the absence of pasture land, needing alternative means of
income.
II. CHAPTER
BASIC ISSUES INVOLVED IN FnAMING AN REPARILITATION ACTION PLAN
Regainint of Economic Base:
2.1       Acquisition of land induces a large-scale change in land use
patterns and can destroy the economic base. The Rehabilitation Action Plan
(RAP) is to be formulated so that after a reasonable transition period, the
displaced persons improve, or at least regain their previous standard of
living, earning capacity and production levels. The transition gap is to be
reduced to a minimum.
2.2       NTPC's involvement in the rehabilitation activities will continue
until such time as NTPC has taken all actions in accordance with the RAP to
enable PAPs to improve or regain their previous standard of living.
1II. CHAPTER
CATEGORIES OF PAP' AND RA ENTITLUIENTS
3.1       For resettlement and rehabilitation purposes, it is necessary that
the PAPs be classified into different categories.
Prolect Affected Persons (PAPs) cover the following:
PAPa
(a) A person whose entire land is acquired.
(b) A person owning land which is not economically viable after
acquisition. In some states the minimum amount of land considered
economically viable is 2 Ha; adjustment needs to be made depending
on local conditions such soil fertility, access to water
(irrigation) and other factors.
(c) A person whose homestead only is acquired.
(d) A person whose homestead and land is acquired.
(e) A person (tenant tiller) who is in actual possession of land which
is acquired.
(f) A person (agricultural laborer) who does not have legal title to
the land which is acquired but earns his living principally through
manual labor on that land.



- 26 -
(g) A tribal residing or deriving livelihood from the forest land
which is acquired.
(h) A landless person cultivating on the government land which is
acquired.
(i) Persons dependent upon the land either directly or indirectly, and
having a client relationship with the displaced community.
(j) In a joint family or joint holding, a person (major) who has a
share in the land or homestead.
(k) A permanent resident of the area which is acquired but not defined
above.
(1) A person (absentee land owner or absentee homestead owner) who is
not in actual possession of land or homestead for 5 years prior to
date of notification under LA Act.
Eliaibility Status
3.2       The table below indicates the status of each category of person or
families vith respect to RAP entitlement. The cut-off for determining
eligibility shall be the date of notification under the Land Acquisition Act,
Section 4(i). Evidence of status as a PAP is to be provided by a person in
the form of (a) written legal document or (b) reference to a record, such as a
revenue officer certificate, electoral roll or ration card; in the absence of
which (c) an oral declaration, credible andlor corroborated, will be
considered.
Resettlematl
Rehabllitation
3.3       Cate2ory of PAPs                       Entitlements
(as given in para. 3.1)                  (detailed in para. 3.6 to
3.16)
(a)  Person losing entire land     }       Land for land, or self
}      employment, or shop or award
(b)  Person left with land not     }       of petty contract, or job (Set
economically viable (less than)       A) (after accounting for
2 ha)                         I       compensation legally due under
Land Acquisition Act)
(c)  Person whose homestead is             Alternate house site measuring
acquired                              50' x 40' along with community
infrastructural facilities
(Set B) and relocation, and
other rehabilitation
assistance
(d)  Person whose homestead and land       Both Set A and Set B
is acquired



- 27 -
(e)  Person (tenant tiller) in             Set A when no claim made by
actual possession of land             origLnal landlord; or Set C In
case original landlord claims
compensation under LA Act and
Set A option.
(f)  Agricultural laborer without          Self employment or shop or
legal title to land                   award of petty contract or job
(as per para. 3.1Sb) (Set C)
(g)  Tribal residing or deriving           Set C and Set D. Tribals will
livelihood from forest land           receive special attention to
restore their lncome.
(h)  Landless person cultivating           Set C
government land
(i)  Person having client                  Assistance to establish the
relationship with displaced            type of facilities lost on
community                             account of land acquisition.
Assessment in such cases will
be separately carried out by
TPC and/or the State
Administration and in
consultation with PAPs (Set D)
(j)  Permanent resident of land not        Set D
covered above
(k)  in a joint family or joint            set B
holding, a person (major) who
has share
(1)  Absentee land-owner or absentee       No entitlement under RAP
homestead owner
Content of the RAP and Eligibility Criteria:
3.4       The rehabilitation may differ from project to project. The RAP will
covers
(a) legal instruments and regulations;
(b) objectives;
(c) maps;
(d) baseline socio-economic survey;
1e) community participation and integration with host populations;
(f) mechanisms to select alternate sites, evaluate losses and allocate
compensation;
(g) plan for resettlement and rehabilitations
Ch) estimated cost;
(i) financial plan;
(j) responsibility, organization, and staffing
(k) timetable for iplementation of RAP; and
(1) monitoring and evaluation arrangement.



- 28 -
3.5       Consultation with representatives of PAPs like Panchayat or State
Government/District Development Authorities and voluntary organization like
Chetna of Rihand will be made. Any entitled person if deprived of their
benefits as applicable to him under this policy, has a right to legal
recourse.
Rehabilitation Measures:
3.6       Rehabilitation of PAPs involves two distinct aspects:
(i) compensation for losses in terms of land, cash and other forms; and
(ii) assistance to start a new life in terms of opportunities, training,
credit and community services for schooling and health and new employment
opportunities. Measures to be undertaken by NTPC are set out below.
HOMESTEAD
3.7       The eligible PAP will be given compensation for his existing
homestead (structure and appurtenant land) on the basis of evaluation done
under the Land Acquisition Act. In addition, NTPC will provide to said PAP a
developed plot (50' x 40') free of cost at the new housing site, transport
arrangement for his belongings and reusable material from his old house, and
such other assistance as may be required for the rehabilitation.
LAD FOR LAND
3.8       This appears to be one of the most preferred modes of
rehabilitation. However, the main problem is the availability of land. The
following modalities will be exercised for this purpose for the eligible
oustees.
Mi) An PAP who chooses this option, will not be entitled to any
other rehabilitation option. However, necessary transport
assistance will be provided to the PAPs for moving Into the new
area;
(Ui) NTPC will negotiate with the State Government for release of
revenue land for allotment to the eligible PAPs. NTPC will
provide infrastructural facilities to make the land fit for
agriculture, if the land allotted is of lower quality;
(iiL) If Government land is not available, private land may be
acquired through a Land Purchase Committee (LPC) on a 'willing
buyer - willing seller* basis. MTPC will use its good offices
to facilitate establishing this. The LPC will consist of the
District Collector or his nominee; representative(s) from NTPC;
representative(s) from PAP; and such other persons as the State
Government consider necessary;
(iv) Under thls concept (item iii), the maximum amount of land
allotment will be limited to 2 Ha of suitable land. 1o
compensation for the land acquired would be paid to the PAPs to
the extent of land allotment.
tv) Land to be allotted (agricultural/lirrigable) will be identified
by the Land Purchase Committee in the vicinity of the project



- 29 -
area (within 25 Kms. radius). A PAP opting for this option
will get a maximum of two options for selection of alternate
land, subject to availability.
3.9       When alternate land is not available nor-acceptable to the eligible
PAP as per the above procedure or in cases where a PAP is not entitled to the
'land for land' option, the PAP may exercise one of the following options for
his rehabilitation. A variety of Income generating schemes will be offered on
the basis of (a) consultation with PAPs and local Government; and (b) the
socio-economic survey establishing the need for such schemes. The following
are illustrative:
SELF EMPLOYMENT, DAIRY, POULTRY, HANDICRAFTS, ETC.
3.10      Dairy and poultry is one of the most viable rehabilitation options.
NTPC will provide about Rs.15,000 - (subject to regular review and adjustment)
per family for this purpose. Such a project offers a good market for dairy
and poultry products & this option is expected to prove beneficial. Technical
assistance in start up as well as marketing/facilities will be offered.
3.11      In some areas, people earn their living through handicrafts or
other income generating schemes. To the displaced families, NTPC will provide
about Rs.15,000 (subject to regular review and adjustment) per family for
providing means of   income through handicrafts.  This will also help in
preserving and grooming the national heritage.
3.12      The expenses identified for establishment of self employment
schemes like dairy, poultry, handicrafts etc. will not be directly disbursed
to the PAPs but channelized through banks.
SHOPS
3.13      Shops are one of the viable rehabilitation options.  A limited
number of shops will be earmarked for allotment to the PAPs after appropriate
consultation regarding the PAP's capability and aptitude. Shops would be
constructed by NTPC and allotted to the willing PAPs. The capital required
for operation of the shops, not exceeding Rs. 15,000/- (subject to regular
review and adjustment) would be made available by banks as loans and NTPC will
stand surety for the loans. The interest payable will be borne by NTPC. Any
assistance needed by PAPs in formulation of schemes for procuring loans from
banks and stabilizing the same will be rendered by NTPC.
AWARD OD PETTY CONTRACTS
3.14      PAPs will also be considered for awards of small petty contracts on
a preferential basis.
JOBS
3.15      Jobs will be given to some eligible PAPs on preferential basis.
(a) Jobs with NTPC: NTPC projects do not envisage significant job
opportunities to the local residents. However, some jobs will be
earmarked for the PAPs in the un-skilled and semi-skilled category.
However, preference will be given to eligible PAPs if they meet the



- 30 -
job requirements in the skilled categories.
(b) Jobs with Contractorss Contractors will be persuaded to give jobs
to eligible PAPs on a preferential basis where feasible.
TRAINING
3.16      Some members of the displaced families may qualify to go for
vocational training courses. NTPC will pay the training cost including
tuition, residential hostel charges, books and stationery requirement charges.
Whereas no job commitment could be given to the trained PAPs, they could be
given preference provided they meet NTPC's job requirements. This option will
be determined after appropriate consultation regardlng the PAPs capability and
aptitude.
COMMUNITY FACILITIES
3.17      The commmnity facilities and services would be available to all
residents of the area, including PAPs and the host population. The homestead
PAPs will be given developed house sites (50'x 40') for residential purposes,
free of cost. The resettlement village(s) will be provided the following
facilities at NTPC ezpenses
(a) PRIMARY SCHOOLs All capital expenditure for school building,
furniture, blackboards, other equipments including that of a
laboratory would be provided by NTPC. However, the responsibility
of running schools would be that of the State Government. In case,
the State Government efforts do not materialize, the schools can be
operated with the help of welfare agencies or any other suitable
alternative.
(b) DISPENSARYt In addition to all capital expenditure for building,
furniture, equipments etc., the services of doctor/doctors and the
medicines for running the dispensaries will be provided by NTPC.
{c) One village pond; Panchayat ghar; one drinking water well for at
least every 50 families/renovation of existing wells/handpump water
supply for drinking; Water Bound Macadam (WBM) with bituminous
surfacing road linked to the main road; drainage; road inside the
village with trees planted on either side; Sulabh SauchalayaO for
each dwelling area & road electrification of the resettlement area
which is in the vicinity of the project.
3.18      The approach for operation of community facilities   would be
flexible and all efforts will be made to involve the State and local self
Government/Panchayat for operating the facilities. To achieve this, NTPC will
pursue with these agencies to ensure the same.



- 31 -
IV. CdAPTEI
IMPLEMENTATION, MONITORING AND EVALUATION, DISPUTE MECHANISM
IMPLEMENTATION PROCEDUREt
4.1       To develop an appropriate and effective RAP, the following
procedure will be adopted.
DETAILED DEMOGRAPHIC AND SOCIO-ECONOMIC SURVEY OF THE AREA PROPOSED TO BE
ACQUIRED:
(a) A study will be carried out at all the new project sites through a
reputed consultant well-experienced in this kind of work. It is
desirable to appoint a local consultant who is well versed with the
social matrix of the area. The District Collector will be involved
at every stage of the study and the data will be authenticated by
the Collector. PAPs will be consulted.
(b) The basic objective of the socio-economic study will be to generate
baseline data on the social and economic status of the population
who are likely to lose their means of livelihood or homestead due
to the acquisition of the land for the project. The data base will
be used to formulate a viable and practical RAP for the affected
families. For this purpose, the choice of rehabilitation options of
the affected families. in order of priority will be recorded in the
socio- economic census after due consultations.
SCHEDULE OF THE CENSUS AND FORMMLATION OF R&R PLAN
4.2       The socio-economic study is to be conducted immediately after the
preparation of the Feasibility Report (FR). Once the demographic and socio-
economic data is available, the R&R Plan will be formulated in consultation
with the State Government and PAPs. The R&R Plan will be formulated as a
simultaneous activity with the land acquisition process.
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
4.3       The R&R scheme will be monitored and evaluated periodically after
the completion of the land acquisition process.
(a) The R&R activities are the responsibility of Personnel &
Administration Department. A separate group. both at the projects
and the Corporate Centre has been constituted for implementation.
monitoring and evaluation of the RAP with respect to time and cost
frame. At Corporate Centre the group is headed by a Senior
Manager, whereas at the project, an executive of the rank of a
Manager is heading the group.
(b) The site group will be in close interaction with the state
authorities during the implementation of the plan. Although NTPC
will develop the plots and infrastructural facilities in the
resettlement colony and actively  implement the R&R plan, assistance
of State Authorities will be taken for administrative services like



- 32 -
allotment of plots, procurement of material for self employment
etc. Constant dialogue and regular meetings with the concerned
State Authorities will be held. Implementation will be planned,
monitored and corrective measures, if required, will be
incorporated in the plan. Apart from the State Government, the
PAPs, the village leaders including the Pradhans will also be
consulted and associated during implementation of the plan.
(c) The R&R group in the Corporate Center will evaluate the
implementation of R&R plan on its completion.
DISPUTE NECHMIIS4
4.4       A Committee comprising of nominee(s) of the State Government and
nominee(s) of the project General Manager will be constituted to review the
grievances of PAPs and propose mid-stream alterations in the RAP.
V. CHAPTER
EARLIR MMC  PROJCTS
5.1       One of the Corporate Objectives of NTPC is to function as a
responsible Corporate Citizen and discharge social responsibility in respect
of environmental protection and rehabilitation. Even earlier, NTPC has been
making a conscious effort to rehabilitate the oustees by providing them with
regular employment with NTPC, jobs with contractors, allotment of shops, award
of petty contracts, etc. in a limited measure, apart from physically
resettling the homestead oustees by allotting them developed plots of land for
making their house. However, NTPC is strengthening the Community Development
facilities to benefit the people living around its project areas.
5.2       With respect to PAPs from earlier NTPC projects, MTPC will
undertake special socio-economic surveys of said PAPs to ascertain their
present socio-economic status. On the basis of these surveys and where found
necessary, NTPC will, in consultation with said PAPs and appropriate State
Authorities, formulate a remedial action plan which would (a) focus on
developing or enhancing comunuity facilities for the benefit of said PAP.;
(b) to provide training and other facilities to upgrade skills and Improve
opportunities of said PAPs in order to Improve their standard of living and
thereby their earning capacity; and (c) using its good offices to assist PAPs
to achieve such improvements through ongoing Government assistance programs
such as the Integrated Rural Development Program. In the
locationsirehabilitation colonies where the conglomeration of PAPs exist, the
following commmnity facilities would be provided.
a.   Primary school
b.   Dispensary
c.   Drinking water well
d.   WBM link road connection to the main road
e.   Village roads
f.   Area and road lighting



- 33 -
ADOPTION OF VILLAGZS
5.3       One of the villages in the vicinity of the project araa vill be
adopted to develop them to model villages. NTPC in this instance wiii provide
coununity facilities so that villagers can benefit from the developmental
activities. However, our emphasis would be on the R&R of oustees. The
option for adoption of villages will be kept open depending upon the
circumstances.
May 7, 1993



- 34 -
INDIA                           ANNEX 2.5
Page 1 of 7
NTPC POWER GENERATION PROJECT
Bulk Power and Transmission Tariff and
Transmission Regulation Studies
to be Implemented under the
POWERGRID System Development Project
TERMS OF REFERENCE
Alternative Tariff Structures for Power Transmission and
Bulk Power Transactions
Introduction
1.1       The purpose of Part A of the studies is to examine the
alternative ways of charging for power obtained b- SEBs for power that they
obtain from Central Sector agencies and from eaca other under a regime
which encourages transactions between entities for optimum economy and
service reliability. A working group generally referred to as the K. P.
Rao Committee* has recommended the use of a two-part tariff structure
(separate charges for fixed and variable costs) to replace the present one-
part tariffs which are fundamentally only a method for allocating the cost
of producing the output of a plant in proportion to the energy received by
each party, regardless of the capacity used, the time the energy was
produced, or the relation between the amount of capacity allocated to the
users and the amount of electricity received by them at various times. The
Committee's report left a number of issues to be decided by the Regional
Electricity Boards, including the basis of allocation of the fixed costs.
Their practices do not necessarily represent the generally accepted
principle of allocating fixed costs according to capacity, and variable
charges according to energy supplied. As a result, generation dispatch does
not follow economic merit order.
(a) Some of the inefficiencies that have been experienced in the past
have been failures on the part of various agencies to follow
operating plans, i.e. to reduce generation during low-load
periods, and drawing more than their allocated share of Central
Sector generation during peak periods. Some of these problems
may be at least partly due to perverse incentives in which the
agencies, or their personnel individually, benefit from actions
which are not in the interest of the reliability and/or economy
of the overall system.
(b) The emergence of POWERGRID as an independent unit requires a new
and thorough consideration of how the cost of the transmission
system can be allocated to its users in a manner that is both
just and perceived as just, and that will produce incentives for
all parties to work for the common good in both their investments
and their operations.



- 35 -                           NE 25
Scope of Work                     -35-
Page 2 of 7
Task A-is Survey of practices in other systems
1.2       This task will summarize the theory and practice of setting
tariffs, and their success in achieving the goals of optimal electric
system investment and operation. The consultants will review and discuss
bulk power tariff concepts used in various parts of the world, including
both inter-utilities trading in bulk power and transmission services,
Including but not exclusivelys
(a) procedures for interchange of capacity and energy;
(b) firm transactions and economy transactions;
(c) short-term and long-term transactions;
(d) system capacity and unit capacity transactions;
Ce) transmission servicess rates and priority considerations;
(f) emergency capacity and energy;
(g) methods for sharing benefits from exchanges of capacity and
energy; and
(h) contractual requirements.
1.3      The consultants will define the goals of various forms of bulk-
power tariffs in terms of:
(a)  financial goals and requiretents;
Cb) optimization of system operation both for the near term and the
long run;
(c) optimization of investment in the long term; and
td) promotion ok efficiency by consumers (SEBs and their final retail
customers).
1.4      The consultants will also:
(a) discuss how, In theory and in practice as evidenced by actual
perfoxmance, various tariff structures produce incentives or
disincentives for the parties to contribute to overall system
reliability and economy; and
(b) examine the use of incentives to personnel and to organizations
in fostering good and efficient operation of power plants in
accordance with overall system objectives and requirements.
Recommend measures to be encouraged in the operation of SEBs and
Central Sector agencies in India.
{c) The main deliverables ares ti) survey of worldwide practices in
setting tariffs for bulk-power transactions covering capacity



- 36 -
ANMEX 2.5
Page 3 of 7
and energy; (ii) analysis of the benegits to be achieved by the
use of appropriate tariff structures; (iii) analysis of the
relationships between various tariff structures and achieving the
desired goals; and (iv) examination of incentives for efficient
plant operation and maintenance consistent with system overall
objectives.
Task A-2: Tariff structure for bulk-power transactions.
1.5       This task will review present bulk power tariff structures used
in India, their effect in terms of the goals defined above for both central
thermal and hydro generation and recommend improvements on the basis of
identified inefficiencies and results of task A-1 on pricing theory and
practices and experiences elsewhere. The consultants will:
(a)  evaluate proposals for power trading tariff modifications
presented by various parties in India, including frequency-based
pricing schemes for inter-States inadvertent powerlenergy
transfers (considering the various possible forms of power
transfers: capacity, firm energy, opportunity transfers,
emergency transfers, etc.);
(b)  examine the applicability of other forms of tariffs to Indian
conditions and requirements;
(c)  recommend tariff structures to satisfy both near-term and long-
run requirements. In doing so, consider particularly the need
for adjustments to rates for such variables as fuel costs,
foreign exchange rates and inclusion of incentives for more
efficient and economic operation; and
(d)  develop a plan for the implementation of the recommended tariff
structures: sequential steps and conditions required to make the
Implementation of each step practical and effective.
(e)  The main deliverables ares (i) description of tariff structures
presently in use in India, and discussion of their effect on
power system service reliability and economic operation and
investment decisions; (ii) evaluation of proposed alternate
tariff structures for bulk-power transactions; (iii)
recommendation of tariff structures for bulk power transactions;
and (iv) recommended plan for the methodical implementation of
proposed new tariff structures.
Task A-3s Examine and recommend transmission tariff structures
1.6       this task vill review present power transmission tariff
structures used in India, their effect in terms of the goals defined above
for both central thermal and hydro generation and recommend improvements on
the basis of identified inefficiencies and results of task A-1 on pricing
theory and practices and experiences elsewhere. The consultants will
examines



-37 -                          ANNMEX 2.5
Page 4 of 7
(a) alternatives for pricing transmission services, includiAg but not
limited toa (i) cost-based allocation: (ii) fixed charges for
transmitting capacity andlor energy: 4ad (iII) value-based
pricing:
Cb)  examine the effect of various proposed power transmission tariff
concepts on grid discipline, overall system operating economy,
and system service reliability. Consider aspects of tariffs that
will encourage good performance on the part of generation owners.
operators of the transmission facilities, and operators of Load
Dispatch Centerss
Sc) consider the different effects of tariffs during the present
period of generation capacity shortages, and long-run periods In
which generation capacity may be adequate; and
Cd) develop a plan for the Implementation of the recommended tariff
structures: sequential steps, conditions required to make the
Implementation of each step practical and effective.
te) The deliverables ares (i) description of possible transmission
tariff structures for use in India, and discussion of their
advantages and disadvantages; (Li) evaluation of proposed
alternate transmission tariff structures; (iii) recommendation of
transmission tariff structures: and (iv) recommended plan for the
methodical implementation of proposed new transmission tariff
structures.
(f) qualifications of Consultants ares (i) experience with power
transmission tariff analysis and development in mixed-source
electric systems; Cii) experience In tariff structures for
thermal plants and for hydro plants; and Ciii) international
experience in inter-utility powerlenergy transfer agreements.
(g) Total estimated effort for Part A is 9 man-months.
Assess Regulatory Requirements and Recommend ley Regulations
Introduction
1.7       In the absence of full and free competition. some form of
government regulation is generally considered necessary in order to prevent
any of the participants of the electric sector from taking advantage of lts
monopoly or semi-monopoly situation by charging excessive rates or
providing inadequate service. The extent and Intensity of regulation
varies In different jurisdictions around the world, but it generally covers
at least such subjects as defining the rate-making process, including
approval of the resulting rates, priorities in the use of limited
resources, and the approval of service reliability standards.
1.8       One of the most difficult problems to resolve when various
generating entities depend upon the use of the same transmission system to
bring their output to their customers is the setting of priorities when the
transmission system is not capable of safely transmitting each generator's



- 38 -
ANNEX 2.5
Page 5 of 7
power to Its preferred customer.
1.9       the purpose of Part B of the studies Is to assess regulatory
requiremnats applicable to POIERGRID, and to recommend key regulations for
POVERGURD's operations, including conditions on access to POIERGRID's
transmission system. It is not practical, however, to consider this
subject without at the same time considering the role of the CEA and other
bodies Involved in regulating the transmission and power trading activities
of central utilities, the State Electricity Boards and private generators.
Scope of work
Task B-ls Survey of practices in other systems
(a) This task will summarize the theory and practice of setting
regulation, and their success in achieving the goals of optimal
electric system Investments and operation. The consultants will
review and discuss regulatory concepts used In various parts of
the world, covering both inter-utilities trading in bulk power
and transmission services.
Cb) The consultants will define the goals of various forms of
regulations in terms of:
C) financial goals and requirements;
Cii) optimization of system operation both for the near term and
the long run;
Ciii) optimization of investment in the long term; and
(iv) promotion of efficiency by consumers (SEBs and their final
retail customers).
(c) The consultants will also:
(1) discuss how, In theory and in practice as evidenced by
actual performance, various regulatory structures produce
Incentives or disincentives for the parties to contribute to
overall system reliability and economy; and
11) examine and recommend measures to be encouraged In the
operation of SEBs and Central Sector agencies In India.
Cd)  The main deliverables ares (i) survey of worldwide practices in
regulating bulk power transactions covering capacity and energy
and power transmission; (Ci) and analysis of the benefits to be
achieved by the use of various regulatory structures.
Task B-2* Review Current Situation and Assess Regulatory
Requirements



- 39 -
ANNEX 2.5
Page 6 of 7
1.10     This task will:
(a) define the subjects of regulation required to ensure that
POVEZGURD's monopoly will not lead to excessive rates, Inadequate
service reliability, or inefficient operation;
(b) determine to what extent the activities of other members of the
power sector-SgBs, Central Sector generation agencies, private
power systems and private generators-should be subject to
regulation. It should be noted In this respect the SEBs in
particular will retain some transmission facilities which may
affect, or be affected by, the conditions on POWERGIZID
transmission systems;
(c) discuss the regulation requirements and capabilities of carrying
these out with appropriate government agencies, POVERGRID staff,
and various SEBs, Central Sector agencies and private generators.
(d) determine what agencies are best suited to perform these
regulatory duties, and recommend the methods by which this
regulation should be carried out.
'e) Matters that should be considered as possible subjects for
regulation includes
(i)  rates for power transmission;
(ii) rates for power trading among SEBs and other agencies and
generators;
(iii)  rights, and priorities, of access to the various
transmission systems for various types of generators and
users of electricity;
(iv) service reliability standards, and methods of enforcement of
these standards;
(v)  determination of the responsibility for paying for
transmission losses; methods for determining the total
amounts of transmission losses associated with specific
transactions, and methods of pricing these losses;
(vi) methods of enforcing decisoas mad. by RIBEs and RLDCs; and
Wvii)  methods of enforcing the authority of regional system
control center operators with regard to operation of the
system during emergencies.
tf) The main deliverables ares (i) scope of regulation to be applied
to POWERGRID and to other agencies of the power sector; (ii)
recaomendations on the agencylagencies to be responsible for
regulation of POWEIGRID's activities, and those of other
agencies; (iii) recommendations on methods for -arrying out
regulation of POWERGRID; (iv) methods of enforcing operations



-40-
* ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~4.                                       ANNEX 2.5
Rage 7 of 7
disciplinet and (v) recommendations for the treatment of
transmission losses.
Task B-3: Outline Proposed Key Repgulations
1.11      This task will recommend key regulations governing the operation
of POWERGRID and defining the authority, rights and duties of all parties
connected to the transmission system. These regulations should be so
designed as to support the relationships between the vartious agencies as
described In the Institutional Development of POVERGRID.
1.12      Examples of subjects for key regulations to be recomended would
Include:
(a) methods of determining the capability of the trr.nsaiesion system
to perform various transmission services requested by central
utilities, SEns and private generators;
(b)  types of contracts for the provision of transmission services to
SEBes and private generators;
(c) priorities in the use of transmission system by various agencies,
generators, and customers; and
gd) methods for arriving at agreements concerning the operation of
the POWERGRID and other agencies transmission systems, such as
those of the SBs, in regard to mutual concerns such as the
maintenance of adequate voltages and the limitation of the flow
of reactir'. power at Interfaces between the systems.
1.13      For each form of regulation, the consultants will explain the
need for the regulation of this subject, and propose an appropriate
approach for formulation an effective and implementable regulation.
(a) Deliverables ares Ci) list of proposed subjects for regulation,
including an explanation of the need for the regulation; and (ii)
outlines of the proposed regulations.
(b) The consultant cualifications require knowledge of regulation
theory and practice as found in the United States and in various
European countries.
(c) Total estimated effort for Part B is 9 man-months, the total for
parts A & B is 18 man-months.



LOlA                                         DAnnw  2.6
AT aL TNEROL POER CtWTION                                  ...........
hTPC  - MOUR IEUERATION PROJECT                         Page I of 8
NM   lrwastoW  Prop                  ~~~~...........
ft. sitltrn
........................................ .... .......................................... ................................ 
8th Plan                                                   9th Plan
................ .........  ,--.--.---------- Total        ............................................. Total
Powar Station Project         FM93     FY94      FY95     FY96     FY97  8th Plan        FY98     FY99    ft2000   F12001  FP1D02 9th Plan
ne~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                           a
.............
Slrualt I & It                  110       74       27       248      223       932         387        0         0        0        0       36?
KorM* I    t                    180      293       315      348      32?    1,462          422      326         0        0        0       748
Ramgwpad   t a It               50       258       201       as       S3  1.100            161        0         0        0        0       161
Paaka                       151       53        2         0        0      207            0        0        0         0        0        0
VI        Il 1                  230      125       219      268      265    1,107          456      S68         0        0        0    1,02$
Rlhind 1                      1,128      511      445       191      226    2,502          257        0         0        0        0       257
lMuchAr I                        6S      116        85        0        0       265           0        0         0        0        0         0
KbnArs                        3,913    1,984      S56       371        0    6,884            0        0         0        0        0         0
Ferakk8 II                    2,233    1,268       882      SS2      643    S,S78          510      544         0        0        0    1-051
nationa  Capital              2,5W0    1,754       8o5      786      653    6,498          784        0         0        0        0       784
Kahatgaon                     2,020    1,382       414      380      632    4.827          936      S21       441        0        0    1897                               1
Aurala                          400      382       153        0        0       934           0        0         0        0        0         0
Ants                            120       41       121        0         0      282           0         0        0        0        0         0
talohet 1                     4,30    4,033    2,139    2,995    1,785   15,8           1,429    1,176         0        0        0    2.605
6SanHa                        3,842   7,426    4,614    3,090    1,061   20 233          1,7m          0        0        0        0    1,7m
66*1 an                       2,300      890       959      937         0    5,086           0         0        0        0         0        0
............   _.   .                     ....  .......    ------- .......  ...........  .......  .......  -----
totlt    olngs Works        24,382   20,790   12,1 0    10,25    5,66?   73,479         7,115    3,135       44         0        0   10,691
CD



IIIA                                    Ah.x 2.6
NtIONAL TNERNAL PO    COPOPATION                    --...
NMIPC  POMER GENERATION PROJECT                   Popg 2 of 8
RTPC Inwestment Progrm
fs. litllfa
8th Plan                                            9th Plan
.........*. Total    ...........*.. .          . .       .      Total
Pwr st8tion Project       FY95    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97  8th Plan       F968    F9   FT2000  F2001   V2002 9th Plan
NMe Projet
To be Initiated Durfng 8th Plan
............................
Rihani 11                     0      196   4,528   6,100   7,269  18,093       7.563   7,2U    6,029   4,41S       0  25,252
VIn al it                     0   2.683   2.747   5,433   6,095  16,958        7,665   7,132   5,820   4,400        0  25S017
Wmhb_  I                     0      271   1,96    2.470   3,887   8,593       3.858   2,872     887       0        0   7,616
Faridaad I                    0       0   2,S42   3,917   5,856  12,315        6,058   3,030       0       0       0   9,088
Taldher II                    0       0   5.274   4,530  10,506  20,311       13,167  15,140  13,036  10,72    8,9Z   61,796
Keyokulm I                    0       0        0 o    7m   2,917   3,694       3,890   S,469   5,004   3,807   1,t93  19,363
Natwore I                     0       0        0     746   2,823   3,569       3,762   5,445   5,064   3,806   1,193  19,291
lb Valle10                            0        0   5,723   4,673  10,396      11,092  15,162  16,299  12,842  11,586  66 92
_smgwtdm  11i                 0       0        0   2,036   1,76S   3,801       3,152   4,308   4,537   3,858   1,997  17,852
Farakka III                   0       0        0       0   2,060   2,060       1,113   3,157   4,252   4.40S   3.733  17.360
Jat Vente Projects            0     912      971   1.029   1,077   3,989          0        0       0       0        0       0
(NtPC's prticpation)
To be lnitlated Durfne 9th Ptan
....... .. ......................
Rlhond 1                      0       0        0       0       0        0        392   3, 6"    4,224   4,387   5,924  18,587
Farfdaad II                   0       0        0       0       0       0           0   2,542   3,917   S,856   6,058  18,373
NafdinAm                      0        0       0       0        0       0          0       0     42  3,949  4,S57  8,928
Vijatngr_                     0        0       0       0       0        0          0       0     845   7,897   9,113  17,KS
Korb Area                     0        0       0       0       0        0          0       0     845   7'897   9,113  17,855
Addtifal Cosl                0        0       0       0       0        0          0       0     845   7,897   9,113  17.85S
nguru I                       0        0       0       0       0        0          0       0       0        0     456     456
.... ...... ... ...... ... ......; ........ .....   .......... .......   .......... ....... .......... ....... ....... ....... ....... -------
Total -New Projects           0   4,061   18.028  32.761  48,929 103,79       62,410  75,164  72,845  86,146  72.964 369,530
TOTAL - ODfnl Works and  24,382  24,851  30,213  43,015  54,76 177,258        69,525  78,300  73.286  86,14   72,964 380.220
Ne Projects
_-_--  -- -- mm. uumu



ISDIA                                     AmiSx 2.6
NATtoW. THERRAL PSER CrOMROl                            ...........
TPC - PO0ER SEIERATIOU PRoJECT                        Page 3 of 8
INM  Iwvtmnt Prr
WES mttllen
8Sh Plan                                                9th Plan
..............   ..... ........... --Total    *....... ............................  total
Poweu Station Project       fY93    FY94    FY95    FY96    FY97  Eth Ptan           FY9M    FY99 fV2000 FF2Q01  FP2002 9th Pltn
.............. . . . . .   .. ..    .. . .  ... .    .. . .   .. ..    .. . .      .. ..    .. . .   .. ..    .. ..   ..  . .  . .. .
Siraulitf I & tl              3.6      2.2      7.8      6.6      5.7    26.0          9.6      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      9.6
Korba t & 1i                   6.0     8.8      8.9      9.3      8.3    41.3         ;0.5      7.9     0.0      0.0      0.0    18.4
*mNOWgAVI  I & 11             16.6     7.8      5.7      2.4      1.4    33.7          4.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      4.0
farakka I                     5.0      1.6      0.1      0.0      0.0      6.7         0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
VWniayadcha  1                7.6      3.8      6.2      7.2      6.8    31.5         11.3    13.7       0.0     0.0      0.0    25.0
Rlhaid t                     37.4    1S.4    12.6        5.1      5.8    76.2          6.4      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      6.4
Uhruiear 1                    2.2      3.S      2.4      0.0      0.0      8.0         0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
Kw"l                         131.6    59.8    15.       9.9      0.0   217.0          0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Farald  1I                  73.9    33.2    25.0    14.8    16.4   168.3             12.t    13.1      0.0      0.0      0.0    2S.8
ational Capital              82.8    52.8    22.8    21.0    16.7   196.1             19.5      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0    19.S
Kahalesmn                    66.9    41.6    11.7    10.2    16.1   146.5             23.2    12.6    10.4       0.0      0.0    46.2
uralya                       13.2    11.5       4.3      0.0      0.0    29.1          0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
nta                           4.0       1.2     3.4      0.0      0.0      8.6         0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
Talcesr 1                    153.3   121.5    60.6    80.1    45.5   461.0            35.5    28.4      0.0      0.0      0.0    43.9
Bandhar                      127.2   229.7   130.7    82.6    27.1   S9?.3            44.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0    44.0
DPeal Bas                     76.2    26.8    27.2    25.1        0.0   155.2          0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
Total - OSofns Works        807.4   626.2   345.2   274.2   149.7 2,202.6            176.5    75.7    10.4       0.0      0.0   262.7
o



IIA D                                    -is, 2.6
NATIONAL TlNE_AL POWR CW TION                      ........
uNTC - MM   uEEUTI  PIOJECT                      Pn  4 of S
...........
mc Intsmt Pro"
Us$ mll1cn
............................ ............................................................. ...., ......_.
8ft  PIeR                                          9th Plan
''''-'''........*  Total    ....................Tota
Pow  Stattan Project      FV9     1       195        6    FY97  8th Pa         Y9      9      100   P2001  P1m02 9th Plan
Not Projects
To be Initlated Owrng 0  Ptln
. .._...........................
Ribhad II                   0.0     5.9   128.3  1t.1   105.4   482.7         187.7  175.0   142.9   103.2      0.0   606.7
V lre   II                  0.0    80.8    77.8   145.3   155.5   459.4       190.2   172.3   137.9   102.8     0.0   603.2
Undur 11 I0.0                       6.2   5S.7    66.0    99.2   229.0         95.7    69.4    21.0     0.0     0.0   186.1
Faviddsd I                  0.0     0.0    72.0   104.7   149.4   326.1       150.3    73.2     0.0     0.0     0.0   223.5
tolcher II                  0.0     0.0   149.4   121.1   268.0   536.6       326.7   365.7   32.9   250.6   204.8 1,475.7
Kiaykuls 1                  0.0     0.0     0.0    20.8    74.4    95.2        90.5   132.1   118.6   8a.0    27.4   463.5
Nmanglote I                 0.0     0.0     0.0    19.9    72.0    92.0        93.3   131.5   120.5    89.0    27.4   461.7
bValley I                   0.0     0.0     0.0   153.0   119.2   272.2       27S.2   366.2   386.2   300.0   265.7 1,593.5
R~aiimm ld  11i             0.0     0.0     0.0    54.4    45.0    99.5        76.2   104.1   107.S    90.1    45.8  425.7
fPrakka I II                0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    52.5    52.5        45.0    76.3   100.6   102.9    65.6   410.5
Jent Venture Projets        0.0    2.5    27.5    27.5    27.S   110.0          0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0
(CUC's perticipetimn)
To be Initiated During 9th Ptan
lihand iil                  0.0     0.0     0.0     Ci.0    0.0      0.0        9.7    88.4   100.1   102.5  1T5.9   436.6
Faridebad 11                0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0        0.0    61.4    92.8   136.8   1L.9   430.0
Naf4 umArea                 0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0        0.0     0.0    10.0    92.3   104.5   206.8
VlJatnagarin                0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0        0.0     0.0    20.0   184.5   209.0   413.6
Korba Ame                   0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0        0.0     0.0    20.0   184.5   209.0   413.6
AdcHtfatl Coal              0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0        0.0     0.0    20.0   184.5   209.0   413.6
Nbuar I                     0.0     0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     0.0        0.0     0.0     0.0     0.0    10.5    10.5
Total  New ProJects         0.0   122.3   510.7   876.0 1,248.2 2,757.2    1,548.6  1,815.6 1,726.2 2,012.8 1,673.5 8,776.6
TOTAL  OnoolngWorks and   807.4   748.S  8SS.9 1,150.1  1,397.8 4,959.8    1,72.2  1,891.3 1,736.6 2,012.8 1,673.5 9,039.3
New Projects                       -               -                  -               -        -
0.



- 45 -
Annex 2.6
Paj *-TTI8
TPC Per   nration Pro3ct
atlon.  T1 ermi P.ver Corrton
Salient Fatures o Power Plsnt Prolect  nudd in NlPC's Investen Proram
Thee for Ribhn  It and Vidhyashal U are gives In more detai It Assex 8.1
arametr/Power Pl1rt               Unehhar IS                        Faridbd I
1. Location
- Site                         Near Musafbad io U.P.             6 km from Ballaugarhi In
Haryana.
- Acese Roa                    Sit. ls adjacent to               Shto adjacet to
Unchahar-a Ion aII weather        Sol laugrh-Tigaou road.
rod.
- Rai ay                      Unchahar railway station is       5 km from Be Ilaugarh-oIlhI
about 5 km frm Mm site.           r IlWay
- Area (Hecteo)                260 (additional for sh            147.7 ha to be acquired.
disposal and colony
eaneion.
- Land Acquisition             To he acquired.                   To be acquired.
2.                                      o10er Suppla
Requlrement                  Oraa          m       10 e        84 me/ssc.
coesumption of 100 m /ee.
- atin Sourc                  Allaabbd Branch canl of           Tube-wels grid. Back up:
Sarda Sahayak link.              Ourgaon canal.
- Flow (m"/s")                 minimum 99
- Alterntive                   Purwa Branch of Dalise pump      Package for 2 days
canal being fed frem Gnp          requiremnt.
rlvr.
- Compenation                 Not required.
8. Fuol Supply
- Source                       Eat Bk*ro/North Karanpure        H-B-J pipeline
coalf teld.
- Averag Supply                1.26 I/year (6.8 MlT/yr           1.6 MCUD for 62.6 to PCF
for ultimatea ecaps ty).
- Alternate Fuel               IfO                               _
4. Power tftIon
Characteristics
- Capaiety                     Stage US: 420 W)                 400MW minimal.
Ultimate: 1,060 W
- Plant                        2 x 210 W                         SOT 4 1ST.
Configuration
- Cooling Systm                To be determined.                 Clored cycle. 2 Nos. of
natural draft towers.



- 46 -
NlPC Power obneration Project
National Thermal Power Coruoration
SalIentFeatures of Power Plant Project. included In NTPC's Investment Prorm
PerameteriPower Plant              Talhehr It                         Kavamkulam I
1. Locatlon
- Site                          80 km tfro Talcher town, in        In Elloppey district In
Ortia.                             Kerala.
- Aces Road                     Alredy bul It under Stoge          Approachable tro  N47 (km)
r.
- Railway                       From Taicher e ilway               Approximately 10 km away
station.                           frm Kayakulam statlon.
- Area (Hectres)                Additional 22 hectares to          975 acres to be acquired.
be acquired.
- Land Acquisition              Under acquisitlon.                 Under acquisition.
2. Water Supply
- Requirement                   Make up 120 Ma/e"C                 82 m3/ec. of fre h water.
- Main Source                   Semal barrage pond.                Kopra Kadevu on the
Achaukoril river.
- Flow (Ma/seC)
- Alternative
- Compensatton                  Nil.
S. Fuel Supply
- Source                        Talcher coaIfi-ldu.                Kalings coalmines of
Talcher, Orla8a.
- Average Supply                6.4 MT/year.                       1.62 MT/yer.
- Alternate Fuol                -                                  HFO/ S/gae.
4. Powr Station
Characteristics
- Capaclty                      2.000 W.                           Stage : 420 MW (ultimate:
2,420 UI).
- Plant                         4 x 5W0 MW.                        Stage !: 2X210 W
Configuratlon
- Cooling System                4 No*. of Indu¢d draft             Once through ae  water
towere.                            coollng.



- 47 -
Anneo 2.0
IC Power Gneration Project
Natlonl Termal Power Corporation
Salient Fatures of Por Plant Prolecta included ln KTPC'e Investment Pronram
Paraemtor/Power Plant             laml10                             Ib V lleY I
1. Location
- Site                         Nar Nondiku- ln Karnataka.        Near Village Hiroo In
Orissa.
- Accs Road                   1 km from National Hlghwy         State highway runs at the
17.                               boundary of the site.
- Railway Mranglore-Udupi railway                                 18 km from Kalanaur railway
about a km from  ito.             station.
- ram  (Nectr)                 o8                                 761
- Land Acquilstion             Under acquiittion.                 To be aequired.
2. Water Supply
- Requirement                  20 m8/9e.                          170 m/sec for ultimate
capacity of 8,000 W.
- main Source                  Mulki reservoir on Mulki          Hirakud reservoir on river
river.                            Mahanadi.
- Flow (Walse)                 Storage opacity of 19
milIon e  (would be
ncreased for ultmate
capacity).
- Alternative
- Componsatlon                 Not requir d.                     Not required.
S. Fuel Supply
- Source                       T lehr coltlulde.                 Gopsipur/Mbnsohopur block
of lb Valesy coalfields.
- Average Supply               1.62 MT/year (beneficiated        0.4 MT/year for 2,000 W.
coal).
- Alternate Fuel                4fOjiSS                            FO/M.
4. Powr Station
Cheracteristics
- capacity                     Stage I 420 W.                    Stage 1: 2,000 W.
Ultimate: 2,420 MW.               Ultimate$ 3,000 W.
-Plant                         2 x 210 W.                        4 x WOO W.
Confguration
- cooling System               Sea water, once through.          Closed cycle with cooling
towers.



- 48 -
Annex 26§
INDIAPaeS. 
NTPC Power Generation Protet
National Thermal Power Cornoration
Ssllent Features of Power Plant Prolects ln¢luded In NTPCs Investment Program
Parameter/Power Plant              Ramanundam III                     Fnrakka III
1. Location
- SIte                                                             Wbet bank of Fnrakk  eedWer
At Karimnagr in Andhra             canal at Farakka In West
Pradsih.                           Bensal.
- Access Road                                                      Butit for existing power
Built for *xisting poer            station.
Sttton.
- R tlway                                                          Extiting power station
Built for existing power           connected to the railway.
station.
- Area (Hectare)                                                   No additional land
No additional land                 required.
- Lnod Acquisition                 req
2. Water Supply                    250 m8/sec Consumptive for
- Requirement                   ultimate capacity of 2,000         600 3/see (coolIng water)
W.
- main Source                   Balancing reservoir fed by         Farakka feeder canal.
irrigation canal from
Pochampad Dam.
- Flow (mllsec)                 Cgpacity of the canal: 12.4        700 - 1,200 m3/9ec.
a /sec.
- Alternativ                    Balancing res rvoir during         -
closure of the canal.
- Compensetion                  Not requtred.
S. Fuel Supply                     South Godavari coalfields.         Rajimhal coslfields.
- Source
- Avreg  Supply                 1.8 MT/year.                       2.8 MT/year for Stage IIT.
- Alternate Fuel                HFO/LSHS/HPS.                      -
4. Power Station                   Stage II: NO0 MW.                  Stage II: 600 W.
Charsa¢Crtstica                 Ultimate: 2,600 NW.                Ultlmate: 2,100 MW.
- Capcilty
- Plant                         1 x 500W.                          I x 600 W.
Configuration
- Cooling System                Closed cycle with cooling          Once through cooling
towers.                            system.



- 49 -
ANNEX 3.1
INDIA                          Page 1 of 8
NTPC POWE GENERATION PROJECT
NATIONAL THERMAL POWER CORPORATION
Proiect Description
Exoansion of the Rlihand Thenml Power Plant (Stage Ili 2x500 MV)
1.1       The Rihand development is located in the State of Uttar Pradesh on
the southern bank of the Gobind Ballabh Pant Sagar (GBPS) Reservoir on the
River Rihand. The final profile of the Rihand Thermal Power Plant (TPP)
totalling 3,000 MW would include six units of 500 MW each to be built In three
stages. Stage I (2x500 MW) which was constructed under financIng from the
Government of the United Ringdom has been in operation since January 1991 and
is working satisfactorily. Stage II is part of the propose4 project and would
comprise two units of 500 KW each with associated mechanical, electrical. coal
transportation, coal handling, ash handling, and environmental impact
mitigating facilities. Stage III (2x500 MW) will be built at a later date.
1.2       An area of approximately 1,563 hectares where the power plant would
be built is in possession of NTPC. In addition, 251 hectares would be
acquired by NTPC for the disposal of ash from the proposed Stage II. The site
is accessible by road from Renukut which is at a distance of 70 km. The
railway siding for the Rihand TPP Was built during Stage I from the Singrauli
railway station via the Vindhyachal TPP. About 2.25 km length of rail track
would be constructed within the plant area for Stage II.
1.3       Coal Supply.  Coal for Stage II would initially be supplied from
the Dudhichua mining blgck of the Singrauli coalfields located about 40 km
from the power stationl'.  Consumption for the proposed Stage II at 5,500
11 Singrauli coalfields lie between latitudes 23° 47' to 24 12' and
longitudes 81° 57' to 82° 57' and are spread over the districts Mirzapur in
Uttar Pradesh and Sidhi in Madhya Pradesh. These coalfields cover an area of
more than 2,200 hi2; the deposits are estimated to contain about 7,500 million
tonnes of coal, of which about 2,700 million tonnes are quarriable and could
be available for exploitation. The total thickness of the exploitable
reserves in the major sectors of the coalfield varies from 24 m to about 46 m,
although in the Jhingurda sector. the thickness of the seam is about 180 m
which is one of the thickest in the world. The thickness of the seam and
working conditions in the Singrauli coalfields are such that major open cast
mines can be opened with minimum gestation period. Production from such mines
can generally be started in a period of about four years from the commenceent
of the mining operations and the full rated capacity of production can be
reached in a total period between six to eight years. The coals from this
coalfield are ideally suitable for power generation.   The coalfields have
been divided into various blocks/projects for exploitation: Gorbi.
Jhingurdah, Rakri, Bina, Marrak, Khadia, Dudhichua, Jayant, Nigahi, Amolori
and Moher. The first phase of Dudhichua was developed under Bank financing
(Ln. 2393-IN).



- 50 -
ANNEX 3.1
Page 2 of 8
hrs of operation (plant load factor of 63Z) would be about 3.30 milliou tomes
per annum. The average gross calorific value of coal from the Dudhichua block
is 4,000 Kcal/kg; at initial supply stage, average moisture content would be
about 132 and ash content 332. At some time in the future, coal would be
supplied from the Stage II expansion of the Amolori block.
1.4       Transportation of Coal. A single track Merry-Go-Round (WG') system
of rail transport built during Stage I would be doubled to meet the coal
requirements of Stage II. The MGR systems of Singaruli, Rihand and
Vindhyachal power plants would be interconnected in a manner which would a.. w
transportation of coal from any of the linked mines to any of the power
stations. Coal would be transported with unit train rakes formed of
pneumatically operated bottom-discharge type wagons. The wagons vould be
automatically loaded from fast loading sii.o at loading station at the mine and
unloaded into an underground track hopper at the power plant end. Both the
loading and unloading operations would be accomplished while the rake moves at
fixed creep speeds.
1.5       Coal Handling Facilities. A new coal handling plant (CNP) similar
to the one provided for Stage I would be built. This plant would consist of
two parallel conveying streams (one working and one standby) with rated
capacity of 1,400 tonnes/hour each for a daily operation of about 12 to 14
hours. Coal would be unloaded from wagons to an underground roller compacted
concrete (RCC) track hopper; then it would be channelled to a crusher house.
Conveyors would be provided for the following routess (a) from the track
hopper to the crusher and then to boiler bunkers; (b) from the crusher house
to the main coal stockyard through a distribution house; and (c) from reclaim
hoppers to the distribution house. Junction houses would be provided at every
change of direction of conveyors. The stackeri?eclaimer vould move on rails
supported over RCC longitudinal girders. An underground RCC reclaim hopper
would also be built. All underground structures would have adequate water
proofing treatment.
1.6       Fuel Oil and LDO Supply and Handling Facilities.  Low sulphur heavy
stock (LSHS) fuel oill/FO would be used in conjunction with pulverised coal
firing during start-up and low loads to warm up and flame stabilisation. The
facilities provided for Stage I are adequate to meet the additional
requirements of Stage II. Provision for LDO firing in one elevation of oil
burner shall also be made to facilitate start up o, the units in the event of
a complete station trip out when auxiliary steam may not be available.
1.7       Cooling Vater (CW) Supply. A closed-cycle cooling system with
cooling towers na d associated pump house would be installed for Stage II.
The cooling water circulation rate for Stage II would be 120,000 m'lh. The
makeup water requirements would be met from the GJPS reservoir through the
intake channel built for Stage I. A chlorination plant would be installed to
inject chlorine into the cooling water system so as to check the growth of
algae and other biological organisms.
1,8       Cooling Towers.  The hot water returning from the condenser would
be carried out to the base of the cooling towers by steel lined concrete
ducts, from where steel pipes would take hot water to the top of the towers.



- 51 -
ANNEX 3.1
Page 3 of 8
Four induced draft cooling towers (two for each unit) of 30,000 milnh capacity
each, would be built. Coaled water discharged from the towers would be let to
the open cold water channel.
1.9       Water Treatment Plant.  A water treatment plant would be built to
moet the additional requirements of clarified water, demineralized water (Mt)
and potable water for plant and residential colony. The plant ard the colony
would be provided with 300 ma/hr of potable water.
1.10      Steam Generators.  The two steam generators of 500 MK  each would be
drum type, subcritical, pulverized coal-fired, balanced draft type and would
use a direct firing system. Continuous evaporation rating of each steam
generator would be 1,700 t/hr; pressure at super heater outlet, 179 kglcm2;
and temperature of superheated and reheat steam, 5400 C. Each steam generator
would be able to take full load (100Z maximum continuous rating - MCR) when
burning worst quality coal. Coal burners would be so designed that a high
combustion efficiency is achieved and the use of LSHS and high speed diesel
oil is minimized.
1.11      Electrostatic Precipitators (ESPs). Each steam generator would be
fitted with an ESP of 99.5Z efficiency and having four streams, with one
stream out for maintenance and under worst coal conditions. Outlet emissions
would not exceed 100 mgIN10 while steam generator is operating at its MCR and
burning worst coal havlng maximum ash content. The residual particulate
matter in the flue gas at the ZSP outlet would be dispersed in the atmosphere
through a chimney. Space provision would be kept in the layout for addition
of Flue Gas Desulphurization (FGD) plant in the future, if required.
1.12      Chlmney. The emission of the fly ash would be through a twin flue
chlmney of 275 m high common to the two units.
1.13      Turbines and Generators. The two turbines of 500 MW each would be
of tandem compound single reheat, regenerative, condensing, multi-cylinder
design with separate high pressure (BP) and intermediate pressure (IP)
casings. It would be directly coupled to a generator suitable for indoor
installation. The turbine would be suitable for variable pressure operation.
Each steam turbine would have the following steam parameterss BP pressure: 170
kglcm 2; RP temperatures 5370 C; and Condenser vacuums 63 mm Hg. The
condensers would be designed for a coadenser cooling water temperature rise of
8 to 100 C. The two generators, each rated at 588 MVA, would be water and
hydrogen cooled. A brushless excitation system would be used.
1.14      Ash Handling System and Ash Disposal Area. Bottom ash would be
e=tracted either by using a continuously operating submergence scraper chain
conveyor system or by using intermittently operating jet pumps in conjunction
with a water impounded hopper. The bottom ash from bottom ash hopper would be
transported in slurry form to ash slurry pump in ash slurry pump house. The
fly ash from electrostatic hoppers would be extracted and conveyed to
buffer/surge hoppers located adjacent to the ESP by means of pneumatic
conveying system (either vacuum or pressure).  The fly ash from buffer/surge
hopper would be conveyed by pressure pneumatic conveying system to the fly ash



5 52 -
ANNEX 3.-
Page 4 of 8
storage silos for ash utilization purposes. In case of non-utilization of fly
ash, the fly ash from buffer surge hoppers would be slurrified and led to ash
slurry sump in ash slurry puwp house for further dlsposal. Then the total ash
would be disposed of as a slurry through pipelines to the ash disposal area
which would be constructed at approximately 3 km from the power station.
After sedimentation, ash pond slurry water would be recycled. Slowdown form
the ash pond slurry water recycling system would be treated prior to discharge
into the GBPS reservoir. The discharged water would have a suspended solid
concentration of less than 100 mgll.
1.15      Data Acauisition System. Each unit would have an independent data
acquisition system which would be based on state-of-the-art digital computer
configuration. An uninterruptible power supply (UPS) systom would be provided
for meeting the power requirements of each unit system.
1.16      Residential Colony.  The residential colony would be located nezt
to the existing one and would be close to the power plant. 759 additional
dwelling units would be constructed for Stage II.
1.17      Power Evacuation System. Riband TPP is situated in the Northern
Electricity Region, where a combination of 220 kV and 400 kV transmission
lines and substations transmit power to the large industrial consuers and
cities. The Rihand-Delhi (at Dadri) high voltage direct current (H8DC)
transmission system is part of the Northern Region and was built to transfer
In bulk power generated at the Singrauli, Rihand and Vindhyachal power
stations to the western parts of the region. The region is connected with the
Western Electricity Region via an BVDC back-to-back system built in
Vindhyachal. The transmission network around Rihand TPP would be reinforced
to evacuate the power generated at Stage II. The following transmission
facilities would be built be POVERGUID in a timely manners
- Rihand-Kanpur, 400 kV, single circuit line (385 km)14s
- Kanpur-Ballabhgarh, 400 kV, single circuit line (410 k
- Rihand-Singrauli, 400 kW, single clrcuit line (42 kmu)/;
- Static voltage compensation equipment at Jaipurs and,
- SLC at Rihand for limiting short circuit current.
Expansion of the Vindhyachal Thermal Power Plant (Stare Ils 2x500 MW)
1.18      The Vindhyachal development is located in the State of Madhya
Pradesh on the wcstern bank of the GBPS Reservoir. The final profile of the
Vindhyachal TPP totalling 2,260 MV would be built in two stages. Stage I
(6x210 NW) which was constructed under financing from the Government of the
former Soviet Union has been in operation since February 1991 (date of
21 Forest clearance from MOEF obtained.
31 No forest land is involved.
41 POVERID is undertaking a detailed survey of the line route and would
submit the proposal for obtaining forest clearance.



- 53 "
ANNE S .1
Pag 5 of B
synchronization of last unit) and is working satisfactorily. Stage SS is part
of the proposed project and would comprise two units of 500 NW each with
associated mechanical, electrical, coal transportation, coal handling, ash
handling, and environmental impact mitigating facilities.
1.19      An area of approximately 365 hectares where the power plant would
be built is in possession of NTPC. In addition, 243 hectares would be
acquired by NTPC for the disposal of ash from the proposed Stage II. The site
is accessible by road from the Singrauli station of NTPC which is at a
distance of 8 km. The railway siding for the Vindhyachal TPP was built during
Stage I from the Singrauli railvay station. About 3.5 km length of rail track
would be constructed within the plant area for Stage II.
1.20      Coal SuMP1y. Coal for Stage II would initially be supplied from
the Dudhichua mining block of the Singrauli coalfields1J located about 19 km
from the power station. Consumption for the proposed Stage II at 5,500 hrs of
operation (plant load factor of 632) would be about 3.57 million tonmes per
year.
1.21      Transportation of Coal. The existing Merry-Go-Round (MGR) system of
rail transport would be augmented to meet the coal requirements of Stage II.
Coal would be transported with unit train rakes formed of pneumatically
operated bottom-discharge type wagons. The wagons would be autamatically
loaded from fast loading silo at loading station at the mine and unloaded into
an underground track hopper at the power plant end. Both the loading and
unloading operations would be accomplished vhile the rake moves at fized creep
speeds. A double track MNR system of rail transport between loading and
unloading stations was built during Stage I which would meet the coal
requirements of Stage II.
1.22      Coal Handling Facilities. A new coal handling plant (CUP) similar
to the one provided for Stage I would be built. This plant would consist of
two parallel conveying streams (one working and one standby) with rated
capacity of 1,600 tonneslhour each for a daily operation of about 12 to 14
hours. Coal would be unloaded from wagons to an underground roller compacted
concrete (RCC) track hopper; then it would be channelled to a crusher house.
Conveyors would be provided for the following routest (a) from the track
hopper to the crusher and then to boiler bunkers; (b) from the crusher house
to the main coal stockyard through a distribution house; and (c) fhon reclaim
hoppers to the distribution house. Junction houses would be provided at every
change of direction of conveyors. The stacker/reclaimer would move on rails
supported over RCC longitudinal girders. An underground RCC reclaim hopper
would also be built.. All underground structures would have adequate water
proofing treatment.
1.23      Fuel Oil and LDO Suply and Handling Facilities.  Low sulphur heavy
stock (LSHS) fuel olIFO would be used in conjunction with pulverised coal
firing during start-up and low loads to warm up and flame stabilisation. The
facilities provided for Stage I are adequate to meet the additional
51 Para. A.3 of this Annex.



- 54 -
ANNEX 3.1
Page 6 of 6
requirements of Stage II. Provision for LDO firing in one elevation of oil
burner shall also be made to facilitate start up of the units in the event of
a complete station trip out when auxiliary steam may not be avaJlable.
1.24      Cooling Water (CW) Supply. As in Stage I, a closing cycle cooling
water system with cooling towers and associated pump house would be built.
The make up water required (60 m8/sec) would be drawn from the open discharge
channel of Singrauli TPP. A separate Ci pump house to house five numbers of
CV pumps wvould be built. Water from the open channel would be drawn into the
CW pump house by gravity and then would be pumped to the condenser through
steel lined concrete encased ducts. Five vertical, wet pit mixed flow type CV
pumps would be installed. Out of these, four would be for regular operation
and the fifth for common stand by. The latter would be equipped with suitable
isolating valves, to feed both units.
1 .25     Cooling Towers.  The hot water returning from the condenser would
be carried to the base of the cooling towers by steel lined concrete ducts,
from where steel pipes would take hot water to the top of the towers. Four
induced draft cooling towers (two for each unit) of 30,000 msIh capacity each,
would be built. Cooled water discharged from the towers would be let to the
open cold water channel, which in turn will convey the water to the forebay of
CV pump house.
1.26      Water Treatment Plant. A water treatment plant would be built to
meet the additional requirements of clarified water and demineralized water
(DM). The potable water requirement for the plant and the colony would be met
from the filter house of Stage I.
1.27      Steam Generators.  The two steam generators of 500 MV each would be
sub-critical, drum type, single reheat, singleldouble pass, radiant furnace,
dry bottom, outdoor, pulverized coal-fired, balanced draft, outdoor type and
would use a direct firing system. Each steam generator would deliver 1,700
tonneslh of superheated steam at 179 kglcmt and 5400 C at the super heater
outlet, and 1,524 tonneslh of reheated steam at 540° C at the reheater outlet.
Each steam generator would be able to take full load (1002 maximum continuous
rating) when burning worst quality coal. Coal burners would be so designed
that a high combustion efficiency is achieved and the use of fuel oil is
minimized. Low sulphur heavy stock (LSHS) fuel oil would be used in
conjunction with pulverised coal firing during start-up and low loads for warm
up and flame stabilisation.
1.28      Electrostatic Precivitators (ESPs). Each steam generator would be
fitted with a high efficiency ESP having an efficiency that limits the outlet
emissions to 100 mg/ma while the boiler is operating at its maximum eontinuous
rating and burning worst coal having maximum ash content. Each ESP would have
four independently operated streams. The residual particulate matter in the
flue gas at the ESP outlet would be dispersed in the atmosphere through a
chimney. Space provision would be kept in the layout for addition of Flue Gas
Desulphurization (FGD) plant in the future, if required.
1.29      Chimney.  The emission of the fly ash would be through a twin flue,
reinforced concrete chimney of 275 m high common to the two units.



- 55 -
ANNEX 3.1
Page 7 of 8
1.30      Turbines and Generators.  The two turbines of 500 MV each would be
of compound single reheat, regenerative, condensing, multi-cylinder design
with separate HP and IP casings. It would be directly coupled to a generator
suitable for indoor installation. The turbine would be suitable for variable
pressure operation. Each steam turbine would have the following steam
parameters: Turbine throttle steam pressures 170 kgicm 2; turbine throttle
steam and turbine reheat steam temperaturest 537° C; and maximum operating
turbine ezhaust pressures 89 mm Hg.  The two generators, each rated at 588
MVA, would be water and hydrogen cooled. A brushless excitation system would
be used. The Hydrogen plant would have adequate storage and bottling capacity
to meet plant requirement.
1.31      Ash Handling System and Ash Disposal Area.  Bottom ash would be
extracted either by using a continuously operating submergence scraper chain
conveyor system or by using intermittently operating jet pumps in conjunction
with a water impounded hopper. The bottom ash from bottom ash hopper would be
transported in slurry form to ash slurry sump in ash slurry pump house. The
fly ash from electrostatic hoppers would be extracted and conveyed to
bufferisurge hoppers located adjacent to the ESP by means of pneumatic
conveying system (either vacuum or pressure). The fly ash from buffer/surge
hopper would be conveyed by pressure pneumatic conveying system to the fly ash
storage silos for ash utilization purposes. In case of non-utilization of fly
ash, the fly ash from buffer surge hoppers would be slurrified and led to ash
slurry sump in ash slurry pump house for further disposal. Then the total ash
would be disposed of as a slurry through pipelines to the ash disposal area
which is located at approximately 5 km from the power station. After
sedimentation, ash free water would be allowed to discharge into the GBPS
reservoir. The discharged water would have a suspended solid concentration of
less than 100 mg/l.
1.32      Data Acquisition System.  Each unit would have an independent data
acquisition system which would be based on state-of-the-art digital computer
configuration. An uninterruptible power supply (UPS) system would be provided
for meeting She power requirements of each unit system.
1.33      Residential Colony. The residential colony would be located next
to the existing one and would be close to the power plant. 1,092 additional
dwelling units would be constructed for Stage II.
1.34      Power Evacuation System. Vindhyachal TPP is situated in the
Western Electricity Region, where a combination of 220 kV and 400 kV
transmission lines and substations transmit power to the large industrial
consumers and cities. The region is connected with the Northern Electricity
Region via an HVDC back-to-back system built in Vindhyachal and is thus
capable to transfer in bulk power generated at the Singrauli and Rihand power
stations to the western parts of India. The tranmission network around
Vindhyachal TPP would be reinforced to evacuate the power generated at Stage
II. The following transmission facilities would be built be POVERGID in a
timely mannert



- 56 -
ANNMX 3.1
Page 8 of 8
-    Vindhyachal-Dina, 400 kV. double circuit line via a
switching station (500 ks)s
-    Bina-Nagda, 400 kV, double circuit line (370 km)t
-    Korba-Bhilai, 400 kV, single circuit line (200 km);
-    New substations at Bina and Nagda;
_    New switching station between Vindhyachal and Dina; and
-    Extension of the Korba and Bhilal substations.



5 57 -
ANNEX 3.2
May 10. 1993
INDIA
NTPC POWER GENERATION PROJECT
WNPC Environmental Action Plan
The Environmental Action Plan
1.l       The LAP has been developed taking Into account the analysis of
NTPC's current performance on environmental and R&R lssues as well as the
analysis carried out by BEI (pare. 3.31) ond NTPC's environmental mangeent
committee. The obiectives of the LAP ares (i) to rationalize and improve
NTPC's organizational structure for environmental management at the corporate
and plant levels; (1i) to improve environmental monitorlng and the preparation
of environmental impact assessments; (iii) to execute a specific program of
remedial environmental measures for NTPC's existing power stations; and
(Lv) to address outstanding R&R issues and to upgrade NTPC"s capability to
prepare and execute R&R programs.
1.2       The EAP can be divided Into four main categoriess (i) Institutional
strengthening; (11) Environmental management and monitoring;
(1ii) Environmental projects and; (iv) Rehabilitation and Resettlement.   The
plan will be implemented largely by NTPC's own personnel. Responsibility for
implementing the ZAP will be of the respective environmental groups namely
EG,, 3MG and CDG at the Corporate Headquarters and plant levels. The progress
of implementation of RAP will be reported to funding agencies by Corporate
Planning. Technical assistance will be provided by consultants in areas like
review of existing environmental policies and standards, training and a number
of specific technical studies to desiga further remedial actions.  The overall
implementation schedule of the ZAP is shown in Appendix 1 and details of
various actions in Appendix 2. Background notes and details of the
implementation schedules are available in the project files.
Main Accomplishments
1.3       The ZAP includes a number of ongoing environmental remedial actions
and the main accomplishment so far achieved are listed belowt
(a) Environmental management documentation has been compiled by NTPCs
corporate headquarters in a more systematic way. It Includes
Ministry of Environment and Forest (MOEP) Clearances and State
Pollution Board Consent Orders for NTPC's power stations as well as
environaAmental information on linked coal mines and associated
transmission lines.
(b)  An Expanded  nitoring Program for air emissions and vastewaters
has been agreed upon with the Bank and is being introduced in all
NTPC's power stations.NTPC bas initiated an Ecological Impacts
Monitoring program based on analysis of satellite ilmgery. The
terms of reference of the studies have been reviewed by the Bank,
and the contract for the first study at Ramga has been
awarded.



- S8 -
lc) NTPC currently has an earth dam safety monitoring program, which
includes regular inspections as well as formal inspection reports.
(d) Experimental trials for ash pond reclamation plantations have been
completed at Singrauli, Ramagundam, Korba and is in progress at
Farakka.
le) Task forces have been assigned to assess remedial measures needed
to upgrade chlorine handling safety, oil itorage spill control
provisions, hazardous materials storage and handling, and to obtain
personnel protective clothing and equipment required for safe
hazardous materials handling.
(f) As the first step in a program of air emissions control equipment
upgrading, electrostatic precipitator (ESP) performance has been
measured in all units at all of the power stations. The ESP
upgrading feasibility studies have been completed. The equipment is
expected to be installed by the third quarter of 1995.
(g) The feasibility studies for a lightweight aggregate manufacturing
plant using fly ash, and a brick manufacturing plant using coal fly
ash are being carried out for installations proposed to be funded
by NTPC at Dadri. The results of these feasibility studies could
also be used for other power stations.
(h) Socio-economic studies have been completed at Farakka (April, 1992)
and Rasmagundam (December, 1992). The socio-economic studies for
the Rihand II and Vindhyachal II were completed in February 1993
and the results are being used for the preparation of the
Resettlement Action Plans for these stations.
Institutional Strengthening
1.4       NTPC has initiated steps during the past year to strengthen the
capabilities to address environmental issues. Broadly, the steps cover two
aspects - organization development and acquisition of expertise to analyze
environmental issues with a view to determine appropriate mitigative measures.
An in-house committee has reviewed the existing capabilities and recomended
for management consideration the future strategic requirements.
1.5       The committee has recommended that the groups responsible for
managing environmental matters within each division (delineated on functional
basis) should be strengthened and made fully functional to achieve their
stated objectives. The three functional groups within the Engineering
Operation and Personnel and Administration Divisions are: (i) Enviromental
Engineering Group responsible for assessing through studies and including
pollution abatement measures in the power projects; (Ui) Environmental
ManAgement Group responsible for monitoring discharge levels of pollutants and
effectiveness of pollution control equipments; (iii) Community Development
Group responsible for R&R and community development activities. Just as in
the case of other functions, for environmental matters too, international
funding agencies will need to call upon the Corporate Planning department who
In turn will coordinate with the functional groups to obtain information or
take up policy matters. The committee has suggested the staffing pattern for
these groups and the persons will be in place at corporate headquarters and at



- 59 -
sites by April 1994. The company has a system of periodic review meetings in
project implementation and operation functions. Such meetings have helped the
site General Hanagers in planning and for achieving targets and the Committee
has recommended to extend the system to environmental matters. The
recommended to extend the system to environmental matters. The environmental
review meetings will be chaired by regional Executive Directors on a quarterly
basis. The first such meeting for each of the four regions will be held by
June 1993.
1.6       Persons will be reassigned to the environmental groups from other
functional areas of the company. The necessary expertise will be built up
through in-house training program, association with consultants and exposure
to international practices.
1.7       NPTC already has a twinning arrangement with British Electricity
International Ltd. (BII) United Kingdom and experts from National Power have
visited the NTPC facilities to access their needs. Under this arrangement
National Power will assist NTPC in (a) conducting environmental appraisal,
(b) developing guidelines for environmental management, (c) examining current
laboratory and monitoring practices and recommending additional requirements.
1.8       The 1-7, a group of internationally reputed utilities have been
sounded during the course of appraisal of this loan proposal and they have
expressed interest in assisting NTPC in environmental related studies. The
assistance will be by way of grant for man-months time of their experts and
cover the cost of visits of NTPC personnel to their facilities.  Experts from
these major utilities would be well versed with international practices.
governmental regulations and would have a pragmatic view on environmental
matters concerning large coal based power projects. Under this program,
NTPC's expertise will be developed in (a) developing overall targets for
pollution and waste reduction (including energy conservation), (b) development
and engineering of effluent treatment and emission control systems,
(c) operations from environmental view point and utilizing of ash;
(d) establishing computer center and data bank for atmospheric emission
dispersion models, effluent discharge data collection and analysis: and (e)
strengthening of human resources by way of training of management and
operational at E-7 facilities to fully appreciate the current international
environment management practices.
Eavironmental mana_ement and monitorina
1.9        This component focusses on: (i) developing NTPC's environmental
policies; (ii) standardizing effluent and emissions disposal and treatment
technologies; (iii) establishment of additional company training programs to
keep pace with changing environmental regulations, for persons at various
management and operations levels, for environment and safety; (iv) central
follow-up and control on environmental compliance and safety performance of
plants; (v) enhancing monitoring data collection and analysis capability and
(vi) carrying out of enviromental audits.
Environmental Proiects
1.10      This component includes: (i) ash management; (ii) ash slurry water
recycling; (iii) feasibility of ash backfill at abandoned or operating coal
mines; (iv) ash pond reclamation; tv) ash leachate analysis and groundwater



- 60 -
contamination monitoring; (vi) electrostatic precipitator upgrade program;
(vii) retrofitting of closed cycle condenser cooling systems; (viii) chlorine
handling safety improvements; (is) upgrade spill containment provisions for
bulk fuel oil storage; (x) upgrade hazardous material storage; (xi) solid
waste management and (zii) sanitary vastevater projects.
Resettlement and Rehabilitation
1.11        This component includess
(a) Implementation of NTPC's R&R policy. Special attention will be
given to ensure income restoration and to improve the consultative
process with the PAPs;
(b) Establish andlor strengthen R&R units at the corporate and plant
levels to adequately cover all aspects of land acquisition,
community development, as well as planning, implementation and
monitoring of R&R programs;
(c) Develop a human resource development program of personnel involved
in R&R; and
(d) Complete the remaining infrastructure facilities for PAFs of
Singrauli in accordance with agreed schedule. [Other remaining
actions related to the implementation of ongoing R&R programs such
as Talcher, Farakka etc. have not been specifically included in the
ZAP.]
(e) Carry-out or complete socio-economic studies for existing projects
Singrauli, RiBhand I, Vindhyachal I, Korba (on-going) to ascertain
the present economic status of the PAls and develop community
facilities action plans in coordination and consultation with local
government and PAls.
Implementation
1.12        Proposals for providing the technical assistance and training
required by N7PC are currently under consideration with the recently formed
'E7 Network"" and, the terms of reference is placed at Appendix 3.
Cost Estimates
1.13      Investments re4uired for the implementation of remedial measures
(to be financed from the proceeds of the proposed loan) and cost of technical
assistance and training are placed at Appendiz 4.
l/ An organization of seven major electricity companies, Electricit6 de
France; Hydro-Quebec and Ontario Hydro, Canada; RE AG, Germany; Kansai
Electric Power and Tokyo Electric Power Company, Japan and EEL, Italy created
in April 1992 to provide assistance to developing countries to inter alia
develop environmentally acceptable energy supplies.



INDIA
NtC Pew  Genaton PrOject
Eewlrowwie Aoton PWa Sumnmy
IMI  j12           1~~~Is   low      low      120     In       low0     2        20
e1A  Im*,ss.                                 *   Itggu- *
._ _____ Ok_O___I                                                    Am I .
4                                                                        AP   I                 __ 1tEw s I
*                     _ mtltra
a~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~Fr$ AP  I   w'                                    I
tO  _ d __11u01lUl2CIl
to 0 AelltIS20
lo  ~     m'~  agrest-uaimummaw                                             20 asO    t
12          b,..                                                                           AP, E p3 r   or  D..t i
U          m'awumsw~~o                                                Jeiwi  
1t13I    1             I8-A
t2      a               t_                                                Jon           J  14 t4
33          do____desio"im                                                                      .                 _    ,   s w                                   g
so                             .       .,     .i                                         14 1                       _
4*        o NW&1 Td20NApsimpUI                                           Apt I                     Ie
_~~~A1               J"tm*JI13w
4- f__t __dt i -
-  d _a  w -   -  - .                                                      - e
pap 1



- 62 -
[I-
t '3               .  -'
SIM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
+   ii     , I II gxIsI
}l I[             1
: is    If Ein   it           I tI2
]~ li 11u1    11S1   'Ii



INDIA
NTPC Pow  Gotl Prolec
Ebronmn   Acn Plan Sunay
" Phm    992    11 2  t I S  I I"        1"t    1 20e 1                            no
282  Emine~~~~~~~~ h*egg                                                     mm
264   t__,At  _  nsXh uUasds.
at   A.*UdaL.-be.                                                                                                                         ta 
._.   .J"2 111iwm m   I II
36  *A*mv  ea -a
34      bem3 ban s   eI  Imm                                          I                                                                .",.Oa
as      Ubejs m_m   ,                                                            ItD
4"  0"___0 Pw
42   83wsdUWmSe
4M   _moftn I so                                                          l w   !    :   ts
t_4l tlW                                                                                                                                    to b
_1 Smw _awap     - - It ohdof
434        P i.
_ _ __ ___ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ____ _ _ ______ __I_____ ___I_._______
441  be~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~eee~~~~CD3 11r-14titame
46    m*mewuua,stsmans6Wi*lUuei
wa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~b tows"" dwifi ov  I       I       I
...__         _  _  __  _ __   _ _  __  _  _______                                                                         I*d............    IDtt   aipI etti
"z_t XZi-                                                                                                                      a -<>C :_l .^
66I o. _ puIi--  ,1
51     8.63 mhmgnea e.bX3 h
SW  lads.., wesss.p*usl                                           l 
663     ree.adIOmermmawag                                                       sow
t664-Muuswed    Mood 3u
Pop 3



ea 9
IL                                                 w A    
KU 6.-....a. Lor   I IS                                             g Ises A I -_
M te-   -p DMpV P                                                w __
96 .Z.. 13                                                     fo Aq uuM -Pl V  ViUP m01Me  et
zleo.po.p            M9 _____
I~~~jW
^";1 ~ ~                       14.si                                                      .
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9f                                                                                   mo "Plo mv Ia"  p
'9.    j.U                                                                 e9^"P dan     I U9
£0.S                       10.04 SSOSS   ___                    _____-___
UtI~  -^                                                          *             ^
O"iOL                                           WMAq_V.,.pmwm             __
I~ ~ ~ ~~et= I==p                I amIa    Im    m    M T I   ot     w    seat I_                              _       /"
^";1~ 3.6 '6M                                                                    mUM '  8"PY 16    W
A6.    APASf  S6.                                     Id U UOU9V  ApeWAuS     urn
1K9.J4^.I~~~ I_bP 
^"il~~~~UPDW joMod                                                _8w               0
Aasum~  Vd oNI WUSOII
1"- sKz                                                                          ^-_OdP
i *gwo3e                                              ___o 
S~~~~~~~~]tlt   0.                                                          -P 



-~~~~~~~^t"* -   -   -   -                                                                          tamsvus Alwi                 toeo
ss |-r~~~
l  l      9
M. :Pr   ml I Aqe                              WOO 14 MM inPO WAOOP P4ff           ON66
*6.86         W       AWWMUMWV Alip" A*MOJ WP s6WA
ias Jew   _s. Itoo 
.~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                ~~~ *t  I t AsoP 
1    t;|v   .                     -*w"wA*-p"*    _9
.. Uu*.r at                                                                            a        suWqA* s_
u-u"X  .g.                                                       *bgAumj P _u5.p                  6
l  1 0o 0        61 Am                       -  ----   --F_V                   V_ __            9
as                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~*MeAq OAm"pFV A*ffWA  F  AUP   699
*                                                          to. mwt.i*                           _umm.m _a~m _
$eaeo ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~WB 'up 0                Sltiq4P A*m09 
is|" tC  _  "upwmOt ,pm.&                                                            _o
to    98.                                             ipASpapp-u        =     =11 p _  .   _
6S   Ie IWVo                                                   4qw-4pSp-paoa.          an
96 it ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~wS6Iiqs06PmqS                                                 6
1.. 1t              - I  *_ _ _                                      _ _ _  _ _ _   _ _ __    P__  _ _ _
£8.9.        ~6 ..IAW                                                              86WUSVVWA PIMMVVMSUSS6          Su9
09 Is   I.-.-,                                        WajmpvAipm.ab~~~~~si pmusgwvo     t69
'o                                                               *WV  waAq M P  WURwGO gMq&         =96
966 Ahi6,  t 68"a    M                                              -U I'lV _,          A               9 _   n
tSr ^Xw                              - 4         P        _               alll~~~~~~~O"   o
__           _ _    _SS _   _- & -sW                                                                              _
saUtwwc    tIU 3
309J0 VO9i6U99 loOdO OdIN
viaw'



- 66 -
I                           It
|~ 4 ffsbW i!  1  . 
.I  ____ _ _ _ __ _  _i



- 67 -
ANNEX 3.2
Appendix 2
NTPC: ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION PLAN
Summary Description of Tasks
Institutional Strengthening
1.1       Based on the recommendations of the in-house committee, NTPC plans
to strengthen the organizational framework for dealing with environment
related matters. Additional staff will be reassigned to the various
environmental groups at corporate headquarters and sites. A further review of
the efficacy of the organization will be taken up by the in-house committee
after a two year period. Quarterly review meetings will be held at regional
level.
1.2       The persons assigned to environmental groups will be suitably
trained through in-house and other training programs and wide exposure to
current international practices.
1.3       Under the existing twinning arrangement with BEI the capabilities
of the persons will be enhanced to accomplish environmental appraisal
formulate guidelines for environmental management and upgrade current
laboratory and monitor1lg practices.
1.4       The L-7 group will be approached to provide technical assistance
for specific studies which may include development of overall targets for
pollution and waste reduction; development and engineering of effluent
treatment and emission control systems; operations from environmental view-
point; ash utilization; establishment of computer center and data bank for
atmospheric dispersion models, effluent discharge data collection and
analysis; strengthening of HRD).
Environmental Manasement and Monitoring
1.5       Apart from determining environmental policies, environmental
management activities include the compilation and regular updating of
environmental documentation, such as environmental clearances and consent
orders from G.O.I. and State regulatory authorities for NTPC facilities as
well as associated coal mines and transmission lines. Recent new GOI
regulations require that corporate environmental audits are to be included in
NTPC's annual reports, starting from the fiscal year ending March 1993.
1.6       All NTPC power stations store hazardous materials over the
threshold quantities specified in recently amended environmental regulations
and NTPC must develop Disaster Management Plans for each of it's facilities,
in cooperation with the State Pollution Control Boards, and local disaster
relief agencies, including hospitals. Under the RAP, NTPC has worked out a
schedule to bring each facilities plant in compliance with the new
regulations. Similarly, all industrial facilities, such as NTPC power
stations, are now required to obtain liability insurance to cover damages
resultiag from hazardous materials spills or other environmental damages. The
liability cap is set at Re 500 million. State Pollution Control Boards are
Includin this requirement In Consent Order renewals.



- 68 -
1.7       General Environmental Monitoring.  NTPC. in consultation with the
Bank has agreed to expand their environmental monitoring program to include a
broader spectrum of parameters (See Appendix 2). The expanded environmental
monitoring program will allow for identification of any problem pollution
sources, and quantitative diagnostlc evaluation of the severity of the problem
and possible remedial actions. All NTPC power plants have the environmental
laboratory equipment needed to perform the regular analyses included in the
EAP, except in Korba. An atomic absorption spectrophotometer is required in
the environmental laboratory at the Rorba power station and this will be
installed as part of the EAP.
1.8                                     . A program for monitorlng ecological
impacts in the area surrounding the NTPC power plants has been included in the
EAP. The Terms of Reference for studies at all of the power stations have
been agreed with the Bank. Remote sensing data collected from satellite
observation will be used to track changes in terrestrial ecology over time.
Changes in vegetation patterns, crop densities, and land use would be
documented in the studies. The studies include ground truth surveys and field
experiments, in order to develop proper interpretation techniques for
satellite imagery, and to compliment study findings. Satellite imagery from
three different periods at each power station will be examined: (i) pre-
construction. to establish baseline data; (ii) post construction to cover
impacts of construction, and; (iii) current conditions, to cover impacts of
power plant operations. A contract for such a study at the Ramsgundam power
station has been awarded. Requirements for remedial measures, should negative
impacts be observed, will be discussed with the Bank. The RAP includes
schedules for initiation and completion of all the above studies, as well as
implementation of remedial actions.
1.9       Earth Dam Safety Monitoring. NTPC has a program of regular visual
inspections of earth dams by qualified engineers of the ash pond dikes, with
formal inspection reports. The earth dam safety monitoring program under the
ZAP includes installation of monitoring instruments. These instruments would
also monitor lateral movement of the dam, and peizometers to measure the
seepage surface within the dam.
1.10      Power Plant Community and Occupational Health Monitoring.
Community health surveys, with baseline data collected prior to plant start-up
are MOEF. G.O.I. has also occupational being specified by MOEP in some recent
clearances exposure standards applicable to power plants. The RAP includes an
occupational exposure and health monitoring program. The program will be
initiated by an assessment of equipment and personnel requirements.
1.11      Mercury Fate and Transport Study.  The EdF study of the Singrauli
area (location of NTPC power stations Rihand and Vindhyachal), revealed
mercury, a bio-accumulative heavy metal, in the Rihand reservoir sediments,
fish, and food crops; in some cases above levels of concern. Anthropogenic
sources of mercury in the area include a mercury chlor-alkali plant (Kanoria
chemicals), coal fired power plants, and possibly the coal mines. The ZAP
includess (i) an investigation into the potential origins (coal mines),
environmental transport and environmental fate of mercury. Undisturbed core
samples would be taken in the coal deposits and overburden, and analyzed for
micro-constituents, including mercury. Mercury is a volatile metal, which may
be concentrated in the overburden or in the coal itself. These undisturbed
samples would be compared to the coal as delivered to the power plants; (Li) a



. 69 -
mercury fate and transport study, to determine the partitioning of mercury
through the thermal power generation process and pollution control equipment,
and; (iii) mercury contamination monitoring. This study would address the
environmental partitioning of mercury releases. It would include environmental
sampling and human exposure monitoring. Remedial actions, if required will be
implemented as part of the EAP.
Environmental Proiects
1.12      Environmental projects consist of retro-fitting and construction of
pollution control facilities at power plants, mainly related to ash management
and disposal, electrostatic precipitator upgrades, and hazardous materials
management.
1.13      Ash Management.  Ash management projects include utilization for
lightweight cement aggregate and brick-making, and construction of these
facilities, as well as modification of the ash management system at the power
plant to facilitate utilization, that is, construction of dry ash disposal
provisions. NTPC has performed the feasibility studies and proposes to build
lightweight aggregate and brick making facilities at Dadri. These facilities
are scheduled for completion by 1994.
1.14      Ash Slurry Water Recycling.  Great quantities of water are used at
the power plants to slurry the coal ash for disposal via pipeline to the ash
ponds. The ZAP includes a program for changing ash disposal systems at all of
the power plants from once-through systems with disposal of effluent, to
recycling systems where the ash slurry water is recycled. In the ash slurry
water recycling system only the blow-down is discharged after treatment. Ash
slurry recycling has been a stipulated in some of the recent MOE? clearances,
and is part of G.O.I.'s efforts to upgrade power plants to 'zero environment
discharge" facilities, that is zero discharge of environmental contaminants.
The ash slurry recycling system would also conserve fresh water supplies.
Contracts for construction of the ash recycling system at Ramagundam have been
awarded in the last quarter of 1992 and construction will be completed in
1994. The ash handling system at Talcher is being constructed as a recycling
system. Ash slurry water recirculation system will be constructed as advised
by the respective State Pollution Control Board at the existing stations.
1.15      Ash Backfill at Coal Mines.  The ZAP includes studies for the
feasibility backfilling ash in operating mines in the proximity of the power
plants. Discussions with Coal India are underway. An appropriate mining
technology will have to be adopted in mining operations by the coal companies
in order to facilitate ash backfilling.
1.16      Ash Pond Reclamation.  Ash pond reclamation can commence on site
when *cells' or areas of the ash pond are filled to their ultimate levels.
Procurement or growth of the massive numbers of plant materials needed should
begin two years in advance of the planned reclamation effort. Experimental ash
pond plantation trials have been performed at Singrauli, Ramagundam, Xorba,
and Farakka (in progress) with good results. Several commercially valuable
species have been successfully grown using the coal ash as growth media. One
of the most encouraging achievements has been the growth of a specLes used by
silkworms, as well as the silkworms themselves. This accomplishment points to
the possibility of returning the ash pond areas to commercial use for oustees,
if ash pond reclamation and rehabilitation planning are carefully coordinated.



- 70 -
Ramagundam, Parakka and Vindhyachal ash ponds have a minimum life of another
15 years and so reclamation plans are not included in the RAP.
1.17      Ash Leachate Analysis and Groundwater Contamination Monitoring.
Coal contains trace quantities of heavy metals, which can become environmental
contaminants when huge quantities of coal are burned in the thermal generation
of electrical power. Contaminants will partition between stack emissions,
bottom ash and fly ash. Large quantities of water are used to slurry the ash
and move it to the ash disposal ponds. Leachate from the ash disposal ponds
has the potential to contaminate groundwater. Groundwater monitoring
requirements are included in NTPC's recent MOEF clearances. The first phase
of the EAP covers ash leachate analysis, in order to characterize potential
leachate contaminants. The groundwater protection program includes hydrologic
studies at the new ash pond sites and design of adequate leachate containment
measures, and groundwater monitoring at existing ash ponds, with remedial
response measures as necessary.
1.18      Electrostatic Precipitator Upgrade Program.  Remedial measures have
already been initiated to improve the efficiency of the air pollution control
equipment (electrostatic precipitators) at several of the plants. These
facilities were built prior to the promulgation of current, more stringent
emission control standards. In some cases the new standards exceed the
designed air quality specifications of the original equipment by over four
hundred percent. The electrostatic precipitator upgrading program was already
underway prior to the preparation of the EAP in as much as ESP performance
evaluations had been undertaken. Design modification feasibility studies have
been made by NTPC. Electrostatic field plates will be installed in the
Idum=yW fields of several ESP units, while others will have new microprocessor
controls installed, or both. The work for all NTPC's power plants is
scheduled for completion by the end of the first quarter of 1995. Part of the
Bank loan may be used the finance the ESP equipment.
1.19      Closed Cycle Condenser Cooling Systems.  MOEF is presently
reviewing the standards for permissible temperature rise for hot water
discharges. The results are expected by November 1993 and NTPC will implement
the measures to comply with these requirements thereafter. NTPC will proceed
according to existfing regulations In any case by November 1994. (Vindhyachal
was designed and constructed with a closed cycle condenser cooling system, and
a closed system will be used in the next phase of expansion). Discharge of
heated effluent is not environmentally acceptable under most circumstances,
nor is the once through system as efficient as a closed system where surface
vater ambient temperatures are as high as those found in India.
1.20      Chlorine Handlin8 Safety Improvements. Chlorine is handled at each
facility in one ton containers. Between 12 and 24 one-ton containers normally
located at each power plant site. A spill from a one ton cylinder of chlorine
can create a lethal toxic gas cloud for as many as five miles downwind. NTPC
has assigned a task force to assess the chlorine handling safety issues at
each facility. The ZAP includes provision for remedial measures (such as
installation of automatic leak alarm systems), for safer chlorine handling, as
well as a program for obtaining personnel protective equipment and leak
steaming gear.
1.21      Upgrade Spill Containment Provisions for Bulk Fuel Oil Storage.



- 71 -
Bulk fuel oil is stored in cylindrical steel tanks in all of the facilities
surveyed. These tanks are surrounded by dikes; however, the rainwater drains
either cannot be closed or are customarily left open, comprodisin3 the
containment integrity of the dike system. A task force has been assigned to
assess upgrades needed for spill control at the oil storage areas. The EAP
includes a schedule for the implementation of remedial measures.
1.22      Upsrade Hazardous Materials Storage.  In all of the NTPC facilities
surveyed during the supervisory mission, acid and caustic bulk storage tanks
were located within diked areas or on pads surrounded by drainage trenches;
however, the drainage trenches lead directly to the neutralizing pits, which
are full of water. Should a massive spill of concentrated acid or caustic
occur, there is no way to stem the flow before it reaches the neutralization
tank. A violent exothermic reaction would occur should this happen, putting
human life and limb in jeopardy. A task force has been assigned to assess
remedial measures needed at the hazardous materials storage and handling
areas, and the RAP includes provLsions for implementation of remedial
measures. The task force will also address the needs for personnel protective
equipment.
1.23      Solid Waste Management.  UTPC will generate solid waste management
plans for each of the power generating facilities under the UAP. These solid
waste streams include clarifier sludge from raw water treatment, and solid
waste generated in the township. NTPC is assessing the solid waster
management practices at its stations and will finance and implement an
environmental compatible plan for solid waste.
1.24      Sanitary Wastewater Proiects.  In light of the endemic waterborne
disease problem in India, the NTPC facilities should be equipped with
functional sanitary wastewater treatment facilities, manned with competent
trained operators, and maintained so as to remain functional. Sanitary
vastewater treatment upgrade and/or repair projects are Included in the ZAP
for Riband, Kamagundam, Parakka, and Xorba.



- 72 -
ANNEX 3.2
Appendix 3
NTPC POWER GENERATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT
Terms of Reference
1.1       The technical assistance for institutional strengthening of the
technical and social environment capabilities of NTPC will includes (a)
development of policies and regulations:
(b)  establishment of corporate standards in operations, development and
engineering in respect of environmental aspects, safety.
monitoring. auditing and EIAs, infrastructure for rehabilitation
colonies, and R'R budgeting and norms;
(c)  organization of laboratory;
(d)  human resources development; and
(e)  data management improvement.  Additional activities would involve
the regional and plant site levels. Under the technical assistance
for R&R, creating mechanisms for encouraging innovation in R&R and
community development, better sociological capability, and
refinement of existing policy would be broad objectives.
Current Environmental Organization
Technicals
1.2       Corporate Environmental Management Structure.  Environmental impact
assessment and field investigations currently come under different Directors.
Carrying out environmental impact assessment is the responsibility of the
Engineering Services Division and reports to the Director of Technical.
Environmental monitoring, and the field investigations involved in development
of environmental impact assessments, come under a different Director, the
Director of operations Division. Ash utilization programs also fall under the
Director of Operations Division. Resettlement and rehabilitation, as well as
reforestation fall under the Director of Personnel and Administration
Department.
1.3       Environmental Impact Assessment. NTPC currently employs 12 persons
in the corporate Environmental engineering Group (EEG). The disciplines
covered by the staff include all of those needed to produce EIAs, including a
qualified sociologist at corporate headquarters to handle the resettlement and
rehabilitation (R&R) aspects of EIAs, who is temporarily posted in the
Southern Region office to oversee socio-economic studies for southern region
projects.
1.4       Corporate Overview of Environmental Management.  Compliance with
environmental regulations and environmental management has been the
responsibility of the General Manager of each power plant. NTPC established
an Environment Management Group at Corporate Center under the Director of



- 73 -
Operations (in November, 1991) with basic objectives of (a) coordination with
stations, Engineering division on all environmental matters, (b) to carry out
trend analysis of pollution monitoring data and prepare exception reports,
(c) providing operational feedback to engineering for carrying out necessary
modifications in existing/future system, and (d) providing corporate support
to the stations.
1.5       Environmental Management at Power Plants.  Each NTPC power station
has an independent 'Environmental Management Group' headed by a Senior
Manager. this Senior Manager reports to the facility General Manager and also
provides information/exception reports to Environmental Management Group at
Corporate Center. The basis objectives of the Environmental Management Group
at each site is (a) coordination with State Pollution control Boards,
(b) pollution monitoring, and (c) data analysis, corrective measures and
exception reporting.
1.6       Resettlement and Rehabilitation (R&R).  At Corporate level, the
responsibility of collection and collation of various statistics on R&R
measures taken by NTPC projects and providing these statistics to various
agencies is under the purview of Personnel and Administration (P&A). The land
acquisition and implementation of R&R policies of Company is the
responsibility of site P&A.
1.7       Objectives of NTPC.  NTPC has recently reformulated the
responsibilities for the Environmental Engineering Groups (a) associating in
site selection for new projects with engineering services; (b) EIA studies for
new project sites and obtaining clearances; (c) finalization of specification
of equipments for pollution monitoring; (d) special studies relating
environmental problemst (e) interaction with MOEF, Pollution Control Boards
and funding agencies for new projects; and (f) provide assistance to sites in
overcoming specific technical problems related to environment.
1.8       The scope of the Environmental Management Group includes:
(a) coordination and monitoring with stations, regions, CC engineering
Division and other concerned agencies on all environmental matters concerning
operating stations; (b) to carry out trend analysis of pollution monitoring
data and prepare exception reports; (c) environmental audit of power stations;
td) providing operational feedback to Engineering for carrying out necessary
modifications in existing/future systems, overseeing implementation of
modification/ improvement programs; and (e) providing corporate support to
stations.
1.9       The scope of Resettlement and Rehabilitation (R&R) group includess
(a) socio-economic studies, (b) EIA in respect of R&Rs finalization of R&R
plans for new projects, and (c) various R&R measures: policy review and
ensuring implementation.
1.10      Proposed Objective of Technical Assistances  the objectives of the
Technical Assistance team will be to assist NTPC in achieving their states
goals for environmental management.



_74 -
(a)  overall Obiective:  enhance computer data bases, environmental
modelling capabilities, CIS mapping capabilities and office
technology for the environmental groups;
(b)  Technical Objectives:  (i) standardize effluent and emissions
disposal and treatment technologies, ash water recirculation and
ash utilization, (ii) establish additional company training
programs, to keep pace with changing environmental regulations for
workers at various management and operational levels for
environment and safety, and (iii) enhance monitoring data
collection and analysis capability.
(c)  Resettlement and Rehabilitation Obiectivess  (i) strengthen the
human resources development program, and (ii) improve quality of
life in employee's colonies.
1.11      Technical Activities.  The Technical Assistance team will assist in
the following activities being carried out by the Corporate Environmental
Engineering and Environmental Management Groups.
(a) Regulations:
gi) formulate operational guidelines to conform with 601's
environmental standards, laws and regulations;
(ii) develop overall corporate targets for pollution and waste
reduction; these may cover more areas than government
regulations andlor be more stringent than current regulations;
and
(iii)  develop energy conservation programs for the generation,
transmission and utilization of electric power.
(b) Establish Corporate Standards:
(i) Operationst
a. fuel quality standards and a policy for fuel selection;
b. operations methods to minimize emissions and effluents; and
c. utilization of ash
(ii) Development and Engineerings
a. long term environmental planning and action plans;
b. environmental equipment selection;
c. determination of effluent and emissions treatment systems;
d. engineering safety standards; and
e. directives and guidelines for preparation of environmental
impact assessments.
(iii) Safety:
a. safety rating system; and
b. emergency contingency plans and drills



- 75 -
(iv) Monitoring - Develop Standards and Guidelines fors
a.  monitoring methods, frequency, analysis, and data
reporting;
b.  equipment selection; and
c.  establish a computer center and data bank for atmospheric
emissions dispersion models, and monitoring data collection
and analysis.
(v) Corporate environmental laboratory:
a. the Environmental Management and environmental impact
assessment groups should be supported with adequate field
mobilization, sampling and analysis equipment.
(vi) Facilitation of environmental initiatives in laboratory and
field studies.
(vii) Training centers for management and operations personnel in
environmental and occupational health and safety management and
policy.
1.12      Resettlement and Rehabilitation Activities.  The Resettlement and
Rehabilitation unit will be established to take care of all aspects arising
out of land acquisition, community development, planning, implementation and
monitoring.
1.13      The Technical Assistance team will assist in the following
activities being done by the Corporate R&R Groups
(a) strengthen the human resources development program;
(b) set up awards for staff at all levels, and for individual power
plants, foe excellence in the R&R and community development field.
1.14      At the plant site, the R&R units will be assisted in carrying out
the following:
(a) broaden the concept of R&R to include community development in the
vininity of the plant and establish local NGO's which represent
NTPC staff and family members and other local interest groups; and
(b)  improve quality of life in employee's colonies.
1.15      Support Services Activities Corporate Level for R&R and Technical.
Technical Assistance team shall assist to develop the following support
services at the corporate level.
1.16      Develop human resources by establishing a clearly defined career
development program with professional growth opportunities.
1.17      Development data management services to:
(a)  support environmental monitoring and monitoring data analysis;



- 76 -
(b)  design monitoring dat. analysis softwaret
(c) develop geographic information database to support environmental
assessments;
(4) develop or obtain software for environmental impact analysis to
support environmental assessments; and
(e) word processing and report production equipment and staff to
support all operations under the head of the Environmental
Department, Environment.
1.18      Implementation.  The objectives and the activities of the Technical
Assistance are given above. These need to be discussed between the
consultants and NTPC for deciding the implementation schedule. NTPC shall
make available to the consultants the existing practices being adopted in the
areas of activities and the consultants can assess the quantum of work
involved in bringing about the improvements to achieve the levels of
international practices.
1.19      Areas of Expertise and Manpower Requirements. The Technical
Assistance Team need to include expertise in the following areas:
(a) environmental management, (b) environmental regulatory programs,
(c) sociology, resettlement and rehabilitation, (d) computerized data
management, (e) professional development programs, and (f) implementation of
ash management including utilization of ash etc. A total effort of about
fifty man-months would be required for all the activities. The experts for
specific assignments under this program need to be identified in consultation
with NTPC. NTPC will be given their biodata in advance and NTPC's consent
will be required for their assignment.



77 -
ANNEX 3.2
Appendix 4
1.1       Retrofit of closed cycle cooling system with cooling towers.
Slngrauli                                     155 Crores
Parakka                                       140 Crores
Rlhand-I                                      100 Crores
1.2       Provision of ash water recycling system.
Singrauli (2 ash ponds)
Korba (2 ash ponds)
Farakka (1 ash pond)                           160 Crores
Ramagundam (1 ash pond)
Rlhaud (1 ash pond)
Vindhyachal (I ash pond)
1.3       Retrofit of ESPs at
Singrauli
Korba
Ramagundam                                       50 Crores
Farakka
Unchahar
1.4       Solid Waste Management Systems
Singrauli
Korba
lamagundam                                     30 Crores
?arakka
Vindhyachal
R2ihand
1.5       Geo-hydrological and Ecologira1 Monitoring Studies, and socio-
economic studies.
Singrauli
Korb&
Ramagundam                                       5 Crores
Farakka
Vindhyachal
Riand
TOTAL                                          570 Crores



India
NTPC Power Genemaon Prject
Vindhyachal STPP - Phane 11 (2x500M
Poject Cost Summary
Project Comne"nts          Local   Foreign    Total         Local   Foreign   Tota
RS. Miion                      US8 Milion
PreliminarWoits                      176.00     0.00   176.00          5.84      0.00   5.84
Civi Wodrs *                        3,275.22   323.86  3,599.08      108.59     10.74 119.32
Steam Genator with Auxiliares      3,541.81  5,162.99  8,704.80      117.42    171.17 288.60
Electostatc Precipta                 275.89   402.17   878.06          9.15     13.33  22.48
Steam Turbine Genertr with Auxiliris  1,228.39  1,790.66  3,019.05    40.73     59.37 100.09
Power Cyde Eqipmnt and Ppings        681.16   992.94  1,674.09        22.58     32.92  565.50
Control & Instrumentation i. DAS     188.00   274.06   462.06          6.23      9.09  15.32
Coolng Water PmWps & Acsf             88.33    128.75   217.08         2.93      4.27   7.20
Water Treament Plnt                   36.51     53.22    89.73         1.21      1.76   2.97
Fire Protection System                27.87    40.62    68.49          0.92      1.35   2.27
Other Mechanical Equipment           636.84   928.35  1,565.19        21.11     30.78  51.89
Coal Handling System                  77.40    63.12   140.53          2.57      2.09   4.86
Unit & Saion Transformers             42.08    61.33   103.41          1.39      2.03   3.43
LT Switchgeas                         69.72    101.64   171.36         2.31      3.37   5.68
Control&Relay Panels                   4.72     6.89    11.61          0.16      0.23   0.38
Genertor & Bus-Tre Transformers       78.77    114.82   193.69         2.61      3.81   6.42
Shunt Reactor                         13.62    19.86    33.48          0.45      0.66   1.11
Other 0ectrical Equipmem             319.06   465.11   784.17         10.58     15.42  26.00
Consultancy                            0.00   216.92   216.92          0.00      7.19   7.19
Establishmn & Othes                 1,640.38    0.00  1,640.38        54.38      0.00  54.38
Total Base Cost (1I                12,401.78 11,147.30 23,549.08     411.17    369.57 780.74
Physical Contingencis                890.86   568.21  1,459.07        29.54     18.84  48.37
Price Contingencies                 7,137.92  6,013.20 13,151.12      78.35     58.08 136.43
Total Pct Cost 11                  20,430.58 17,728.71 38,159.27     519.05    446.49 965.54
-Ts & Duties (2)                    2,812.92          2,812.92        93.26            93.26
-Eroction(2)                        1,254.17          1,254.17        41.58            41.58
*     St    eel Ste



India
NTPC Po   Getion Project
mh.w, STPP -Phase U (2xSOOMW)
oectCost SC mnw-
now        1.WAm                              TW  w]W-led    E!!Mew
R_  Milon                         US8 Milon
Prlmiay Woad                            59.2      0.0      59.2             2.0       0.0   2.0
Civil Woeks *                        3,282.9    323.9  3,586.7            108.2      10.7  118.9
Steam Geneatr wlth Aux_are           3,541.8   5,163.0  8,704.8           117.4     171.2. 288.6
ectrostatlc Pecttor                    275.9    402.2    678.1             9.1       13.3  22.5
Steam Turbn Genera  with Atxaies     1,228.4   1,790.7  3,019.1            40.7      69.4  100.1
Power Cyce Equpeand Pipns              881.2    992.9  1,674.1             22.6      32.9  55.5
Control&IntduenonnDAS                  188.0    274.1    462.1              6.2       9.1   15.3
CoolngWatePumps&Accessares              88.3    128.8    217.1              2.9       4.3    7.2
Water Tr"etentPlan                      36.5     53.2      89.7             1.2       1.8   3.0
Fire Prnection Systen                   27.9     40.8      68.5             0.9       1.3   2.3
Othew Mehadc  Equipment                63R.8    928.3  1,565.2             21.1      30.8  51.9
Coat Handing Systwn                    528.9    144.1    673.0             17.5       4.8   22.3
Unit & Staton Transformers             42.1      61.3    103.4              1.4       2.0   3.4
LT Swltcgefars                         69.7    101.6    171.4               2.3       3.4   5.7
Control& Relay Panels                    4.7      6.9      11.6             0.2       0.2   0.4
Generator & w-Tie Transfomers           78.8    114.8    193.6              2.6       3.8    6.4
Shunt Reactor                           13.6     19.9      33.5             0.5       0.7    1.1
Othetw Ebcica Equlpent                 319.1    465.1    784.2             10.6      15.4  26.0
Cor  ,. y                               0.0    221.0    221.0               0.0       7.3   7.3
Estub .....tent & Othws               1,670.6     0.0  1,870.6             55.4       0.0  55.4
Total Ease Cost 11                  12,754.3  11,232.3  23,985.7          422.9     372.4  795.2
Physic Cntngences                     903.5    572.7  1,476.2              30.0      19.0  48.9
Prie Contnencws                      7,321.5   6,068.1  13,389.6           79.8      58.6  138.4
Total PrMct Cost (1)                20,979.4  17,873.1  38,852.5          632.6     450.0  982.6
- Taxes & Duths (2)                  2,896.5            2,896.5            96.0             96.0
- Erection 12)                       1,291.4            1,291.4           42.8              42.8
00
11) Inuded ns & ds Cost
121 Inclded In Base Cost^ 



-80-          ANN= 3.4
i 'tihLAil[ii
IIgUL  I
I   v    IN  a
WI8    g§    i



199.   _     993        199          199199i1t99sb9 p19- 9.. U 20: d.W,
ID   Now_   Q;1QIQ31 B4                                  IQ3104 QXl2h1  Q4 QI2QI    IIRQNlZ4QN2Q1   IQI3                                     lfl         lil
_PblaqWmab W.aka
6   M  h Pik  ia4fa
12   SbucWulStml Wo2b 28
.. _ I 1_ N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sn
7   Goa  Civil WeakC
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                         12131
?oen.yl -- - mBa Lt A2d Ui
42   FoJa_ta Pm Jnaw bu FmudSp Sad
Mt .hoifing _yasm                        _                        lidIngACoemot Awasi          Sie -iotles S e M2
S3   Totbibs Goae   and Ahlbde                                CcofY   tctnxtS    1eUt:dU 
~~ooAqWetotPwapmAAnxilhdm                  httm AIdin                             to                         St as.et
I ino V  MMS                                          _f I -D3
689  Pwesr tsal     aea aU t Hggd                ig                             & coudat Awr
_ _ . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~113<                                                                mom m              4
7     ow pPOUW.  Idng                                                   Bd   i-V*
_ _ __ 12nn                                                                         2 T M
96   Adk Hlb_  SyAlll 8Ed" A_t 1N-ScEa TZa
In                                                     Simpw
its_ Lm                                                                W 4hw w&f &                           _h&TA'd



-82-                             ANNE 3.5
Page 2 of 7
4    --    -  .1         1           _  _ _ .--
S A10S
~~~ S
_ t              .       .        s   $~~~~~~
a a  tI!a



- 83 -                           ANIINEX 3.5
Page 3 of 7
S~..                                        
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 SS. 
0 ! ; 4 i~~~~~~~~~~~
l : c t =lt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
C   k        5   5   °                   W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
;i.~~~ :1i



NCPower Gswma*n ft4lm
RihWnd 81PP Phse N (2PhC6MWI
n        19s93        1994 1       9 I us    (i             S997        1S98      1mef          2000
ID    m.                   _j J $Q4 Q1t12j131f Q10210310                    4101 0I0    0i341J21j3104 01 01030 40215i3[4401 0        2103040 1 020314 _!
121   Gen  Transoom idd                                                                &   n    Awa                        & Tes
133   AssSexy Tv. .fu.mwr                                        12/t1                   w9(30Wdwt    Tt
N,                   -11130
139  14? & LT Swithohgeereit wd                                                                                      i   ITs
14t    t I Taron Tra                                                              & nso  6                                   To
151   Centr & Relay Pnd                                                                         
ISO   c                                                                       60a  Cot AAwtrd             IwlnStdOt - st U t
tOt3 VM       _=  _                -                7     -        3l/t
160   CwotM.
166  Conudtutcy" 1
107  Tiring
168 Englneedn & Adnttdumnadoe
711~~s amomo                                                              M M
171    s&Odu
212
Pops 2



db
MMP Pcwv Gwaminm P.
AD TIwnc4co Fec
MWo    PSip    ore        ScNam              Ncow   c.did~   81W       saw
C4e    Paso"A    ~*  0O7Ons    ac*v            61W      Dm-n  1Er        &jl7c0  s*.       RoOh              Ceesinw
AVfct                 5Mg      Awd    Stat    St         Start   s8,ahe   LAWs   Star        Stt    Trt   L_ht4b   Syndh.    owm
1. VIWhye"  I I2K50OMW      -Uni          G5     Ma-94  Ja-S                Oct4"                     Mr47        l7  Nv97    JL-OS    Mar49          Sap49
- unt E     500  0Ma44  J-M                   Oct46                      Ma4e8    J46  Nov46    Jul-9    Ma-OO           Sep40
2. Emend a (W0MM             -UMI         500    Jun94  Apr405             Jan49                      Jun97    Oct7  Feb98    098    Jun49            Dew99
- Unit      0 &W    Jun44  Apr45              Jn4                       Ju49    Oct49  Feb49    Oct49    Jun0oo          Doc.0
3. Foded Gan I 12037 + Ixi2OM             400    Jan45 May45   May4         Jul."    Jan97 Feb47    Oat46    Jan97  Au&47    O"97    Jan49            Mar4
4. Tehr U IxOM               . Unit I     N0    Mar45  Jan46                Oct46                     Mar4    Jul-9O  No49    JkO          MNfO       SWep400
.nat       500   Mawr9   Jan40               Oc87                       a        Ju4   Now49  Jdl40    Mr41             Sp41
-           NlO 500   Ma45  Jan-G96          Oet49                      Mar40    Jud40  NOv00    Jul4         Mr42      SepO2
* UtJlV      S00   mar45  Jan-96               o0t-"                     Mar41     J41  Nov41    Juk42    MaOSe    Sep0a
5. PAamgundm M IIcSOOMM                   500   sep-95  Jd-so              Apr47                      SOp49    Jun-09  May469   Ja40    Sep40         Mar01
S. IB vow I  xSOOMWI         * Unit I     500   Dec-95  O0t46               Jul47                     De-498   Apr-9   Aug-89    AprO    D00          Jun01
.Un        50   De-   o-                        -8                      De-9   ApW40  Aug40    Apr41    D"41            Jut-02
- umt        500o   Deom   Oct 946             J45                       Dec4     Apr-41  Aug4l    Ap42    Dc02          Jua-03
- UMt IV     500   DeOs  act-"                 Jul40                     Dec0      Apt42  Aug-2    Apr03    Dec.03        Jun.04
7. Maned  I12xIWI           -Untl         210    Apr.66  Dec46             Se47              Apr46    Oct-OS   Jan49   Apr49    Oet9    Ap40          Aug00
-Umt        210    OctN  Jun7                 Ma46             Oct-O     Apr49    Jl99   Oct46    Apr40    Oct40         Feb0
IL KaySn*kbm I l2x210M      nUit l        210    ApFr4   De-SO             oe                Apr4     Oct-98   Jan-9   Apr49    Oct4       ApC        Au-01
- Un.       210    oo46  Jun4                 MMrS             098    Apo,9    Ju9  Oct-99    Apr40    Oct40             Fe02
9. Fur0ae U I0Ml                          500   SE     Ju-7                Apr-98                     Sep4-9   Jan40-            JanOt-    Sp.01      MWa42
14-



-86-                               ANNEX 3.5
Page 6 of 7
11   .'...}..............
j .,,,|..............
se          I...  ............
* I       . I . .  ............
-ia ,XllhI}llll}X}"
a.. . . . . . *..........
.                .        .   .   .    .I.   .    .    .    . .
I IIIJX5IIHIIIHI!0ISIHJI



87                               AN=  3.5
Page 7 of 7
i           ..  .  .        .   .   ..
I I  ~~~.1. .....  ., . . . . S 
ii.           .      .  . .   .   .   ......
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
i   *     .  . .        ....   .. S   ....
I a
IllX-s}}llllr}l
IilIfXliI1iIl}X||l lflt
1~ i Il|]XXl]X}
Iidili  ff11 111111'IIll



i,,,§                                      ti  §1   i I~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I I
*         Ii  *4X   
X                                  ,    |   "    "  |  X  . { X .~~~~~~~~~'  I 
,  |0.--S   4Ebt-f e  ,£   ,   | |~~~~~~~~~



- 89 -
AM=S 3.7
INDIA
NTPC POWER GENERATION PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ million)
Half-yearly       Cumulative
Bank FY Ending Quarter              Disbursements      Disbursements
FY94
December 31, 1993 a1                       25                25
June 30, 1994                              55                80
FY95
December 31, 1994                          70                150
June 30. 1995                              90                240
FY96
December 31. 1995                          80                320
June 30, 1996                              40                360
FY97
December 31, 1996                          30                390
June 30, 1997                              10                400
Closing Date of Loans September 30, 1997.
at Includes deposit into the Special Account (US$25 million).



- 90 -                         Annex 3.!
Page 1 of 6
INDIA
NTPC POWER GENERATION PROJECT
1.1       This annex includes a copy of the background note on NTPC's
environmental problems which was distributed to the Board on April 14. 1993
together with the Environmental Assessment Summaries (EAS) for ULhand II and
Vindhyachal 1I as well as a brief summary of each EAS.
Environmental Assessments
1.2       The first two projects to be included under the proposed time-slice
project (Rihand IT M2U500MW) and Vindhyachal IT (2Z500MW) power stations in
the Siugrauli area) have each been subject to a full Category A environmental
assessment and the Environmental Assessment sumnaries prepared by NTPC are
attached as Annex 1 and 2. The proposed NTPC power stations and the Dudhichua
Coal Mine (Stage TI) of the Northern Coalfields Ltd. (NCL), from which the
power stations will be initially supplied, have obtained environmental
clearances from the Ministry of Environment and Forest (MOEP). NCL has
submitted quarterly progress reports to NOEP on the status of the
Environmental Management Plans (IMPs) for Amlori, Nigahi and Dudhichua mines,
which supply the existing NTPC power stations in the Singrauli area. GOI has
been requested to provide the Bank with NOEP's assessment of NCL's
implementation of the EMPs prior to negotiations.
1.3       Agreement has been reached with NTPC that for all subsequent Bank
financed power plants under the project, category A environmental assessments
would be completed and reviewed with the Bank before issuance of tender
documents for Bank financed procurement packages.
Environmental Action Plan
1.4       During project preparation a detailed assessment was made of NTPC's
environmental performance. Most of NTPC's existing power plants were designed
and built at a time when environmental standards were less stringent.
Therefore, NTPC's power stations do not operate at today's 00I environmental
standards, but a program to upgrade the environmental performance of its
existing stations is already in place. Rihand II and Vindhyachal II are being
designed to meet GOI standards. These designs are compatible with World Bank
standards. Annex 3 describes the pertinent COX and World Bank standards. The
same approach will be followed for other Bank financed power plants. Other
power plants in NTPC's investment program will be designed to meet GOI
standards.
1.5       To make the operation of NTPC's existing plants and the design of
its new power plants environmentally more sustainable, a comprehensive
Environmental Action Plan (SAP) has been prepared by NTPC, in consultation
with the Bank. The SAP covers all NTPC operations and addresses the required
institutional strengthening of NTPC to deal effectively with environmental and
R&R problems. It includes the investments required to implement remedial
actions to enable existing plants to meet the latest GO0 environmental
standards. A sumhary of the draft SAP is attached as Annex 4. The EAP will
be finalized during negotiations and satisfactory implementation of the ZAP
will be a condition of the loan.



- 91 -
Annex 3.8
Page 2 of 6
NTPC's Resettlement and Rehabilitation Policy
1.6       NTPC operates in several states and to ensure a common approach, it
has formulated in 1992 its own comprehensive rehabilitation and resettlement
(R&R) policy for project affected families, which was approved by the Ministry
of Power (Annex 5). The basic objective of the policy is to ensure that after
a reasonable transition period, the affected families regain, if not improve,
their previous standard of living. A number of options like 'land for land',
training to upgrade skills, allotment of sbops with seed money as loan, self-
employment with seed money as grant, jobs with NTPC in the unskilled and
semiskilled categories are included In the policy.
1.7       NTPC's R&R policy needs to be strengthened to provide that the
,land for land' option is available not only through the application of the
land acquisition act, but also on a willing buyeriseller basis through a land
purchase committee. Adoption of a R&R policy by NTPC acceptable to the Bank
will be a condition of negotiations.
1.8       As concerns NTPC's existing stations, the YAP includes socio-
economic studies to ascertain the present economic status of project affected
families (PAFs) and provides, where found to be needed, for the funding and
implementation of community development programs, including necessary income
restoration measures. The RAP would reinforce the ongoing efforts under
existing Bank projects, Second Farakka Thermal Power project (Ln. 2442-IN,
1984) and Talcher Power project (Ln. 2895-IN, 1987).
1.9       NTPC has prepared Resettlement Action Plans (RAPs) for Rihand II
(67 PAPs) and Vindhyachal II (77 PAPs) and they are currently being discussed
with the project affected famLlies (PAFs) and the local authorities. RAPs
acceptable to the Bank will be finalized during appraisal and endorsement by
the relevant State authorities will be a condition for Board presentation.
The 87 PArs of the Stage IT of the Dudhichua Coal Mine are being resettled in
accordance with the integrated Environmental Management Plan (EMP) for the NCL
coal fields approved by MOEF in 1987.
1.10      For subsequent power plants to be financed by the Bank under the
project, the preparation of a Resettlement Action Plan satisfactory to the
Bank and endorsed by the State authorities would be a condition of
disbursement of Bank funds.
Sustainable Environmental Development in the Singrauli area
1.11      During implementation of earlier Bank financed projects in the
Singrauli area (Singrauli I, Cr. 685-IN, 1977 and Singrauli II, Cr.1027-IN,
1980 and Dudhichua Stage I, Ln. 2393-IN, 1984), it was recognized that
remedial actions were required to adequately address the increasing
environmental and socio-economic problems in that region. A major study by
Electricitd de France (Edt) and Groupe Charbonnages de France, entitled
'Environmental Study of the Singrauli Area', financed under the Second
Singrauli Power Project of NTPC was completed in 1991. Several follow up
studies on: air pollution from thermal power plants; industrial pollution
control for specific industries in the area, reclamation and reforestation of



- 918
Annex 3.8
Page 3 of 6
the coal mining areas, general area reforestation and watershed protection,
urban relocation and rehabilitation and institutional and administrative
options for the Singrauli region, which were financed from Japanese grant
funds and executed by the Bank, were completed during the course of 1992. In
addition, a Regional Development Plan has been prepared by the Town and
Country Planning Organization of GOI.
1.12       In May 1992, the BSank submitted to GO  a reports Idat.
Sustainable Develoimet in the Sinhrauli Realn - Towards An Action Plan.  The
executive susnmary of the report is attached as Annex 6. In J.une 1992, GOI
appointed a Steering Committee on Singrauli, chaired by the Ministry of Urban
Development comprising representatives of central and state agencies involved
in the region. In accordance with the recommendations contained in the report
NTPC and NCL have drawn up their respective action plans for sustainable
development in the Singrauli region. NTPC's environmental remedial actions
have been incorporated in the ZAP and the Action Plan for Sustainable
Development in the Singrauli Region for the Coal Sector prepared by NCL is
attached as Annex 7.
1.13      GoI has been asked to provide a formal response to the Bank's
report on Sustainable Development in the Singrauli Region for discussion
during negotiations.
Consultative Processes
1.14      Several rounds of public consultation have taken place during the
preparation of the project. A presentation of the final report of the EdF
study for the Singrauli area was held in Kay 1992 and attended by
representatives of MOEP, members of the Pollution Control Boards, concerned
ministries of 0OI, industries in the Singrauli area and NG10. A public
consultatioa meeting was held at Singrauli in July 1992, to inform the local
populatior. and organizations of the proposed Rihand II and Vindhyachal II
power stations and the proposed RAPs. A detailed socio-economic survey was
completed by NTPC and the process of consultation of the PAFs cm the R&R
options started in February 1993. Local NG00 will be involved in the
community development activities sponsored by WMPC.
Summary of the EAS for Rihand II
1.15      The NTPC project will add an additional 1,000 MK  generating
capacity as Stage II of the kihand Superthermal Power Project (RhSTPP).
RhSTPP is located on the banks of the large man-made reservoir Gobind Ballabh
Pant Sagar (GBPS) in the state of Uttar Pradesh (UP). The project components
include the power generation facility, the associated coal mines and power
transmission system. All environmental clearances have been obtained, with
the exception of one segment of power transmission line.
1.16      Site and Surroundint: The reservoir was constructed for use in
power generation in the 1960s, and since then the area has undergone large
scale Industrialization, with exploitation of a large coal deposit,
development of coal fired power plants, several chemical Industries, and a
cement factory located about 30 kilometers to the north.



- 92 -
Annex S.8
Page 4 of 6
1.17      Project History. Land Acauisition and Resettlements  Due to land
acquisition, 1215 families were affected and 678 families displaced. NTPC
initiated rehabilitation measures for the affected families, and most have
moved into permanent housing. NTPC initiated community development activities.
A detailed socioeconomic study to ascertain present economic status vill be
undertaken as part of NTPC's Environmental Action Plan. In the Dudhichua Stage
I Mine development 63 families have been resettled and rehabilitated. NCL
also initiated community development activities.   Bank supervision missions
have confirmed that there are no outstanding R&R issues with respect to the
Stage I mining development.
1.18      Environmental Baseline Data:  Studies have revealed contamination
of the reservoir, it's sediments, fish and local food crops. Contaminants
include heavy metals, pesticides and other toxic chemicals. The reservoir
exhibits thermal stratification and blue-green algae blooms, which exacerbate
dissolved oxygen depletion in the lower strata. Air quality in the area is
generally good, with the exception of wind blown dust.
1.19      Rihand Stane II Environmental Controls: Psrticulate emissions from
the stacks will be controlled through high efficiency electrostatic
precipitators.
The units will be designed for 100 milligrams per cubic meter particulate
emissions from the stacks after controls. A tall stack height (275 meters)
will be used to achieve wider dispersal of stack emissions including oxides of
sulfur and nitrogen. In addition, as per stipulation of the environmental
clearance, provision of space will be made for retrofitting flue gas
desulfurization.  A closed-cycle cooling system will be used for condenser
cooling with treatment of blow-down prior to discharge. The ash generated
from both Stage I and Stage II would be pumped to an ash pond in slurry form
and the slurry water recycled. Blow-down from the ash pond slurry water
recycling system would be treated prior to discharge. The ash pond itself will
be lined to prevent groundwater contamination. Provision for collection of dry
fly ash will also be made in order to enhance reutilization projects. (Dry
ash is more easily utilized in secondary processes). All sanitary wastewater
effluent from plant and township would be treated to conform with regulatory
standards and the effluent would be reused to the extent possible. Extensive
afforestation has been undertaken at RhSTPP under Stage I with 700,000 trees
established. The afforestation program would be continued under Stage II
development.
1.20      Rehabilitation and Community Develooment, Stage II:  A socio-
economic study determined 64 land owners and 3 landless families would be
affected/displaced due to land acquisition for the Stage II ash pond. A
Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) for the affected families is being developed in
an ongoing consultation process with the affected parties and local
authorities. The RAP would be based on the latest R&R policy of NTPC and
prepared in consultation with the World Bank.
1.21      The Coal Mine (Dudhichua Stage II) MOEP clearance stipulations
Included phased reclamation of the open cast mine. Currently, 58 hectares of
the mine have been reclaimed. The clearance document also stipulates that land
oustees (87 families) will be rehabilitated according to G0? guidelines as



- 93 -
Annex 3.8
Page 5 of 6
conveyed to NCL.
1.22      Institutional Needs:  As part of the LAP, NTPC will further review
the adequacy of its environmental organization. NTPC will seek assistance of
consultants to strengthen its capabilities in data management, environmental
audits, energy conservation measures, and implementation of mitigation
measures in specific environmental areas. In addition to studies on specified
areas, the expertise of the consultants will be used to formulate pro-active
corporate targets and guidelines for operations and design.
Summary of the EAS for Vindhyachal II
1.23      The Projects The NTPC project will add an additional 1,000 MK
generating capacity as Stage II of the Vindhyachal Superthermbl Power Project
(VSTPP). The associated transmission lines for the project will be
constructed by Power Grid Corporation of India (POCI). The coal mine will be
exploited by Northern Coalfields Ltd. (NCL). All environmental clearances have
been obtained. Since construction of the GBPS reservoir in the 1960s, the
area has undergone large scale industrialization with exploitation of a large
coal deposit, development of coal fired power plants, several chemical
industries, and a cement factory, located about 30 kilometers to the north.
1.24      Project History  Resettlement and Rehabilitation, Stage Is The land
for VSTPP Stage I was acquired through the state government, and 2011
families were affected or displaced. NTPC initiated rehabilitation measures.
A socioeconomic study will be undertaken to ascertain the present economic
status of families affected due to Phase I of the VSTPP project. Based on the
findings of this study, self employment programs through establishment of
village cooperatives would be undertaken with active association of NTPC and
the state government. During development of Dudhichua Hine Stage I, 63
families were resettled and rehabilitated . NCL also initiated community
development activities. Bank supervision missions have confirmed that there
are no oustanding R&R issues with respect to the Stage I mining development.
1.25      Resettlement and Rehabilitation, Stage II   As per the socio-
economic study undertaken by Rewa University, 44 landed, 33 landless and 56
homestead families would be affected due to land acquisition for the Stage II
ash pond. A Resettlement Action Plan for the affected families due to land
acquisition for the ash disposal area for Stage II is being developed in an
ongoing consultation process with the affected parties and local authorities.
The Rehabilitation Action Plan would be based on the latest RIR policy of NTPC
and prepared in consultation with the World Bank. The clearance document for
Dudhichua Nine Stage II stipulates that PAP (estimated at 87 families) will be
rehabilitated according to GOl guidelines as conveyed to NCL. No homesteads
will be acquired for the construction of transmission line substations.
1.26      Environmental Baseline Data.  Studies have revealed contamination
of the reservoir, it's sediments, fish and food crops. Contaminants include
heavy metals, pesticides and other toxic chemicals. The reservoir exhibits
thermal stratification and blue-green algae blooms, which exacerbate dissolved
oxygen depletion in the lower strata. Air quality in the area is generally



- 94 -
Annex 3.8
Page 6 of 6
good, with the exception of wind blown dust.
1.27      VSTPP Stase II Environmental Controls:  Particulate emissions from
the stacks vill be controlled through high efficiency electrostatic
precipitators. The units will be designed for 100 milligram per cubic meter
particulate emissions from the stack after controls. Tall stacks (275 m) will
be used for vider dispersal of atmospheric emissions. A closed cycle cooling
system will be used. Ash generated through the combustion of coal will be
pumped to the ash disposal area as slurry. The decanted water will be
recirculated. low-down from the ash pond slurry water recycling system will
be treated prior to discharge. The ash pond will be provided with impervious
lining in order to prevent leachate coratamination of groundwater.   Provision
for collection of dry flyash will also be made. Dry ash is more easily
utilized in secondary processes. Sanitary effluent from plant and township is
being treated in a sewage treatment plant built in Stage I.
1.28      The Coal Mine (Dudhichua Stase II)   Among the stipulations
included in the MOZF clearance were a phased reclamation of the open cast
mine. Currently, 58 hectares of the mine have been reclaimed.
1.29      Institutional Needs: As part of the ZAP, NTPC will further review
the adequacy of its environmental organization. NTPC will seek assistance of
consultants to strengthen its capabilities in data management, environmental
audits, energy conservation measures, and Implementation of mitigation
measures in specific envi.ronmental areas. In addition to studies on specified
areas, the expertise of the consultants will be used to formulate pro-active
corporate targets and guidelines for operations and design.



- 95
ANNEX 3.9
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
NTPC POWER GENERATION PROJECT
Bank Supervision Plan
Implementation Review by the Bank
1.        The implementation review of this project would be undertaken along
with the Bank's ongoing projects with NTPC. It is acknowledged that the
proposed time-slice operation which also Includes many enviromental
strengthening actions, would require substantially more Bank staff resources
than a conventional Bank project for the construction of thermal power plants.
The key issues that would be focussed upon ares (a) periodic reviews of NTPC's
investment programs (b) support for NTPC's joint ventures with private
companies; (c) monitoring of compliance with institutional, environmental and
financial covenants; (d) close monitoring of the various consultancy studies
for strengthening NTPC's environmental management and R&R management
capabilities; le) monitoring of the implementation of the power plants funded
under the proposed loan and EAP; (f) active follow up on the R&R programs; and
(g) active follow up on prompt procurement decisions. Bank missions would
particularly assist 001 and NTPC in their efforts to: (i) have NTPC operate in
a more commercial environment; (ii) mitigate the impact of NTPC's power plants
on the environment; and, (iii) implement the R&R programs in a manner fair to
all parties. Implementation review of the project by Bank staff would require
expertise in power engineering, economic and financial analysis,
environmental engineering and R&R. Two implementation review missions
annually for a period of five years are foreseen for adequate supervision of
this project. The total staff input is estimated at an aggregate of 104
staff-weeks, classified as in the following: (a) power engineering -- 35
staff-weeks; (b) economics --  14 staff-weeks; (c) financial analysis and
institutional development -- 28 staff-weeks; id) environmental engineering --
12 staff-weeks; and, (e) Resettlement and Rehabilitation -- 15 staff-weeks.
The Bank supervision plan is attached in the end of this section.
Bank Staff Inpfut. fnr Prolet Rupervipion
Eesi_ited                         Activity                             AnticiStd       S-
Schedule                                              541~~   ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11  veel.d
Rqutiremt
6e 10/1695   - Revie, of roiet ipeentati,n" plep n o a             lntitutionalScnomice,  6
- Revie, od lnetitsutional devloente mor Onental nd RtR action pln.  Finance  12
- Review of initial p rcu_et action, and diesureamnt.   Environmental/R
-Rzet off ninelr fraenc, _n reciol contracts.          Specallt            12
- ettes ofd crodt. bi Io ll.-ctien.                    Srgifterln/Procur- Ant
2£ 9/994    Review of aroj at iuinlementaticn prrorm.           Bgaei/rwma
2 * 9/1 - Reviw ef weeOIl_sOc rBe6 tet_                                              J
- Pf_ n oftitsuticaal developOt an actiOn, for environmntal and PAR obJect..  VI rmonen, It I/
-twie of  raeOnt end diebureent. specl"! iob                                6
-Review f  ntutional p.rforanc.. c_wrcial controto. letters of credit, bill    Ecooic. 
col lcO"ien                                             Ft_
Tio se Irvisian stmsian per wyor
t91995-i  - Rv lewi of project leplenXttion progrece.              oftin.rlna/Prormt   7
- Riw of procuremn and dimbureaet.                      birenmmntol/RIR
- Review ef lplementtio of ation plw on evir_nmantel proeervation.  Specialiet  7
- Reaw of lagletn ctien plan on RR
- Review  Ifrfinancl perfor   cmrcal  rranger ent end bill coll ction.  Flnnce 
Economic            8
9040      PeojOct Coltion R_port preparatlon                      Finane               a
Engineering/Prorweo  7
bnvircninntlftR
Special t



- 96 -
ANNEX 3.0
Page 2 of 3
Quarterly Progress Reports
2.        Monitoring and Reporting bv NTPC.  Under ongoing Bank financed
projects NTPC is required to prepare quarterly reports covering the work of
consultants, procurement, physical progress, project costs, disbursements and
administrative aspects of the project. NTPC's reports have been found to be
too succinct not providing enough information for an efficient project
implementation monitoring and review. During negotiations agreement would be
sought that the scope of the report would be expanded to: (a) cover NTPC's
corporate performance and progress in institutional development; and (b) key
quantitative measurqs of project performance, covering procurement, work of
suppliers, contractors and consultants, physical progress, costs,
disbursements, results of environmental monitoring, and administrative aspects
of the projects funded under the ongoing loans and the proposed loan. NTPC
would begin submitting the quarterly reports under the new format starting
with the quarter in which the loan is signed. The progress reports will be
sent to the Bank within four weeks of the conclusion of the reporting period.
NTPC will also furnish annual financial and administrative reports.
Project Management
3.        NTPC's project management structure involves considerable inputs
from NTPC's staff in the regional offices. Day-to-day implementation is
largely undertaken at the regions; with headquarter's support for design,
procurement, contracting and financial operations. The Corporate Planning
Group (CGG) has been established under Director(Tecbnical) at corporate
headquarters. Site supervisors at each project location report through the
field organization to the General Managers of their respective site. The
Project General Managers chair monthly review meetings attended by concerned
project staff and senior executives of concerned headquarter departments to
plan and review progress and authorize payments to suppliers and contractors.
NTPC management receives monthly progress reports and reviews exceptions at
each project in detail in quarterly Management Committee meetings. Additional
management-level meetings are also convened at short notice when needed to
resolve urgent issues in project implementation. NTPC is currently
introducing computerized project management systems to help schedules and
monitor project implementation and facilitate comprehensive and timely
progress reporting, critical in NTPC's centralized project management
philosophy.



Rihn - I OzSOCMW)) I Vhywhal - hai U  xSOCMW)
1992          199           1#94          19           in             1997          199           199             m          21
ID  Nuame£j                                                           j j           j      iiB 
l                                                                                                                                                                    £e        2129  £2129
2  SJI=Y_oDV                                          4_ -403
. A l  V a i l. ,   C o a si
4   _J pt1  62
6  S-    Vid.P - X  SWm03
X Rw4              pQW_o hv       ton  wa PW vsl
23    0  Review a  0mumot mg_ E_ P1 _Sa3t
33        Riw    I017 us             auJm10
36        Rviewdom  1uu uu10
41    e     wmt               ---J:S  el3                               vI
Review of hndmlmI peixamneas                                                               _____~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~__ _ _ _  __ 
II  e
hpe  of3



INDIA
NTPCPOWER GENERATION PROECT
NTPC's Aedu boio. Stetemnwt
PY3ndh~orh3t    aill          1u11    Ju         nu         1i     nll       nu                Jml      n
Eleotetol,tl                          1.109    4.265    9.248   14.174   15,921    13.978   27.296   38.595   43.965   61,137
Loee: Aux CoAjW*M                       162      450      932    1.335    1.513    1,u4s    2.421    3,174    3a,65      4,50
EWabtty  s  ow1i                        947    3.S15    8.316   12,839   14,408   17,533   24,875  385421   40.30    56.057
Avea uA TaudllhPeKw                    33.4      35.2     37.      37.0     38.      41.1      4.1      51.8     62.7     60.6
_prf Revnu
beotulelty sdle.                  316    1,342    3,07t    4,829    5,736    7.201   11,460   18.376   21,254   34.347
Tr     _ mIwonchors                     17       47      148      284       565    1,176      993    1,691    2404    3.742
EleothDut                               17       89      111       I11      87        s3      173      234      347       46
Othw nme                                47       48      102       70       75       152      116      212      201    1,384
TOTAL eRAIO R        _v                397    1S06    3.4a8    5.4    6463    6S22   12.748   20,573   24.206   39.98
FMd cost                               145      506    1,252    1,952    2.360    3,165    5.285   8A85    9.780   10.424
Open Ion ,ndMsntnmnoe                  114      177      404      483      6S1       807    1.17S    1.745    2.105    3A.44
Dsprelon                                 2       s8      266      377      448       679      912    1.390    2,261    3.825
Ebodto tDuty                            1        689     112      11I       87        33      17"      294      347      455
Othes                                   9        14       10       21       11        69        8      147      113       B6
TOTAL OPERATING EXPESES                 267      634    2042    2*43    3.522    4.712    7.569   12.567   14.5?    24.135
Opendng tnonweo rel bdenen              109      671    1.386    2,350    2,931    3.310    5.189   s8o.0       s60   1S.794
Iteorst Chroe to Reveuw                  85      221      492      670      68B    1.248    1.791    2,730    3.472    5.84a
frofit bewo Tax                          44      460      904    1.781    2.065    2.62    3.398   56278    6.S8   10.11S
AdddPrIoPwuodInomeN (R                    2       10       128)     50       63       362      On0    . s0       851        69
Lose: Ptool  for TeK                              A A                A        1                  0
Nos Inome                                44      439      904    1.760    to065    2,862    3.308    S.36=    7.009.  10.011
Averae Not Fixed Asses OUItodd        1,804    L997   10.957   14.016   17,208   23.854   35.078   53,687   75.482  102.345
RaoeolRetwmonHkodoAslseI%)              .1     11.2      12.7     16.8     17.0     16.4     14.8      14.9     12.      15.
RotumnonCepltdEmploVd                   8.6     12.7      9.5      13.3     12.7     12.1     los       10.6      9.7     119
Opoting Rno 1%                         72.4    56.4      59.4    556,       54.0     64.7     59.      61.1      60.2     60.4
I .



- 99 -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ANX4.1
Page 2 of 3
N             sS           . D   l'         g
=                  C 
-5 ~~ s
! ts3e R §" ao g g 5e .   g .ge  z
E°8   £g"    g°              R pA "            i f        
ci~~~~~~~~~~i
§  01"  1                                            ssg u3      i §i          l



IdDLA
NTMC PWBa WNEAfN PROJECT
NTPc. Aete Sdian.  Sats
PY EdlngMaroh 31t    13M      1DM       1391      u        U        39       31       132      39 
GumrMock 3.,036    9.197   13,363   16.047   20.89    30.50   44.754   69,972   9X422  131UM
Lfts r.IDetiDn                          6o      170      476       903    1.4AI     1.06     306      44    6,8?77   10.791
Not Fbted Ase hI Opration            2.968    9.027   12.887   16.144   19.273   28.439   41,716   65.418   86,546  120,344
Caphd Wos I Ptogrnss                 1Z758    13.767   19,656    31.069 *44.2    52,167    57.062    52360    56X9    70.080
ToM Fbied Assets                      1S726    22A74    321U4    46213    63a57     I6 9      3OM78   117,78   1414A    ts0.24
Current Assets
Cush and Ba"t 9balc                     13      173       64      448       134    S.973        2      291       84     1,742
Short-term deposts                      77      103      3S5      .637    1,053      737    4,544    5,364    5.279    6,465
Recdehbie                             219      842    1,626    2,284    2,828    4.058    6,981   11,561   15,102   16,085
hwnnnodes                              155      424      704      940    1,322    1,742    1.639    3,632    5,414    7,306
Loans & Advenas                        166      226      326    1.972    3,642       783    2.014.   1,824    21086    2.497
OtheCurCntAsseltsDb"s                    8        a       17        13      148      178      104      125      231       3"9
TOL CuWneuAsset                         740     1.72      e11    6293      .127   13469    16084    2,787    *8,78      3M4.4
t4soCaplt Expslhe                        26       22       19        1S       16       17       18       19       41        39
TOTAL ASsETS                         16.491   24,598   35,713   52B626   72.718   94.112  114.988  249594  170A24  224.957                 0
LUALNJTES
Shwo Cpta wsad                      11.360   15,663   20,632   26.685   325861   37.656   44,013   49,640   59,2)7   69,841
Share Dposkt                           445      346      236      990      734    2.,06        73    1.100    4 314    . 377
Retdind Eanp                            50      500    1.402    3,231    5,463    8.511   11,S00   17,293   24.420   34,526
Totl Eqsdet                        11,655   16.509  2I226    30.66   39,047   49.974   66,052   616033   67.971  104.744
Long-M Debt                           3,195    6,948   10,364   17,729   27,94   37,124   49.64*   S9,819   07,296   97,766
Curent LUatae                         1.442    2,142    3,081    3,891    5,778    8,014    8,780   12,742   1i,158   22,448
Toal U.bgIs                           4.636     ,00    13.445   21.620   33,671   46.136   56.23   72.661   62,44  120,214
TOtAL RUO? AND UMaE                  16,$4    24,5988   35.713   S2.526   7.716   34.112  114,693  140.4  170A2S  224.957
DbtEut Rotdo                           21179    26174    32068    3616     42f68    431i7    47153    47163    43157    48152
Currant Rao                             0.5      0.8       1.0      1.6      1.6      1.7      1.8       1      1A  I AI
AcoCunts RePcvit 1 d dysy)              240      221      184      163      164       177      175      210     2i3        154
o 



InDIA                                        (km _m" crs)
SIPS mm GIERAIIU SWEC
IlK's AcOt al   Forecatlan Inco me nt-0                8-lw,
t~~~~~~~~                                                   S. flrUr s)$
.........................................                       .........    ........    ........   ...._,.................. ..... .......... ....................... ................................................. .....
------- Atla ------ 2-c---Pflae-----------------------------------------I,---1-
ItulT                                       191       19912   1995    1994    1995    1996    199                            2000       01    2002
................. .................     .       .............__... ....... .....,  ........ ............... ........  ............ ...... ..... ... ........  ............ ........  ............ ........   ............ ............. ......... ....,....... 
Electrcityl Sonaratimn (S)                4,ff     6,197  65,273  15.3W   76.734  62,877  57.U1   90.779   92,180   96,751  105527  121.150
lecis Mm Cs.. d)                           3,69    4.540   4.789  5323   S,37_    6,322   664           6.771    6 835    7,259    8.06    9.2?7
Elmtrflelv sot& CO)                       40,3    56,7  60.484  70,01?  10855  76,555    1,224   06,005   85.34S   69,492   97.46   112,373
Aroe IlAk Tariff (Ad) (         ratlnt)    52.73    40.2    72.9    5.7    98.4   106.3   114.1    121.3    129.3    135.0    146             160.7
Eloetricity ILes                        21.254   34.37  44,06   40,02  69,710  811,3   92,678  ,101931   110,316  120,314  14,305  180,S46
Tr'iniaslni Sari..            ~~~2,404    3,742
Ele triiyDt                                347      455      724      Oa      653      684     712       71       71         3        791    5W6
611ahIncmae                                201    1.35     1,3%4      600     69       614     927    1,019    1,103    1,2S    1,443   1.36
TOTAL PW   ING013 EVES                    24.206   39.99  46.16  61,40   71,060  62,35  94.317  1,664  112,133   22,157  146I539 15,19
fps E _pws
"Vou.ati cost                              9,30    16,42   22,300  29,44   32,5%   37,110  41,100   4,2   47,             s52,1m    59,091  ?,n 9
0O  4   lot      cu t                                we      953    1,00     1.40    1,674   1.944    2.2        2.460    2,55      3,59*   4,405
-Repairs 3 biutul.wam          ~~~1,6712   2,    2,331   2.938   3.501   4,065    4.613    5.143    5,977    7,516   9,335
-A=inlstratiua & Others                     974    1223      817   2, 03    2,435    ,8    3,209    3,57         4,155    5,29   6,494 
Tost u,eratlem ml Urnlstence             2,105    3,54    4,118  5,t97   6,365   7,610   31557   10,027   11.181   12,9%    16,340  209.5
Oq,rsatien                               2,251    3.625   5,161   6,438   6.00   10103  11,955   13,3           14,3    15,45    1,7    21,41
Electiy  uty                               31       455 U2            632     653      61       712      71        7t3      73        11      36
Intest ft Ibkigu Cital                                       450     53o      15       785    12O7      10       10        1        1216    t75S
Oes                                        1n         56     316      1       151      669   1,05      1,197    1.321    1,43       1.465   2,0
TOTALW TI            _                    14,57    24,135  33.09  43,27  49,1l    57,161   ,715   ?1,0            76,911   Q,04     ff,ff9  113,30
inttratIn come 1  fWer Intt                9,40   1,794   13,147  16,91   21,02  25,73   29,602   32,12   35s,m           35,715   50.50  64.OW
Inte-est  _largete to 3evua         3,472    5,63    49         5941    8124   10451   12401    1395    14960    17490    2596   .35NO
Pr.fit befo  Tom                           6,151   10,151   8,154  12,256  13,769  15,25   17.202    8,6U4   20.262   21,22    24,64  23,930
Ad  trler Ped Income cmt)                    51        69
Less Tax
I itioe. Prevision                                149        0   1,838   2.754   3,057   3,460    3,729    4,052    4,245    4,933   5,786
fet Profit after Tax & Nls. Prove.         7,009   10,071   8,154  10,418  11,015  12,227  13,761  U1,,25   16,209   16,9W    19,731  23,144
Average Net fixed Assets  ifstoric)       J5,4S2  102,945  111,751  115,525  U2,733  164,494  177,53  184,027  151,132  196,3    27,627 31,96
Ibe  of lfta as stensc Asst (X              12.3     15.3    11.8    15.8    1S.3    1S.6    16.7         17.7      19.4     19.7      18.2    17.4
btw  e cepitat Eteved                        9.7     11.9    12.0      2.8    12.5    13.5    14.2        15.       16.7     15.6       3.s    143.
4peratu  Raitio ()                          60.2     60.4    71.S    70.4    69.2    69.0    68.6         68.6     6.        65.5     65.S    64.6



itlA
,,,,,,,,,,............,, ...............                       lew Sas Cas)
atPC tn GENRATIOU pIOJECt
....... ......................
OnlPCas Ast    & Foecat tenon & Application of ltab               1-NW
............................,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,.,. ...............             ......... s..........................
<- .......... etuat ........ ) *------------*---^ *--*--------0------------ oJecttd-*;--..........-.... i0--.......
Ol! - tIPTlaFf                          .  1991       1992    193    1994    1995    1996    1997           1996     1999      200
.  ......................................................... ............... ............ ........ ............... ........  ............ ........  ............ ........  ............ ........  ............ ........ ......... ......... ........
SQ#m OF RI
ql~uaretiat lnu  betfo fre terest         9,30    15,794  13,147  18,198  21,892   25,74   29,610Z   32,575   35s,m         30,71S   5050  6489
Prir Period  1ncom  (Not)                   851
0aprssiatimn)                             2,251     3.63    5,161   6,48B   8,048   10,10   11.955        3,349   14,632    15.40    166,       21,417
Total IntamI Cas Omurtion                12,M2    19,419   18.30,   24,60   29,941   35,83   41.S56   45.921   49,854  S,120   67.3S  86,307
E*fty Contributioeis                       12.612    6,d6      5,030   6,100         0       0        0         0         0         0        0        0
eqult Iuospt                                  117        26
Louis Cuitractad                          5,019 cS,451   10,910   5,965  12,09t 1,000               0        (0)        0         0        0        0
3an_IPnucl'   Institutian                 4.000    2.00          0    70    2,000   2,000   7,000                  10,000    10,00     10,000   10.000
l_to baOrted   ID                             0         0        0   2.93S 5s.2?   1,122   14u,    1630o 0                      0         0
Lam  to be Contrated- MULTJ.BILATERAL                            0 0           1 643   9,432   16,261    14,045    37,260   31,650   38,7    33,131 
LOt   to be Contracted- hWT  CREDIT                              0        0       0   2,4       5,676   12,16    18,80    16,80D    19,364   15,461
Total gorrwbu                             9,019    28,251  1o,4r    16,058  21,761  32.042  43,979   53,094   6,060   5,S630   68.1S5  58,593
TOTAL SOQUI                                34,680    54,3M   34,30   466,43  51.02  67,679   8S03         99,015   115,914   112,00  135,S17 14,900
APPLICATINE OF RogD
Pqsad projcts~                                                    0   3.7I1   16,042  30.291   45,041    58,161   66,0,0   60,841    48.3a    B.Uo
Su.agsbw    jwf                                               24,382  20,790   12,185   10.255   586        7,115    3.135        441        0        0
s -  £                                        22 3t2°~    20791   1.966   2.4711 3 .887b    4," %t249^    9,07 tO 11.96g5   373   44,334
loteA Iraostmont                         26,09   47,151   24,32  24.01  30,213  43.015   54,79.    69,S24   7,299   73.20    86.16   72,964
OSit bervis
intret C ared to tprtion                  3,472     5,643   4,993   5,941   8,124   10.451  12,401    13,928    14,960    17,490   25,916  35,060
Amthation of Les                          1.S42    2,595   4,110   6.40   5,797    7.201   10,951    9,231    11,711    10,375   16.842   18,752
Totol Debt Service                        5.01S     8.238   9,103   12,421   13.921  17,651   23,3S1    23.59   26,671   27,80    42,158   S4,712
I nc  se (Decreaso) in Urktss capital       3,586   (1.S94)  3,264   S,842   4,S91    4,396   3,65S    3,736          4,136    s,e87    13t   10,422
Incraee (Oecwes.e) In Cm* & Ban bel.                          (2,440)   1.891     224    (241)    295   (1,133)   2,756    1,374           144   1,017
Tnx & lies. Provsion                                    149        0    1,838   2.754   3,057   3,444       3.729    4.052    4,24S    4,933   5.786
TOTAL APPLICATIOS OF FINDS                 34,619   54,363   34,308  46.843  51,M02  67,879  S5,53         99,015   115,914   112.650  135,517 144,900
Cwntrfbutlon to Cmitructicn (Anuat) X          17        31       14       16      24       20       21        21        21       21        21       20
Cntrlbutlon to Cuistruntlon (S ear Av.)        14        46       10       1S      22       20       20        22        22        20       24       20       I!
Debt service cutraog                          2.5       2.4      2.0      2.0      2.2      2.0      1.8      2.0       1.9       1.9       tA      1. 6-



ISIA                ~~~~(New Base Case)
OKP POSERt IENUSTIOS PROECT
MTPCs Actual & Foreast Balance Shet                              MM .ILlion)
oucIprounu                                199       1992    1993    1904    1995    1996    1997         1998      1999     2000      2001    2000
ASSETS
Gross Block                             92,422   131,136  117,618  148,837  186,574 210,509  234,713  248.799   256,904  309.359  451,960 535.83
Less:Depreciatfon                        6.877    10,791   14,460  20.948  28,996  39.099  51.054   64 403   79.035   94.440   111,226 132,643
Net Fixetd Assets In operatfon           85.546   120,344  103,158  127,889  157.578  171,410  183.6S9  184.395   177.868  214.919  340,734 403,192
Capital Works in Progress                 56,039   70,080  71,648  65,280  57.756  76,836  107,427  162,866  233,060  253,891  197,436 186,525
Totat Fixed Assets                        141,584   190,424  174,806  193.169 215,333 248.246  291,086  347.261  410,928  468,810  538,170 569,717
current Assets
cash and Sank Batance                      684     1.742    (698)  1,193    1,416    1.176   1.471        338    3.093    4,46?    4,611   S.628
Short-term deposi ts                     5,279    6.465    3.905   4,100   4,305    4.521   4.747    4,984    5,233    5,495    5,769   6,058
Receivables                              15,102    16.085   14,820  17,270  17,189   16.726  19.043   20,945    22,668   24,825   29,652  37,099
Inventories                              5,414    7,306   8.500   9.241   15,767  16,955  19,735   23,221    27,080   30,809   32.870   36,811
Loans & Advances                         2.088    2,497   3,824   5.558   6,574   8,446  10,195   12,136   13,437   13,466   15,942  16.4S6
Other Current Assets/Debtors               231       399      519      675     877   1,141   1.483    1,928    2,506    3,258    4,235   $,SO5
Total Current Assets                      2,9 3494 087 3837  4612   48945.7                               351   7407    20 937810,8
Nisc.Capi tat Expendftuore                    41        39       39       39      39       39       39       39        39        39       39       39
TMAL MSUSTS                               170,424   224,957 205,715 231,245  261.501 297,249 347,798  410,851  484,984  551,168  631,287 697,313
LIABILITIES
saecapital IRSu,                     59 231    69,81.1  61,581  67,681  67,681  67.681  67,681   67,681   67.681   67,681   67,681  67.681
saeDeposit                              31         7
Retained Earnings                       24.420   28,892  35,046  44,78   54.022  63,927  77,694   91 .619  108,691   12488  144",733  166,586
Bond Redemrption Reserve                           5,634    7,634   8.316   10,090  12.412  12,407   13,397   12,534   '13,307   13,203  14.493
Total Equity                            8797     10,4   10,6   1079131,793  144,020  157,78    172,697   188,906  205.806  225,617 248,760
Total Lonig-term Debt                     67,296   97,766  83.454  93,032  108,996  133,838  166,866  210,730  265,079  313,234  364,543 404,384
Less:  Current Maturfties                                     6,480   5,797   7,201  10,951   9,231    11,711    10,375   16,842   18.752  18.752
Total long-temn iaobiLftes              67,296    97,66   76,94  87 235  101 795  122 887  157 635  199 018  254 704  296 39   345 791  385 632
Cash Credi t                                                            fR3-4   287O    1014       164     1323      148       163       16      W39-
Currenwt Liabilities                       15,158   22,448   18,000  14,702   17,841   16,377  19,986   24,101   27,510   28,386   37.281  40,130
Add:- Current Maturities                                      6,480   5.797   7,201   10.9S1   9.231    11,711   10,375    16,862    18.752  18,75
.     .......     .......     .......  .......  .......  .......  .......    .......  I'd~~..
'ii:Z;  'iZi;; -izii                                                          OA~~~~~~0) 
Total Current Liabilities                15,5     2248 2,8           32  27,912  30.341  32,381   39,135   41,374   48,891    59,87    62.920               o
Total Debt                                82,454   120,214  101,454  110,467  129,708  153,229  190,017  238,154  296,07?   345,28    405,671  448,553
TOTA  EWTY  D LABIITIS  10,42    22,95   20,71   23.24   26.501297249347798410851 484,84    51,68   31,87  97.13 
Debt:Eqjity Ratio                         43/57   48/52    44/56   44/S6   45/55    48/52   51/49   S5/45    S8/42    60/40    62/3            62/38 
current Ratio                                 1.9      1.5      1.3      1.6      1.7     1.6      1.8       1.6      1.8       1.It      1.6     1.7
Accounts ateveibte (Gof do")                233       154      123      105      90       75       75       75        75        75        75      75



- 104 -
INDIA                            ANNEX 4.3
Page 1 of 3
NTPC POWER GENERATION PROJECT
ASSUNPTIONS FOLLOWED FOR FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
Price Escalation and Exchange Rate
Inflation
Financial                                        Exchange Rate
Year              Local       Foreign            US$1-
1992/93           9.5         3.1                Re. 30.2
1993)94           7.8         3.1                Rs. 33.2
1994/95           6.8         3.1                Rs. 35.3
1995/96           5.9         3.1                Rs. 37.4
1996/97           5.4         3.1                Rs. 39.2
1997/98           5.0         3.1                Rs. 40.3
1998/99           5.0         3.1                Rs. 41.4
1999/00           5.0         3.1                Rs. 42.2
Income Statement
REENUES
1.1       Revenues.  NTPC's projected power sales are not derived, as occur
in most power utilities, from demand projections for a specific market. Since
NTPC's investment programme is the result of decisions, at the central level,
on how the additional generation required to serve the demand projected for
each region in the country is going to be shared among the States and the
Center, NTPC's projected sales are the summation of the power expected to be
generated and sold from each plant. Projected sales are the summation of
operating costs (O&, interest chargeable to operations, interest on working
capital, depreciation, fuel cost) and retuzn on equity. For ongoing projects
the rate of return on equity is assumed as 122 and for new projects, it is
162. For ongoing projects, about 502 of total cost is being financed from GOI
equity or NTPC's own resources.
1.2       Auxiliary Consumption.  Projected as 102 of generation for 2001210
KW units, 32 for combined cycle and gas/steam units and 72 for 500 KW units.
1.3       Electricity Duty.  It is levied by some State Governments of the
Western Region and collected on their behalf by NTPC. It is calculated as 3
paise/kwh.
1.4       Other Income. Includes interest received on short-term deposits,
rental charges for equipment, consulting and management fees, and revenues
from miscellaneous transactions. It is projected as 1X of the electricity
sales.



- 105 -
ANNEX 4.3
Page 2 of 3
EXPENSES
1.5       Fuel Cost.  Calculated as follows.
(a) The base cost of fuel is computed for energy sent out from NTPC's
busbars at its stations. The following elements are included in
the computations
(i)  station heat rate;
(it) specific fuel consumptions
(iii) gross calorific value of coal, oil and gas:
(iv) price of coaligas as delivered; and
(v)  price of oil as delivered.
(b) The base cost is subject to annual fuel price adjustments based oan
local Inflation rates.
1.6       Operation and Maintenance CO&M).  Includes employees cost (221),
repairs and maintenance (332), and administration and others (322). Total O&M
cost is projected as follows:
200/210 MW          Re. 4001kw/year plus 10 increase each year
500 MW              Re. 3001kw/year plus 10  increase each year
Gas Projects        Rs. 240/kw/year plus 10  increase each year
1.7       Depreciation.  Depreciation is calculated at a rate of 4.752 per
annum for thermal (coal) generation plants, and 8.242 for gas based plants.
1.8       Other Expenses. Represents deferred expenses expenditures incurred
In issuing bonds and rebates to customers. It Is projected as the sumuation
oft 1S of total operating revenues plus 22 of bonds issued during the year.
1.9       Interest for the Year.  Represents interest applicable to the
sources of borrowing calculated as follows for new loanss
IBRD                      92 repayment after 5 years in 15 annual
equal installment
ADB                       10? repayment same terms as IBRD
Export Credit             13? repayment after 4 years in 8 annual
equal installment
Bonds                     17? bullet repayment after 7 years
Bilateral Donors          17Z repayment after 5 years in 15 annual
equal installment
Interest on Working       18?
Capital



- 106 -
ANNEX 4.3
Page 3 of S
BALANCE SHEES
1.10      Work in Progress.  Calculated as the balance between additions to
VIP for the year based on estimated project  implementation schedule, and
transfer to fixed assets at the end of the fiscal year of completed projects.
1.11      Cash.  Projected as balancing figure from Sources and App'ication
of Funds.
1.12      Receivables.  The receivable level assumed during the projection
period (except FY1993-94, FY1994-95) is equivalent to the last two months'
outstanding of the (which is 75 days outstanding - based on yearly average).
The receivable at the end of FY1993-94 and M1994-95 is assumed as 105 days
and 90 days, respectively, because of the amounts which remained to be paid
through Central Appropriations.
1.13      Loans and Advances.  Projected as 5? of revenue plus 102 of
investment during the projection period.
1.14      Inventories.  Projected as 20 days (5.5?) fuel cost, two months'
(16.7?) 05M, 6.0? (3.5? for the years 1993-94) total fixed assets during the
year for the 8th plan period. For the remaining years percentage of total
fixed assets is assumed as 5.00?.
1.15      Other Current Assets.  Projected as 30X increase over the previous
year.
1.16      Current Liabilities.  Projected as 60 days' OM cost plus 30 days'
fuel cost mlus 114 of interest chargeable to revenue plus 20? to 27? of
investment during the year. For the years 1993-94 and 1994-95 the percentage
of investment is assumed as 40?.



- 107 _
INDIA                            ANNEX 4.4
Page 1 of 3
NTPC Power Generation ProJect
NTPC Medium and Long-Term Financial Strategy Study
Terms of Reference
I. ObJectives
1.1       With the adoption of the time-slice approach for the financing of its
expansion needs, NTPC would be faced with the following fundamental financial
planning and strategic tasks:
(a) Formulation of long-term financial plans, policies and strategies
corresponding to its long-term corporate expansion objectives
(b) Formulation of short-to-medium-term strategies and policies for
financing sequential investment time-slices; and
(c)  Ensuring the necessary coherence and compatibility of its  short-to-
medium and medium-to-long-term financial policies and strategies;
iv) Introduction of a dynamic resource mobilization concept into NTPC's
financial strategies and policies; and
(d) Formulation and implementation of corresponding organizational and
personnel changes in NTPC's Finance Department.
II. The Scope of Work
1.2       It is envisaged that NTPC's financial strategy would be studied as a
series of long-term (at least 10-year) alternatives, customarily tested for
sensitivity.
(a) The Base Case
The physical expansion envisaged by the plan for 1993/4 - 199718
should be taken as the base case for which an optimum (optimum meaning
primarily least risk, not necessarily least cost) financial strategy,
based on an agreed optimum debt/equity structure and complemented by
a feasible optimum mix of locally and externally mobilized resources,
should be recommended.
(b) Alternative Cases
Following the formulation of the base case strategy, alternative
financial strategies should also be analyzeds
Ci) Maximum expansion case, assuming that all major works, currently
under preparation by NTPC would be carried out;



- 108 -
ANNEX 4.4
Page 2 of 3
(ii) Variant cases, e.g. the base case + 20X., the maximum case - 202
etc.
(c) The DRnamic Case
(i)  Based on the analysis of the base case, the maximum case and the
alternative cases, a dynamic (optimum) case financial strategy
should be developed. The latter implies a strategy adjustable
according tot ti) changing availability of domestic & external
financing;
(ii) (ii) constraints in internal resource mobilization because
Zactors like current tariff policies level of bill collection
etc.; (iii) possible broadening of NTPC's equity base through
partial divestiture, dilution of public ownership by raising
additional private equity etc.
1.3       Presently, the bulk of NTPC's major expansion works is undertaken only
once the requisite, project-specific, external resources have been contracted -
i.e. NTPC's expansion is financed on the basis of a 'static' resource mix. In
the future, given anticipated broad changes in India's financial environment,
ranging from the introduction of Rupee convertibility to the opening of domestic
capital market, NTPC will have to consider securing a steady flow of finance from
the mix of available local and foreign sources, rather than arranging 'static'
financing packages for individual investment activities.
III. Main Policy Facets to be Analyzed
1.4       The  analysis of the above mentioned alternatives will have  to
encompass at least the following five main facets of NTPC's overall financial
policies:
(a) The internal resource mobilization policy
(b) NTPC's equity base expansion policy (re. options to raise additional
private andlor public equity, existing equity dilution options etc.
options to raise foreign equity);
(c) The finacial asset and liability management policy (re. analysis of
options available to NTPC with particular emphasis on interest rate
trends and foreign exchange risks etc.; development of procedures for
optimum funding mix determination over a given time horizon, such as
a time-slice or a five-year plan period etc.)
ld) The resource mobilization policy (i.e. local and foreign borrowing
policy). A very detailed analysis is envisaged here, covering:
-   local money and capital markets;
- foreign money and capital markets (including syndicated
borrowings and issues of securities including securities
convertible into equity);



109 -
ANS= 4.4
page 3 of 3
- exportisupplier credit marketst
- official development assistance.
(e) Optimization of liluidity mannaement
Time-and duration-specific options under 1.4 above should be examined
under various NTPC expansion scenarios.
IV.       The Implementation Schedule
1.5       As a part of the study. an implementation schedule should be prepated
for operationali-ing the dynamic financial strategy in NTPC (including the
recommendations for organizational and policy changes as well as resulting
personnel requirements).
Review of Recommendations
1.6       Upon the completion of the study, the Bank and WMPC will jointly
review the study recomendations and their prospective Implementation not later
than September 30, 1994. During the review. MPC will exchange views with the
Bank at appropriate intervals.



- 110 -
ANNEX 5.1
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
NTPC POWER GENERATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.1       The analysis focuses on NTPC'8 core investment program, which is
supported in part by the proposed Bank loan. The two generation projects which
meet the selection criteria for Bank financing and are ready for implementation
under the proposed loan, Vindhyachal and Rihand 2x5OO KW coal-fired power station
extensions, form an integral part of this core investment program.
1.2       Economic Viability of NTPC's Investment Program.  The economic rate
of return (ERR) was calculated on the basis of the incremental cost and benefit
streams associated with the 1993-2000 time-slice of NTPC's investment program.
The time-slice period covers investments supported under the proposed project and
the Bank's ongoing generation projects with NTPC.
1.3       Costs.  The investment plan is discussed in paras 2.24-2.27 of the
main text and detailed listing of its components is given in Annex 2.6. Projects
shown in Annex 2.6 to be completed during the time-slice period were taken as the
time-slice investment proram. Financial costs of that program were converted to
economic terms by excluding taxes and duties and by applying a standard
conversion factor (SCP) of 0.8 to the residual local costs. The resulting total
time-slice investments are shown in Table 5.1. Economic cost of NTPC's main fuel
(local coal) was updated from the Bank's study of the Long Term Issues in the
Power Sector, gas was priced at fuel oil parity. The prices NTPC pays for its
coal supplies are generally slightly higher than the estimated economic costs,
the price of gas is about 75Z of fuel oil parity, falling behind the targeted
fuel oil parity due to recent substantial depreciation of the Rupee.
1.4       Also shown in Table 5.1 are NTPC's incremental (in excess of 1993,
base year of the analysis) operations and maintenance (O&M) costs, taken from
NTPC's projected financial statements given in Annex 4.2 and converted to
economic terms by excluding taxes and duties and by applying SC? to the residual
local costs. O& costs of the last year of the time-slice investment period were
kept constant in real terms for the operating period of time-slice investments.
1.5       Benefits.  For the purpose of ERR calculations, NTPC's incremental
tariff revenue was used as a proxy for the economic benefits of its investment
program and operations.  NTPC's tariffs are discussed in paras 2.21-2.23 in the
main text, billing and collection in paras. 4.9-4.10. NTPC's assets are not
revalued for tariff setting purposes, hence the fixed cost part of NTPC's two-
part tariff for each station declines in real terms over time, in line with
inflation. Incremental revenue of the last year of the 1993-2000 time-slice
investment period was, however, kept constant in real terms for the
2001-2030 operating period of time-slice investmentst it is not reasonable to
assume that the economlc value of electricity would decline. On the contrary,
tariff revenue is regarded to be the minimum measure of the actual benefits as
tariff revenue reflects only a portion of the total beneflts of Incremental power
supply, given India's chronic shortage of electricity. The ERR of the program



- 111 -
ANNEX 5.1
Page 2 of 3
is nevertheless satisfactory at about 14.7Z with this conservative revenue-based
benefit valuation. The net present value of the program at 12? discount rate is
about Rs 16.9 billion.
1.6       Robustness of the Program. NTPC's time-slice ERR is not significantly
affected by changes in the costs of the investment program and in the
implementation schedules of its individual components. This is due to NTPC's
ability under its tariff setting principles to fully pass on to its clients its
actual investment and fuel costs and these account for the major part of NTPC's
total costs.   The tariff includes a provision for recovering operating and
maintenance (O&M) costs using normative tariff parameters, i.e. not on the basis
of actual costs. The impact of adverse changes from the most critical normative
values was examined in sensitivity analysis.   A 102 increase in heat rate
(reduction in efficiency) brought the ERR down to 13.42; a 10? reduction in plant
load factor (PLF) reduced ERR to 12.3Z. Should both of these adverse changes
take place simultaneously, i.e. reduced generation at lower efficiency, the ERR
is reduced further to 11.0X. It should be noted that NTPC may also be able to
exceed the normative performance (hear rate, availability etc.) targets, in which
case the ERRs would correspondingly increase from the base case ERR. Given
India's power shortages, it is likely that NTPC will have the opportunity to
generate well above the normative annual generation targets and, assuming its
plants perform, will be able to earn returns exceeding the normative 162 return
on equity (in the base case of the analysis).
1.7       NTPC's investment program is constrained by the available financing,
not by demand for NTPC-generated electricity.   Power supply is projected to
constrain electricity consumption in India well beyond the year 2000 and the risk
for lower than projected generation due to low demand is marginal.   A 101
reduction in demand would reduce the ERR to 14.1?. In the case of NTPC, its
"demand* forecast Is essentially a supply forecast (projected output of the
generating stations) and will be lower than projected only in case the supply
does not materialize, i.e. in case the stations do not generate as much as
projected, e.g. due to insufficient fuel supply or lower plant availability.
That scenario was tested in the sensitivity analysis by reducing the PLF by 10Z,
as discussed above. The ERR decreases less in the reduced demand case than in
the case of lower generation, as under the tariff setting principles, if NTPC is
required to back down due to low demand, it is credited for the resulting
reduction in generation (deemed generation) for the fixed-cost portion of the
two-part tariff - hence the revenues decline less than when the generation is
reduced due to its own performance.
1.8       The above revenue based analysis reflects only a portion of the total
benefits of NTPC's operations and still yields a satisfactory ERR of about 14.7X
- hence further ERR calculations are not required to establish the viability of
the program.



- 112 -
Annex 6.!
Pago 3 d 3
INDIA
NTPC POWER GENERATION PROJECT
Table 6.1: RATE OF RETURN OF NTPC'S INVESTMENT PROGRAM
YEAR   CAPiTAL       FUEL     O & M    TOTAL   SALES REVENUIE         NET
COST      COST      COST      COST TOTAL INCREMENT        BENEFiT
1985       238                           238                           .238
1986       307                           307                           -307
1987       658                           658                           -658
1988      2091                          2091                          -2091
1989      3529                          3529                          -3829
1990     10198                         10198                         -10198
1991     15048                         16048                         -15048
1992     20317                         20317                         -20317
1993     17198                         17198      44068              -17198
1994     18002      3815       588     22405      56715     11647    -10758
1995     12770      6561      1157     20478      60626     16558     -3920
1996     15881      8862      1729     26472      66818     22750     -3722
1997     14339     10639      2239     27217      72159     28091       874
1998     15961     12027      2683     30671      75432     31364       693
1999     11110     12612      3052     26774      77241     33173      6399
2000      6618     13591      3728     23937      81038     36970     13033
2001      4621     15474      5110     25105      92523     48455     23350
2002               20246      6643     26889    110364      66296     39407
2003               20246      6643     26889                66296     39407
2004               20246      6643      26889               68296     39407
2005               20246      6643     26889                66296     39407
2006               20246      6643     26889                66296     39407
2007               20246      6643     26889                66296     39407
2008               20246      6643     26889                66296     39407
2009               20246      6643     26889                66296     39407
2010               20246      6643     26889                66296     39407
2011               20240      6643     26889                66296     39407
2012               20246      6643     26889                66296     39407
2013               20246      6643     26889                66296     39407
2014               20246      6643     26889               86296      39407
2015               20246      6643     26889                66296     39407
2018               20246      6643      26889               66296     39407
2017               20246      6643     26889                66296     39407
2018               20246      6643     26889                66296     39407
2019               20246      6643     28889                66296     39407
2020               20246      6643     26889                66296     39407
2021               20246      6643     26889                66296     39407
2022               20246      6643     26889                66296     39407
2023               20246      6643     26889                66296     39407
2024               20246      6643      26889               66296     39407
2025               20246      6643     26889                66296     39407
2026               20246      6643     26889                66296     39407
2027               20246      6643     26889                66296     39407
2028               20246      6643      26889               66290     39407
2029               20246      6643     26889                66296     39407
2030               20246      6643      26889               66296     39407
ERR:   14.73%
NPV @ 12%    16,894
tl wnesments oompleted In the 1993-2000 time-ailce period from NTPC'9 Investment Plan (Annex 2.6)
neemntal oosts and rvnue related to these investments from NTPC's projections (Annex 4.2)
21 AM figures In Re Million



- 113-                           ANNEX 6.1
INDIA
NTPC POVER GENERATION PROJECT
Related Documents in the Project File
1.        'Vindhyachal STPP Stage II (2x500MW)8, revised Environmental Impact
Assessment (Volume I, text), April, 1993
2.        Vindhyachal STPP Stage It (2x500MW)', revised Environmental Impact
Assessment (Volume 11 Tables, Figures & Annexures), April, 1993
3.        'Socio-economic and Demographic Census Study for Ash Dykes in the
Penunsular area of Gobind Ballabh Pant Sagar' by Prof. K.C. Mathur, Dr. Bharat
Lal Singh and Ms. Suubhi Mathur, 1992 (Vindhyachal II)
4.        *Rihand STPP Stage II (2x5OOMW)O, revised Environmental Impact
Assessment (Volume I Text), February, 1993
5.        'Rihand STPP Stage II (2x500MW)', revised Environmental Impact
Assessment (Volume II Tables, Figures & Annexures), February, 1993
6.        Socio-economic and demographic study of Mltihini and Khairi
villages (MODE), 1992 (Rihand II)
7.        'Singrauli Coal Fields' (Northern Coal Fields Ltd.), Integrated
Environmental Management Plan, by Environmental Planning Group, 1987
8.        *Evaluation of Rehabilitation & Resettlement of Talcher Super
Thermal Power Project' (Study conducted for NTPC by Rita Ray, Reader,
Sociology Utkal University, Bhubaneswar.
9.        'Demographic and socio-economic Study of Ramagundam STPP", NTPC,
Dr. G. Satyanarayana, Project Director, Dept. of Sociology, Hyderabad, 1992
10.       'Socio-economic and Demographic Studies for area in the Farakka
STPP Neighborhood', Indian Institute of Management, Calcutta, 1991
11.       Vindhyachal STPP Stage II (2x500MWn Expansion Proposal, NTPC, May
1987
12.       Rihand STPP Stage II (2x500MW) Expansion Proposal, NTPC, May 1987
13.       Faridabad for Power Project (800MW), Feasibility Report, NTPC,
December 1988.
14.       Long-temn memo in the project file, World Bank, December 1991
15.       Annual Report, NTPC, FY83 through FY92
16.       Indian Institute of Management, Abmedabad, Reorganization of NTPC
Diagnostic Study and Recommendations, March 1991
17.       NTPC, Environmental Study of the Singrauli Area, July 1991



MAP SECTION



I-    IRAILROADS                                      //                                            1
_N    A ,      _                         .                                                                                 IBRD 24799
82130-     Ii NJunAo11                                                          =eJbRA                                     w     t
INDIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
NTPC POWER GENERATION PROJECT   IJuntion
PROJECT SITE LAYOUT FOR RIHAND 11
AND VINDHYACHAL 1I POWER STATIONS                                    1                                                                 Obro
Moareua Judction(
m    PROPOSED POWER PLAWT FACUrIIES
00    POWER PLANT FACIUTIES IN OPERATION
_111  ASH DISPOSAL AREAS                                            - - f
SNORU COAL "EDS
r  MERRYO-GROUND COAL TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS
.  RMLROADS                                                                                                                        Pani Tat SunIera
I    RAIUOAD STOPS                                                    (          /                                                            i
-   ROADS                                                                                                                                  Rni Tt0
__ __   RIVERS                                                             ,                                                                         )
D VUAGES                                                                 OMirc huri
STATE BOUNDARIES
6230     8245                                                         8300U T TA  R  PRADESH
24t5   M A D H Y A       P R A D E S H                 X        9                                                               ll   /  2415
}\             <            GOggil CC4Lt                   1/<            J  K  XG                                                      / CO/Y 
B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lia;w o
X     JZ POWER STA:IION     a          r                                                   crJP%fERSTAW
20MI                                                                                                        P   2              8        1 2  1 A   6   24W
smiXt~~~210                                                            8245'0'                                                        w
< 05n#t o@~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARIL 1;



