                                         INDIA
               NTPC: POWERGENERATIONPROJECT
                                     (Loan 3632-IN)

                 Management Report and Recommendations on
                               Inspection Panel Report




 Management submitteda Response,dated June 3,1997, that recognized that the Bank
 of the Inspection Panel to investigatethe NTPC project,dated July 24, 1997.
 1.      On September 11, 1997,the Board consideredthe Report and Recommendations


had not fully complied with three operational policies: O.D. 4.30 Involuntary
Resettlement,O.D. 13.05 Project Supervision;and O.D. 4.01 Environmental
                            -                                    --
Assessments.

2.
intensivereflection undertakenin responding to the Requestfor Inspection. Foremost
         Managementalso concluded that valuable lessons were learnedas a result of the

amongthese are: (a)the recognitionthat, for projectsposing difficultsocialand
environmentalchallenges to succeed,there must be early and meaningfulparticipation of
project-affectedcommunitiesand their leaders in the design of projects; (b) project
preparation and implementationplans are a meansto an end, and not the end itself;
(c) results on the ground are what counts;and (d) the loss in terms of social dislocation
and environmentaldegradation of rapid and uncontrollable growth in the Singrauliarea
must be addressedas a priorityof both the Govemment of India and the Bank.

3.      Management also submitted an Action Programdesignedto remedy in a timely
manner the problemsthat had emerged in the implementation of the social and
environmental aspects of this operation. That Action Program is now under
implementation. An Update on the Statusof the Action Program was circulated to the
Board on January 12. 1998(iNSP/SecM98-1). As agreed at the September 11, 1997
meeting of the Board. Management is committed to provide regular Updates on
implementation of these actions.

4.      Management has studied carefullythe Report submittedby the InspectionPanel
dated December24, 1997with the purpose, first,to learn, based on an independent
review of this case, how the Bank may respond more effectivelyto the problems raised
by the Requester. Management seeks, second, to understand how to addressbetter in the

such as those that are associatedwith a major investmentlike the NTPC operation, and,
future, in project design and implementation,difficult social and environmental issues

third, to assurethat Bank managementdeploysthe necessary resourcesand skillsto
satis@our obligationsin these cases.

                                             2


5.
problems identified with this project, Management'scarefulreview of the Inspection
         While seekingto advanceour understandingof factors contributing to the

Panel's report has also brought to lightthat some of the importantstatementsin the

includesthe statementsregarding: (i) pressure from SeniorRegional Managementto
Report are not supportedby facts asdocumented in the Project files. In particular,this

acceleratethe process of loan approval; (ii)not including in the Agenda of the Regional
Loan Committeethe issue of Resettlementand Rehabilitation (R&R); and (iii)
preparation of the ResettlementAction Plans afternegotiations. Our understanding of the
key differences is set out in the Attachment. We are also disappointed to note that the
Panel did not interviewthe SeniorRegional Managersto obtaintheir perspective. We
believe this is an integral componentof due process.

6.      To conclude,we want to stresstwo points. First, the response of Managementto
the Inspection Panel Report is to implementthe Action Program now in place. To that
end, actionsagreed with the Borrower will be supervised closely by the Bank and in such
a way that timely adjustmentsare made if necessaryto resolve fully the problemsthat led
to the complaint. At the sametime, Managementis committedto implement those
actions for which it is responsibleunder the Action Program. In particular, we are
building further capacity in social assessments, particularly in the field, so that staff


of steps to address inadequaciesin Bank performance. It has focusedon client
social issues in all phases of operationalwork. Second,the Bank has been taking a series
possessing essential competenciesin language and culture are better able to evaluate


responsiveness, quality at entry, portfolio management,and building staff capacityand
skills. In the South Asia Region,the renewal process has four dimensionsthat are
relevantto the present case: (a) a shared set of core values; (b) a sharedvision of the
Bank's objectives;(c) co-locationof work between Washington and field offices; and
(d) a flat managementstructure. This renewal program will overtime reduce the
likelihood of mistakes being repeated in the future.

L                                                                                   Attachment
                                                                                     Page 1 of2

    1.     The Inspection Panel Report notes:

            "Amajor newfinding of thisdesk investigationis that the violationsofpolicies
           andprocedures can be attributed topressurefromSenior RegionalManagement
           toaccelerate theprocess of loan approval and to not granting thesame
           relevance to Resettlementand Rehabilitationand EnvironmentalAction matters
           asto otherproject components. (paragraph16)
                                           "



    And in particular, the Reportnotes that

            "Therecords show clearly thatSenior Regional Managementpressuredstafto
           process the loanjust before the end of FY93." (paragraph16)


    subjectof pressure by SeniorRegional Management, and we were unable to find a record
    Ourreviewofthe Filesdoesnot lead us to thesameconclusionasthe Panel onthe
    that supportsthe above findingof the Panel. What is clear from the written record is that
    the Senior Regional Management togetherwith the Legal Departmentand the
   Environmentand SocialDevelopmentstaffof the Asia TechnicalDepartment concurred
    in thejudgment that the 0.D.s were complied with, and thereby to seek Board approval of
   the Project. As we recognized in Management's response of June 3, 1997,and with the
   benefit of hindsight based on implementationexperience,thatjudgment was premature


   have led to greater focus on gettingprojects approved by the Board than on development
   the Project. That said, in i 992-93,the so-called "approvalculture" of the Bank may
   and has not promoted the social developmentoutcomeson the ground as intendedunder

   outcomes: at the same time, the Bank was then at an early stage of internalizing the
   significance of 0.D.s on the environmentand resettlement and rehabilitationin
   operational implementation.

   2.      The Inspection Panel has stated that:


           an issuefor the Regional Loan CommitteeMeeting in March 1993,despite
           `*Theissue of Resettlement and Rehabilitation wasnot evenput on theAgenda as
           specific requestsfromenvironmental/socialspecialistsand the Legal
           Department.>' (paragraph 16)


   April 1. chaired by the Regional Vice President,specificallyincludedthe following: "On
   The Agenda dated March 31,1993 for the Regional Loan Committee (RLC) Meeting of
   the social aspects, a question has been raised regardingthe overall resettlement policy of

   obtained at appraisal?" These issueswere discussedextensively at the RLC meeting, and
   NTPC. Does the R&R policy conform to O.D. 4.30? What assurances/actions should be
   at two subsequent meetings held at the instruction of the Regional Vice President.
L

                                                                                  Attachment
                                                                                  Page 2 of 2


3.       The Inspection Panel has also stated that:


         appraisal. TheResettlement actionplans were thenpreparedduringa two week
          "Thepolicy requiresResettlementAction Plans to beprepared asa conditionof

         visit by one specialist staflmember in May 1993, andsigned oflby Management
         just in timefor theproject to bepresented to the Bank'sBoard of Executive
         Directors before the end of the 1993Fiscal Year (June 30, 1993)."
         (paragraph16)

The record,however, showsa different sequence of eventsfromthe one discussed by the
Panel. First, NTPC startedthe preparationof RAPSfor the Vindhyachal I1and Rihand I1
power stationsafterthe Bank'spre-appraisalmission in March 1992. The socio-
economic surveys of project-affectedpeople for the two siteswere carriedout in August
1992and January 1993.These draft RAPSwere then further revised by NTPC to reflect
its new corporateR&R policy, which was approved by its Board in late May 1993and
then given final clearanceby the Asia Technical Department, Environmentand Social
Development staff,on June 7,1993. (Thevisit by two,not one, Resettlementand
Rehabilitationspecialistsin May 1993was not to preparethe RAPSbut to reach
agreementon the outstanding issues.). Second,O.D. 4.30 requiresResettlementAction
Plans to be submittedto the Bank before appraisal,to be evaluatedduring appraisal and
agreed between the Borrowerand the Bank during negotiations.Draft RAPSwere
submittedto the Bank in February 1993,before appraisal,and commented on by Bank
staff before, during, and afternegotiations. Notwithstandingthis, we agree fullywith the
substanceof the Panel's concerns aboutthe adequacy of the ResettlementAction Plans

on the ground should have been better and were a reflection of the quality of preparation
(RAPS). As discussedin ourResponse of June 3, 1997,we acknowledged that the results

especiallythe lack of meaningful consultationswith the affectedpeople.




February 4,1998
11:45 am.

