Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C e  Zo s Y Aofc*
Report No. 8026-MAG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
EDUCATION SECTOR REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
JANUARY 11, 1990
Population and Human Resources Division
South Cetitra:. and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
ibs docment has a resticted ditbuion ad may be used by redpients only It the perfonmance of
thir oUcfil dutes Its cotents may not othewse be disclosed without Wodd  ak autoraetonw



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(August 1989)
Currency Unit                              Malagasy franc
US$ 1.00                                   FM 1607
FM 1000                    -               US$ 0.622
SDR 1                      =               FM 2035
FM 1000                    G               SDR 0.491
SDR 1                      =               US$ 1.27
MEASURES
Metric System
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR FISCAL YEAR
1 January - 31 December
ACADEMIC YEAR
October - June
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB      African Development Bank
BPE       Education Project Office
CCAP      Committee to Coordinate Pedagogical Activities
CCPE      Education Projects Coordinating Committee
CIRESEB   Local education administration
CPIE      Inter-school education committees
CRESED    Education Sector Reinforcement Credit (Credit pour le
Renforcement du Secteur de l'Education)
DEPESEB   Regional education administration
DPOE      Department of Planning and Education Programming
EN1       Teacher training college for primary teachers
EN2       Teacher training college for lower secondary teachers
EN3       Teacher training college for upper secondary teachers
IST       Higher Technological Institute
Level I   Primary level
',evel II  Lower secondary level
Level III Upper secondary level
Level IV  Higher Education and University level
MINESEB   Ministry of Basic and Secondary Education
MINESUP   'Aistry of Higher Education
OPEC      Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
OPPS      Book distribution service (Service des Ocuvres Peri- et Para-
Scolaires)
PEP, PIP  Public Expenditure (Investment) Program
PSAC      Public Sector Adjustment Credit
SN        National Service
UERP      Pedagogical Unit (Unit; d'Etude et de Recherche Pedagogiques)
UNDP      United Nations Development Program



F        AL_
(i)
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
EDUCATION SLCTOR REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.  INTRODUCTION . ..     ....       .   *....... *,***....        1
It.  THE EDUCATION AND TRAININCD SECTOR ..............             2
A. Overview.. .. I............                 . ......       2
Organization and Administration     .     ....           2
Education Financing and Costs  .................         2
- ~~Enrollment .....................                            3
Education of Women    4.             .    . ...          4
Teacher Training       .. .   .......         ..         4
Private Education .     ............. . . . .            5
B. Educational Reform .S     ..    ..     .. . ...            5
C. Major Sectoral Issues         ..............               6
Weak Administration and Management ................      6
Education Planning and Statistics      .....             6
Internal Efficiency .... . ...... ...... . ..7
External Efficiency ... * ....................           7
Quality of Education ........... . ............          8
Education Costs............. ........ . ....             8
Education Financing        .................            9
D.  Sectoral Adiustment Stratesy and Policy Dialogue         10
Government Strategy ...... ........ .                   10
P.olicy Dialogue ....... ....        ..........         11
'7A Strategy .... .. * ..... .... ....          .     11
Public Expenditure Program   ..*..12
E. Bank Group E;Merience with Past Lending  .     .12
III..THE PROJECT      ............................................  13
A.  Prolect Obiectives and Sector Policies ..............    13
Objectives ...............  ....... ................ .o
Sectoral AdjustmL.t Measures     ..     ...............    14
B. Proiect Description .................  .......  .........  17
Component lt Development of Sector Administrative,
Management, and Planning Capacities ........... ...    17
Component 2: Improvement of the Quality of Basic
and General Secondary Education  ..................    19
Component 3t Strengthening Higher Education .... ...    25
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients-only in dhe perfomace
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwie be discosed without World Bank authoriztion.



(ii)
Pate No.
C. Prolect Cost and Financing Plan .....................     26
Recurrent Cost Implications .......................     28
D. Protect Imnlementation .................                  29
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS ......................                     33
V.  AGREEMENTS REMCED AND RECOMMENDATION  ................        36
ANNEXES
Annex  1  - Government Education Sector Strategy Letter
Annex  2  - Education Sector Reform Measures
Annex  3  - Structure of Education System
Annex  4  - Summary Education Statistics
Annex  5  - Enrollment, Dropout, Repetition by Grade
Annex  6  - Investment Program of Ministry of Higher Education
Annex  7 - Investment Program of Ministry of Basic and Secondary Education
Annex  8  - Education Sector Public Expenditure Programs
Annex  9 - Organigram of Ministry of Basic and Secondary Education
Annex 10  - Organigram of Pedagogical Unit
Annex 11  - Project Cost Tables
Annex 12  - Disbursement Schedule
Annex 13  - List of Documents in the Project FPle
,BRD May No. 21706 (July 1989)



(iii)
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
EDUCATION SECTOR REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Credit Summary
Borrower: Democratic Republic of Madagascar
Amounts    $39.0 million equivalent (SDR 30.4 million)
Termas     Standard IDA, with 40 years repayment
Description: The credit would commence a major reform of the education
sector, through policy measures and quality improvements. It
would support the start of the Government's long-term sector
development program, to improve efficiency and quality of the
education system. A three-year sector public expenditure
program (PEP) will be agreed annually, reflecting increased
spending on primary education and on c,uality improvement at all
levels. Policy measures would include:
(a) For primary and secondary education, (i) reorganization of
MINESEB to create a Pedagogical Unit responsible for educational
quality, and separate planning and statistics units; (ii)
regulation of student flows through the system to concentrate
resources on primary education; (iiij development of action
plans to improve administrative efficiency and use of education
personnel; (iv) measures to reduce primary school repetition
ratss; (v) reduction in use of national service temporary
teachers;
(b) Preparation of action plans for university reform;
(c) Establishing an inter-ministerial structure to coordinate
vocationalitechnical education and training, with employers
represented.
The project would be implemented in two phases. Items included.
in the second phase would start only after a joint mid-term
review of progress on the strategy and the project, including
the above action plans. The project would have three main
components: (a) Strengthening administration and Planning in
MINESEB, including studies to develop reform plans for education
administration; computer and office equipment for admlnis-
tratior. statistics and planning services; development of
im; -ved personnel policies; training administrative personnel;
(b) Quality improvement of basic and lower secondary education,
including: teacher support services (training inspectors,
advisers, and head teachers, means of travel, seminars), pre-
service and in-service training for teachers (settii.g up 6
primary teacher training colleges; regrouping junior-secondary
teacher training in one, rehabilitated college; setting up
systems for re-cycling existing teachers); producing and
distributing primary school books; upgrading of secondary school
laboratories; (c) Strenathenina hither level education,
including short-cycle higher technical training institutes; and



(iv)
development of university action plans to modernize curricula,
to improve administration, and the cost/financing balance.
Benefits: Both economic and educational benefits are expected. The
institutional measures will improve long-term resource
allocation, allowing strengthening of quality and increased
enrollment to respond to demographic pressures, within the
education budget likely to be available. The project will
increase student achievements at all levels, and reduce costs by
allowing students to complete education cycles more quickly.
Improved basic education should have positive indirect effects
on health, nutrition, fertility, and-agricultural production,
while improved vocational training and university quality will
strengthen manpower resources. The projected sector PEP shows
that on the basis of CRESED sector strategies and taking into
account the recurrent expenditure impact of CRESED and other
projects in the sector PIP, real public operational expenditure
on education would grow by between 2 and 3 percent &nnually in
the medium term, an increase which is consistent with the macro-
economic framework discussed between the World Bank and the
Government.
Risks:     The CRESED reform program are complex requiring many actions by
a wide range of people, while the political implications of some
of the measures make their implementation risky. To reduce
these risks, the project has bee prepared by local technicians,
but continuing dialogue to ensure Government's commitment to
reform will be essential. Each sub-component will be
Implemented by the relevant line agency, and coordinated by a
small unit chaired by the Minister of Secondary and Basic
Education, who coordinated project preparation.



(v)
--                Proiect Cost Summary
Estimated Costs                   -- FHG (billion)          US$ (million) --
Local Foreirn Total   Local Foreign Total
1. Administration and
Planning                      7.5     7.7  15.2      4.8     5.1   9.9
2. Quality and Efficiency
Improvement                   8.8    24.8  33.6      5.7    16.1  21.8
3. Higher Education                 1.6    11.9  13.5      1.1      7.7   8.8
Total Base Costs (excl.      17.9    44.4  62.3    11.6    28.9  40.5
taxes)
Total Contingencies           3.3     9.2  12.5      2.2     5.9   8.1
(excl. taxes)
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS
Excluding taxes               21.2    53.6  74.8    13.8    34.8  48.6
Taxes                          9.9     --    9.9      6.4      --   6.4
Total including taxes         31.1    53.6  84.7    20.2    34.8  55.0
Financina Plan
IDA                          14.7    45.3  60.0      9.8    29.2  39.0
OPEC                          1.8    549   7.7       1.2     3.8   5.0
UNDP                          '       1.5   1.5      -       1.0   1.0
Germany                       0.8     0.9   1.7      0.3     0.8   1.1
Government                    3.9      _    3.9      2.5     -      2.5
Total excluding taxes         21.2    53.6  74.8    13.8    34.8  48.6
Taxes                          9.9     -     9.9      6.4     -     6.4
Total including taxes         31.1    53.6  84.7    20.2    34.8  55.0
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year
1990    1991    1992      1993   1994   191,i5
Annual                     3.0     6.0      9.0      8.0    9.0    4.0
Cumulative                 3.0     9.0    18.0      26.0   35.0   39.0



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DvMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
EDUCATION SECTOR REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     The development of education in Madagascar aud the Government's
new sector strategy must be seen in the context of the evolution of the
whole economy.  MAdagascar has experienced a long-term decline in per
capita income, widespread deterioration of its physical and social infra-
structure, and extreme scarcity of fiscal resources. Following economic
stabilization in the mid-1980s, the Government is now carrying out a series
of adjustment programs, with INP and IDA support. The key objectives of
Bank Group assistance are to support Government reforms, policies, and
investments aimed at accelerating economic growth, restoring vital
infrastructure, strengthening the capacity to manage development,
liberalizing the economy, and mobilizing and making more effective use of
domestic and external resources, while designing programs to assist the
most disadvantaged groups.
1.02     Education Sector Strategy. Within the above macro-economic
framework, the Government has adopted a strategy, which the Association
supports, for development of the education sector as a whole, and to
improve the quality and efficiency of education at all levels, with special
emphasis on basic education.  The strategy includes measures to contain
costs, to use resources more efficiently, to redistribute the education
budget within the sector to reflect the priority given to basic education,
to improve the costlefficiency of higher education, and to Ikke technical/
vocational training more relevant to the needs of the economy. With IDA
support, a program of actions has been prepared, based on the education
strategy, which will be implemented over some 10 to 15 years, to improve
the quality of education and to respond to the country's needs.
1.03     The project (Credit pour le Renforcement du Secteur de l'Education
-- CRESED) will provide the means for the Government to begin to implement
this strategy. It would finance actions to be started in the initial three
years of the program, assisting the Government in putting in place the
required administrative and physical structures, as well as in training
specialists and trainers, and preparing new teaching programs. The project
is designed to help the Government to further develep its sector strategy
and the investment program based on that strategy; future operations in
support of education under financing by IDA and other donors are expected
to be prepared to support the subsequent stages of the program.
1.04     The estimated project cost is US$ 55.0 million equivalent
including US$ 6.4 million in taxes, of which the foreign exchange component
is 722.  The Government will contribute about US$ 2.5 million equivalent,
in addition to taxes.  The remaining US$ 46.1 million is expected to be
financed by IDA (US$ 39.0 million), the OPEC Fund for Intsrnational



2 -
Development (US$ 5.0 million), UNDP (US$1.0 million), and the Federal
Republic of Germany (U$ 1.1 million).  France, the African Development
Bank (AfDB), and the World Food Program are providing complementary
assistance.   UNESCO, the ILO, and UNIDO will also cooperate through
projects they are executing on behalf of UNDP anid t'lae AfDB.
II. THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
A. OVERVIEW
2.01     The public education system in Madagascar consists of a five-year
primary education cycle (Level I), followed by four years of lower
secondary education (Level $I), and a three-year higher secondary cycle
(Level III). Higher education (Level IV) is offered after Grade 12 in the
form of two- to six-year courses at six decentralized universities (one in
each of the six regions) and associated institutions, as well as by certain
specialized schools. Entry to university is in principle currently
available to all who pass the baccalaureate at the end of Level III,
although some faculties have competitive entry, and others require higher
than pass marks for entry.
2.02     In principle, vocational educaticn is offered at age 16 by MINESEB
schools to students unable to stay in general education after Level I,
although in practice they have fewer than 2,000 students. Vocational
courses are also provided by institutions run by other agencies, public,
NGO and 'trivate, preparing students for the labor market.  Technical
education starts at Level III, with three-year courses offered at 19
technical schools leading to a Technical Certificate (Brevet Tecbntqiie),
and four-year courses offered at 8 lvcfes techniques leading to a
baccalaureat technique, giving access to a university. Agriculturallv=
oriented education is provided through a small number of dgricultural
secondary schools, supervised by the Ministry of Livestock and Forestry.
Other government agencies offer ad hoc training courses for their
personnel. The education system is described in Annex 3.
2.03     Orsanization and Administration.  There are two education
ministries: the Ministry of Basic and Secondary Education (MINESEB) and the
Ministry of Higher Education (MINESUP). Educational policy is formulated
by the Cultural and Social Committee of the Supreme Council of tne
Revolution (CSR). This Committee has in the past few years organized
public discussion of education strategy, to help to sensitize public
opinion to the need for reform, and to help to define reform policies.
MINESEB has a decentralized structure, consisting of six Regional
Directorates for Secondary and Basic Education (DEPESEB) and 110 district
administrations (CIRESEB). (An organization chart of MIKESEB is in Annex
9.) Each university has its own administration (Rectorate). Research is
mainly the responsibility of the Ministry of Scientific Research and
Technology for Development.
2.04     Education Financing and Costs. Although the 4.8 percent of GDP
(including both public and private expenditures) Madagascar spends on



-3-
education is rather low in comparison with other countries in the Africa
Region, Goverment current expenditure on education accounts for a
relatively high proportion of public expenditures -- 202 of the total and
252 of the recurrent budget. About 722 of the public education budget goes
to primary and secondary education, and 282 to the universities. Ninety-
five percent of MINESEB's .xpenditures are on teachers' salaries.
2.05     Because of the high primary enrollment rates, low teacher
salaries, and the tear absence of spending for non-teaching items, such as
textbooks, education equipment, and maintenance, costs per student are low
by Africa Region standards: US$34, $53, $165, and $588, respectively, for
Levels I, II, III, and IV. (Annex 8 provides a breakdown of the recurrent
Government budget for education.)
2.06     Enrollment.  The education sector grew rapidly in the 19709 and
early 1980s, with the numbers of public primary pupils (Level I) rising
from 870,000 in 1975 to 1,410,000 in 1985.  That growth, together with the
sizable private school system, shifted gross primary enrollment from 902 to
1132 (gross enrollment in 1964 had been 422). Net enrollment of the 6-10
year age group (Level I) ic 1985 was, however, probably only about 70X. At
Level II, the number of pupils increased from 53,000 to 254,000 in the
general public schools, a rise in gross public and private enrollment of
from 162 to 402. Public school enrollment at Level III went from 14,000 to
49,000, while the combined gross enrollment went from 6Z to 212.  Higher
education (Level IV) grew spectacularly, going from 9,000 in 1975 to 38,000
in 1985.  Numbers of teachers in Level I public schools grew from 14,000 to
37,000 between 1975 and 1985.  The number of primarv schools rose from
5,000 to 13,000.
2.07     In contrast to the growth up to the early 1980s, since then the
system has stagnated, and the number of students appears to have dropped,
although precise comparisons are not possible because of the weakness of
the data for earlier years. As a result of new statistical techniques
introduced with Project Preparation Facility (PPF) financing, figures from
1987 will be more rpliable. In 1987/88, pupils attending public schools
numbered approximr- y as follows: Level I--1,263,000; Level 1I--187,000;
Level III--48,00(. -;d Level IV--36,400. There does indeed appear to have
been an absolute cae_line in enrollment, and since the annual increase in
the school age group was probably over 3.52 (based on population growth of
3.22 per annum), the decrease in enrollment rates appearn substantial. At
Levels II and III specifically, for which the statistics are more reliable,
the average annual decreases in enrollments between 1984/8! and 1987188
were 92 and 72, respectively, while then were 312 in secondary technical
education. The decline in enrollment at the primary lavel was accompanied
by the closing of a substantial number of schools: between 1982/83 and
1987/88, about 1,600 Level I schools had to be closed, for reasons
including lack of funds, the reluctance of teachers to go to rural areas,
and security problems.
2.08     There is a relatively low overall pupil/teacher ratio at the
primary level, of about 38 to 1, although there is wide geographic
variations the official norm if 50 to 1, and the low average is probably
due to poor distribution of teachers. Visits to schocls indicate much
higher average class sizes in many areas. Multigrade and double-shift



- 4 -
teaching is common (the latter usually involving different teachers).
There are however many under-worked teachers in urban areas (especially
since teachers who are spouses of civil servants are entitled to follow
them if they are transferred, and to continue to be paid whether there is
work for them or not), whereas it is difficult to get them to go to many
rural areas. It appears from the admittedly incomplete statistics that a
substantial proportion (possibly 10) of those paid as teachers are not in
fact working in the educational system. MINESEB is working to develop a
more efficient control of its personnel.
2.09     Education of Women.  At the primary level nation-wide, 441 of the
children in public schools are girls, the same as the average for the
Africa Region. In the area of Antananarivo, the capital, the figure rises
to 482. At the secondary level nation-wide, 40? of students are girls,
compared with a 33Z average for the Africa Region; it is even higher, 50?,
around Antananarivo. However, the proportion of girls enrolled at all
levels is much lower in some areas, particularly rural ones (e.g., 34Z in
Fianarantsoa primary schools), and especially at the secondary level (e.g.,
20S in Mahajanga).  At the universities and in private education, the rate
of male and female enrollment is virtually the same.
2.10     Teacher Training.  Legislation passed in 1978 provides for a
system of teacher training institutions (Ecoles Normales, or EN) for
primary and secondary education Levels I, II and III (referred to as ENI,
EN2, and EN3), although no EN1 had been set up until 1989. The massive
recruitment of nrimarv school teachers in the 1970s was primarily among
possessors of Level II leaving certificates who had volunteered to teach
during their national service, and who were subsequently confirmed as
permanent teachers. The volunteers (SN) received only a few weeks'
preliminary training at 27 institutions set up for this purpose (including
the five centers financed under the 1976 IDA Education Credit (para.
2.40J). SU are now little used -`or Level I. In recent years recruits, who
number only about 100 per year, are mainly people who have obtained
suitable academic credentials privately. In keeping with its newly adopted
education development strategy, the Government plans to set up six ENli--one
for each region--which will have when completed a total annual output of
600 Level I teachers.
2.11     About 35Z of the 6750 Level II teachers are currently temporary
SN, who have passed the baccalaureate and who, after four weeks' training,
teach for one year before entering university. They are ill-paid,
inexperienced and poorly motivated as teachers. In addition about 200
graduates of six regional EN2 were recruited annually. These EN2 operated
in extremely inadequate facilities, offering three-year courses to students
with lower secondary qualifications. The Government now plans to improve
quality of Level II teachers by consolidate their training in two-year
courses at a single national EN2 that will have an annual output of 300
teachers, recruiting at baccalaureate level. It intends progresively to
reduce dependence on SN teachers. Level III teachers are trained in five-
year courses at the three EN3, of which the largest is in Antananarivo.
There is an over-supply of Level III teachers in certain disciplines, and
Government is reducing the entry to the EN3.



-5-
2.12     Private Education.  The Government assigns an Important role to
privat, education, in particular at secondary levels, recognizing that it
cannot meet the full demand for education from public funds. At Levels I,
II and III respectively, private schools cater for 15, 30, and 442 of total
enrollment. Based on incomplete statistics, enrollment in the private
F          system appears to have grown at 32 annually since 1977, and has continued
to grow while public enrollment has been falling.  The most dramatic
increase has been at Level III, of 162 annually.  There are two sorts of
private schools.  The first, mostly in the larger towns, generally offer
high quality programs, and are mainly religious schools, typically
expensive, attracting children from wealthitr families. The second group
consists of schools set up for commercial purposes, also at all levels;
their quality and costs vary greatly. The Government provides a small
subsidy to private education, about 3Z of the total costs, although the
extensive use by private schools of part-time public teachers is in effect
an additional hidden subsidy. Schools must be licensed by the Government,
buvt this does not seeia to be a bar tc entry.
2.13     In addition to the above, a number of upper secondary students and
about 102 of university level students study overseas at their own expense.
However, the recent fall in the value of the Malagasy franc will almost
certainly lead to a decline in the number of students overseas and a
commensurate increase in demand for education in Madagascar.
2.14     Test-book PublishinR.  In recent years there have been few books
available in public schools, apart from some provided by donors (especially
France), which are generally not in Malagasy. The small local publishing
industry has not produced text-books, apart from a few texts prepared by
NGOs, and there are few experienced writers or editors. MINESEB has from
time to time asked teachers to prepare texts for publication, but the
quality of the results has been poor, and resources have been inadequate
for production or distribution. Private schools use whatever material they
can get, produced by themselves or imported. Government wishes to develop
a local capacity to prepare books, and to decide when it would be more
appopriate to import material. It is creating a unit for this purpose, as
described in Chapter III. During project execution it will g'.ve further
thought to how it can best stimulate the development of a local publishing
capacity, with due regard to the advantages of giving a substantial role to
the private sector. A project with German support is training Ministry
staff in text-book writing and publishing, concentrating on books in
Malalgasy for the first years of primary school: it is on this excellent
operation that CRESED will build.
B. EDUCATIONAL REFORM
2.15     Prior to 1975, Madagascar had made little attempt to adapt
education and training to the needs of the country. French was the main
language of instruction, and the implicit goal at each level of instruction
was almost exclusively to prepare students for the next higher level and
ultimately for public employment. Between 1976 and 1978 the Government
adopted education reforms, culminating in the 1978 Education Reform Act,
that constitute the basic reference for all educational measures: even
today, any change in the education s3Jtem must be justified in the context
of that legislation.



2.16     The 1976-78 reform was based on three fundamental principles:
ti) democratization, according to which every child was to have the right
to basic education and a chance of continuing education thereafter; (ii)
decentralization, whereby there would be an equitable distribution of
educational institutions across the nation, as well as a devolution to
local authorities of an important role in management and responsibility;
and (iii) Malagasisation, or the introduction of language, curricula, and
methods of instruction consistent with national objectives.
2.17     The reform was successful in bringing about the large expansion
described earlier. However, the speed and unplanned nature of that
expansion caused numerous problems. Realizing that a dramatic decrease in
the overall quality and credibility of education was taking place, the
Government started in 1985 to make policy changes, giving increased
emphasis to quality rather than to further expansion of the system, and
giving more attention to French as a joint language of instruction. It has
recently prepared a strategy for the long-term development of education,
and a program of actions to implement it, which have been appproved by the
country's technical and political authorities. The strategy is described
below and in Chapter III, together with the program, whose initial phase
constitutes the project.
C. MAJOR SECTORAL ISSUES
2.18     The key issues that need to be tackled in the education sector
ares weak and uncoordinated administration and management; weak education
planning and unreliable statistics; the low quality of education and the
internal and external inefficiency to which it leads; and problems linked
to the cost and financing of education.
2.19     Weak Administration and Management.  As a result of the 1978
reforms, centralized and decentralized administrative systems co-exist
without well-defined functions and responsibilities. Coordination between
the central and regional administrative structures is lacking; there is
inadequate consultation between MINESUP and MINESEB and, within each
ministry, among the various departments and among the centralized and
decentralized structures. At the sub-regional level, there are 110
administrative divisions, responsible for the administration and monitoring
of some 11,600 primary schools and 650 secondary schools. Of the
approximately 5,500 administrative personnel, few have been trained. The
resultant poor monitoring, control, and evaluation of educational
organization and development at the school level have been major handicaps
to ensuring educational quality and good management. Headteachers and
their staff often receive conflicting instructions and requests for
information. There is an urgent need to address the unclear distribution
of responsibilities, lack of training of administrators, and dramatic
shortage of equipment and administrative documentation.
2.20     Education Planning and Statistics.  The unreliability of the datd
on basic education is a significant problem. The Government recognizes
that, without reliable statistics, it cannot proparly manage sector
development or monitor the progress of sector adjustment measures.  As
noted, with PPF financing and the support of UNDP and UNESCO, the



-7
Programming Service in the NINESEB Department of Education Planning and
Programming (Direction de la Planification et de l'Orientation de
l'Enseignement, or DPOE) has initiated a more reliable system of data
collection, using trained specialists and modern equipment. This process
needs to be continued and expanded. Local administrative staff, as well as
field personnel (inspectors and head teachers) need training in the
preparation and use of statistics, and the central services need further
support in conducting surveys, improving analysis, and publishing data.
Further assistance would also ensure that appropriate data are collected to
permit analysis aimed at raising the efficiency of the byatem.
2.21     Whereas there has been improvement in the statistics services,
MINESEB's planning capacity remains weak. At the central level, the DPOE
has had no unit responsible for education planning and very few staff with
training in the economics or planning of education. Nor is the information
derived from statistical analyses, projections, or studies of sector
problems widely available. School mapping is not undertaken at either the
regional or central levels.
2.22     Within this context, efficient sector management is extremely
difficult. A recently approved credit from the AfDB provided funds for the
development of an education planning capacity, and the UNDP anl UNESCO are
expected to expand their ongoing project to support planning. To make
these externally financed efforts effective, the DPOE must be reorganized,
staffed with adequately trained specialists and supplied with modern,
functional equipment.
2.23     Internal Efficiency.  The rapid increases in enrollment during the
last decade, and the implementaticn of new curricula based on extensive use
of Malagasy as the language of instruction, for which teachers were not
trained, have drastically affected not only the quality but also the
internal efficiency of education. Repetition and drop-olut rates at Level I
are very high--35Z and 132, respectively. The repetition rate for the
first grade--482--is particularly high. It has been estimated that the
average child requires about 11 years to complete the 5-year basic
education cycle. Similar problems of repetition are found at Levels II and
III, where the respective rates are 152 and 23Z. Only 20? of baccalaureate
candidates succeed. In the universities the situation is even worse:
70-80? of university students repeat the first year. Because of drop-outs
and repetitions, the number of student-years taught for every university
graduate is abnormally highs at the lower extreme, 21.3 university student-
years to produce a graduate in legal studies, and at the upper limit, 125.3
student-years for mathematics studies, for a normal cycle of four years.
2.24     External Efficiency.  Partly due to the poor quality and
inappropriate conteat of general and technical education, substantial
numbers of school-leavers are unemployed, despite prevailing shortages of
technicians, skilled workers, and middle management. Secondary technical
education is particularly inefficient. Teachers are not trained to
supervise practical vocational training, schools lack materials, and
equipment is often inappropriate. Programs are theoretical, inconsistent
with employment opportunities, and too inflexible to take account of
changing employment needs; employers are not associated with the
determination of program content.



2.25     A project now under preparation, for French and IDA co-financing,
would help the Government to implement the technical and vocational
education part of the long-term education development strategy, bringing
about a fundamental reorganization of vocational and technical education
and training, to relate it to employment needs. The educational pol;-
unit recently created in MINESEB will in coming years work to make general
education curricula more relevant to the social and economic environment.
2.26     Quality of Education. Currently, student achievements are
inadequate. Not only is the percentage of success in tests low, but many
children leaving school at the end of Level II are barely functionally
literate. The main reasons for the declining quality and low internal
efficiency are the high number of unqualified, poorly-paid and ill-
motivated teachers, the large proportion of teachers in Level II who are
inexperienced and untrained SN (para. 2.11), the absence of educational
materials and equipment, the use of two languages for instruction (Malagasy
at Levels I and II and French at Levels III and IV), in neither of which
are teachers proficient, and difficult working conditions, such as
overcrowded classrooms in many areas and dilapidated buildings nearly
everywhere. In addition, the curricula are changed as often as every four
years, without preparing educational materials or providing related teacher
training. Many schools are operating on double shift or multigrade
systems, which reduces student instruction time. The preparation of
teachers' guides and student textbooks has been hampered by the absence of
coordination among the several MINESEB departments theoretically
responsible for preparing, producing and distributing textbookss they have
seemed to compete among themselves rather than pooling their efforts. As a
result, and also because of the lack of resources for publishing and
distributing books, very few are printed, while existing ones are poorly
prepared and presented. Finally, the training programs for teachers are
not designed in keeping with school curricula. Government has now created
a single entity in MINESEB to be responsible for the quality of education,
including curriculum development, teacher training programs, and the
preparation and distribution of educational materials.
2.27     The lack of emphasis on French at Levels II and III from 1975 to
1985 has added to the quality problems at the university level. French is
the official language of instruction, although because so many students
lack fluency many lecturers in fact use Malagasy. While this accommodation
facilitates teaching, students must still take their examinations in
French. Despite the renewed emphasis on French at Levels I through III
since 1985, it will be some years before substantial improvement is seen.
The quality of university education also suffers from overcrowded
facilities, outmoded curricula, untrained teachers, and a lack of books and
teaching materials.
2.28     Education Costs.  Although the unit costs of general education are
low at all levels by regional standards, both absolutely and relative to
GDP per capita, the high enrollment rates lead to high total expenditures.
The extremely high repetition and drop-out rates (para. 2.23) give a high
cost per graduate. Level II has particularly low unit costs, due in part
to the low average teacher qualifications and resulting salaries, and to
the use of National Service teachers; on the other hand, due to low



-9-
studentiteacher ratios, secondary technical education is relatively
expensive. In general education, despite the low level of individual
salaries (about 651 of the Regional everage), the rapid expansion with a
limited budget has meant that 952 of MINESEB expenditures are for salaries;
together with the high proportion of administrative staff and the poor use
of those paid from tee teaching budget, this leaves little for educational
materials. The growth of gigher education to take 282 of the education
budget has reduced the resources available for lower levels, where returns
are far higher.
2.29     In view of the importance of the expenditures for personnel,
management of the teaching staff is crucial to controlling costs. There is
considerable potential for improved utilization of personnel paid out of
the teach!ng budget. The analysis of public employment being carried out
under the Public Sector Adjustment Credit (PSAC, Cr. 1941) will reinforce
NINESEB's efforts to make better use of education personnel; improvement of
sector statistics and computerization of personnel managewent (to be
planned and ialemented under CRESED) will allow more efficient use of the
resources of the education personnel budget.
2.30     The universities have special financial problems.  The high
university enrollment makes costs per student low; however the quality
problems and low promotion rates lead to high costs per graduate. Within
the higher education allocation, 531 of total spending goes for grants and
social expenditures. Social spending is high because of the large number
of students entering the universities (all those who pass the baccalaureate
have the right to a university education, with a grant depending on
income), the low internal efficiency, which has led to excessive rates of
repetition (scholarships are, however, withdrawn from those who receive
very low g;ades at the year-end examinations), the heavy subsidies for
housing and meals at the universities, from which many who are not students
also benefit, and poor university management. The universities are heavily
in debt to suppliers, especially for power and water: indeed the shortage
of funds delayed the start of the 1988189 academic year. Reducing non-
teaching expenditures will be extremely difficult, however; an effort to do
so in 1986 led to riots and was ultimately unsuccessful. A newly-appointed
university management is reasonably adopting a gradualist approach,
strengthening its ability to control the system and to improve educational
quality while developing and starting to implement reform measures.
2.31     While technical education is a relatively small part of the
education sector (3.32 of secondary school students), it accounts for 15?
of secondary education costs. Its unit costs are five times higher than
those of general education, mainly because of low student/teacher ratios.
The Government is revising its technical education strategy, to make it
more relevant to the needs oi the economy and to make more intensive use of
technical education resources. A project is being prepared for possible
IDA and French cofinancing to support the new technical education and
vocational training strategy.
2.32     Education Financing.  Funds for personnel at all levels come
almost entirely from the central budget, although some teachers are
employed by agencies other than MINESEB (for example, the Ministry of
Sports for physical education teachers, Defense for national service



- 10 -
secondary teachers, and the regional authorities for certain primary
teachers). Local authorities, together with parents' associations,
contribute to primary and some lower secondary investment expenditures,
while upper secondary investment is financed by the central government.
However, there has been little investment spend4ng in recent years.
Operational costs (other than -alaries) are aL.-ost entirely a loccl
responsibility, but few local authorities have resources to enable them to
contribute significantly to education. Parents are required to buy
materials (exercise books, pens, etc.) for their children and to pay an
annual charge of about $1 to $3 per annum per child directly to the
schools. While there are systems of school cooperatives and parents'
associations, given the extremely low levels of disposable incomes they
mostly and not surpr i-ingly generate little revenue, especially at the
primary level (a survey during project preparation showed an average for
sch"ol cooperatives of about 25 US cents per child per year), and they
finance no more than 32 of the costs of education. Parents also contribute
in kind to primary school construction. The books financed by the French
Cooperation are being sold to school cooperatives in the hope that parents
will contribute more when they receive a tangible benefit, but there is
little recent experience of parent reactions to availability of reasonable
numbeis of books. Cost recovery will be analyzed during project execution,
and an improved scheme developed.
D. SECTORAL ADJUSTMENT STRATEGY AND POLICY DIALOGUE
2.33     Government Strategy.  During the past few years, the Government
has made a major effort to revise strategy for the education and training
sector.  Since 1983, national commissions and study groups have sought the
advice of the public and of Malagasy and foreign experts in analyzing the
problems facing the sector and in developing that strategy. In 1986 the
UNESCO/World Bank Cooperative Program prepared a sector study in support of
this effort. Subsequently, in October 1986, the Government set up, with
World Bank financing, a Working Group of Malagasy technicians to study the
education and training sector. The final, summary report of this Working
Group (Rapport de Svnthese) was in 1988 submitted to and approved by the
Conseil des Ministres and the Conseil Supreme de la Revolution. The
Government's program for rehabilitation and reform of the system is based
on the framework set forth in that report, as is the proposed project.
2.34     The heart of the education development strategy now adopted
consists of commitments to improve quality at all levels of the system (as
opposed to the 1970s' priority of expanding enrollment), to control
expenditures on education in order to generate the resources needed to
improve quality, and to make technical education and training as relevant
as possible to the needs of the economy. The strategy was discussed with
IDA during project preparation and negotiations, and is described in a
letter sent to IDA (Annex 1).   A sector public expenditure program has
been prepared which reflects these priorities and will be updated annually
in discussion with IDA. Details are in Annex 8.
2.35     Government intends to adopt the following detailed strategies:
(a) To improve teaching quality through an increase in resources
devoted to initial and in-service teacher training, to teacher



support services and teaching materials, and to operating
expenses;
(b) A progressive real increase in spending on primary education, in
order to reach the medium term objective of universal education
for the age group 6 to 12, in private and public education (while
allowing for population growth and the need to improve quality),
together with an increase in non-personnel spending;
(c) A control of the flow of students through the system, and a
reduction in the numbers repeating grades, in order to liberate
resources to permit the other objectives of the strategy;
(d) The full use of teaching and non-teaching personnel, and
recruitment of new teachers in accordance with needs;
(e) Strengthening of the planning and administration of the system to
provide for better use of resources, including clarification of
decentralised responsibilities, better programming and control of
expenditures, and simplification of procedures;
(f) Reallocation of resources within higher education in favor of
quality of education, improving its relevance to the needs of the
economy, improving university administration, and the balance
between costs and the financ:lng available. Pilot operations to
train higher level technicians will be carried out;
(g) Vocational and technical education will be reorganized to match
the needs of the labor market;
(h) Efforts will be undertaken to improve maintenance of school
buildings, including an increase in budgetary allocations, and a
maintenance policy developed.
2.36     Policy dialoRue.  The reform of education strategy is being
undertaken in dialogue with the World Bank, and with support from a PPF
advance. Bank involvement has given Malagasy decision-makers and
technicians the resources to reflect in depth on the problems facing the
sector, with the support of consultants to help to define specific action
programs.  The continued support which the project will provide will enable
these programs to be put into effect, a support which could be provided by
no other donor. It will also maintain the dialogue leading to definition
of more intensive reform programs, especially for higher and technical
education. The position IDA has taken as pre-eminent donor, with France,
in the Malagasy education sector gives us a role of aid coordinator and
helps to provide a framework within which other donors can maximize their
support. Some donors who cannot participate extensively at present hope to
participate in the second phase of the !rogram.
2.37     IDA strategX is to continue the dialogue while financing the first
phase of the rehabilitation and reform program, and so to reinforce the
process described above, leading to the intensification of reform. In this
first phase we seek to improve the quality of education, to strengthen the
administration and planning capabilities of MINESEB, and to start refonm oE



- 12 -
higher education. To reach these objectives, the project will include
structural measures, described in paras 3.05-3.08, as well as investment
and other expenditures. The support that IDA and other donors are expected
to provide in subsequent operations for future phases of the Government's
sector development program would enable it to embark on further sector
reforms, to be defined during project execution, as well as to put into
effect activities (such as the initial and in-service training, book
production and development of vocational and technical education programs)
that will be prepared and started under this first project.
2.38     Public Expenditure Program.  An analysis was carried out of sector
public expenditures in the medium and longer term, taking account of (a)
growth in expenditure implied by past recruitment decisions, (b) the
Government strategies and policy measures described above and in Chapter 3,
and (c) the recurrent cost impacts of CRESED (assuming recruitment by the
public sector of the teachers to be trained under the project) and of other
projects in the PIP. This analysis shows that if Government follows the
CRESED stategies, sector public expenditure would grow at between 2 and 3
percent annually in real terms, a reasonable rate of growth if the economy,
as forecast, experiences medium term positive real per capita growth.
2.39     Expenditure on education materials and other non-personnel costs
has been very low at all levels. Of MINESEB expenditure alone, some 95
percent is for personnel; if parental expenditures are incuded, some 83
percent of all expenditures goes for personnel. The PEP assumptions,
including recurrent costs due to CRESP, will leave room for increased
spending on education materials, so that non-personnel expenditure would go
from 17 to 22 percent by 1995.
BANK GROUP EXPERIENCE WITH PAST LENDING
2.40     The Bank Group has supported two education projects in Madagascar.
The first, in 1967 (Loan 510-MAG), financed a technical education and
secondary teacher xvraining center in Antananarivo. The second, in 1976
(Credit 663-MAG), supported quality improvement and decentralization
through the financing of five provincial centers for in-service teacher
training and education administration, as well as a unit to produce
educational materials. Both projects attained their physical objectives,
but educationally neither can be considered completely satisfactory. The
institutions are not fully utilized, partly because of a lack of operating
resources and partly because of changes in the Government's teacher
training strategy. The education materials unit appears to be performing
reasonably well. CRESED is designed to make maximum use of the facilities
financed by these credits. Project completion reports were issued in 1976
and 1987: the latter drew attention to the need for a clear definition of
project unit responsibilities, for coordination between physical and
educational components, and for good control of building implementation.
2.41     In addition to the two education projects, two Technical
Assistance projects (Crs. 1155-HAG and 1661-MAG), approved in 1981 and
1986, supported establishment of an Accounting and Management Training
Center (INSCAE). The first project was completed with excellent results,
and the second is being executed relatively well.



- 13 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND SECTOR POLICIES
Obiectives
3.01     The overall objective of CRESED is to help the Government to start
to implement its education development program, designed to improve the
quality and the internal and external efficiencies of the education system.
The program is designed to implement the strategy described in paras.
2.33-2.39 above and in Annex 1. It will be developed further with IDA
assistance, during project implementation. An integral part of the sector
development program will be the introduction of a system of Public
Expenditure (PEP) and Public Investment (PIP) programming for the sector.
3.02     It is expected that the education development program will be
implemented over 10 to 15 years, and will be articulated essentially around
four major topicst (a) strengthening the administrative, planning and
monitoring capabilities of the sector; (b) improving the quality of
education at all levels, especially Levels 1 and 2, and adopting cost-
efficiency measures based on a tight control of expenses to free resources
for use on quality improvement; (c) regulating student flows through the
system to encourage the qualitative and quantitative development of basic
education while improving quality at other levels; (d) introducing new
higher education programs, inc.-%ding vocationally-oriented short cycles,
flexible enough to be adopted rapidly to the country's needs; and (e)
reorganizing the vocational training and technical education systems under
a coordinating structure which will establish a close link between training
and employment requirements.
3.03     This first credit would assist in implementing the start of the
program, by financing actions which start during the period 1990-93. The
project's short-term objectives would be three-fold. First, assisting the
Government in the detailed preparation (including investment in
infrastructure and training) of its long-term education development program
focussing on the objectives already discussed and approved. Second,
helping the Government in implementing sectoral adjustment measures which
are crucial for the success of the program. Third, financing immediate
actions aiming at preparing a solid and permanent bas'.s for the future
expansion of the program. The financing of this first part of the program
implies that the proposed project should be followed by other financing for
subsequent phases, by bilateral and/or multilateral donors, possibly
including a second IDA credit. The framework of the program has already
been presented to the major donors, who strongly support its content, and
some of whom have committed financing. The program also complements, and
is partly dependent on, measures being taken under the Public Sector
Adjustment Project, in progress with IDA support. The sector adjustment
measures and investment actior.s to be implemented in the course of the
proposed project are detailed below.
3.04     The project will be implemented in two phases.  Actions reserved
for the second phase have a total cost of about $15 million. They will be



-14-
I
undertaken after a joint review, expected to take place in the latter half
of 1991, of progress during the first stage, as well as of the content of
the action plans described below, and of the time-tables established by tne
authorities for their implementation.
Sectoral Adiustment Measures
3.05     The policy measures to be carried out in conjunction with CRESED
(Annex 2) fall into three categories: strengthening administrative and
planning capabilities and improving the quality of education; controlling
recurrent costs while maintaining or lowering the share of education in the
recurrent budget; and improving the efficiency of the sector.
3.06     Category 1.  In order to strengthen sector administrative,
management and planning capabilities, and to improve the quality of
education, the following measures will be pursued:
(a) Measure No 1. DPOE has been reorganized into three departments
and thus concentrates its activities on planning, statistics. and
programming. The first department, to be developed under the
project and with AfDB assistance, will be responsible for
education planning, and the preparation of education development
plans and investment programs. The second, whose nucleus has
been built up with support from the PPF and from a UNESCO/UNDP
project, will collect, analyze and publish education statistics.
The third will be for evaluation and programming.
(b) Measure No. 2. Under the direct authority of the Minister of
MINESEB, a new department, known initially as the Pedagogical
Unit (Unite d'Etude et de Recherche Pedagogiques, or UERP) but to
be developed later into an education institute, has been created,
with responsibility for all aspects of educational quality, such
as curriculum development, content of teacher training programs,
preparation and distribution of teachers' guides and textbooks,
and supervision and evaluation of education reforms. All
necessary measures will be taken for UERP to become fully
operational, with a status equivalent to a "direction" of
MINESEB, transferring to it pedagogical functions relating to
training and teaching programs and the conception and preparation
of teaching materials, before credit effectiveness.
(c) Measure No. 3. In order to prepare in detail the university
reform program which the G,vernment is implementing, the
university authorities will develop action plans, to include
modernizing curricula, strengthening university management, and
improving the cost/financing balance so as to permit increased
expenditure on the quality of l-igher education. These plans will
be discussed at the mid-term review.
(d) Measure No. 4. A national structure will be cr-*ted to
coordinate vocational training and technical education
activities. It will be responsible for establishing training
policies in keeping with the country's needs, elaborated in close



- 15 -
cooperation with public and private sector employers. The
Government intends to create the training coordination structure
by the end of 1990. A vocational and technical education and
training project is being prepared to support it.
3.07     Category 2.  To control recurrent costs and to free resources to
finance quantitative increases in basic education and qualitative
improvement at all levels, without increasing the share of the sector in
the Government's recurrent budget, the following measures are planned:
(a) Measure No. 5. An annual, three-year rolling PEP will be
prepared, following the Government strategy for management of the
student flows through the system. It will provide inter alia
fort (a) redistribution of the education budget to increase
expenditure on basic education both in real terms and as a
proportion of the overall education budget; (b) priority to
expenditures for quality improvement over expansion of the
system; and (c) budgetary provision for infrastructure
maintenance. New expenditure on vocational training and
technical education will be committed only in accordance with
employment requirements, on recommendation of the Coordinating
Structure (Measure No. 4). By October 31 of each year, a three-
year sector PEP will be ready for review and approval by IDA.
(b) Measure No. 6.   .e cost-efficiency of the system will be
improved by measW -s including: (i) improved payroll management
and control, notably as a result of the census of the civil
service undertaken by end-1989 under the Public Sector Adjustment
Credit and complementary action taken by MINESEB financed from
the PPF, which should reduce payroll irregularities; (ii) the
redeployment of teachers from non-teaching to teaching positions;
and (iii) from surplus to deficit school districts, in particular
to those with closed schools. These objectives would be obtained
through a combination of administrative enforcement measures and
of incentives, which will be defined during the first phase of
CRESED. Action plans in these areas will be prepared prior to
the mid-term review.
(c) Measure No. 7. With the exception of the new streams to be
opened at the Higher Technological Institutes (Instituts
Superieurs de Technologie--IST), no new faculties will be created
at any of the universities before June 30, 1993. Subsequent
university expansion will be considered in relation to training
needs, curriculum development and levels of university spending.
3.08     Category 3.  To improve the efficiency of the education and
training systems the following measures are planneds
(a) Measure Vo. 8. Student flows through the system will be
regulated to increase emphasis on basic education, and to limit
pressures on secondary and higher education. The Government has
set medium-term targets for annual increases in the numbers of
students entering public schools in Grade 1 (Level I) of 42, in



- 16 -
grade 6 (Level It) of 2Ss in grade 10 (Level III) of 1Z, and 0.51
entering Level IV (university).
(b) Measure No. 9. There will be progressive reduction of the rates
of repetition in basic education. To strengthen the effects of
the introduction of quality improvement measures, administrative
directives will be issued to set targets for primary school
repetition rates in each section of not more than 252 in 1991,
20Z in 1992, 15 2 in 1993, and 10? in 1994. While the change may
pose some -isks to the quality of education, they will be
minimized Dy the actions financed by CRESED and its economic
benefits will be high. This measure will need to be moiitored
carefully.
(c) Heasure No. 10. As trained or otherwise experienced teachers
become available in Level II schools, the use of SN teachers will
be phased out.
3.09     The above sectoral adjustment measures are expected to arrest the
decline in primary enrollment. The main effects are expected to be to
increase net enrollment and the number of years spent in primary school,
while the gross primary enrollment rate will probably continue to fall.
Total public sector primary enrollment is forecast to increase by about
30,000 by school year 1992193. The education budget would be restructured
to increase expenditure on tasic education, but because of the contrary
effects on public spending of the recruitment in recent years of secondary
teachers, the restructuring is expected only to maintain MINESEB spending
on primary education as a proportion of total public expenditure devoted to
primary and secondary education at about 722. To ensure that the quality
of basic and lower secondary education is improved at the same time as the
sectoral adjustment measures are implemented, the newly reorganized DPOE
intends to conduct studies to monitor the impact of measures to improve the
efficiency of education.
3.10     Progress in implementing the sectoral adjustment measures is
necessary to generate the savings required to provide a recurrent budget
that permits expansion of the basic education system and improvement of the
quality of education. Annual reviews of program and policy implementation
will be conducted by Government technicians and donor representatives in
the context of the sector PEP discussione. A mid-term review report on
progress on the project and the Government's sector strategy will be
subn.tted to IDA, together with the action plans on university reform,
administrative strengthening, and text-book distribution and cost-recovery,
by December 31, 1991. Items falling into the second phase of the present
project will be financed and processed only if the mid-term review is
satisfactory and agreement is reach;d on the action plans. A sector review
will take place six months before the end of the project, with Government
and donor representatives, focussing on financing needs and plans.



- 17 -
B.       PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Component Is DeveloDment of Sector Administrative. an-aaement. and Planning
CaPacities
3.11     Strentthening of Sector Management.  CRESED will include a study
to help define and carry out measures and actions required to make better
use of sector personnel, . i to improve sector management. The study is to
be carried out with the active participation of MINESEB managers and staff
and would result in action programs: (i) to improve the deployment of
sector personnel (see Measure No. 6); (ii) to clarify and systematize
administrative responsibilities of the MINESEB administrative divisions, as
well as delegation of authority between levels of decentralization, and to
develop the corresponding operational manuals; (iii) to develop a basic
program to triin administrative personnel; (iv) to streamline
Administrative procedures, particularly those concerning personnel
mnagement; and (v) gradually to modernize and develop sector information
systems, notably those affecting sector management. In addition to the
study and its implementation, CRESED will (4) provide MINESEB headquarters
and its regional and subregional offices with an initial packLve of
transportation, office and communication equipment, and (ii) help MINESEB's
Legislative Service reproduce and distribute widely existing legal and
administrative materials.
3.12     The study would require abcut 24 person-months of consultants for
the development of action programs, and a further 36 person-months for
Implementation. The project would also fund the participation of MiNESEB
staff (travel and subsistence), and the logistic requirements of the study,
such as two vehicles, office equipment, and accommodation. In addition,
CRESED vili fund (i) implementation of the training program for sector
administrators which would be established under the study; (ii) office and
coumunications equipment for improvements to be implemented folljwing the
study; (iii) equipment for MINESEB headquarters and regional offices
involvini cars (12), motorcycles (20), bicycles (100), and office
equipuert; and (iv) the cost of reproduction of basic organizational and
trainiraa materials.
3.13     Strengthening of education vlanning cagabilitiess To enable
NuESEB and MINESUP to plan education development on the basis of reliable
statistics and in relatior to Madagascar's human resource development
needs, CRESED will assist the Government in its efforts ,o increase the
efficiency of its two education planning departments. The component will
complement activities financed by the AfDB. It will encompasz dlfferent
actions: (a) edacation planners and statisticians will be trained locally
ard abroad, and technical assistance will be provided, mostly ou a short-
term basis; (b) modern equipment for treatment of educational statistics
will be installeds; (c) the six regional administrations (DEPESEB and
universities) will be strengthened to allow them to prepare regional
statistice, school maps and development plans; and (d) education cost and
financing will be scrutinized and closely monitored, and a three-year
rolling PEP will be prepared and updated each year. This program is
expected to start immediately, concentrating in the short term on
strengthening DPOE, in view of its key role in sector management. A
ccordinating committee grouping the two DPOs will be set up to ensure that
ill future education development plans are closely Integrated.



- 18 -
3.14     Reorganization of the DPOE.  The DPOE will be responsible for
preparing the Government's long-term education development program for
primary and secondary education. It will also oversee implementation of
sectoral adjustment measures, including conduct of the studies in support
of sectoral adjustment programs, and will develop subsequent sectoral
adjustment and growth plans and cost-effectiveness measures. It is being
reorganized into separate planning and statistics services (para. 3.06,
measure no.1). CRESED will assist It in: ti) preparing studies on the
internal and external efficiency of education and on the implementation of
measures to increase cost-efficiency; (ii) establishing iost-control and
public expenditure programming systems; (iii) planning enrollment targets
at each level of education, estimating budgetary needs, and identifying
measures to generate necessary financing; (iv) the collection and analysis
of rector-wide demographic and budgetary statistics and their publication
annually; Cv) supervising the school mapping system and, on this basis,
programming of the development of primary and secondary education; and (vi)
preparing and implementing annual seminars for regional administrative
staff, inspectors and headmasters, on the collection of statistics, school
mapping, and projection of the real demand for schooling.
3.15     CRESED will contribute to the strengthening of planning and
statistics activities, financing minor rehabilitation of facilities,
furniture, computer and office equipment, preparation and implementation of
computerized systems for statistics, administration and planning, overseas
training (37 person/months), local training of about 15,000 head teachers
and 30 regional planners, and other staff, and the incremental costs of
operating the newly acquired equipment, organizing local training seminars,
and conducting regional surveys to support the studies to be undertaken.
3.16     Studies.  Among priority studies to be carried out with CRESED
finance aret
(a) Preventive Maintenance. The education ministries have difficulty
maintaining school and administrative buildings partly because of
lack of funds, partly due to the absence of a maintenance
strategy, and partly due to weak sector management. The project
will include a sub-component to support development of a
maintenance strategy. The PEP will be expected to provide
budgetary support to building maintenance. The project will
include 6 man-months of consultant time.
(b) Book Distribution and Cost Recovery. During project execution
Government will study how to improve the present system of
school-book distribution, storage, and cost recovery (see para
3.36). The study report will be prepared before the mid-term
review of the project.
The project will also include $1.3 million (of which $800,000 will be in
the second phase) to finance studies to support development of the
mducation sector, as may be identified during project implementation,
including to analyze problems facing the sector and for preparation of
components of projects in support of future phases of the sector
reinforcement program.



- 19 -
3.17     Establishment of a Proiect Coordination Capacity.  The
Government's sector development program, particularly the sectoral
adjustment measures, include activities that affect both MINESEB and
MINESUP. The project would develop a capacity to coordinate, support, and
monitor implementation of the long-term education development program and
to manage the proposed and other future education projects under the
program. To that e i, Committees for Coordination of Education Projects
(CCPE) and for Cooruination of Pedagogical bctivities (CCAP), together with
an Education Project Office (BPE) have been established under the two
education ministers. The Project Coordinator-General, the chairperson of
CCPE, is the recently appointed Minister of MINESEB, who as Secretary-
General of MINESUP successfully assumed similar responsibilities for
project preparation. CCPE consists only of him and the two Secretaries-
General; CCAP, chaired by the Secretary-General of MINESEB, has as members
the senior personnel of the two ministries. Government will keep BPE
functioning during project eiecution, with a director having qualifications
acceptable to IDA.
3.18     BPE staff will include a project director, and bpecialists in
architecture, procurement and accounting, with supporting staff. The two
secretaries-general will act as project coordinators for their respective
ministries. CCPE will provide general coordination of the project, and set
the program of project activities; CCAP will provide detailed coordination,
and supervise and monitor implementation of the education development
program. BPE will provide the secretariat fot the two committees, and help
the ministry staff responsible for the different sub-components in day-to-
day implemantation, prepare bid documents, propose contract awards, assist
in recruitment of specialists, management of fellowship programs, and
financing of project expenses.
3.19     Decrees establishing BPE, CCPE and CCAP have been issued, and the
Coordinator General and Project Director have been appointed. Before
effectiveness of the Credit, all measures necessary for BPE to be fully
operational will have been taken.
3.20     For BPE the Credit will finances the rehabilitation of existing
facilities; furniture and equipment, including vehicles and computer and
office equipment; 14 man-months of specialist services, to include 3 man-
months for external audits by a local auditor, 12 man-months of training,
fees for contractual staff, and indemnities for supplemental work done by
local specialists; and operating costs.
Component 2s Improvement of the Quality of Basic and General Secondary
Education
3.21     Setting-up a Denartment for Educational Activities.  To enhance
MINESEB's capacity to devise, initiate, implement and supervise activities
to improve the quality of education at primary and secondary levels, CRESED
will support the establishment of a new department for education
activities, to be known initially as the Pedagogical Unit (UERP). It will
probably eventually develop into an education institute (para. 3.06,
Measure No. 2). UERP will be the means by which the project wills (i)
prepare new curricula and develop teaching methods and materials based on



- 20 -
classroom research and experimentations (ii) prepare pre-service and in-
service training programs for inspectors, education advisors, headmanters,
and teachers; (iii) organize preparation of textbooks and teachers' guides,
and supervise their publication and distribution; and (iv) develop tests in
different subjects, starting with Malagasy, French, and mathematics, to
assess student progress over time. (Annex 10 shows the UERP structure.)
3.22     Project funds will finance rehabilitation of a building for UERP;
furniture and equipment; 12 man-months of services of local and foreign
specialists; 18 mAn-months of fellowships and costs for training abroad;
study travel for six people to visit other comparable units; and the
incremental costs of operating the equipment, organizing local training
seminars, conducting regional surveys and tests, and preparation of
educational materials and textbooks.
3.23     Strengtheninx the Role of Inspectors. Education Advisors, and
Headmasters in Teacher Support and Educational Administration.  To enhance
the indispensable role of inspectors, education advisors, and headmasters
in monitoring teachers, on-the-job training, and conducting training
sessions and seminars at the local level, the project will, under the
supervision of UERP, strengthen the regional and local structures for
education supervision in various ways. (a) The number of inspectors and
senior education advisors will be increased to 220 and 450, respectively,
at Level I, and 35 senior advisors, recently be recruited will be trained
at Level II. This increase will take place over three years. Good primary
teacherp will be promoted as inspectors/advisors, and trained in a two-
month seminar at the existing EN 3 in Antananarivo. The 35 Level II
inspectors will be trained abroad. (b) The 1,350 local teaching advisors
will be re-trained by the inspectors over two years in annual three-week
regional seminars. They will, in turn, under the supervision of the
inspectors and education advisors, train the 13,200 headteachers.
(c) Means will be introduced whereby the inspectors and the senior and
local education advisors can work with teachers on a regular basis. The
inspectors will have access to the two vehicles to be provided to each of
the six regional administrations, although vehicles will not be provided
for each inspector or advisor. The project will also finance per diem
allowances and travel expenses for local private transportation, while
small numbers of bicycles, motorcycles and other transport equipment will
be provided on a pilot basis to sub-regional administrations.
3.24     This component will receive technical support from French
Cooperation in the form of three education advisors at each regional
inspectorate. Project funds will finance rehabilitation of facilities for
training; furniture and equipment for these facilities and equipment for
the regional inspectorates; 2 man-months of technical assistance; 420 man-
months of training abroad for the 35 Level II inspectors; the organization
of local seminars; travel expenses and per diems for the supervision of
teachers; and the operation of the equipment provided.
3.25     Enhancing Teachins Staff Effectiveness Through Pre-service and In-
service Training. Insufficient training for Levels I and II teachers is a
main cause of low education quality (paras. 2.10-2.11). It is urgent to
begin training new Level I teachers, to improve initial training of Level
II teachers, and to train the teachers already in service who are



- 21 -
inadequately trained. Under the coordination of UERP, the project will
support establishment of pre-service training for Level I teachers,
strengthen pre-service training for Level II teachers, and develop in-
service training, to be carried out over a long period, for teachers at
both levels. These training schemes are described below.
3.26     Pre-service trai!iina.  The annual medium-term need for new primary
and lower secondary teachers (Levels I and II) is about 600 and 300
respectively. This estimate assumes some improvement in the efficiency of
use of existing teachers and is based ont an annual attrition rate of about
12 per year; an annual increase of 3.5-4.02 in the numbers of children
entering primary school (the age group is growing at about 3.5Z annually),
balanced by reducing repetition; a slow annual increase in Level II
enrollment of about 1Z; and progressive replacement of temporary SN
teachers to increase quality at Level II. The forecast 32 annual increase
in the national budget over the medium term, together with attrition and
economies in the use of teaching and non-teaching personnel, are expected
to provide sufficient funds for MINESEB to recruit the 900 needed.
Government also plans for some of these teachers to be recruited by the
private sector. Government plans to operate the training colleges financed
by CRESED at full capacity, and to ensure that at least 600 qualified Level
I and 300 qualified Level II teachers are recruited annually when the
facilities are completed.
(a) Level I. Pre-service training will be offered at six
regional teacher training colleges (EN1), each to provide a two-
year program for an annual output of 100 teachers at full
capacity. Selected buildings, most of which have recently been
used for training Level II teachers (see below), will be
rehabilitated, three in each phase of the project. Teacher
training programs that have already been prepared will be reviewed
by specialists from UERP, who will organize the training of EN1
teacher trainers. Every effort will be made to minimize the costs
of this component by using existing buildings and by retraining a
substantial number of the teaching staff of the six EN2 to work in
the EN1. The project will finance rehabilitation, furniture, and
equipment, including two vehicles for each EN1; 138 man-months of
local training; and operating expenses for the EN1.
(b) Level II. Until 1989 a poor-quality three-year Level II
teacher training program was offered at six colleges. The program
is now being consolidated into one national training college, EN2,
in Antananarivo. Recruitment for EN2 will be at the baccalaureate
level (instead of the lower secondary qualification previously
required); 300 student teachers per year will be trained in a two-
year program, approximately the same number as in recent years.
*  existing EN2 in Antananarivo will be rehabilitated.  The
project (in the second phase) will finance rehabilitation,
furniture, and equipment, including two vehicles; 3 man-months of
specialist services for the preparation of the training program;
115 man-months of local training of EN2 teachers and 3 man-months
for visits to comparable institutions abroad; and the i-acremental
operating costs of the EN2 (in both phases of the project since it
will start operating on a reduced scale in existing premises).



- 22 -
3.27     In-service Training of Level I Teachers.  Since no training
schools for Level I teachers have functioned since 1972, about 27,000 of
the 32,000 public sector teachers have received insufficient training. A
long-term program for in-service teacher training has accordingly been
prepared. Over 10 to 12 years. the skills of all primary teachers will be
upgraded by an integrated program of three levels of training:
(a) on-the-job training under the guidance of head teachers, who will
be prepared for this purpose under the project (para. 3.23).
tb) a six-week upgrading course at 64 training centers, under the
direction of inspectors and education advisors, to be prepared
under the projact (half in each phase). Forty teachers will
eventually be trained at each center for an nnual output of
about 2,500.
(c) permanent monitoring by education advisors and headteachers.
3.28     The In-service training program will be prepared by UERP, and its
implementation will be supervised by the Director of Basic Education and
the MINESEB regional directors (DPESEB). The project will prepare the
elements necessary for this long-term program to start; initial operation
of the program will be included, but its full-scale functioning will be
incorporated in subsequent projects in support of the education development
program. The project will therefore supportt the preparation of training
programs through UERP; the training of the staff who will execute the in-
service training; rehabilitation of facilities; provision of teachers'
guides and other materials; and initial operation of the program.
3.29     CRESED would finance, split between the tWo phasess (i) the
rehabilitation of 64 training facilities; (ii) furniture, mostly beds for
student boarders; (iii) equipment for the training centers; (iv) 12 man-
months of technical assistance; (v) 60 staff-months of local training; (vi)
incremental operating costse and (vii) travel and subsistence for the
inspectors, education advisors, and teachers undergoing training.
3.30     In-service Training of Level IT Teachers.  Because the existing
EN2 have been training 200 teachers annually, many of the permanent
teaching staff at Level II are better trained than those at Level I.
instead, the main problem is that about 2,500 of the 6,750 Level II
teachers are young students doing their national service (SN), who teach
for only eight months, following a few weeks' orientation, before going to
university. It is therefore difficult to adopt a training strategy for
them similar to that proposed for Level I teachers. There is already a
training framework based on School Education Committees, bringing teachers
together regularly, for short periods, to discuss education subjects and
new techniques. Because of budget constraints, the committees do not
function properly, and some do not meet.
3.31     The training program for Level II teachers will be organized
around education committees for groups of schools, revitalized as Inter-
school Education Comnittees (Comites Pddagogiques Inter-tablissement, or
CPIs).  Level II teachers will receive three types of training annually:



- 23 -
(a) On-the-job training under the supervision of education advisors,
35 of whom have recently been appointed.
(b) An annual one-week CPIE session, organised and supervised by
CPIE advisors, who will be trained in three-week vacation
sessions. There will be about 100 CPIEs, providing annual up-
grading sessions for all Level II teachers, both permanent and
SN teachers. All permanent teachers are to receive this
training over about 7 years.
(c) Close monitoring by the education advisors.
The CPIE vill also help upgrade Level III teachers, with training sessions
financed by French Cooperation, as well as CRESED.
3.32     The secondary-teacher upgrading program is expected to last from 7
to 10 years; the project will finance the preparatory and initial phases.
The financing will support: (i) rehabilitation of a few facilities for the
CPTUs (most are in adequate condition); tii) furniture and equipment; (iii)
about 200 man-months of local training; and (iv) the incremental costs of
the CPIE training sessions.
3.33     Provision of Textbooks and Teachers' Guides.  To increase the
supply of textbooks and teachers' guides and to ensure their relevance for
students and teachers, the project will establish and strengthen a Textbook
Publishing Unit within UERP to manage the process of creating, adapting,
and publishing textbooks and teachers' guides. Given the urgent need for
textbooks, the proposed project will have two objectives: (i) to create the
conditions for future book publishing on a large scale by setting up the
necessary structure within UERP, and (ii) to publish and distribute about
nine textbooks, other teaching materials, and about seven teachers' guides,
divided between the two phases of the project. It is expected that, with
the support it will receive under this project, UERP will increasingly be
able to direct the publishing process, to train and guide authors, to
assess, revise and edit manuscripts, and to procure printing and any
supplementary publishing services. Where appropriate on economic and
educational grounds, it would procure books from outside sources, either
domestic or foreign. The UERP will evaluate manuscripts, test books in
classrooms, and organize the training of teachers in the use of the
textbooks. A National Commission for the Evaluation of School Textbooks is
to be created, which will have formal responsibility for deciding on the
suitability of manuscripts proposed. Experience under the first project
will allow the organization of the UERP book publishing unit to be refined,
so that by the time of the next stage of the program it will be capable of
handling larger responsibilities.
3.35     The UERP book unit will incorporate the German and Malagasy
specialists who through a project (Tef'Boky), with German financing, have
already prepared books in Malagasy book for Level 1, wLich are expected to
be published and distributed under CRESED.  The project will provide
further technical assistance in publishing, with German co-financing.  It
will provide for technical assistance in supervising bidding and awarding
contracts for procurement of books, and of publishing, printing and other
services, and will support the development of future publishing capacity.



- 24 -
3.36     MINUSEB carries out distribution of such books as are available
through its own channels (the "Service des Oeuvres Peri- et Para-
Scolaires', OPPS).  For the time being the same arrangemeats will be
followed under the project. The Government has considered several options
for cost recovery for books, includingt
(a) The sale of books to parents at production prices through private
bookstores. This solutioa would increase the disadvantages
suffered by rural students.
(b) The sale of textbooks to school cooperatives at a reduced unit
cost, with the money to be collected at the regional level and
then sent to MINESEB. The school cooperatives would make their
own arrangements for cost recovery at the school level.
(c) Distribution of books to students in exchange for a loan fee,
with the books remaining the property of M$NESEB.
3.37.    The Government is likely to adopt solition (b) for project books,
at least during the first phase of the project. The books received from the
French Ministry of Cooperation are currently distributed through OPPS and
sold to school cooperatives. Arrangements for book cost recovery and
textbook storage will be studied during the first part of the project (para
3.16.), and proposals will be agreed prior to the second phase.
3.38     Project funds will finance the publication, printing, and
distribution of about three textbooks, about three teachers' guides, and
other teaching materials in the first phase of the project. Two of these
books are being tested and will be ready for printing during 1990. About
six other textbooks, four teachers' guides, and other teaching materials
will be published in the second phase. Sufficient books will be printed for
each textbook to be shared, in general, by two students, except for the
first year Malagasy reading book for which Government plans to distribute
one book per child. The project assumes an average book life of three
years. Project funds will be provided for purchase of books and of
copyright; of printing and publishing services; equipment, including
storage for textbooks (in phase $$ following the phase I study of storage
and distribution); 36 man-months of specialist services for the publishing
unit (mostly from German cofinancing); 12 man-months of overseas training;
and the incremental operating expenses of the book unit and for the
delivery of books, mainly by private transportation firms.
3.39     Laboratory UDarading.  The project will include minor
rehabilitation of buildings, materials and equipmeat, to complement a
project supported by French Cooperation to up-grade secondary school
laboratories.
3.40     Environmental. Nutritional, and Povulation Education.  The
establishment of UERP will provide a means for coordinating educational
activities on such concerns as the environment, nutrition, and population.
UNICEF, the World Wildlife Fund (VW), and other agencies have supported
projects to introduce such subjects into school curricula, but their



- 25 -
efforts have suffered from a lack of interest on the part of teachers and
the absence of coordination. UERP will prepare by June 30, 1991, plans to
integrate nutritional, environmental, and population education into school
curricula. The development of such plans will be financed as necessary
under the project.
3.41     Women's Education. Wt  a by Regional standards the female
proportion of the school population is on average high, there are areas
where it is still undesirably low (para 2.09). Government will prepare by
June 30, 1991, programs to improve the rates of female enrollment,
supported as necessary by studies under the project.
Component 3: Strengthening Hither Education
3.42     Traiaina Technicians at the Hiaher Education Level. Employers
have identified priority needs for trained technicians between the levels
of skilled workers and engineers, and for middle level managers. The
project will accordingly assist in setting up two Higher Technological
Institutes (Instituts Sup4rieurs de Technologie, or IST), at Antananarivo
and Antseranana (Diego-Suare:), to provide training in mechanical and
electro-mechanical maintenance, building, and civil works, and in office/
management skills. Depending on the success of these two undertakings,
other ISTs would be planned for subsequent projects. The IST will help
reduce overcrowding at the universities: they will offer a two-year program
that many students with university entrance qualifications are expected to
prefer, as it will equip them for employment. Entry will be competitive;
students will be allowed to remain in the IST no more than three years, and
to reduce sub-sector costs will not be entitled to enter university for
five years after leaving an IST. Incremental recurrent expenditures are to
be kept low by use to the extent possible of existing teachers and
facilities (for example, the Public Works Training Center established under
IDA-financed highway projects, and buildings no longer needed by the
Polytechnic Institutes in Antananarivo and Antseranana).
3.43     The project will finances rehabilitation/adaptation of existing
facilities and minor construction; furniture and equipment; 51 man-months
of specialist services to prepare IST programs and to provide teaching
assistance; 42 man-months of training abroad; and operating costs.
3.44     Strengthening the Administrative and Planning Capabilities of
MINESUP and the Universities. Higher education is confronted with major
problems of internal inefficiency and costs that consume too large a
proportion of the recurrent budget and make it exceedingly difficult to
provide quality education in much of the system. The Government had
previously attempted unsuccessfully to implement cost-control policies: in
1986 it introduced measures including, in particular, the exclusion of
students who had failed end-year examinations too frequently. After four
months of student unrest, supported by leaders of the political opposition,
implementation was postponed. The earlier inability to introduce reforms
was the result, in part, of the political sensitivity of higher education,
but also of poor preparation of the measures, and an administrative system
which had difficulty in supporting their implementation, such as a means o:-
tracking repeaters and student transfers from one faculty to another. The
project would assist the Government and the university authorities to study



- 26 -
the different problems of quality, cost, financing and administration they
face, and to develop proposals to strengthen the system.
3.45     To improve administrative procedures and student control and
monitoring, the project would include an analysis of university
administration. On the basis of this study and other reflections,
Government would prepare action plans for improving university
administration and improving the cost-financing balance. The project would
assist the Government in computerizing enrollment and personnel management,
initially under contract with a company owning computer facilities, to
monitor students during the course of their studies, to rationalize the use
of teaching and non-teaching staff, and to improve control of aocial
expenses. Other actions (phase 1) include, after appropriate analysis
during the second phase of the project, the installment of a more permanent
computerized management system, and the training of administrative
personnel. The project would also support the statistics and planning
services of MINESUP, with minor rehabilitation of facilities, equipment and
training.
3.46     Preparation of New Curricula for Universities.  The higher
education curricula currently in use are generally out of date and not
adapted to Madagascar's needs. The universities have set up study groups
to identify gaps in current curricula and to make new proposals. The
project will provide curriculum development specialists and support for the
study 3roups through technical assistance, training of curriculum
development specialists, study tours abroad and operating expenses. This
component will benefit from inter-university and other bilateral
assistance. In phase II university books and equipment, and training of
university teachers would be provided.
3.47     Employment Information System.  To facilitate students leaving the
universities, CRESED will support establishment of a system to provide
students with information and advice on employment and career
possibilities.
3.48     For the university sub-components. the project would finance,
during Phase I, (a) expenses of studies carried out by the university
authorities, including about 24 manmonths of specialist services to analyze
university needs, and to make proposals for reorganization and
re...rforcement; (b) study trips for university authorities to examine
experience in other countries; and (c) estaDiishment of an employment
information system. During Phase II it would finance: (a) 60 manmonths of
training abroad and locally for administrators and teachers; tc) computer
systems and programs; (d) relatively small amounts of computer and office
equipment, as well as communications facilities to link the six
universities and MINESUP; (e) university books; and (f) laboratory
equipment.
C.  PROJECT COST AND FIRANCING PLAN
3.49     Project Cost.  The total project cost is estimated at US$ 55.0
mil icn equivalent including US$ 6.4 million in taxes and with a foreign
exchange component of US$ 34.9 million (722). The base cost estimates have
been. adftsted to December, 1989, the date of negotiations, on the basis of
May, L909 prices.  The estimated project costs are summarized in Table 3.1.



- 27 -
Table 3.1s PROJECT COSTS
FMG (billion)            US$ (million)      Z Base
Local   Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total Cost
I. Administration and
Planning                   7.5      7.7    15.2      4.8      5.1     9.9   23
2.  Quality and Efficiency    8.8       24.8    33.6     5.7    16.1    21.8   54
Improvement
3. Higher Education            1.6      11.9    13.5     1.1      7.7     8.8   23
TOTAL BASE COST        17.9     44.4    62.3    11.6    28.9    40.5
4. Contingencies
a.  Physical (10X)         2.0      3.7      5.7     1.4      2.3     3.7   10
b.  Price                  1.3      5.5      6.8     0.8      3.6     4.4   12
SUB-TOTAL               3.3      9.2    12.5      2.2     5.9      8.1   22
TOTAL PROJECT COST    21.2      53.6    74.8    13.8    34.8    48.6
TAXES                   9.9     --        9.9     6.4    --        6.4
INCLUDING TAXES        31.1     53.6    84.7    20.2    34.8    55.0
3.50     Continaency Allowances.  An average of 10  (US$ 3.7 million) for
physical contingencies has been applied to the base project costs. Price
contingencies are based on the implementation schedule and the following
expected annual price increases:
1989   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
Fen3   --53   .041   -041   -041   -041   --41
Foreign                    .053   .053   .041   .041   .041   .041   .041
Local                      .053   .053   .041   .041   .041   .041   .041
3.51     Financing Plan.  An IDA Credit of Special Drawing Rights (SDR)
30.4 million (US$ 39.0 million) is proposed.  The UNDP, OPEC Fund for
International Development, and the Federal Republic of Germany are expected
to provide parallel financing equivalent to US$ 1.0 million, USS 5.0
million, and US$ 1.1 respectively, UNDP in support of planning, statisitics
and administration, and the OPEC Fund mainly for rehabilitation of teacher
training buildings and the IST. Germany will continue its technical
assistance for the preparation of textbooks. Signature of the OPEC Fund
agreement and availability of the UNDP funds will be conditions of
effectiveness of the Credit; the German financing has already been
approved. It is also expected that other external financing will support
actions complementary to the project, although not as formal co-financing.
France will finance 18 education advisors at the regional level (para.
3.24), as well as providing technical assistance to the IST and other
assistance complementary to CRESED; total French complementary financing is
estimated at US$ 5.0 million equivalent. The AfDB, with UNESCO assistance,



- 28 -
is supporting the planning and statistics sub-components through an ongoing
project. The Madagascar Government will contribute US$ 2.5 million
equivalent (SZ of project cost) to finance local salaries, project
administration, complementary civil works, and the provision of facilities
and furniture for the teacher training component, the statistics and
planning sub-components, and the project unit.
Recurrent Cost ImDlications
3.52     The recurrent costs generated by the project will have a gradual
impact on the education system as a whole. They will account for less than
5 percent of the overall operating costs of the system by the year 2000;
even when the program started by CRESED reaches its maximum impact many
years after project completion it will account for no more than 9 percent.
The component with the largest impact is that for initial training of
primary teachers, since the major influence on sector public expenditure is
Government recruitment policy.   The recurrent costs of the IST component
will be minimized by the use of existing facilities and teachers to the
extent possible. Because the students would otherwise have been entitled
to enter lengthy university courses, there will be compensating savings in
university spending. It must however be noted that the IST are small,
pilot operations; their recurrent costs will need to be carefully reviewed
in considering expanding them in a future project.
3.53     Taking account of compensatory savings from policy measures, the
Government's education strategy of which CRESED is a part will lead to an
acceptable increase in the education budget, assuming that economic growth
will allow real growth in public expenditure. The increase in the
education budget due to CRESED and the accompanying measures has to be seen
in the context of the sector PEP (Chapter 2 and Annex 8); the overall
impact of the sector strategy, of CRESED recurrent expenditures, and of
recent and projected recruitment decisions is to increase education
spending by between 2 and I percent annually in the medium term.
(a) Savings will be achieved in the medium term by improved efficiency
in the use of teachers and non-teaching personnel, improved
internal efficiency as a result of reduced repetition at the
primary level, and the transfer of the growth in educational
spending from the university and upper secondary levels to the
primary and (to a lesser extent) lower secondary levels.
Redirection in expenditure growth will be achieved by limiting
numbers entering Levels II, III, and IV (including a forecast
decline in numbers in higher education) while allowing primary
school numbers to grow at approximately the same rate as or
slightly faster than the age group.
(b) In the past few years it appears that enrollment in primary and
lower secondary schools has declined in response to economic
pressures, the low quality of education, and the closure of
schools (possibly approaching 1OZ of primary schools, mainly in
distant rural areas), the latter the result of the shortage of
teachers and other problems. The Government will give priority to
spending to improve quality and to increase primary level
enrollment (where the marginal costs are low), rather than to
raise enrollment at other levels.



- 29 -
(c) It is assumed that total spending on education will remain
approximately constant as a proportion of the Government's
operational budget and that, in the medium term, the global budget
will grow at approximately the 3Z rate of population growth.
td) The scope for increased contribution from other sources, and for
greater cost recovery, is limited by the low disposable income in
most parts of the country; nevertheless, the Government intends to
continue selling books to the school cooperatives for sums that
cover over half the costs of production and distribution. The
workings of this system will be carefully monitored during the
project in order to propose modifications if necessary for the
se^ond phase of the program.
3.54     Analysis with the World Bank education financing model at the
primary and lower secondary levels shows that, based on the assumptions
described above, the extra costs of improving the quality of education
(resulting from the expense of inspectors and education advisors to visit
the schools, the additional teachers needed to meet the growth in primary
school enrollment, and the spending on educational materials) can be met
once the project funding of operating costs is finished. The recurrent
costs of the university component are minimal and the potential cost
savings far exceed them.
D. PROJECT INPLEMENTATION
3.55     Status of Prenaration.  Project preparation is well advanced, and
all components can be started as soon as financing is available, although
some sub-components are more fully prepared than the others. Each sub-
component is supported and clearly described in a working paper that
includes details of implementation actions and an implementation schedule.
These working papers were prepared by Government specialists and
consultants in close concert with IDA. Under the PPF financing, the
institutions to be rehabilitated were identified and the rehabilitation
costs estimated. A firm of architects is being recruited to prepare the
bid documents, check the contracts, and monitor the rehabilitation program.
Technical assistants for the publishing unit, the training of UERP
specialists, and education planning are scheduled to arrive early in 1990.
The Credit Coordinator became familiar with Bank procedures while managing
the PPF, and the Project Unit accountants are being assisted by a local
accounting firm with experience in setting up accounting systems for IDA-
financed operations. Annual training programs for all training included in
the project will be prepared for IDA approval by the agency responsible for
each individual component.



- 30 -
3.56     Procurement.  Project procurement arrangements are summarized in
Table 3.2.
Table 3.2: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Category                            Procurement Method (US$ Million)
ICB     LCB       N.A.   Cost
1.  Civil Works                            3.7     5.0      8.7
(3.0)   (0.0)    (6.4)
2.  Furniture, equipment,         16.6     3.5             20.1
textbooks, vehicles          (13.4)   (3.2)           (16.6)
3.  Training, technical                           15.2     15.2
assistance                                   (12.8)   (12.8)
4.  Operating costs; local                         4.6      4.6
salaries                                      (3.2)    (3.2)
TOTAL                        16.6      7.2    19.8     48.6
Excluding taxes              (13.4)   (6.2)  (16.0)   (39.0)
Taxes                                          6.4      6.4
(0.0)    (0.0)
Including taxes              16.6      7.2    31.2     55.0
(13.4)   (6.2)  (16.0)   (39.0)
Note: The figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by IDA.
1/ Contracts less than US$50,000 equivalent.
3.57     The bulk of the civil works consists of rehabilitation and small
extensions; the items to be financed are of small size and scattered
geographically. Contracts will be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding (LCB), advertised locally and conducted in accordance
with procedures acceptable to IDA, up to an aggregate total of USS 3.0
million equivalent. Contracts for furniture, goods and printing services
will be awarded on the basis of ICB except for contracts costing less than
US$100,000 equivalent each, which would be awarded by LCB, up to an
aggregate total of US$ 3.5 million equivalent. LCB will include public bid
opening, no requirement for a firm to be registered with the Ministry of
Commerce, and no preference for local bidders. Foreign bidders who wish to
participate will not be precluded. Items suitable for ICB will be procured
in accordance with the 'Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Creditse (May 1985) and "Sample Bidding Documents - Procurement of Goods'
(March 1985). When ICB procedures are used, domestic manufacturers of
goods will be allowed a margin of preference of 152 over the c.i.f. price
of competing foreign suppliers or the existing applicable rate of import
duties, whichever is lower. Items that cannot be grouped or groups of
items estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$20,000 per contract
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$500,000 may be purchased on the



-31-
basis of a minimum of three quotations in accordance with the international
and local fihopping (LS) procedures outlined in the Guidelines. The
textbooks to be financed under the project vill be written and edited by
HINESEB or they may award a contract for such services to external sources
by seeking a minimum of three quotations, since such contracts are not
expected to cost more than about $20,000. Printing and paper will be
procured following ICB for contracts costing more than $100,000 or LCB
below $100,000. Textbooks, specified by title and author, may also be
purchased directly from publishers or distribut,rs subject to prior
approval by IDA. Experts will be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures acceptable to IDA on the basis of the Guideline for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency' (August 1981). To keep the evaluation process manageable, not more
than six (but at least threes proposals will be invited following a short-
listing acceptable to IDA.
3.58     IDA Review.  IDA will review preliminary plans (esquisse and
avant-proiet), master lists of furniture and goods, text of notices to
bidders, experts' terms of reference, and draft bid documents, including
groupings and cost estimate updates. Items will be grouped to the extent
practicable to encourage competitive bidding and permit bulk procurement.
IDA review of bid evaluation documents prior to award will be required only
for contracts exceeding US$ 200,000 equivalent for civil works and
US$ 50,000 for goods.
3.59     Disbursements.  Sub-components for improving university quality,
rehabilitation of the EN2 and three EN1, and production of about six of the
nine text books (para 3.33) will be subject to a conditiou of disbursement
that the Government and IDA have agreed on action plans (a) concerning
university curricula modernization, university administration and the
improvement of the cost/financing balance for the universities (para 3.06),
(b) for more efficient use of MINESEB teaching and non-teaching personnel,
and for strengthening education administration (paras 3.07 and 3.11), and
tc) on school-book distribution and cost-recovery (paras 3.16 and 3.37).
Disbursements will be made on the basis of:
(i) 100X of foreign and 80; percent of local expenditures for
civil works, equipment and supplies;
(ii) 1002 of expenditures for publication, printing and
distribution of books. consultants' services and training;
(iii) 1002 of total expenditures for incremental operating costs.
3.60     The estimated quarterly disbursement schedule is shown in Annex
12. All disbursements will be fully documented except fors (i) civil works
contracts costing less than US$100,000 equivalent; (ii) furniture and goods
costing less than US$100,000 equivalent; (iii) local training; and (iv)
operating coste, for which disbursements will be made against statements of
expenditures (SOE), which will be certified by the Credit Coordinator. The
documentation of SOEs will not be submitted to IDA for review but will be
retained by the Government and made available for inspection by IDA during
project supervision, and will be independently audited. The disbursement
schedule has been estimated on the basis of the implementation schedule and
the sector profile for Madagascar.



* 32 -
3.61     Snecial Accounts.  To ensure that funds for project implementation
are available when needed, a Special Account in convertible currency will
be established in the Central Bank with an initial deposit of about US$ 2.0
million equivalent, to cover about four months of expenditures, to be
withdrawn from the Credit account after Credit effectiveness. The Special
Account will be replenished on the basis of documentary evidence of
payments made from the account for goods and services required for the
project that are eligible for financing under the Credit. A project
Special Advance Accounts will be established, in Malagasy francs, (ocaisse
d'avance*) before Credit effectiveness, which is to be used directly by BPE
for small local payments and to be replenished from the convertible Special
Account on the basis of documentary evidence.
3.62     MoniLorina. Reporting. and Evaluation.  The UERP will carry out,
working with the planning and studies service of DPOE, studies to evaluate
the educational and cost impact of the education reinforcement program. As
described in para 3.10 a mid-term review report will be prepared and
submitted with the action plans by December 31, 1991. In addition, BPE
will prepare annual progress reports on project and program implementation.
The reports will briefly identify major problems, if any, anu recommend
solutions; review the performance of implementing authorities and agencies;
and maintain key performance indicators in reaching project goals. In
addition, the Government will prepare and send to IDA for comment, not
later than six months after final disbursements from the Credit account, a
completion report in standard form.
3.63     Auditint.  BPE will maintain separate accounts for all project
activities, in conformance with national accounting practices. These
accounts will be controlled in accordance with the Government normal
financial control procedures, which are satisfactory. BPE will prepare and
submit to IDA an annual report summarizing the financial situation of all
project operations. Audits will be required on an annual basis for all
expenditures financed under the project, with particular attention to those
reimbursed under oOEs. The audit report will include a separate analysis
of the use of IDA funds under the Special Account. The audits will be
performed by an independant auditor acceptable to IDA within six months
following the end of the Government fiscal year (which ends December 31)
and will be financed under the project. The project will provide the
services of a short-term consultant to advise BPE on accounting procedures.



- 33 -
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
4.01     Benefits.  Lung-term benefits of the education reform program vill
flow froms (i) Improved quality of education at all levels, especially
primary education; (ii) greater efficiency of education, including through
better use of teachers and reduction of repetition rates, so as to allow
increased enrollment and more expenditures to raise quality; (iii)
development, for higher education, of action plans to upgrade teaching
quality, improve management, and to resolve other major problems facing the
universities; (iv) training higher level technicians and middle level
management staff; and (v) more efficient use of the public funds devoted to
education. Overall, CRESED will support expenditures in the parts of the
education system vhere economic returns are generally highest, and help to
redirect public expenditure to those areas.
4.02     Potential benefits are vast in terms of improved human resources
of all kinds. Examples of the indirect effects are improved health and
agricultural production as a result of increases in numbers completing
primary education; the benefits stemming from increasing the number of
girls receiving education (especially because the increase in overall
enrollment will benefit girls disproportionately, to the extent that fewer
girls than boys are now enrolled); and the improved quality of students as
a result of better teaching at lower levels that in turn leads to increased
internal efficiency throughout the education system. The creation of the
IERP will facilitate the effective introduction of nutrition, environment,
and population issues into teacher training and school curricula. The
administrative reinforcement measures should lead to a more efficient use
of personnel, and thus permit an increase in school enrollment without an
unacceptable increase in student-teacher ratios, although the planned
growth in enrollment at primary level will eventually need an expansion in
primary and lower secondary school facilities and teacher recruitment in
the medium and longer term beyond that planned under CRESED.
4.03     The effects of the administrative measures to reduce primary
repetition, supported by CRESED quality improvement actions, can be large
in reducing the number of years spent by children in primary education, and
thus the cost per successful student of primary education; asd increasing
the number of entrants in the first year that the system can absorb. The
measures will make for a more even spread of children among years in
primary school, and thus for a more efficient use of resources.
4.04     Risks.  The main risks facing this project relate to the political
implications of, for example, measures relating to management of education
personm 1, or to the action plans for the universities. These sensitive
political areas will require careful handling by the authorities. In
addition, the individual components of this ambitious project run
considerable risks. The complexity and number of different operations
needed for the project to work, and the requirement that large numbers of
teachers and administrators be upgraded and thus that they successfully
follow training programs and change their working practices, are grounds
for concern that the objectives will not be achieved as rapidly or to the
extent planned. The physical execution involves many small contracts, and
thus will strain the implementation capacity of the staff concerned, both
at central and local levels.



- 34 -
4.05     These risks are Jessened by some of the proposed activities and by
aspects of the project's structure. The restructuring of MINESEB, which is
intended to focus responsibilities more clearly, should improve staff
motivation. The studies on education administration should lead to actions
that reinforce this process. Responsibility for managing specific CRESED
sub-components will be integrated into the structure of the agencies
concerned with carrying out the reform program, with a project coordinator
in each of the ministries. This approach was chosen over placing project
management (as opposed to coordination and support) in the hands of an
independent project unit.
4.06     Political sensitivities may make it difficult for HINESEB to
adhere to the crucial parts of its strategy relating to control of growth
of secondary education. If it does not do so, the expenditure demands from
expansion of the system would make it difficult to obtain resources for the
quality improvements needed to obtain project objectives. In the past,
KINESEB has tended to make ad hoc decisions in response to such political
pressures. It will be difficult to break this tendency, although the
strengthening of planning and public expenditure programming, and of
statistical collection and analysis, are intended to alleviate it.
4.07     A related problem concerns recruitment of teachers and the
operation of the teacher training colleges. Recruitment policy, both of
administrative and teaching personnel, will be a crucial factor for the
evolution of expenditures. The Government allocates to the education
sector a limited number of posts; there has in the past been a reluctance
to operate the EN at full capacity because of the fear that insufficient
posts will be available to recruit the college graduates. If MINESEB for
whatever reason does not train the full number of Level 1 and 2 teachers,
the project objectives will be difficult to meet. Accordingly Government
has agreed that when the ENl and EN2 are completed, they will function at
full capacity, and that each year at least 600 qualified primary teachers
and 300 qualified level 2 teachers will be recruited into the school
system. A further problem is that too many upper secondary teachers have
been trained in recent years, causing cost pressures on the system.
Government is conscious of the need to limit training and recruitment at
this level to teachers in priority subjects.
4.08     Government is now exercising a strict control of university costs,
and seeking means to make a reallocation within the sub-sector to allow
increased expenditure on quality. If enrollment in the universities is
controlled, as planned, and other improvements achieved, it is reasonable
to expect that this objective can be achieved. However it would not be
reasonable to expect an absolute reduction in real terms of the university
budget in the near future. If control on student flows is not carefully
exercised, supported by careful planning of the secondary education sub-
sector, pressures for increased entry to university may become
overwhelming, leading to a breakdown of the cost control efforts.
4.09     With respect to the individual components, the following risks
need careful attention during project execution:
(a) Administration component: delays in carrying out the
administration studies could lead to delays in defining the



- 35 -
measures to strengthen sector administration and improve
management of sector personnel. The selection process is well
advanced, and the first phase of the study is expected to be
started with finance from the PPF.
(b) University sub-components: there is a risk the continued budgetary
squeeze on university social expenditures will produce a strong,
negative student and political reaction that will make it
difficult to prepare valid action plans for university reform.
However, the measures to be implemented under the project will be
gradual, and any problems of this kind should not affect other
components. Establishment of IST, focussed on employment needs,
may make university reform more acceptable.
(c) Statistics and planning sub-component: the inadequacy of sect_r
statistics and possible lack of motivation of school directors tol
provide accurate information might make it lifficult to monitor
sector progress and improve sector planning. Training seminars
for head teachers will insist on the importance of accura:e
statistics to improving the condition of the schoola.
td) Educational materials sub-component: while producing the
relatively small numbers of teachers' guides needed should not
prove a problem, experience on how to publish books has to be
developed from scratch. Technical assistance will supplement this
experience, and the UERP unit responsible for book production will
benefit from the continuation of German support. UERP will have
to pay great attention to coordinating donor efforts in support of
book production (for example, there are more or less uncoordinated
book interventions with French, UNICEF, WWF, UNFPA, IDA
Environment Project sunport), which might otherwise disperse the
limited resources available, producing books which do not meet
school needs.
(e) Technical training: the training coordinating structure, to be set
up in the near future, and the PEP process, will both be important
to ensure that political pressures do not lead to expenditure on
inappropriate technical education or training, given the strong
pressures to set up such institutions as a palliative for
unemployment.
4.11     Despite all the above risks, there is an extremely strong
political desire for the project to be implemented, on the part of
political authorities at all levels. The President, the Prime Minister,
and many Government spokesmen have made many references in recent public
speeches to the importance of the project, the education strategy, and the
improvements in education quality which they are intended to bring about.
Thus there is every reason to expect that the formidable challenges which
the project faces can be met with good chances of success. The project
stands a good chance of attaining its objectives.



- 36 -
V  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01     Prior to negotiations decrees were issued (a) establishing the
UERP (para 3.06 (b)), and the BPE, the CCPE, and the CCAP (paras 3.17 to
3.19); (b) appointing the project coordinator-general, and the directors of
the BPE and the UERP (para 3.17); (c) reorganizing the MINESEB planning and
statistics department (para 3.06 (a)), and (d) establishing the IST (para
3.42).
5.02     During negotiations the Government sector strategy (paras
2.34-2.35 and Annex 1), including regulation of student flows through the
system (para 3.08 (a)), and a sector public expenditure program, following
the sector strategy (paras 2.34 and 3.07 (a) and Annex 8), were reviewed.
A three year rolling PEP will be prepared annually and submitted for IDA
approval (para 3.07 (a)).
5.03     Special conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a) That all necessary measures have been taken to make the UERP fully
operational (with the status of a Direction of the MINESEB), and
pedagogical functions relating to training and teaching programs
and to the preparation of teaching materials have been transferred
to it (para 3.06 (b));
(b) That all necessary measures have been taken to make BPE fully
operational (para 3.19);
(c) That the co-financing agreement with the OPEC Fund has been signed
and that the co-financing from UNDP is effective (para 3.51);
(d) That the BPE Ocaisse d'avance" has been established (para 3.62).
5.04     A condition of disbursement for expenditure on sub-components for
improving university quality, rehabilitation of the EN2 and three EN1, and
production of about six of the nine textbooks (para 3.59) will be agreement
between the Government and IDA on action plans:
(a) Concerning university curricula modernization, university
administration, and improving the cost/financing balance for the
universities (para 3.06 (c));
(b) For more efficient use of education personnel and, following the
administration study, for further strengthening of education
administration (para 3.07 (b) and 3.11);
(c) For school-book distribution, storage, and cost recovery (paras
3.16 and 3.37).
The above action plans and a mid-term review report will be prepared for
IDA review by December 31, 1991 (para 3.10).



- 37 -
5.05     The following points were also agreed:
l
(a) BPE will remain in function during the execution of the project,
with a director whose qualifications are acceptable to IDA (paras
3.17-3.18);
(b) Government will prepare for IDA approval annual training programs
for personnel to be trained directly under the project (para
3.55);
(c) By June 30, 1990, directives will be issued to instruct directors
and teachers of primary schools to set objectives for maximum
repetition rates in each class of 25Z by 1991, 201 by 1192, 15Z by
1993 and 10? by 1994 (para 3.08 (b));
(d) No new university faculties will be created (other than the IST)
before June 30, 1993 at the earliest (para 3.07 (c));
(e) A coordination structure for vocational and technical education
and training will be created by the end of 1990 (para 3.06 (d));
(f) By June 30, 1991 the Government will prepare and review with IDA
programs to integrate nutrition, environmental and population
concerns into public education (para 3.40);
(g) By June 30, 1991 the Government will prepare and review with IDA
measures for improving female enrollment rates (para 3.41);
(h) When the EN1 and EN2 are completed Government will ensure that
they function at full capacity, and that at least 600 qualified
primary teachers and 300 qualified lower secondary teachers are
recruited into the public school system (para 4.07).
5.06     Subject to the above agreements and conditions the project is
suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 30.4 million to the Democratic
Republic of Madagascar.



- 38-                             ANNEX-
Page 1 of 4
PROJET DE DOCUMENT                                                  CONFIDENTIEL
EDUCATION STRATEGY LETTER
REPUBLIQUE DEMOCRATIQUE Dz MADAGASCAR
(Repr6sentant du Gouvernement de la RDM)
I
Monsieur Paul Isenman
Directeur
Departement des Pays des Grands Lacs
et de 1'Ocdan Indien
Region de l'Afrique
Banque Mondiale
Monsieur le Directeur.
Strat6rie Sectorielle de l'Education
1.    J'ai l'honneur de vous faire part de la strategie de la Republique
Ddmocratique de Madagascar en matiure d'4ducation. Le prograume de
renforcement sectoriel, qui sera appuyd par lee activites du Projet pour le
Renforcement du Secteur de l'Education (C.ESED), est bas6 sur cette
stratdgie et a 4t6 conqu dans l'objectif d'en faciliter lex6cution.
2.    En rdference & la Section 4.02 de l'Accord de Cr6dit portant m6me
date quo la prdsente, Je vous transmets egalement ci-joint le programme de
depenses publiques pour le secteur de l'6ducation pour la p4riode 1990-92.
Ce programme, concu en fonction de la strategie sectorielle, a fait lobjet
d'une revue conjointe par les Autoritds malgaches et votre Departement de la
Banque Mondiale. Un programme triennal sera actualise tous les ans.
3.    Les lignes directrices de la strategie sectorielle sont celles de la
loi 78-040, texte de rdference qui prOne la democratisation, la
malgachisation, et la decentralisation de l'enseignement. Dana le cadre de
cette loi, la stratdgie donne prioritd & l'amhlioration de la qualit6 de
l'education & tous les niveaux, et & 1'expansion de l1'enseignement primaire.
Une Importance particuli&re est attachee au rOle que joue et pourra jouer
l'enseignement priva pour completer l'enseignement fourni par le sectour
public et continuera a 1'encourager dans ce sens.
4.    Les principes de la strategie sectorielle comprennent essentiellement
co qui suit:
a.   L'amelioration de la qualit6 de l'enseignement par
l'augmentation des ressources consacrdes & la formation et au
recyclage des enseignants, a l'encadrement pedagogique (y
compris des ressources financihres permettant le deplacement des
encadreurs pEdagogiques), et auz mat6riels didactiques;
b.   Une augmentation progressive en termes roels des depenses au
niveau primaire, pour pormettre d'atteindre, I moyen terms,
l'objectif de la scolarisation universelle du groupe d'Oge 6 a



ANNEX 1
- 39 -                               Page 2 of 4
12 an. dans lee secteurs priv6 et public (on tenant compte de la
croissance demographique et des besoins d'amelioration de la
qualit4 de l'4ducation), et de consacrer une part plus
importante du budget global de l14ducation aux d6penses, & ce
meme niveau, autres que celles pour le personnel (par exemple,
livres, fournitures scolaires, encadrement pEdagogique,
equipement des salles de classe, entretien de batiments
scolaires, et cetera);
co   Une maltrise des flux des etudiants avec l'objectif A moyen
terme d'augmenter le nombre des nouveaux entrants en premi6re
ann6e de l'enseignement public par environ 4 pourcent par an au
Niveau I, 2 pourcent par an au Niveau II, 1 pourceut au Niveau
III, et 0,5 au Niveau IV. Des mesures administratives et
pedagogiques seront adoptees au niveau primaire pour reduire
progressivement & 10 pourcent au maximum, la proportion de
redoublants par classe, d'lici la fin 1994;
d.   L'utilisation a pleine capacite des personnels enseignants et
des personnels non-enseignants, et le recrutement comme
enseignants des dipl8m4s des Ecoles Normales ou des diplOmes
dquivalents. Des mesures administratives et intitatrices sont a
l'tude pour aboutir & une meilleure repartition des personnels
enseignants, notamuent entre zones urbaines et rurales, ainsi
qu'entre personnels enseignants et non-enseignants. L'objectif
est de reduire le taux de suppleance global au niveau primaire a
152 d'ici 1991/2 et a 1O2 en 199213. Un programme sera
Egalement mis en oeuvre visant & une ame lioration generale de la
gestion des personnels du secteur;
e.   Le renforcement de la planification et la gestion du systave
pour permettre l'application detaillee de la regulation des flux
et pour maximaliser l'utilisation des ressources existantes en
batiments, avant d'en programmer 11'extension;
f.   Des mesures seront etudiles et par la suite mises en oeuvre pour
ameliorer l'efficacite de l'administration de l'education. Ces
mesures viseront, entre autres a. un renforcement des processus
de prograumation des depenses, ainsi que de preparation, de
suivi et de contr6le d'execution des budgets; une clarification
de la repartition des responsabilites entre les differents
uiveaux de decentralisation; une amelioration des systemes
d'lnformation; le developpement dun dispositif de formation
continue des personnels administratifs; une simplification et
une rationalisation des procedures de gestion;
g.  Une reallocation des ressources affectdes & lenseignement
supdrieur, pour favoriser l'amelioration de la qualite. Les
Intentions du Gouvernement sont (i) de renforcer la qualite de
l'enseignement universitaire, en le rendant plus conforme aux



ANNEX 1
40                                  Page 3 of 4
besoins de l'conomiet (ii) de rendre plus efficace
l'administration universitairet et (iii) d'aligner les coGts
universitaires sur les ressources disponibles. Sont & l'dtude
des plans d'action A metre en oeuvre. Les actions recemment
entam6es pour assainir lea oeuvres universitaires seront
poursuivies. Seront egalement entreprises des op4rations
pilotes de formation des techniciens superieurs, & cycle court,
au niveau post-secondaire;
h.   Une rdorganisation de la formation professionnelle et de
l'enseignement technique en we de deboucher sur une foLmation
pratique qui corresponde aux besoins du march6 de l'emploi. sous
coordination d'une structure & laquelle participeraient lea
employeurs. Les depenses publiques dans ce sous-secteur ne
seront augmentees que pour repondre aux besoins du marche de
l'emploi, et selon lea recommandations de la Structure de
Coordination basees sur des critOres dconomiques, financiers et
techniques;
i.   Un grand effort sera entrepris pour ralentir la degradation des
bAtiments scolsires. Une allocation budgetaire permettra
l'entretien des bftiments, et une politique d'entretien sera
elabor6e. De plus, une augmentation progressive des sommes
consacr4ees a la rEhabilitation des bAtiments scolaires sera
prevue au PNDE.
5.    Pour permettre l'augmentation de la qualitE, la grolortion des
deDenses Dublipues tlobales sur l'Education vrimaire et secondaire aui est
alloude au fonctionnement augmentera progressivement. La progression
suivante est proposEet
1986      1989       1990       1991      1992       1993
3,5Z      4,4Z       4,9Z       5,2Z      5,5Z       6,6Z
Cette augmentation permettra le financement des livres scolaires, de
l'encadrement pidagogique, et l'entretien des bAtiments scolaires.  Le
syst&me de recouvrement des coUts de distribution de livres sera analyse en
utilisant le financement du CRESED: il sera important d'augmenter lea
contributions des coummunau-As et parents, mais il sera gardE en memoire que
leurs capacites dans ce domaine sont evidemment limitees.
6.    Le maintien de la politique de rEaulation des flux est essentiel pour
permettre au sysatOe d'absorber au primaire la croissance voulue, et en meme
temps de financer l'amelioration de la qualite qui est essentielle. reci
devrait se refleter dans lea proportions relatives du budget de l'etat
consacre a chaque niveau. Mals le recrutement d'enseignants dans lea
derniares annees au Niveau 3, et leur progression dans la grille salariale,
auraient l'effet inverse s1 les tendances actuelles sont suivies. Les
priorites des deDenses parmi lea trois niveaux 1, 2 et 3 seront revues, et
au moins seront maintenues pendant lee annees 1990, 1991 et 1992 lea



-41 -                      A4NNEX 1
Page 4 of 4
pourcentages de 19a9, clest & dire que 722 des dEpenses de l'6tat our
l'ducation gEnErale pour lee niveaux 1, 2 et 3 seront consacrEes au niveau
1, 192 au niveau 2, et 92 au niveau 3.
7.    Les decisions relatives au recrutement des enseignants ont des effete
a moyen et long terme. 11 sera ainsi programme en fonction des besoiss. Ne
seront recrutes que lee dipl8mes des EN ou Equivalents. Aux Niveaux 2 et 3,
des modalitEs sont actuellement a l'Etude en vue d'une utilisation plus
efficace des enseignants. I1 est envisagE une rEduction rapide de
l'utilisation des bacheliers SN au Niveau 2, qui aurait des implications
positives et souhaitables pour la qualite de l'enseignement au Niveau 2,
ainsi que pour la qualitE des etudes universitaires des bacheliers. Pour
eviter le chOmage des dipl6mEs de 1'EN3, dont la promotion dans plusieurs
disciplines depassent lee possibilites de recrutement de la Fonction
Publique ainsi que lee besoine des lycees, ne seront inscrits auL EN3 qu'un
effectif d'etudiants correspondant aux besoins reels du Niveau 3 de
l'enseignement. Le role a l'avenir des EN3 est actuellement & l'etude par
les deux Ministares.
Veuillez agreer, Monsieur le Directeur, l'assurance de ma
consideration distinguee.
PROJET de DOCUMENT
en date du 11 dEcembre, 1989
.1



-42- b                                2
Page I of 3
MADAGASCAR
EDUCATION SECTOR REFORM MEASURES
Obiectives                    Measures                            Status
1. Costs/Financing
Ensure that sector      Prepare annually three-year       Draft PEP reviewed during
financing and           rolling sector PEP; reorganize   appraisal, overall PEP review
expenditure reflect     and strengthen planning and       mission, and negotiations.  To
sector strategy and     statistics services of MINESEB   be revised and agreed
are adequate to meet    and MINESUP to enable them to    annually.  Annual review of
minimum needs.          prepare PEP, and to plan and       PEP will be accompanied by
monitor development of            review of progress on policy
education svstem.                measures, and of personnel
recruitment.
Reallocate              Proportion of total Government   Principle included in strategy
expenditures to         expenditure on primary and        letter; progress will be
primary education and   secondary education devoted to   reviewed Lsmnually in context
to improred quality.    operational expenses (other       of PEP discussions.
than personnel). will increase
from 4.41 in 1989 to over 61
in 1993. Spending on primary
education will remain constant
proportion of HINESEB spending
(instead of decreasing as
would otherwise happen).
Increase access to      Manage growth of the education   Principle included in strategy
primary education       system so that while Level I      letter; progress will be
while controlling        entry enrollment grows at up      reviewed annnually in context
growth of the system    to 4X pa, Level II entry          of PEP discussions.
as a whole so as to     enrollment grows only at 2?
control costs.          pa. Level III at 11 and
university entry enrollment
stabilizes.
Increase efficiency     Assess use of MINESEB teaching   Civil service census being
of use of teachers      and non-teaching personnel;       carried out under PSAC.  Study
and administrative      prepare action plans for          to be carried out under CRESED
personnel.              redeployment of personnel,        of MINESEB administration ana
develop measures to strengthen   porsonnel policies, and
administration and for more      measures identified leading to
efficient use of personnel,       redeployment program.  Action
including incentives to teach    plans to be prepared prior to
in rural areas.                  mid-term review.



ANNEX 2
-43 -                            Page 2 of 3
l
Increase efficiency     Reduce repetition in Level I      MINESEB will issue instruction
of use of primary       by administrativw measures and   to school directors and
|      school resources and    quality improvement, from 402    teachers by mid-1990,
j      proportion of            currently to no more than 252    following seminars to explain
students completing     in 1991, 201 in 1992, 152 in      the new policy.
five years in primary   1993. and 102 in 1994.
school.
Control university      Action plans being studied by    Included in strategy letter.
costs and reallocate    university authorities to         University authorities will
funds for quality       strengthen university             prepare action plans at latest
improvement.            administration and achieve        by December 31, 1991, for mid-
Improve university      equilibrium between university   term review.  University
administration.         costs and finances. Government   authorities attempting in
will continue to require high    1989-90 to reduce costs by
entry standards for some          ensuring that non-students do
university streams, and will      not benefit from university
not open new faculties in the    social services.
universities during the medium
term. IST will be selective;
IST students wil spend maximum
three years in IST, must agree
not to enter university for
five years on leaving IST.
Reduce overcrowding     Encourage students to leave       Establish information system
in universities.        university by providing advice   in universities with support
about career prospects.           from CRESED.
2. Quality
Improve quality of      Establish education unit in       Activities to be developed
education, especially   MINESEB to be responsible for    under CRESED, to be
at primary and lower    education quality questions.       implemented starting 1990.
secondary levels.       Introduce or strengthen
initial and in-service teacher
training and teacher support
services for primary and lower
secondary levels. Prepare and
distribute books and teachers'
guides.
Progressively reduce the use      Government has set targets to
of national service temporary    abolish the use of temporary
teachers in lower secondary.     national service teachers in
the next 5 years.



-V   44ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
Modernize universits    Establish university study        Working groups being
curricula and Improve   groups with support from          established with support from
quality of university   overseas to propose revised       CRESED.
education.              university curricula  prepare
proposals for training
university teachers.
Reduce handicaps to     Reintroduce French as language   Decision taken January 1985
upper secondary and     of education in parallel with    and progressively implemented
university education    Malagasy In upper secondary,      subsequently.
due to weakness of      and increase emphasis on
French teaching in      French in lower levels.
lower secondary.



MADACASCAR
STRUCTURE DU SYSTEME EDUCATIF
Upper secondary                          University
Primary                        Secondary                   (Lycee)
N    olo                           WI  II OAF            NV  0 L nF P lt    Tt   1|
uw*u, {}}~                          U             ~               p ~  (SCRE.m  )
wo-rde"
. *-oo row" ~~vi.active
basic Technical           (Secondary             Vb^-
W     OlF Pl 1)z
s! ~~~~~Via active
Oh



MADAGASCAR SUMMARY EDUCATION STATISTICS
(1987 unls ot-erwl,s shown)
Primay   Lower Secondary Upper Secondary  Secondary  Lowr Secondry
(NIveau 1)   (Niveu 2)       (Nilveau 8)    Technical Teachor Tr ining  University.
(EN2)
ERBOLLMT  Publi c               1,262,816     189,70           44,440           8,040       1,01           86,426
Private               224.60        890,6          34,689
TOTAL               1,487,490      270,440         79,040           0,064        1,019          X8,428
CROSS ENROLLM   RATIO
Public                     79                           7 7           -            -               -
TOTAL                     108          29              18             -            -
NET ENOLLMENT RATIO
TOTAL                      70          -               -              -            -
(WPW
GIRLS AS PERCENT OF TOTAL
Public                   0.44        0.41            0.38            0.25          -
Private                  6.8         9.51            0.48             -            -
TEAERS, PBUC                       88,880       6,760           2,826            9IS 18                      1,9
STUDEWT/TEAGER RATIO                 87.8        28.1            15.7            8.2          6.1
UNlT  IOS7S-PU1LIC FMa.00             87           s8             181            889          754              647
USS                  84           S8            16S             864         6s6              S68
Sourcos MINISE, MINISUP, RNae Estimates.
IFb



MADAGASCAR
EOLMeNT, DROPOUT, REPETITION BY GAE
tBEUC PRIMARY
GRADE I        OWE2           WADE 8         OWAE 4         GRADE S         TOTAL
ENROLLMENT   1987                    478,260         275,09         220,6          161,m          186,66       1,262,860
OROPOUT X                                 18              10             19             17           --
REPETTON X                                40             2t              82             26            8a
PULIC LOWER SECONDARY
GRADES          RADE   7      GPADE 8          WE 9           TOTAL
EOLLMENT   1987                      48,906          46,206         41,163         58,133        168,863
DRO        s                             15              14             12           -
REPETMION %                              12              11             15             32           -
t ' tUC UPER SECONDARY
GOWDE 10        ADEl1         GRADE 12       TOTAL
EIROLJEMT    1987                   14,2W           14,960         16,170        46,400
DRWPVT X                                17              15           -              -
REPETIIONX                              16              20             4            -
5SoE: MINISS - (Dropout and reitilolnm average 1805- 180)
/  Enrollmt date from difforent ourco to Annex    and not trictly cmprable.
0
1,h



ANNEX 6
- 48 -                                       Page 1 of 1
Program, Invcetieesmant Pubilc, MINESUP, 1996L92
Depenee totel.s, tinmncesont local
et *xterl ur FPg million
Prioritjy    19o       16s 1909         19       1992
BAD I                               I              49     1640     6109      4834     8922
Projet halieutique (PNUD)           I              48      1a        181       S2
EESP Antalrenann (Suise)            I                               893       893      898
EN III Technique Anteiranana  (FAC)  I                       0       102      1U3      120
Equipemnt  ele"tfIque                              0 62     62      800       85       622
Ouvra  manuele                      I7                      89       178      298      29e
Centre de celcul                                   e 96     20       se       140     1a"
Materiel roulant                    I               2               1le      lo       1e
Aehevement conetructlon univerites  I             o2n                8a88     8        866
Rehabilitation unlvreltee           III
Univ eonetruction labo, bibli.,    III                               260      260      260
rectorat"
Total dupeasm f inancoment exterleur             1147     1677      600      6147     7822



- 6-- |--| | |~~~                                                                                        ~      
Public Investment Program/Progrommo d'Xnv.stisem_nt Publi qu, - VINESEB
1987     198S     1989    1960 *   1960*.   1991       1992
Dopense* total.. financamat local at .xt.rieur
FPg million
Appul _nlegnomnt franeals (FAC)                                                        269      667                687     1268
Subvention SFF                                                        28       15      198      700       700      on6    120
Lyces tech - *7nanc_emnt FED                                          41      8eo      878       is        to       16       i
Jusqu'a tIn 1989
Ext et equip SAFF                                                     so        6       eJ      260      100       73S      794
Ext equip  colle ge  tech                                             82       28       60       10        10       10       16
Transtorm coll prof et tech on TEFISO II                               6       s8        0       60        60      270      292
Extension Lycee.                                                     1go       es       42       16        19       N0       of
Reparation batim_nt                                                  266      170      182      946      706       6Je      606
ycompiA* poor Jaux des ties
Rstauration 89 lycs                                                                             IS 16  6   160  SO  160     160
Labos sciences longues lyce s/SAFF                                    80        0                         e 86  85  60      130
Manuel. scolairs                                                     120       so       46       80       80       tO       6Be
Const bureaux logom nt CIRESEB                                       184       s9      208     2go       120        S0       a0
Bati7nt  VINESEB Anosy                                                                 179      1On      13O
Cartographi;                                                                                                                 60
Education population (FNUAP)                                                  122      268      25t              le
lEF'BOKY (RFA)                                                       400      see      6eo      8se               6ss       61
Education nutrition (UNICEF)                                                          8488      488              8488     8488
Program. *llmntation SFF (PAM)
CREED - comprenant composantes MINESUP                               820      820      580    6556              16        2700
ProJet BAD I -  compo  nte CAPUD pm
Prolok BAD I - coposente planiTtcotion pM
Microel ittions (FED) school component                              1530     1630     1730     1700              1830
Cout total coepris financ_wnt *xteriaur                             816a    8329      8684    14759             27611    85659
a Proposition du MIDNEB
*0 Proposition du MINPEAN                                                                                                                       0



- 50 -                                           ANNEX 8
MINISTRY OF HI1E EDUCATION RECUET EVENDITUItE PROAW (MINEW)                          Page 1 of 4
F4 ml IlIon couijrnto
PROAMMES DINTERVENTION MINEU  (non coepris invsti eenent)
1967          1966     1939    lo9   199    1     19       1993
qfl itfl   11111    laTI           41       1qj1    11111
ENSSULE DUS PROAHMS MIESUP (noe co"eri a1 evtie semt)
(L'a.eistence eaterieure oft voluos a son cout de r_npleea .t)
1967     1966    1969      196      1991     1992     1993
TOT Peis    6771      7567     6348     6797     9748    10725   11776
TOT feoct  16163    2155      2184?   24315    2S522    27516   29221
TOTAL Ps   23564    29169   80196   3a112    85656  3S24    44997
t Pls       =26.o6    26.sx    27.65    26.61   27.4!   26.61   28.75
X Fonct      71.21    74.21   72.41   73.45    72.01    t2.J1    71.31
gEMBE 06  PROMMES MINESP, COUTS A LA O4A     DU SE1L UDIESUP
1967     196"    1969      1996    1991      1992     1993
OUT           261      252      822      385      367     339       434
FOA          7512    6as3   9221    lw          11368    12611   1s39
RECN          126      13       167      175      191      296      225
AIDE        12256    16739   16542    1796    166        19676   21979
AD U         1126     1344     265    2121       2382     236o    2739
AD C         1375     170     "so      1416     1527     1637   1S4
TAL         2269   26127    2908        2211    3427    37262   69977
Fer*      6s7n      6729    76134    Om5       SW6      OM6    161914
Yeat    167    218          21691    24159    2566     27867   2902
EVOLUTIoN DES IARTS RunCTrS DES PUORAII
1987     1988     1969     1990    1991      1992     1993
COIt          1.2X    0.96      1.1X      1.61    1.lx     1. 1     1.1%
FORM         88.2!   29.61    31.41    32.2!   32.8!   33.8x    34.6X
EC14          6.6!    a6.5      o.65     9.55     o.6x     6.65     9.6!
AIDF         S4.1 1   5.91    56.41    55.31    54.41    58.3!   52.5X
AO U         4.9!      6.6e     6.6x     6.61     6.7x     6.8X    6.61
AD C          6.11   06.3       3.6X     4.43    4.4!    4.4X    4.5S
TOTAL       1O.!   1S.-OX    100l.9OX  1OO.OX   196.0    190.05   180.96
0. EVOLUTION DU EUOC   DU MINESIF EN TERUES REELS (al Inftlaton nall.
ot atabilIt& do Is velour du point do I ndic) T)
1967    1m        1969     1990    1991      1992     1993    196 
Po"s      67M    58es    6232        6442    S65       66170    7661      3.7X
foeat    16579    16942    15OM    16264    16942    15931    15667       -1.3!
Pft      Teching personn-l; fonct: Operating cost.
PE Coop: Foreign teaching personnel
PNE:    Non-teaching pereonnol
FORM:   Universlty teaching
AIOE:   Student grants a social expenditure
AD Us    Univereity administration
AD C:   Contral adointltratlon
OUT:   Centre "at. Recherche - :oologlcal gard"n



1-                                         ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 4
DEMOCRATIC ISILIC OF MADAGASCAR
REPuUQUE DEMocRAT10E MALGACHE
CRESED
PROGRAMM  DE DEPENSES PUSLUQUES COtRANTES MINESUP. 1990-1902
------ Fm   IIions courant--
Budut GA"  al MUIESIP                                  1986    1989   1990   1991   1992
Frei* diver, de pere. Mintetbre  t Servicte, etc.        11      25      28     81     82
Fournitur.ss Services                                   121     149    176    189    212
Entrtiln de4  Batimente                                  15      18      18     19     20
Colloques eb Sd"Inalres                                   0       4      4       4      5
Transport du Personnel. Minietbro et Services            19      39     46      47     B0
Frei* diver. de Pere. Office du baccalaurdst                    150   226    242    259
Fournituree ot Services                                  es      72     77    6s       0a
Fournitures et Services.  Off ice du Becclurdat                 200    497    585    578
Autres Travnux CNRT                                      1S       18     18     14     15
Subventions au Fonctlonntr.e pour lto  Univertt       106851    83    95682   90    9000
Subventions au titr. des hour . coup.                   758     240    240      -      -
Ind*mnlte pour servle rendu                             46      58    226    200    200
Contribution A In rdmun&ration des prof. trangers       162    18      48      46    6s
Subventione *ux Foye dre 4'tudinnte A I'6tranger        108     127   1000   1000  1M
Subventions pour *ssaintse_ent                          850    1000  5602   5527   5558
D6pen-es divores. Bources                              6882    5071    170    184    198
UDpenses diverce.  Transport bourst-r.                  224     170      20     22     24
;Dpensmw divelr s. Soine m6diacux                        20      20       8      8      9
Transport de per.onnel a Il'xt6rt ur                      6        6     76     84    o0
Trensprot de poreonnel. Office du baccalawulat                   150
Sub Total                      1       i84    iUI8   175    1i7iU
Personnel  neei gnunt universit6e                      2718    80S9  _212   8798  4807
Total                      21857   1_0  21828 219   21741



ANNEX 8
- 52 -                                           Page 3 of 4
PROORUES DE REALISATION UDIESU (non empriso I nvetlsoment)
Touto  *ure  de dtinunment public
FV  aillion courente
197?    196      1969      1988     1991     1m        1998
Niv.su 1, SFF
Personnel                     $4,348   39,698   41,761   42,68e  46,562   30,482    4,529
Fonctlonn_ment                 1,708    2,542    2,684    2,687    2,982    8,081    8,198
Total                         86,064   42,046   44,465   45,760   49,564   58,548   57,727
ENI
Personnel enselgnant                                          40       44        64      166
Personnel non-_ne ignunt                                      26        29       42       as
Foncttlnno_ nt                             18       56        65      150       156      871
Total                              a        18      56       181      223       266      645
Ecolos secondaires de be**
Personnel en  lgnent           5,617    8,909    10417   11,077   12,380   18,817   14,564
Personnel non-enusignant       2,416    1,816    2,628    2,699    2,932    8,164    3,415
Foncttonno_ent                   690      796      686       696      965    1,628    1,66
Total                          6,825   11,514   18,876   14,672   16,277   17,609   19,069
EN2
Personnol  nuel gnnnt            250      298       298       86       s8       159      284
Personnel non-enestgncnt         140      159         2       45       46        82      120
Fonettonn_o nt                   284      210       247      146      160       864      519
Total                            624      662       542      277      268       695      678
Lyee
Personnel *ntelgnnnt local    4,874    8,494    4,461    5,615    5,761    6,698    7,511
Personnel eneetgnant ext.      4,76e    4,989    6,1986   5,445    5,718    6,064    6,864
Personnel non-_nusignant       1,162    1,194    1,616    1,565    1,690    1,625    1,971
Fonetionnom.nt                   677      589       576      615      669       718      746
Total                         10,978   10,166   11,756   12,680   18,868   15,140   16,652
Enxe gne_ent technique
Personnel onseignant local   1,660    1,681    1,726    1,794    1,969    2,146    2,841
Personnel enseIgnnnt ext.       ,5684    8,794    8,909    4,126    4,856    4,698    4,847
Personnel non-enesignunt         717      828       699      925    1,806    1,085    1,171
Fonctionnoment                   411      854       890      489      646       918      952
Total                          6,672    6,487    6,924    7,268    7,972    6,789    9,311
UmNESB
Adeinlstration et  necadrmeent
Personnel                      5,744    6,686    7,560    7,818    8,688    9,256   10,048
Fonction_ement                 1,125      877       768    1,088    1,384    1,866    2,129
AIdes/contribs/subvents          810      841       855      418      485       46       498
Total                          7,179    7,566    6,668    9,269   16,811   11,068    12,670
Total Personnel eneeignt. local        46,849   58,975   58,698   660,675   6,844   72,748   79,265
Total Personnel one ignt. expat         6,844    6,648    9,996    9,570   10,671    0,597   11,151
Total Personnel  nselgnt.              58,698   62,618   67,798   76,445   76,915  68,845   90,486
Total personnel non-.neeignt.          10,161   16,884   12,584   18,868   14,2U4  15,466   16,766
Total fonctionn_eent, etc               5,858    4,966    5,929    6,504    7,889    6,621    9,478
Total eauf personnel expat             60,688   69,775   77,211   60,442  98,417   96,226  105,5U
Total global eneoignement secondaIre  69,227   78,416   86,886   9,012   98,486  106,822  116,697
ot d bose
Note: Forctlonne_ent comprend fonctionnement our flnanceent *xterleur
et autorites decentrall- n dane ce tablou.
Pourcentage de* depense  publiques                  8.5C     4.4X     4.9X      5.2X 3    6.5     6.x
globaloe our leducatlon prieaire
et secondaTre qul set *llouee au
fonctionnesent, calcule our base nette



ANNEX 8
53-                                             Page 4 of 4
DEPENSES DE FONCTIONNEMENT BUDGET GENERAL MINESE SOLON LA NONENCLATtUE ACTUELLE (Fos couranta)
-        ------FMg millions courants ------
Intttul-                       1933     1939     199W     1991      1992     1993
Frnls diveor d. personnel                415      48       596      68n       672      724
Indemnit.s deplacement *xterleur           *        5       20       24        28       s6
Ministre et S                            SS       95      126       1SS      148      157
DEPESEB * CIRESEB                         99      163       196      219      242      936
Materiel (Ministre * SO)                   2        4        14       16       17       16
Entretion des batlm_nts                    9       1S       49        55       59       68
Transport per* o  linteriour             196      29       847       876      406      487
Transport per.* a I xterieur               *       26       46       43        47       Be
Fournitures et servicee  OSAF            152      296      828       466      488      468
Materiel (Dir central.s)                   9        1       81        8S       86      38
Aide enseignam_t prlve                   264       16      864       392      419      449
Contribution vt PAM                      26       85       40        48       46       49
Subvention CNAPMAD                        61       16        14        a        6        a
Subvention al UERP                         *        0       14         0        6        0
Diver contrlbutione, prim..               0        a       16        11       12       12
Exna nn                                  212      894      448      472       604      648
Boure.s enselgn ae eat tech              119      102       116      124      182      142
Recyclage pe one admln
et encadrement pedagogique                6       68      166       109      117      126
Transport elov.. bourslers, etc.          26       82       87       42        48      s6
Fournitureu Services Ministers            47       58       64       248      11t      124
EN2                                      209      246      140       113      86a      161
ENI                                       13       so       65        e         6      870
Ecoles prima es                           28     1G        186      144      159      176
Ecoles -ec. de base                       46       56       76       126      171      179
Lycees                                    so       78       88       116      187      146
Colloge. Technique.                       48       72       98       126      168      171
Lyceo  Technique.                        245      224       176     812       614      586
TEFISO 1                                  20       47      126      15       161      198
SOUS-TOTAL                         2828     8270     8881     4465      51"      6756
DEPENSES DU BUDGET DE L'ETAT SELON SES CHAPITRES
-----------FM4g millions courants ---------
1967     1966     1939    lo       1991     1992       1998
ZINESEB
Pero                       48966    51214    58e69    59159   e6167    71282        77894
Fonct                       2741     2820     8267     8826     4466      5162       6746
Minitenre Defense            64       677      716      697      676       061        627
Admin. Deentra lis        158      11648    12682    12560   13799    14728        15712
Min. Jeunese et Sport        698      916    162      1162      1822     1472      165
TOTAL                      5slal   6969    74546    77694    65424    98246    102681
X  Fonct/Total                           8.5      4.4      4.9       5.2      5.5        0.6
EVOLUTION EN TERUES REELS DU BUDGET DU MINESEB (it  Inflation nulle
ot stabillte de Is valeur du point de IlIndice)
Taux 1933
1987     1966     1969     1996     1991     1992       1998    a 1998
Pere                       48966    44966    46424    47327    46467    49460       56587     2,41
Fonct                       2741     187T    2879      2576     2766      8616       8684    14,91



Unist&r. de I'Encsn   t Secondalre at de I Education do Bae.
-  -Nouvello Structure
O PPS (a  pars.                                                                  s  ure u N tlona I 
| .D c  d) es                           Didr  EncDit                               t          nt       d
Servie Relations          S* erce t  ati   dtion                  Centre  N tecn l
ItntArneAtoce do I "UNESCO                                        de Is r6prat-(                           D
dtd ctiou si                                    o
Sttcton d                Directti n des      Oiretion          Dtrtirton      Encitnr_t           Untt dPEStu   t de
Plunde I t               S rvicesAe Adin      Education       Encidgot_nt    Technique t         Rcherche rPMgoaiquc
at Orten  e             at  tnnct-rs         de Be"           Scends i re    PrefonnI           (Rong d Direction)
_                   l                                            tW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(otr Anne* D   ) 
- ns| ectiIon                             Dtr ctto|
St tt ttQu |   | F;nanctEro |    l    |S rel; ||  Seni             Scolalr e |                (DPESEB)
|S rvteo             Service  ||         |servlco   |     |S rvieo ||   vo            ||11S C;rconn- 
e td t   I      IP6d*gogiqueo I        WPdomiqu l    IPdggq        Pdggq1{ cription 
{PI^ntft ictonl                                               
r Gbstten |                                          r ~~~~~~~~~~~~12S2 Zones |
doibtten l'AoI-d'Antto I
Service Progrommtion    |     |dSN||Pd*Mi9qu   |
et Evalution               ' 
In poctton  |gp1
Ide I'Adt-Iool
nistratton
et finances
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



MADAGASCAR
PEDAGOGICAL UNIT - UNITE D'ETUDE ET DE RECHERCHE PEDAGIQUE (UERP)
|       UERP          D
tlSt W V  lr^u DU N     SRVIrE HlV. IlQtll >      ;ERV. ENS. TEOH.PR .       SERV. EDITOR.
Sort.}  .t. ScizL        Sectlon
- noths           ~~~En.olgnmunt                                                       i
- Phys/chim       ~Industrial
sect.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
S;t$on                            .
F no.            Sect. Lettr               Ens5- imant
-r-w- ~ i                                    i         o 
francalsi.rla                               SS 
/~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                     * 
/.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _
-                          E~.. e a -   - Ceection
/7        *1I~~~~~~~~~~~nsineet



REPOUSL IQ QUE  DE  MADAO GAS CAR
CRESED I
Suinay Account by Project C*Tpofmft
300. BENfOOCENENT
PLAN. BE L ECUCATION                          09At17E DE t ENS. INNISEB)                   ENSEIGN. SUP                           Physical
.... ... ... .... ... ... .... ... ... .  .. ... ... .... ... ... .... ... ... .... ... ..  .... ... ... ...  ont nge  cie
110   120 PLAN    ISO           140        210 UNITE 220 ENCAD 230 FORK. 240 FORN. 250 AUX1.             320 GIST.-------
NINISEI  EOtUC.   ErOOES/PPf COOROIN*IION   P10*G.        P10*.      lull       CON?    010*CI.   310 IST INS. SUP.  TAXES   Total           I    beoist
I. INESINENT costs
A. GENIE CIVIL                    129       371           -AL                     is,         32     S. 454      1.289    1.15?       944         76        - 10.704   10. 0   1.070
B. EQUIPENENI
Equpmntflta   Iawio n.       1. 100      127           -28                      87        103     2. 169               3.335    2. 103      1.884            10.935   10. 0   1. 094
Vahicutos                      232       163                       219          8&        426         0           -       24       447        128        -    1, 729   10. 0     173
Liwa,                                                                                                                  &       8488  101    1. 306       -     ,946   to. 0     09
Ordgesiatqra                    73       428                        52          65                          -                                                   GIs61    10. 0    82
Sub-total EQtIPIPEENI           1,400       718                       299         240        029     2. 1809             11.840    2.652       3.368        - 23.228   10.0   2.323
I~~~~octe       -                     - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~26       33           -                                                                     9   10.0        6
total                           22       105                                                        480      1,006                 176        26              1.018   10.0      102
Suti-lot.l KOSILIER                22       100                        26          33                   480      1,006        -       176         28             1.975   10.0       19?
s. COSSLITANIS
Coesultant Intern            1.287    1.333                        273         234         49        68        198    1.487        390      3.430             8. 74?    4. I     306
Coeseatant Nat.                121                                 653          to                  319                                         -             1 . 103    5. 0    55
Etuft$                                     -       3.202             -                      --3.252    5. 0                                                                      163
Sib-fatal OONSUiTANIS           1. 40     1.333       3.202           927         244         49        387        I"0    1.487       390      3.430            13.102    4.4       574
E. fORNATION
Foatioin Est.                  246       735                                    64     1.074                      .                113      1.637             S.8a9    0.0       193
Formtimn Locate.                         368                         .          34   -   752         24      1,614         -       301        tOO             3.194    S. 0      160
Sub-Total FOUfTION                246    1. 103                                    S?0    1.825          24      1.614         .      414      1.738             7.063    5.0       353
F. OPERATIONS
Nateruel etc                               .           -                       140                               is         .        .159    5.0                                   a
Salatres                       239       684           --                      382        210       334                    -         -         71             2.020    0.0       lot
GeneraI                      1. 937      160                       775         159        330       578                   63         -        119             4.120    5. 0      206
StAbt-bala  OPERATIONS          2.175       145                       770         681        540        912         i8       63                  290        -     .298    5.0       315
G. TAXES
lazes constructions                                                  -                                                                               1.586    1.586   10.0       159
laxes Equip.                     .         .           ..                        .                                                                  6. 345    8. 740   10.0     634
taxes Oparat.                    .         .           ..                        .                                .                                   634       634   10.0        63
StAt-Total TAXES                     .        .           ..-                                  .                                                   - 8.565      8.58    t0. 0       8S?
bloat INVESIIIINI COSTS            0.387    4.524        3. 252        2. 10?      1. 456     2.976    10.426       4.173   14.565    4.576       8,928   8.0565   70.936    8.0   5.6819
total BAI 60   IN  COSt S           'S. 87    4. 524      3. 252        2. 10?      1. 456     2. 976    10. 426     4. 173   14. 560    4.076     8, 928   8.0S60   70.036    8 0 05. 89
Physical Continenci es             147       288         163           126          94        177        976        326    1. 370      417        539      857    S. 689    0. 0       0
Price Contingencems                643 .     453         244           231         132        256      1.582        012    1.436       650      1.503      452    8.096    7 4       597
Iotal  MJO.ICI 1O51S                6.378    5.266        3.658         2,A64       1.8682     3, 410    12.085      5.011   17.380    5.643    10.069   0.874   84. 721    7. 4   6.286
foreign ExChange                  .359    3.575                      1.231       1. 012     2. 367     7.951     2.071   18.427    4.649        9.967            S 3.609    3. 6   4.0M62t
uucomer 22  1989  09:03



ANNEX 11
- 57-~                                                                       Paage 2 of 14
_  _   C%..0  a w e-n .
* 4"       -                       '
0.    u c o o  .   a  o.   el    . ed
_~~~~~*                          _.  *   a   .  .  ,   ,    .  S   
-,    ..             a  .         *  .14 
i~ - s.                                     j           8 SIc... s.
a E  
a  nZtt4S4t0.  -
_   C,     ',,       05' w 34C .~ o 
-"a_              - .-e
5. . .    . .    0|So
*   ",   fla4.1             .    'a.
a::  w'''>                  '0  
.     I      .1.1 e e e-rs0
u a  J      w.a          ,     n



R       E P U 8 I IO   11 0   N    D A    A S C A R
CRESED I
labl  11. 110 AEtlIOR4AII0  BE 0LA C511DR  1111SES
bOta led Cost Table
IFIG Mlillion)
Paraters
Totals Including Conttne        i      nmes    ---.-......................
Quantity                                      Base Costs in S                           4USS '0001                 Phy.
------ ............  ........   ..   Cont. for.  Gross Tem Sury
Unit   90   91   92   93   94  Total  Unit Cost   90    91    92   93   94  lotal    90    91    92   93   94  total   Rate  Exch    Rate    Accornt
::    3 3::   :3::  :3: :3:: :3:::   :3:::            -: ::: 3::::                  :::        :t       :3::::::: :::    3::e:: 3t3:: 3::::::::: :::::::
1. IVESISH1NT COSTS
A. GENII  CIVIL plO   IDA                                                580             84                      84       -     99    -    -    -        99    0 1  0 55            0    SAUl
. NOBtILER plt          IDA                                              $14      -       5    -    -    -        15      -      17    -    -    -       17    0. 1   0.3           0  SAFUIC
C. EQUIPELNEL pt2
Ordinnateurs        ID4                                               $45            48           -    -      48             56    -    -             56    0.1       I          0 54EOOR
Eq. de burou        IDA                                             S374            396    -    -    -    396         -    469    -    -    -    489    0. I          I          0  SAOEQO
Veticuies           IDA                      -142                              -     38   38   75    -    151         -      44   48   96    -    187    0.1          1          0  SAlOVt
Strato Ph 11        IDA                                             S300               -  259  15E      -    318              -  196  204            399    0.1       I          0  SAEOEO
Sub-lotal EOUIPENENT p12                                                                482  197  234           913            569  242  300    -  12t2
D. 65525 TECH. p13
Exp. Int. I         IDA      12   12    -    -            24          $15   190      190    -    -    -    380   205    214               -          419   0.05  0.85            0  541AFE
Exp  Int  2         IDA       -          12   22   12    36          $12       -       -  152  152  252    456        -       -  179  186  193    558   0.05  0.85               0  SATAFE
Exp  Nat  I         IDA                      -53                             20      20    -    -    -        39    21       22     -    -            43  005   0.2              0 SATALC
Exp  Nat  2         IDA-                                               38      -       -   20   20    -       39      -            23   24     -      47   005  0  2             0 SATAC
LocB ureaux         IDA                      -$8                              4       4    4    4    4         19     4       4    4    5    5        22   0.05   0.4            0  S OPDP
Sub-Total ASSIS IECH. pt3                                                       213    213  175  175  156    933   230    243  206  215  198  1.090
E. FORl.pI4            IDA                      -151                               -     40  120    -    -    160         -     45  141      -    -    186   0.05         I          0  SAIRFE
F. FOHCII pIS          IDA                     -$1189   248    248  248  248  248  1.239   267    280  291  303  315  1t456   0.05   0 4                                            0  SAOPOP
0. PART GVT p6         IDA                              -               SISO    32       31   31   31   31    2SS    33          35   36   38   39    182   0.05   0.1               0  SAOPS*                                D
Total lltVEStNElNl COSTS                                                           492  11122  771  688  435  3.498   531  1,286  9t6  855  553  4.142
:_:  :::::z -      _ :                                      -  mz: :   , ::::::::::::
Total                                                                               492  1.112  771  688  435  3.498   531  1,286  916  855  553  4.142
....................................    .............................   ........    ................... ............         ............................    ..............................................................................
December 22. 1989  00: 02
02*2
4-_



9    4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o- 4
R E P IJt I 0 UED             AfH 0 A G a     k;A 
CR1SE0 I
Table 12. PLANIFICATION OE t EOUCAIION
Detailed Cosl Table
31KG million)
Totals Including Cont in   gcn c ie--------- -------
@i*aftity                             Base Coats in $                         ss1U$0001              Py
--------------------       Unit   - ----- --- -----               --   ------ ----------    Cant.   for.              Gross   lax  Ssofry
Unit   90   91   92   93   94  Total  Cost   90   91   92   93   94  Total    90   91   92   93   94  Total   Rate  Eaceh.   Rate    Account
I. INVESTAENT COSTS
A. C01ISTR. P12          IDA                            --241    -                                     241      -289                       285    0. I 0.99           0    S8EH
B. NOSIIIER pl3          IDA.- - 101                                                                   lot1          -  124    -     -     124    0.1   0.3           0  SAfuic
C. EQUIPEKNEN p14
Ordinateurs PPF      30-             -    -          -        $103A              WO           -      9IS    180                         ISO- -  8  0. I  I         0  SAIQGO
KINESES              I0 -A           I    -                    S112   11M                           119   134    -     --               134    0.1      1          0  SAIGOB
NINESUP              30*             I    -                     $78    83    -                       83    93    -     -          -     93    0.3 I     1          0  S*10EQ
Viiticulds            IDA      -   .9  0.9 5                I $100   306                            1    06   120    --           -     120    0. I     I          0  SAEOVII
Sub-Total EOUIPEUEKT pl4                                                 468     -       -             466   927                           5       27
0. ASSIST. TECHI. PIG
P3110                mNuD-700   137  137  13?  337    -                                              49   148  Il9,  161  168          5 32   0.09  0.85           0  SATAFE
IDA                  IDA-$300                                           -  198  198    -           317      -  179  188        -       385   0.09  0895           0  SATAFE
Sub-Toa.l ASSISI. TECH. PIG                                               137  296  298  137      -    866   148  333  347  181           996
E. FM9 E18*33G0* pi?
UNOP                 UNOP-$400    80808080 s                                                       318    86  90  9397            -    365   o.o9       I          O SATREE
113*                 IDA-$IS0                                           -40  40  4040               159     -459471'9951                191 0.09        I         O SATRF
Sub-Totail f093 ETOAISEB p17                                              80  119  I19  119   40    477    86  139  340  946   91    997
F. FOU. IOCALE
IDA                  IDA--$230                                          -60  60.60860    239                -877073  78                287 0.09    0.3            0 0*1811
Sib-total 30KM. 100*11                                                      -   60   60   60   80    239        -   67   70   73   76    287
C. OPRATION              IDA*-$100    23   21   21   21   23    104    22   24   24   25   27    322   0. 09   0. 4                                                   2  5*0109
H1.6                    CI 6t--$430                                        8989as8989s a               444    96  '00  104  109  113    922 0.09    0.3               05*095*
Toldl INVIESINEKI COSTS                                                      703  825  689   28         2.938   878  944  830  521  266  3.419
Total                                                                         793  82S  88   426  2380  2.938   178  944  810  S21  266  3. 419
Decsmer 22. 3989 09: 02



RE  P U a t I e U E  DE      C N a   AG SC * 
clIEslo I
table 13  130 EIUES/PPf  El 140 SPE
Detalled Cost Table
HIMG Mill11ont
Paistera
totals Including Ccnit egfe            ------
OugrI lt                                   Base Costs in $                             WS$ 10001                   Phy.
.................................  ............. ..................... --.-- .. - t- ---- -----------.for   Gross f.as Sney
Unit   90   St   92   93   94  Total  Unit Cost    90    91   92   93   94  Total            go    91    92       93    94  total    lte  (act.,  late ,        ccount
I. IOVESINflT  COSTS
. ..s ...u.....s
& 13e EIUDES/PP
Etflf Ph I                IDA                                            5  -    -  - *                                 55sss       -      -         -     sss   0.05      0          0e  St*8E
Ett  PhO 2                ID4                4-0                                    -    -412  412    -    824               - -    404    504    -         9      - 0.05  0              SATAIt
f                                                          -                     773 -    -    -               773     633 m  m  3-                       833   0.05      0          0e S*1Et
Sub-lolal 130 EIU1S/MPPR                                                           1.268     *  412  412    -  2. 112   1.38            404    504    *   2.3 S
M. 140 GES0IOC  DU PR0IEI
a I .6eaua                IfA                                             so       52    -    -    -    -        52      s9    -        -      -    -              0   0.9            0 e   Sam
sbblur                    ID-                            -      -         S          -17 IT          -    -      1?        - 20         -      -    -       20    0. I      I         e  s*81
fe-nulurt                IDA                     .2Wan                              I    I    I    I    *        2           1 1       1       1    *        3    0.1      I t          * at
Vbeculas                  IDA      4    -    *           -     4      SiSo         49    -             - -      49       55    -               -    -       55    01  I               a  Su""
Wtr  l44                  ID0      2    -    -    2    -       4         522       47    -         41    -      93       53    -        -     60    -      112    0.1       I         O SoKVIt1
14icro    nateur Od-t-w-I-32                                                         -   34       -       -      34        -40          -      -    -       40    0.1       I         0  SE6t
qdob w eb u               IDA.--                                           5        8    8    -    -    -        l6       9    9        -      -    -       tB    0.1       I         * SMEVOC
Cw.a.IoC. Lot-.2/i                                                                   I    I    -    -    -        2 -  2   I    I                            20.05   0.2              0  s511tc
Ctslt                     10*            6    6    2           14      /a.ls        -   76   76   2s    -    177               86     89      31           2 m   0.Os  0.85           0  SUIUE
1tuils                    IDA       I    I    I    I    I       s     slo0a       10   0o  10   to   to        52        1I   12      12     13   13        I   o.o05   0 2          0  SU8lC
Sal BSPE/GUl             Cfl       12   12   12   12   12    60  S1.6/0S           20   20   20   20   20       99      *21   22      23      24   2*      It7   0.05   0.2           0  SITALC
Sol ePEIAA                1O       12   12   12   12   12    60  S3 I/aoxi         39   39   39   39   39    193         42   43      45      47   49      226   0.05   0 2           05 sllCC
Sol NICEOVI              Cltl    12   12   12                 3 -    t6  S1.l/r    14   14   14    -    -       41        Is   I5     16       -    -       46   0. 05   0.2          0  S 1 0lU
Salaire  NitItI/D         18       12   12   12               36    S2eal          12   12   12    -    -       37       13   14      15       -    -       42   0.05   0.2           0  s5l**c
bpl.                     ID0        I    t    I    I    I      5      par  n       10      0 to   10  10  10    so        I   t11     t2      12  13        59   0 05  0.4            0  s5 oPP
fonct                     ID        I    I    1    I    I      5      paru a       9    91   91   91   9f    453         98  102    105    III  115        533   0.05   0.4           0  SAw01
Sub-fotl 140 CESTION510f  P0.MJEI                                                    353  332  272  242  169  1.368        388  3'8    320    m    216   I 600
C. I Ot1ES
Conslr.                   6        -          -.Si ON                               -  258  258  258  258  1.030          *  304    3.0    330  343   t.204    0. I        0          a  s*TUe
qupp. Rob. Yeh.           6?                      -4. On   4.120    -    -    -    - 4.120   4.652    -                                 -                4.652    0.1      0          0  ShTIE
f  oflris duonct Oo4l                                                             41? -    -   -*$2            412      465                                465    0.1      0 e        o     T*1*
Sib-fotal 1 OTIES                                                                  4.532  258  258  258  258  5,562   5.117  304    31?    330  343   6.412
total INVESTMENT COSIS                                                                6.172  589  942  911  427  9.042    6093  582  1t120  1.132  sss  10.387
total                                                                                  6,172  560  942  911  427  9.042   G.593  652  1.120  1.132  550  10;38t
.................................................................... ................................................    ................................................___ ._  .__......  ....... _.... ..... ...... ..... ........ ...........
Osceber  22. 1989  00:02
4 ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ C
. **                         *                     Lai



I E P U 8 L 1 9 U E DE N A 0 A G A S t A R
CtESED I
table 21 210 UP p21
OsttIed Cost Table
1FIG 1illionI
Ptters
Totals Incltudng Contingwcies   ---
Oiauntity                             Base Costs in S                     UlSi 0001              Phy.
--- --- --- -- --- --- ---- ---                   - -- - --- ---   - ---- ---- -- -- -- ---          Cant.   For.  Gross   tax   Suinry
Unit  90   9;  92   93   94  Total Unit Cost   90   91  92  03  94  Total  90   91  92   93   94  Total   Rato  Exch.   bate    Account
::., 3::. 3::: ::::::: :3::: 3::   ::::: :3:3  3::  :     :   ::: :: :::::  ::: ,:3  :3:  3::: :::3 s:3333   ::::: ::::: :t::::::::::::::
1. INVESNtEUT COSTS
A. tOCUX UP p34
habe                          -    -          -          -        100    52   52    -   -   -   10    59   62    -           -    121   0.1 0.9S           0    siGN
ftbilt I             lws I    -    -        -     -     -          20    2t    -    .    - .   21   24    -              -          24    0.      I         0 SAFUFE
Equipxuit            tls--,-                     -      -          53    S6    -    -             s9    63    -    -    -    -      63    0.      I         0 SAGES
Ordin                I S      I                          I *40000    42    -    -   -   -   42    4           -    -    -    -    48    0.1       I         0  S1 OII
...    ...   .. . . . . . . . . . ....   ...   ...  ...    . .. .
S,b-total tLCAI  UP p34                                                     172   52    -   -   -  224   194   52    -    -    -   255
8. VEnllP4              IDA      4                          4       /a*h    57    -         -   -   57    65    -                      65    0.1     t            SUOMN
C. D0001 p34            IA  --         -    -        -     -      -    6     -  36         18  18   91      -  41  2)   22   23    108   0.0        I         0  Sx8
S. COUNSt/FtO  p35
Experts              ISA      4    4    4    -          12        512    51  51    9) -  -   152    SS   57   60                   171   O.0S 9085          0  USAT
otws                 ID       -    -          -39                         -  21  21         -    41      -  23   24    -    -    48  0.09                   0  SxlxE
Sminsire             IDA- -        -    -     -       -            31    4    9    9   --    22          S 0 10         -    -      25  0.09    0.3         0 SATitc
*Ib. Chi.            I A-        -     -    -     -     -           6     3    3    -   -   -    6       3    4    -          -      7  0.05   0. 2         0  USTIC
res de Fonct.        IS       -     -    -     -     -     -       99    2)   2    21 21 22   103    22   23   24   25   26    121   0.09   0.4             0  SaOPm
SItfonet             6 F- -        -    -     -    -         -    240    90  90   90  S0 S0   248    53   56   58   61  63    291  0.09   0.1               0  SR"
toction Bat. Fop   IOA        I    I   1    -    -       3  pearts        0    0    0   -  -       0     0    0         -    -       0   0.05   0.4         O  S0*05
Sb-Total C01NSUEIlfO0N p35                                                 128  153  150  70  70   572   138  173  177   86   89    663                                                                  i
Total IWESIKNET COSTS                                                         358  242  169  88  88   945   397  276  198  108  113  1,092
:-.:  :,   :::  :s-:::::          .... ::::     .: :.  Z*- ::::::.
Total                                                                          398  242  169  8S  88   945   397  276  t98  10  113  1.092
_sc~s 22. 1989 09: 02
at
I-



A E P U 8 t I O U E DE N 6 U A C A S C A A
CRESED I
Table 22. EFFICACITE DE I EICADR. PED. p45
Detailed Cost Table
IfNGH IIC tllionl
Vareett.rs
totals Including Continpnci.s   ----------------------------
quntity                                   Base Costs in S                      (U1S$  0001              Phy.
-........      --------- --------- ------        ------- ---- ----- ---------    Cont.   For.    G os   Tax   Su_ey
ttnit    90   91   92   93   94  total  Unit Cost   90   91   92  93  94  Total    go    91    92  93  94  total   Rate  Exch.   Rate                 ccount
:=2C=::  ::::5:: S: ::: 3:::  :: :33  3j:::  333133333  :::: 3333 :33 3: ::: ::;::::  3;:3  ;w::s: :     :3:: 3:: : :3:3=:  :3:;  ::: 3.::: 333333:  3:333:
1. INVESTIIIENT COSIS
. ... . . ...     ..
a. tocuxI FOR. IrNiAE pS7
.. ... . .. .......  ....
Rehab.                          IDA                                               20      -   21    -   -   -       21      -     25    -   -   -       25    0.  O.5            0    Saml
NWbiIter                        IDA           -3                                               3    -   - -          3             4    -   -   -        4   0.05   0. 4          0  SAOPOP
SAt-Total LOCAIUI FORH  INIIIAtE p57                                                         -  24    -   -    .       24      -     28    -    -    -     28
8. EQUIP. VEHIC p58
... .. ..  .....
Equipment                       10         --                                     63    67    -         -   -       67    75       -    -   -   -       75    0.1      t          O SAEOq
Vehicules                     13/vsh.--                                          261      -  138  138   -   -    277        -    164  170              334    0.       1          0  SAAEYH
Sub-Total EQUIP. VEHIC p58                                                                  67  138  138   -   -    343    75    164  170   -   -    409
C. EXPERtS pO                     /eais       2    -    -    -    -       2         $15    32    -    -   -   -        32    34       -    -   -   -       34   0.05  0.65           0  51IFfE
0. 8NRSE5 p60                    35 h-an    $- -a.18.8                                       -  349  349   -   -    697        -    393  410   -   -    803   0.05        I          0  SUTfE
E. FORNATIOII p62                   ID --4                                 - -      470   244  244    -   -   -    488   263    275    -   -   -    539   0.05   0.3                 0  SATRIC
f1 FONCT ION p65
Pduication                      IDA-                                                      -    3    3   3   3       12      -      3    4   4   4       14   0. 05   0. 4         0  SAPW'
VehiculI                        IDA-                                                     11   11   It  tl  11       53    tl      12   12  13  14       62   0.05   0.4           0  SUOPOP
Ohplaceinnts                    IDA                                                       - 63   63   -            126      -     71   74   -   -    145  0.05   0.4              0 SOPOP
fonction                        IDA                                               19      8    6    6   --          20     9       7    7   --          22  0.05   0.4            0 SAPOPDP
Sub-Total FONCIION p65                                                                      19   83   83  14  14    211    20        93   97  17  It    244
CGVI                               CVI--                                             132     - 68   68 --             136            77   80--            1S    0.05    .1           0  USACP
Total INVESIIENI COSIS                                                                        361  906  638  14  14  1.932   393  1.031  757  17  17  2.215
Total                                                                                          36t 906  638  14  14  1.932   393  1.031  757  17  I?  2.215
. . .. =333 3333  -3  zz3K    -              Z     33.:=  333:-333
OeCmer 22. 1989  09 02
Er'
Q '-



9      5
aEP 1S t    ItuE Of E  NA OAaas Ca
CPESED I
Table 23. 230 FUKhlION INJTI*tLE pfb
*Dtai led Cut tlabl
IFIIG Ni I l  oX
fPrmibr
Total$ Including ContiGf              .      ..i...------- .---------
Ouantity                 8os. Costs in S                                                  US  low                   Phy.
---     -------- - r   ----------  --------- -------------------  ------------------t.---o--,-CartsForTGro s    ta         nrv
Int t   90   91   92   93   94  Total Unit Cost   90   91    92           93    94  total    90  si    02          03    94  Total   Qtto  Each.   Date    Accout
... .  .... ....  e;...  .... .. . .....   ... .....  .... .... ...... ..g...., .... .. =. .    .... :z .... .. | .;.. ....... .... . A...   ..... ..... ......... ..., "
1. INuSuisT COSTS
A. S EN I p85
Costr                  OPEC      -850                                           -  340    340        -    -    680         402    419        -    -      21    0.1 0.55             0    SWi
Conste   [CAID t       ID                   -     -                     so      -    -              -         -         -    -               -    -       -    0.1  0.55           0    SItU
Conatr ID  PI.2        IDA       -    -    -    -                                    -    68U    888          1.31t s              U       881 u     1. 28      0.1 0.I            0    s*8
Si -Totl  6 EN I p65                                                               *  340  1.028    G8U          2.056      -  402  1.265    881    -  2.s49
S. EGUIMEIIT
Ertpm  OPFC            DPEC     -      -       -      -      -         E             -       -    345  345    688       -    -        -    441  459      01    0. 1      I          0  SuOES
Equip. ID              IDA                                             438      -    -       -    232  232    454       -    -        -    29   310    607    0.1        I          0SUE*
tbhlculs               I0D                    -     1. s   1. 5          0           -       -       -    0       0     -    -        -      -    0       0    0.1       1          0osue"
Ee studiants           IDA       -    -                       -    -      -                         0                                        0    0       I    0.o       I          0    0es*Ee
Sib-Total EQUIPE4ElT                                                               -    -       -    577  57t  1.154        -            -    739  760  1.508
C EPERIS                  IDA       -    3    -             -    -  3  $14/an      - 44         -            -      4           50       -       -          s5o  o0.0 0f  8            OSATJE
S. f700*I300
Usib Ctr CPIE          IDA -0*r -73                                                                73           147           -     90      94           84    0.1 0.55            o 0    58
Si-Total FO8K*llI                                                                  -    -      73      73    -    147       *    -      90     0          -                                                            CP4
E. FOCTION.               IDA       I    I    I    -    -       3         120   125 125    125          -    -    375   135  141    14           -    -    4230.05   0.4               O  SIOP                         W
F. SAM*  sII.             671       I    I    I    -    -       3      par an    72   72        2       -    -    217      s 8 2       85       -    -    244  0. 050.1 Ot                S
G, Et 11 PSE 11 pIs
Ushab. EX12            IDA       -00                                            -    -    904    294    - .98N          -    -  1.223  1.273    -  2.497    0.1  0.5s5              0    st
bb. EU 2               IO                      -                       3        -    -       -    312    -    312       -              -  -  9     -    m       o 0.1   0. 3        oSAFltC
E    EN 2              ID-                                             240         -         -    254    -    254       -    -        -    32           326    0.1       I          oSAIEQf
Vehiscul               IDA            --2                                       -    -       0       -            0                  0       -            0    0. t      I          oSIEOnt
Form .iv.2             IDA-                                -    -                                                is -    -           is6  -    - I  -    I s  0.05   0.3           eSITsILC
Un. Archl.            I3         --200    62  83                                            62       *    *    207    67   94       73       -    -    234  0.050  .2               0"TAlC
feoct. EN 2            IDA4-S                                                   -    -       - --          -     -         -          *      -    -,    -   0.05   0.4 0* osP0
Siby. EP2              IDA                                         -        -    -    -       -      -                                                         0o.0    0.1 0t          s
Sib-Total EN 1I PIASE If p8b                                                      62   83  1072   1.560    - 2.777    67   94  1t315   .999           -  3.474
Total IUVESTNIT COSTS                                                               260  565  2.371  2.898  577  65.70   280  768  2.902  3713  169  6.432
Total                                                                                280  885   .       2,898  577  6.770   280  70   2,902  3.713  769  80432
Decmr 22. 1989  09:02
0s.
Mt



a E P US aE  I Q    0 of   Ni R t A a a S C A R
Table 24. F6lWAtI0*     CO3T. p103
D.tail.d Cost Table
FlNG hIH I i.
ltoce Is nc lwifn   tot I 0  iam        ---------            ............----
Qantity                                        E   Costs in *                             s$ls  IfUS     C                       u     .y.
_ __- *-*- *---___--- --- -------   ....----------*------- ------------  ....................    M. for.  GM$n VO 1S 5rY
uitt   90   91   92   93   B4  Tot*l  UnIt Cost   90   9t   92   93   94  Total    90    el                   92    93    N   Total   bto  ExlL    4to           itc
.. _UUSTUNI 0515                 SrS.  nt:._r Cr..   .... ..._  ...  .........  .... _...   ....r....   .. ......  .... ...... ... a..  ....  ....   ....   ..... .                            .. ......b
. FIIUL CiNT. NIV. 2 pIll
113   lot   hv. I-    I       IU         3   10    -                  13          20    63  209    -    -    -    272    It    247              -                318    0.1  0.55             0    mmtt
20 a b     tvl-Pb2             ID        -    -    4    a    4    20              20      -    -         167   84    419        -       -    208  214  112    532    0.   0.55                0    SW*0
lb 13 Etab                     IDA                              -                680      -206  206  208   6o    686                  243    2532ti4       1 go          o 0.1   0.3          oSlAfilC
foameta                        50        -    6    6      -    -    12       h  ins       -   63   63    -    -    127          -      71      74    -    -    146   0.05  0.35               0  SAMiE
S  instr                       i               -    -                  -          97      -    -    -50    SO          101      -       -       - 62   64         121   0.i06   0.5 t             S*TtC
PAl .pr. steps                 tM.                                                        . -  4                 .       4                            5     -           0.OS   0.3           0 S*TILC
Sib-Total f3  COO11t. lIV. 2 pIll                                                            63  478  436  428  203  1.608    It    562    5S34  S45  267  I.978
1. fi1R  CIIT ENS 3I3  2 pIlS
_Am. Cte CPIE                 liD                                           $ Oct re                73   13      -    147                      90   94    -  1 t4    0.1  0.55                0    Sl
Cam  tniniowt    CPIE          IDA       -    -           -    -       -          48    50      -    -    -             SO    54        -             -    -      54   0. t5   0.3            a  S*TfC
form. bg  3 .3                  M. -300    62  212                                                   5     -    -    312    67        141     146           -    354   0.05    0.3            *  sAtnn
Itmion CPIE                    Ii                       .560                              -  291  291    -              82      -    328    342          -       670   0.05   0.3             0  ShinC
stas                           I         -.1.9                                            -    2    -                    2      -       2       .    -    -         2   0. 05      I          0  Sum
Sfh  CPIE                        i       -9.2                                             -    5    5    -    -         10      -       6       6    -      -      It   0.05       I          0  SAW
Si-totol fOII COT ftiS  IV 2 p1l1                                                           112  422  494   73.   -  1.102    121    4i7    584   94    -  1,2;6
---- --  ------- ---- ------   ---- ------ ----- ---- ---  ------
fetal IWESTNEUi CitSIS                                                                        ItS  301  930  50B   203  2.710    192   . 039  ;.tt i63S  267  3.254
Total                                                                                            75  901  930  50   203  2.70    192  I.039  1. Ili  69  267  3,254
:.... .... .... ...C.... ......  .... ...... ...... .... .... ..................
_c~c  n22. 1989  0:02
t0
.   w                                                                                  _             +~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



53*510 I
Table 25. 210 PISUC. Ii OIFFVISION hIXILIAIhIS FIND0. p134
DetaileSd Cost TWOl
Totals lnot.'c  Coati lui*s        ................
QuejItit?                                          Base Cests inS(s ISI  Om0                                            15y.
unimt   90    9?     92      03      94     Totle    vint Cot    90   SI   92         93    94  Total    90   01    92       93    96   lotsI    *ateCscL   lbt.   Aecuam
I. IUVCSTUCUI COSTS
6. COUIPCUCT P145
Iapu~~~~ria  13*    -       .       - ~~~~~~~~ -    -         -       5210    223    -                        223     2511                            211    0.5      I         05*SAM
SFF ivaI                  50*          3.300   3.300   3.300   3.300   13.200        151        -  S2      12    12  12    210         -  62      65      6?   T0     264    0.1     I         0  *1*6
Stib-lota  HI 6 IK110  p141                                                                     223   12     12     12  52    432      251   62    II       6?   t0    Its
6.A1I.S SCSI p141
Ikoaaaon phase I          IDA      -                                        -      S. o    1.606    -       -              1.696   1.911              -         - . i.ts   0. I      I         0  SKIT1
Iwoauion Phasa II        IDA       -                                         -     S.b so     06     -      1.696              1. 910                     -  1.651.15   0.1          I         0 suit1
Si-Total 1*6011S SCOS IVp4                                                                      .9                             ,02   3.830 m    M                        &- -    .30
C. CO LAS
&MPUDPh 2                 IN*                       .     liI     155      230        .2        -                 34 34       6?f             .           43 41        as0.10 .96              0    Su
Om  Ph 2                  IDA              -        -       .          -                             -     0      40    -    so         -         49      St          50I0    0.1    1         OSamI
Voitwm OPPS Ph2           50               -.                       .                                       a      a6         Is       .           50    la0           20    0.1     5         0 *10
Sib-lotsl Et LAS                                                                                              is* 1  83   34    163       .           9    545 41        20
0a  CONSOIISTS 
omitsad aulmws            GTZ      2       -                        -        2         24      32                             32      34                               34 0.6650.3*            0satJ
lac.couts                 613      2               -                        2          24      32                             32      34            -      -    -es60, 6.3*                    06*3*1
Nan. Fin  OMP             GTE      1       I        I       -                3         24      16  i6    Is        -          4?       I1  Is    10        -            4   0.65  0.61s        0  5*1*51
Oistributian              613      3               -       -        -        3         24      4?       -         -           41      St                               St - I    0.66  0.61s   0  1*1*
Cdltian scola4r.          STiz    12      12      It      52       3       51          24     IS 90   190 500    5"   4?    so?      201  254    223    232   00    635   0.6es  0.3*          0  $ATAF
Sub-lotal COIIIlmT0*S                                                                            35?  206    206    190   4?    966     341 232    242    232  60   1,5IN
E. 161111ISEKENEU
001'S                     IS       -                                                            2    2      2      2    2     to       2    2      2      3    3       52  0.660.4             0 1MN
CN*01VAO   ,               0*                                                                   6    6      6      6    S     so       I    1             I    a       36   0.465  0.4         0  50*0
Sib-total IUCIIOIUICEUT                                                                            S   a       6      6    6     41       9    9     50     t0 o         48
F. OISTRINTIE
ItaNaow                   [OA      -                                              s 2.40        -   -1.060  1.060    - 2.M2                    1  .304  1.318    -  2.662    0.5     I         0  MIT0
IEnt,pts COLR.3Ph 2       INo                     so 5    30      30       510         50       -         314    18653*8   691         -          6     241 51    a"81       0.5 0.9           0    SAC
Stocksap ElcolPha" 2   IDA             4,000   4.000   4.000       -    2.000 pseracle          -5 III     i   115    -  5.664        . 62    61       106    -  2.036    0.5       I         0  suit8
Sib-Total DISTIBUITION                                                                             - "I5 1.021  1600  588  4.464          - 652  2.360  2.366  255   S.0S17
Total  IKII   OT                                                                                  3.939  $85  2,239  2,132  330  9. 4168  4.435  961  2.743  2.719 431  55.26
0tetw 22. I96 00.02
ii



of PU eL  If OU   E          NAM AGa ASCAR
CR1SE0 I
tabla 21. 310 IST ANTANANARBIVO
Ostaitid Cost Tablo,
Parowt.ts
Total$ In~cluding Cootti'ogaca                               - ..............
ominttty                                  Sea* Costs in                          fuss1US 001             PItY.
..................-                          -----------------           ------------------                  Cent.  Fow.    Gross  Von  Sia rpy
Unit  90   91   92   93   04  Total  Unit Cost 20   91    92    93   94  Total   90   91    92    03   94  Total   Asat  ExchL   hie    Accoemt
3. IUVESIUT1111 oasis
Ganf* Civil                    OPEC                                       5858       -    -    300  184  123    613    -           377  235  1BS   715    0.i  0.55             0    ShU
Ildbilta,                      OPEC                       -$10810    -                           I     -    - -          -    -      13    -    -     13    0.1   0.3           0  SAVUIC
fist/Eqaip.                    OPEC-52918is  Is                                                                   31  17   IS        -   -            36    0.1I     I          0 5*1900
flta Coram.                    OPEC--                                                             -    I    1       3    -           -    2    2       4    0.1      1         0 *1010
Vabiculas                      OPEC.544000    -4?                                                      -          47    -885         -          -     58    0.1      I         * SAESVI
Sub-Total DIRECTION                                                                    1I  62    317  188  124    704   I?   73    390  23?  lBS    684
D. 311. N8INTINEU*
"$poar                         OPEC-147710                                                       so 8  -    -     so    -    -      St                G   i    0.1I  0 3        0  S.FU1CC
NstIEq.                        mPeC-561128 5                                                   688        -      68 - as0 -                     - o10    0.1I        I         0  581010
Nal.conio                      OPEC.568980    -                                           7 I      17  11?        70    -21         22  2223          ea    0.1I     I         O skEQIB
Vsbiculaa                      OPEC.562o0                                            -33        33    -    -      66    -39         41    -    -      s0    0.1      1         0 *0416
Ssb-total 311. NAINTEUSCE                                                               -    1    789   1?  I?    844           60    934   23   23  1.039
C. 313. S.I.P.
N6tbiffe                       OPEC-520780                                                      22    -    -      22                27     -    -     27    0.1   0. 3         O SIftLC
NaIiEq.                        OEC-$283000                                                        -  Z68         268. -344                           344    01t      I         0  S*1010
NaI Cone=                      OPEC-6117750    -31                                              31 31  31        128    -37         38  40  42       18?    0.1I     I         05*101EQ
Ishiculus                      OPKC-589500    -                                                 47 47    -        95          -     88 6?       -    119    0.1I     I         05804111
Sub-1latI 313. si.P.                                                                   - 31    100  34?   31    809    - 37    123  444   42    646
0. 314. 11R1181R1
ftbilter               OPEC-531040                                                            32    -     32    -     -       -   41    -     41    0. 1   0.3          0  SAUIC
Rat. at C%q.                   OC-5...                                    162855  -43    43 43 43   173  -1 5I 38888   217  0    1                                              OSAIBEBD
Nat. Cosm.                     OPEC.$26190    - 10                                               to010  10        36    - it        12  12   13    40    01I         I         0 50iE01
Vattuculga                     OPEC-57800                                            -83          -    -    -     83    -06          -    -    -      9o    0.1      1         0  810111
Sub-Total 314. TEBTIAIBE                                                                -128       53   68   53    326    -160         65  109   t0    404
E. IDA FIEAEIBO
I. DIRECTION
ioy 0 fee t on              IDA*-$34500    -    9                                             9    9    9      37    -10         11  11  12        44 0.09        I         o SATIFE
Sub-totla  DIRECTIONI                                                                     9      9    9    9      37         10     It   11  12       44
2. 311. MAINTENANCE
Bocu ftiuton                IDA    .         .         .         .      17000          5      8    8    8      to          S      6    6    6      23    0 1      I         0581012I
AStut   lach                IDA                 .                      144000    .     0      -          -      0          0      -          -      0   0 08  0.68          0  SMIAFE
forms  forms                10                                         562800    -33         33    -           65         37     36                78   0.05   0.3          0 5804CC
Toy Cludas                  10*                                        $  11500    - 6        6    -           12    -     7      7                14   0.08      I         0  $81611
SubIolal 311  IlAOWEIIANCE                                                           - 43       43    8    8      96o        49     St   6    6    112
3. 313. 9 T. P
VoyapslIDA-$11OO0                                                                     1   6      -             to1    -           7    -           14  0.0        I         O SAETIE
fore  ram                   IDA-531400                                                 6      6    8    6      33    -     9     1010  t0          39 0.08   0.3            0 5*13cC
Oorctmnltton                [OA-530000                                                 a      a    8    a      32    - 9         to01011           40    0.f      I         05*10l1
5tb-Total 313. SI.1.1                                                                    38     22   16  lB       03    -44         27   20   21    112
4. 314. TEITIAIBE                                                                                                                                                                                          1-
Assist lach.                IOA-5240000    -  27    127    -    -    283    -143    149    -                                                      202   0.08  0.88          0  SlIMFElt
form Form.                  IDA-594200    - 24                                               24   24   24      98    - 26        29   30   31    II?   0.08   0.2           0  SATBEC
VoyagasE I                  IDA-5100                                              -    -      6    6    -      1 2    -    -      T    7    -      1s  0. 08      I         0181381f



-    *- -  - - --  - *- - -*--  - - --  - zw^*- --  ------   ...  ....   ......   ..   .  ....  ......
S4b-Total 314.  IERTAIRE                                                                                                           t ISO      15?      31      24       363            7II         t55      37      3t       424
Sih-lot.l ID  FIIICING                                                                                                             -  242    232   60   54    588    -  274    273   7.   70    691
F. fit  0t
1. ISt *TONIIVO
"owes Col.                                0T                                                                             5   5              5   5   5    26   5   6                              6   6   t    31  0.05  0.1                                     0 5*085
Cout de fSWt- 01I I    It                                                                                                                  It   11   11              54   12   12               13   13   14              63   0.05   0.4                       0  SWOP
Salairos pts. adi                         Ctl--                                                                          6    6             6    0    6              30    6    7                        7    8           35  0.05   0.1                        0  Sa* il
Sot*o'    paes. 01e-.  -                  --7                                                                                          7    7   7  7   35   8                                  8t    9   9    42 0. 5 0.1                                       0 sum
, ~~~~~~~~~~.. ...    . .... ...... ...... .  ....    . ......                       ..  ....  ......  ....  ....  ......
S*-totat IS1 ItU?*RM1IV                                                                                                      29   29           29   29   29    145   31   33                        34   35   37    170
St*-109I SliN. Ctt                                                                                                               29   29            29   29   29    145   31   33                        34   35   37    170
. ... .. .~~~~...  ....  ......  ...... ....  .... ...   .... ..... ....... . ....  ....  .... ........... .....
Total  ItiESt?ER      t   COSTS                                                                                                       44   550    1,490   724   309   3.116                49   637    1.819    923   407   3.835
.;55  :;;;  5::::   .::;   ISl I.:Xl;                  ;zX  :=-: ::2-  . S ....  ...             ... 1
Total                                                                                                                                  44  550  1.490  724  309  311    49  637  t.819. 923  407  3.835
-2...-.  ....                        ,      ...  ....    ,:: ... 2...:: .. .::. ....   .  .... ,:.
.......................... ........................................ ........... .............. ......... ............ ... .. ....... ......... .......... ............. ...---...-..--..--.-.-.........................----------.......... .  ......
D.cbu 22. 1989 09 02
4O
a
NI 
ta.



RE PU8l I  IO VIf K    N   OA GA SC AR
CRESED I
Tab   32. 310 IST AUTSIR8NAIst
teteted Cost Tablo
tftn  Nillton)
Paimtees
Total$ Includivnt Contitngncies  --
Quantity                                  Base Costs in $                       WS$ '0001         p-iy.
Unit   90   91   92   93   94  lotel  Unit Cost  90   91   92   93   94  Total   gO   9t   92   93   94  total  bto  Exch.                  le    Accobt   t
1. IKVESTNIET COSTS
A. FIN OPEC
t. 312 tIUItEUttCE
Coastr.                      OtC                                    - -47028            -    -2    5S   10    49        -         - 019   13    62    0.1 0.55                0    SACK
ti i top                     OPEC                                   -     $10305    -    -    -   It    -    It         -    -    -   14    -    14    0.1   0.3              0  SAfIIC
ftt. *  E                    OWfC      -M--                         -    $    00    -   61   61   St   SI   243         -   12   75   t8   81   306    0.1         I          0 SAOCo
"at. C _                     a OPEC                                 - -22000    -    6    6    6    6    23                   7    7    7    8    29    0.1        I          O SA2EOt
Wehicules                    OPEC                                   -      862w00    -    -   66      -    -    66         - -82    -    -    82    O I            I          OIA SUO"
Ss-Ioel 312 tAITEttUCE                                                                     6B   ;8   92   76   393             19  194  118  1O2   493
2. 01tECII0
Nab;Ilop                     OPEC                                   -      $000            -    -     B    - -  -             -    -                 8    0.1   0.3           O  SAFUILC
tt. et tq.                   OPEC                                   -      $7400    -    -    -    8    -         8     -    -    -10         -     t0    0.1      1          0 SAESC
tl Coansc                    OPEC      --                                  $000    -    I    I        I    1      5     -    2    2    2    2        1    0.1      I IS0 5AOE
Veticules                    OPEC      -                            -     $180       -    -   It    -    -    1         -    - 21    -    -    21    0.1           I          O  SAEWn
S   lb-otal DI CTION                                                                    -    I1s1s.1               39      -    2    2   20    2    46
Ss-lotal fl4 OPEC                                                                           -    81t6 108   78   429           -   80  216  138  104   538
IL fIUUlCHEUI IDA
--............
1. 312 hItI8IEUANCE                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
Ooctmatat3of                 IDA             -$308OO    -    8    8    8    8    33                                          10   10   10   11    41    0.1        I          0t   o 1l1
assist Tech.                 IA-                                         $120000    -         t2t'         -   127       -    -  149    -    -   149   0.05  0.85             0  ShlU8E
for   dn fo.                 IDA            -62800                                        16   IS   is   16    65            is   19   20   21    78   0.05   0.             O  SATRtC
Voy Et                       IDA                                          $1-    ---       -    B          -    12            - 6        7    -    IS   0.08       I          0  SAt5fE
S"b-Total 312 N8ISTENAUCE                                                                    24  I1?   31   24   237            28  185   38   32   283
2. OIlECil4
Vo  Et                       IDA                                          $11500           -          6    -    12      -         -    7    7    -    IS  0. 05    I             SAtIfE
.... . ....  ....  ....  ....  .... .. ..... .... ....  ....  ... .  .... ... ... ....
Sb-Totol DIRECTIOK                                                                       -    -    6    6    -    12        -    -            7    7   IS
Su6-Total FINAIIECNIUT It                                                                   -   24  163   37   24   249        -   28  122   45   32   297
C. fly. Cvi
t. ISt *TSIRAASAt
Houw"  Cl                    0T        -          -                                                   I    t      J      t    t    t    I    1       3 0.05   0. t            o  SAS
ot d.onct                    CtT       -    --                                            59  58           !    24      5    5    8    6    6    28   0. 05   0.4             0  S1OPO0
Selabir    Ws.a i            Cvi       .        .     .                              2    2    2    2    2    It        2    3    3    3    3    130.09    0.1 05*0 t     
Salaires pWt.as:    -                               --                               I    I    I      I    I      8     I    I    I t         2      70.0       .t 0.5 0 5 Ot
Sub-Total ISI ANTSIRAAA                                                                 9    9    9    9    9    44.    9   10   10   II   II    Si
Sub-Total FIN. GVT                                                                          9    9    9    9    9    44        9   10   10   It   tt    Si
Total INVESTEMNI COSTS                                                                         9  101  348  153  III   7i2        9  I;$  419  194  147   887
Total                                                                                           9  tOt  348  tS3  ttt   722        9  118  4tS  t94  147   887                                                              II
............. .... ..... .... ... ... z .... .... .
................. .................................................................................................................................................................. ......................................................... ------------
Dbceabe 22.  989  09 02
4I-



R EPUB 8L I QIIE Ok I A DA GA SCA R
CRESED I
table 33. 320 6151O 10 NS. SUP
Detai led Cost table
IfAG N, IlI oflt
Pariamters
Totals Intcluding Contingencies        --------------
QuMnti IS                                     as$e costs in S                              lOSS loco)                 Pt'v.
.   .....................nt........Gross Tax Stmmry
Unit   90   91   92   93   94  total  Unit Cost  90   St    92           93      94   Total   90   91    92        93      94   Total   Rate  tEch.   Rte,   Iccsmt
I. INVESTMENT costs
A. 321 RENOVAtION PAOG. 880).
Natartal                   IDA       -    -                               $18.0 IDA48          48     48      48    191          56     59      61      64    240    0)1       1          O SA EQE
Experts                             IDA                                            $10          4?      47      4?     4?    I90O         54      58     58      60    228   0 05 0.85             O SATAfE
BOWgSea                             IDA                                             $70          19     19      Is     19      74         21      22     23      24      89 0.05        I          0 SAIRFE
Sib-Iotal 321 REIIOArioN P8oa. ACAD.-  114    114    114    114    455                                                                      131    138    142    148    55?
8. 322 REMFOEC. ADNIN. tNINl.
atler-tel                           IDA.$70                                                     37      3?                     74         44      46                     so9   0.1      I          O SAEQEQ
leer-Ia                             IOA.$70    -37                                                      37              -      74    -42         43       -       -     85  0.05 085               05*1*1E
Bosases    IDA.$80    -3~~                                                     ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 325 4    -36      3?7                    73  0.05        1          O SAIRIE
Sib-total 322 BiAIgORC. A08IN  UNIV.                                                           -  106    106                     712     -  121    126               -    248
C. 323 CONtROLE COUTS UNIV.
Nateriel                            IDA.$40                                                     21      21       -42    - 25                      26       -             S     0 1      I          0  S*E01
Experts                             IDA-$40    -21                                                      21                     42    - 24         25              -      49   0.015  0.85          0  SAIAJE
Sour-sea                   108.~~~~~DA$50    -27                                               27                     53    -.30         SI1                   61   0.05       I          0 *rift
S.k-Iotal 323 CONTROIE CoNTS UNIV.                                                                 69      69       -            138     -   79      82       -      -    161
0.324 fORK. ADMIN. UNIV. PHASE 2
Nu,wiala Phase 2                    IDA.$1.s Om                                                               424    424    848    -543    565  1. 109    0.1I                          I          0  5*01
for-a  PItase2  IDA.SlOe    -    -                                           -   ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~                       ~~~~~424    424    848    -    - 51  540  1.058   0.015  I  0  SAIRFE
fturms Phase 2                      IDA.$.0 7                                                                  6       6       3                        452    470    922   0.05  0.85             0  saAllE
Equ,p.Phasa2              ~~~~~IDA.$008                                            -    -            318    318    636                        _40 -    40?    424   _831    0 1  I        05*1060
stAt-total 324 F0O8  AONIN. UNIV. PHASE 2                                                                   -    1.535  1.535  3.071-  1, 921  1.999  3.920                                           0STF
E. P01(8*1ST                           lIDA.$1.Om                                                   I- 01.6         -       -  1. 056               Is,118            -  I,1ai       0  0.85          0STF
total INVESIIIEHI COSTS- 288  1.344  1.649  1.649  4.931                                                                                       331  1.525  2.062  2.147  6.088
total                                                                     - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~288  1.344  1.649  1.549  4.931    -331  1.525  2.062  2. 147  6,065
0oecer- 22. 1989 09: 02
p-



- 70 -
ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 1
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
REPUBLIQUE DEMOCRATIQUE MALGACHE
CRESED
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE/TABLEAU DE DECAISSEMENT
Fiscal Year       Disbursement Accumulated   Undisbursed    Percent
Quarter                       Ie                            Disbursed
Annee Budgetaire  Decaissements D6caissements Solde non       Pourcentage
Trimestre                       Accumules    decaisse        D6caissd
USS      DTS  USS      DTS   US$    DTS
FY90     4        3.0             3.0                              7
FY91     1        1 0             4.0                             10
2        1.0             5.0                             13
3        2.0             7.0                             18
4        2.0             9.0                             23
FY92     1        2.0            11.0                             26
2        2.0            13.0                             33
3        2.0           15.0                              38
4        2.0           17.0                              44
FY93     1        2.0            19.0                             49
2        2.0           21.0                              54
3        2.0           23.0                              59
4        2.0           25.0                              64
FY94     1        4.0            29.0                             74
2        2.0           31.0                              79
3        2.0           33.0                              85
4        2.0           35.0                              90
FY95     1        2.0            37.0                             95
2        1.0           38.0                              97
3        0.5           38.5                              99
4        0.5           39.0                             100
Estimated date of effectiveness May 1, 1990/Date prdvue d'entree en vigueur.
Closing date: June 30, 1996/Date de ClOture: 30 juin 1996.



- 71 -
HADAGASCAR                              ANNMX 13
Page 1 of 1
EDUCATION SECTOR REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
Documents in the Proiect File
1.   Rdpublique Democratique de Madagascart Priorit6s, contraintes et perspectives
du d6v.loppement de l'ducation; UNESCO, Division du financement de
l'educatiou, August 1986 (four volumes).
2.   Rapport de Synthese du 'Groupe de Travail pour la mise en oeuvre du Projet
Etudes sur l'Education/Formation Malagasy' (Groups de Travail CBESED), version
finale, April, 198R: Rapport du Groupe I, 'AmElioration Qualitative du Systime
Education-Formation', in 2 volumes, October 1987; Rapport du Groupe II,
'Besoine en C&dre et Main d'Oeuvre Qualifides, et *Formation Technique et
Professionnelle'; October, 1987; Rapport du Groupe III, our le systme des
statistiques de l'Education, October 1987; Rapport du Groups IV,
'Administration et Gestion de l'Education', October, 1987.
3.   Cotts et Financement du Systeme Educatif Malgache; J-B Rasera (Consultant) for
the Groupe de Travail CRESED, September, 1988.
4.   Universitd de Madagascars Financement, Cotts, Efficacite;  J-B Rasera
(Consultant) for the Groupe de Travail CRESED, April. 1988.
5.   Revue des depenses publiques - secteur Education; J-B Rasera (Consultant) for
the Groupe de Travail CRESED, June, 1989.
6.   'Informations our lee enseignants des Ecoles primaires' (Study on teachers' pay
incentives); Consultant for AFTED, World Bank, April 1988.
7.   'Etude d'un Systime de Financement et Comptable des Frais de Ddplacement des
Agents du MINESEB', RINDRA, MINESEB and Ministere des Finances et Economie,
July 14, 1989
Proiect Working Pa,ers
8.   Sous-Composante 1.1t  Gestion de l'Education; Banque Mondiale, May 1989
9.   Sous-Composante 1.2: Renforcement des activitEs de planification de
l11ducation, M Falzon (IESCO) et Lair (Consultant), June 1989
10.  Troisieme Projet Education Composante II: Am,lioration de la Qualiti de
l'Enseignement. Gustave ChEnd, consultant, and Grouppe de Travail CRESED,
November 1988.
11. Troisieme Projet Education: ElEments Rdlatifs & la Creation et a l'Organisation
de l'Unitd Pddagogique, Gustave Miend, consultant, and Groupe de Travail
CRESED, Hay 1989.
12. Institut Superieur de Technologie, Sous-groupe de Travail pour la prEparation
de la composante IST, November 1989.
13. Propositions du Minist&re de l'Enseignement SupErieur concern&-nt 'Evaluation et
Elaboration des programes universitaires', et 'Renforcement administration
uiversitaire', May 1989.
14. Coordination du projet CRESED, Banque Mondiale, May 1989.
AF3PH, January 10. 1990



z
a
IL
*~~~
a  a                                    I



IBRD 21706
44                       460                      4                                      120
MADAGASCAR                                                       'C.
EDUCATION SECTOR SUPPO*r
PROJECT (CRESED)
*  to; =.IliceftaEsOle M 
3    i anor      tracihtranlngs colleges
 be           CRa15 "c"i:5 5                         Hell-vi tie'  /    r  .Vahimarina
HI.ihr technical institutes 
A     tob  financed by CRESEI)                                  (    Ambanja 
-14      *     Reiotnal administrative centers                                                                    140
*  Univerritles                                                                            Samobava
P -    Baved roads                                   7 Antsohihy          Andapa
*    6 National capital                                    1,                                  .ntalaha
Railroads                                    - '                   fandrlang'
s                     - -   ihri~~~~~Fatwny b cudats                          -                     '        '-      )
i hia *                                                    '.5es. ma  i
16    *  Interntattonal boundaries\>,  t             _   +t4)  *   t 8            \ inaPn6t
Atlsinanana
80          shialntirati  ' ; \ t                                                 *e8R-
16        \/                                                U      T ioanm.ina           18
Mozambique                                          noanornndndia
Channel                       Miandrivazo'      Soavinan
Antsi0                                          Ocean
. Morondava                                                                                            209
-   Morondava-,~  Oahabo  * '~--MananJary
\     ;'.;                    .o~~~~~~~~ ~~~Fanaravto $ p
Movombe4' Tanandava   .---
-220                                                                                                                220
\       t      > . *.S.tv  r9  twt ,: t geManakara
Sakaraha             ---'-"->
s Kon,lJaM  _      (     '         a ind.sano                  500
240 ,
-\          I                               I            /  bu24 
AFRIC.A
\. '            .                                              - 9Oce,n
Amnbovombe Tolan aro OsTn 
in8tN9    5    tXO  lpO            ,                                                               \       ij      J
o0          S,o     tO             ----        460                      480
JULY 1989



