Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 18904
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
EDUCATION SECTOR REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
CREDIT 2094-MAG
February 8, 1999
Human Development IV
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit: Malagasy Franc (FMG)
(Period average)
1989: US$1.00 = FMG 1603         1994: US$1.00 = FMG 3067
1990: US$1.00 = FMG 1494         1995: US$1.00 = FMG 4266
1991: US$1.00 =FMG 1835          1996: US$1.00 =FMG4061
1992: US$1.00 = FMG 1864         1997: US$1.00 = FMG 5091
1993: US$1.00 = FMG 1914         1998: US$1.00 = FMG 5000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB         African Development Bank
BPE          Project Implementation Unit (Bureau du Projet Education)
CCAP         Committee to Coordinate Pedagogical Activities (Comite de Coordination des Activites Pedagogiques)
CCPE         Education Project Coordinating Committee (Comit6 de Coordination du Projet Education)
CDAP         Cell for the Distribution of Teaching Materials (Cellule de Distribution des Auxiliaires Pedagogiques)
CiSco        District Office (Circonscription Scolaire)
CPIE         Inter-school Education Committee (Comite Pedagogique Interscolaire)
CRESED       Education Sector Reinforcement Credit (Credit pour le Renforcemnent du Secteur de 1'Education)
DCA          Development Credit Agreement
DIRESEB      Provincial Directorate of Education
DPE          Department of Planning of Education (Departement de la Planification de l'Enseignement)
ENI          Teacher training college for primary teachers (Ecole Normale d'Enseignants du Primaire)
EN2          Teacher training college for lower secondary teachers (Ecole Nonnale d' Enseignants du Premier Cycle
du Secondaire)
EN3          Teacher training college for upper secondary teachers (Ecole Nonnale d'Enseignants du Deuxieme
Cycle du Secondaire)
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
IDA          Intemnational Development Association
IST          Higher Institute of Technology (Institut Superieur de Technologie)
Level I      Primary level (Enseignement Primaire)
Level II     Lower secondary level (Enseignement Secondaire du Premier Cycle)
Level III    Upper secondary level (Enseignement Secondaire du Deuxieme Cycle)
Level IV     Higher education and university level (Enseignement Superieur et Universitaire)
METFP        Ministry of Technical Education and Vocational Training (Ministere de l'Enseignement Technique et
de la Fonmation Professionnelle)
MINESEB    Ministry of Basic and Secondary Education (Ministere de l'Enseignement Secondaire et de l'Education
de Base)
MINESUP    Ministry of Higher Education (Ministere de l'Enseignement Superieur)
OPEC         Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
OPPS         Service des Oeuvres Peri- et Para-Scolaires
PEP, PIP     Public Expenditure (Investment) Program
PNAE         National program for the improvement of education (Programme National d 'Amelioration de
I 'Enseignement)
PRAGAP       Programme de Renforcement et d'Amelioration de la Gestion Ad ministrative et Pedagogique
PSAC         Public Sector Adjustment Credit
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SN           National Service (Service National)
UERP         Pedagogical Unit (Unite d'Etude et de Recherche Pedagogiques)
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
Vice-President: Mr. Callisto Madavo
Country Director: Mr. Michael Sarris
Sector Manager: Mr. Arvil Van Adams
Task Manager: Mr. Daniel Viens



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
EDUCATION SECTOR REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2094-MAG)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction.                                                                                  i
Project Objectives.                                                                            i
Implementation Experience and Results.                                                        iii
Summary and Key Lessons Learned.                                                              v
1. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT                                                          1
Project Objectives                                                                             1
Achievement ofProject Objectives                                                              2
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting The project                                 4
Project Sustainability                                                                         6
BankPerformance                                                                                7
Borrower Performance                                                                          7
Assessment of Outcome                                                                          9
Future Operation                                                                             10
Key Lessons Learned                                                                          12
2.   STATISTICAL ANNEX                                                                       14
Table 1 : Summary of Assessments                                                             15
Table 2: Related Bank Loans and IDA Credits                                                  17
Table 3: Project Timetable                                                                   18
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual                               18
Table 5 : Key Indicators for Project Implementation                                          19
Table 6: Key indicatorsfor Project Operation                                                 22
Table 7: Evolution of Primary, Secondary and Tertiary Education (1987-1997)                  28
Table 8: Studies Included in Project                                                         30
Table 9A: Project Costs                                                                      31
Table 9B: Project Financing                                                                  31
Table 10 : Economic Costs and Benefits                                                       32
Table 11: Status ofLegal Covenants in the CreditAgreement                                    33
Table 12: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements                                      40
Table 13: Bank Resources: StaffInputs                                                        40
Table 14: BankResources: Missions.                                                           41
Annex A: Aide-memoire de la mission du secteur de I 'education de la Banque mondiale
Annex B: Borrower Assessment of Project Implementation
Annex C: Map IBRD No. 29353
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
EDUCATION SECTOR REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2094-MAG)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (tCR) for the Education Sector
Reinforcement Project in Madagascar, for which a Credit (2094-MAG) in the amount of
SDR30.4 million (US$39.0 million equivalent) was approved on February 13, 1990,
signed on April 4, 1990, and made effective on July 24, 1990. The Credit aimed at
assisting the Government to begin a major reform of the education sector through policy
measures and quality improvement.
The Credit was closed on June 30, 1998, two years behind schedule. An amount of
SDR500,000 (US$685,500 equivalent) was canceled on July 24, 1997. The last
disbursement took place on August 25, 1998. In addition to the government counterpart
contribution of about 5 percent of total costs excluding taxes, the project was to be
cofinanced by the OPEC Fund, the Federal Republic of Germany and UNDP.
The ICR was prepared by Paul Geli (consultant). It was reviewed by Daniel Viens (Task
Manager for the project - AFTH4) and Mr. Arvil Van Adams (Sector Manager, AFTH4).
Preparation of this ICR was started during the Bank's final supervision/completion
mission in June 1998. It is based on materials in the project file, and on the interviews of
people who have been associated with the project during implementation. The Borrower
contributed to the preparation of the ICR by providing views reflected in the mission's
aide-memoire (appendix A), by preparing its own evaluation of the project's execution
(appendix B) and by commenting on the draft ICR.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
EDUCATION SECTOR REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2094-MAG)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction.
1.    Following economic stabilization in the mid- 1980s, the Government carried out a
series of adjustment programs. The educational system of Madagascar was clearly in
disarray. With IDA support, the Government adopted a strategy for development of the
education sector as a whole, with a view to improve the quality and efficiency of
education at all levels, with special emphasis on basic education. The strategy included
measures to contain costs, to use resources more efficiently, to redistribute the education
budget within the sector to reflect the priority given to basic education, to improve the
cost/efficiency of higher education, and to make technical/vocational training more
relevant to the needs of the economy. An action plan based on the education strategy was
prepared. It was to be implemented over 10 to 15 years. The Education Sector
Reinforcement Project (Credit pour le Renforcement du Secteur de I'Education -
CRESED) was to finance actions to be started in the first three years of the program,
assisting the Government in establishing- the required administrative and physical
structures, training specialists and trainers, and preparing new teaching programs. The
project was to be implemented in two phases, with items included in the second phase
starting only after a joint midterm review of progress on the strategy and the project.
Furthermore, it was expected that future financing by IDA and other donors would
support subsequent stages of the program. The project was also designed to help the
Government to further develop its sector strategy and the investment program based on
that strategy.
Project Objectives.
2.    The objectives of the project were to improve the quality and the internal and
external efficiencies of the education system. The President's Report and Staff Appraisal
Report (SAR) made it clear that this was a first credit to help the Government start its
education development program, which would be implemented over 10 to 15 years. The
project was to commence a major sector reform, which included inter alia: (i) control of
recurrent costs at all levels to free resources for quality improvement and increased
primary enrollment; (ii) a rolling three-year sector Public Expenditure Program (PEP) to



Evaluation Summary                                                 Page ii
be reviewed annually, reflecting increased spending on primary education and on quality
at all levels; and (iii) a progressive reorientation to employment needs of vocational
education and training.  The project objectives were not modified during project
implementation.
3.    To help achieve the above objectives, a number of policy measures were to be
carried out in conjunction with the project.  The project itself consisted of three
components: (a) Improving the sector administration, management and planning, by
purchasing computer and office equipment, by conducting studies and training, by
reorganizing planning and statistics services and by establishing project coordination; (b)
Improving the quality of basic and general secondary education, by setting up a
pedagogical unit (Unit d'Etude et Recherche Pedagogique s - UERP), by increasing the
role of inspectors, education advisers and headmasters, as well as pre-service and in-
service training for teachers, by providing textbooks and teachers' guides, and by
upgrading secondary school laboratories; and (c) Strengthening higher level education,
by establishing two short-cycle higher institutes of technology and by developing plans to
modernize university curricula and to improve university administration and the
cost/financing balance at university level.
4.    The Education Sector Reinforcement Project was to be implemented by both the
Ministry of Basic and Secondary Education (MINESEB) and the Ministry of Higher
Education (MINESUP). To coordinate, support and monitor implementation of the long-
term program and project, the Education Project Coordinaling Committee (CCPE), the
Committee to Coordinate Pedagogical Activities (CCAP), and a Project Implementation
Unit (BPE), were established under the two education ministers. The total project cost
estimate was US$55.0 million equivalent; the project was expected to be completed by
December 31, 1995 and the credit closed on June 30, 1996.
5.  In addition to the standard clauses for counterpart funds, procurement and audit, a
number of covenants in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) and five
supplemental letters to the DCA were expected to promote the achievement of project
objectives.   Those covenants and letters dealt with project management, and
improvement in the quality of education through an increase in resources allocated to
teacher training, support services and teaching materials. T'hey also included three-year
rolling public expenditure programs dealing with increases and reallocation of
expenditures; improved education planning, budgeting and administration; improvement
of education sector personnel management by employment and redeployment of staff,
control of student flows and school enrollments, attendance and repetition rates;
preparation of school books and cost recovery; training; school building maintenance and
rehabilitation; integration of nutritional, environmental and population concerns into
public education; university reforms and improvement in the quality of higher education;
and reorganization of vocational and technical training.
6.    The project's objectives were clear. They were ambitious and very important for
Madagascar and the education sector, as well as for the Bank's country assistance
strategy. The project was responsive to changes in Madagascar circumstances and
development priorities. The situation of the education sector had become so bad across



Evaluation Summary                                                  Page iii
the board that it made sense to attempt to do something in all areas. Consequently, it was
difficult, if not impossible, to set priorities, and the project looked like a Christmas tree.
In effect, the project together with the accompanying policy measures was a sector
development program. There is no question that the project was complex and risky and
demanding for Government. Some of the quantified targets were not very realistic.
Implementation Experience and Results.
7.    Achievements can be assessed as "substantial" for sector policies, institutional
development and physical objectives, "partial" for public sector management and private
sector development, and "negligible" for financial objectives. Regarding sector policies
and institutional development, policy measures were carried out in conjunction with the
project to strengthen planning and management and make education administration more
efficient. Unfortunately, not all the recommendations of the study on the management of
MINESEB (completed in 1992) were implemented, particularly those regarding
personnel management at the primary and secondary levels (hence, a rating of "partial"
for public sector management). The reform of higher level education, which included the
eviction of "professional students" or squatters from university campuses and a
reorganization of vocational and technical training, is a substantial achievement. As for
physical objectives, much has been done to rehabilitate and equip teacher training
colleges, training centers and primary schools, to train personnel at all levels and in many
disciplines, and to produce and distribute textbooks and teaching materials. Following a
decade of decreases in absolute terms, new intakes at primary level started again to
increase in 1995-1996, but with an acceleration in the rate of increase (an increase of
about 10 percent in 1997-1998). More importantly, although the project was only the
first phase of a long term effort to rehabilitate the education system, there is evidence that
the quality of education has actually improved: dropout rates have decreased, and the
proportion of students completing successfully primary and secondary education has
increased.
8.    On the other hand, the performance is unsatisfactory regarding financial
objectives, whose achievements can only be rated as "negligible". In recent years, some
progress has been made in redistribution of public expenditures from wages and social
services (in higher education) to non-salary expenditures for quality inputs, but figures on
the trends in GDP and budgets for the last 8 years (provided at the end of Table 6 in part
II) are disappointing. Between 1990 and 1997, the budget for primary education has
decreased in real terms, a decline that has continued even when enrollments at primary
level started to increase in 1995/1996, and public expenditures for education over GDP
have decreased (from 2.3% in 1991 to 1.4% in 1997). Faced with serious fiscal
constraints and the need to balance the budget, the Government made serious efforts to
reduce public expenditures across the board.  During the project period, the total
government budget has not increased in the same proportion as GDP but the share of
education in the total budget has remained about the same at around 9 percent. The
percentage of expenditures allocated to primary level has also remained about the same:
about 2.7% to 2.9% of total public expenditures and, apart from some increases in 1994-



Evaluation Summary                                                  Page iv
1995, about 30% of the education budget. It seems, therefore, that the education sector as
a whole was neither better nor worse off than other sectors.
9.    It should be noted that, despite the drop in education expenditures in relation to
GDP and in real terns, the education sector has been able to continue to operate and
expand, and even experience some improvements. There are: two reasons for this. First,
public education has become more efficient through redeployment and control of staff
and other measures to better utilize available resources, probably as a consequence of the
budget squeeze.  Second, private education has continued to expand at primary,
secondary and tertiary levels, and community and parent financial participation increased
significantly in the context of school-based contracts.
10.   After a difficult and slow start, the project came to a standstill because of the
political events and civil disturbances of 1991 which basically accounts for the
implementation delays of about two years. The final estimate of the cost of the project is
US$61.3 million, compared to the SAR estimate of US$55.0 million including taxes, or
an 11 percent increase. Because of the increase in the dollar value of the SDR, IDA
disbursements in dollars were more than originally forecast (plus 10 percent), and other
donors (OPEC/Germany/UNDP) contributed less than the original estimates (minus 20
percent), while Government contributed more than the original estimates (plus 43
percent). Forty-four percent of the US$61.3 million were spent for the administration
and planning component, 36 percent for the quality arid efficiency improvement
component, and 7 percent for the higher education component; the balance of 13 percent
was for taxes.
11.   A number of factors affected project implementation and the achievement of the
project objectives. The factors that affected project implementation negatively were the
political crisis and civil disturbances of 1991, problems and delays with civil works
contractors and suppliers, a lessening of the Government commitment to reforms, some
delays in the provision of counterpart funds, and cumbersome administrative procedures.
On the positive side, one should note the continuity in staff oni the Bank side, as well as in
the ministry for most of the implementation period. Also, both the Govemment and the
Bank showed flexibility and were receptive to changes in approach (i.e., more
participation at the local level) to better achieve the project objectives. The Bank-
UNESCO  Cooperative Programn participated actively in project preparation.  All
cofinanciers (OPEC/Germany/UNDP) made also a positive contribution: as an example,
the GTZ team of Germany developed capacity in the pedagogical unit (UERP) for
designing, testing and producing textbooks.
12.   The Bank performance on this project has been highly satisfactory at the
identification stage and for supervision, and satisfactory for preparation assistance and
appraisal. The Borrower performance can also be rated as satisfactory for preparation,
implementation and covenant compliance.
13.   Sustainability. The achievements generated in relation to the project's major
objectives are likely to be maintained in the future, provided that the financial constraints
do not become worse. The project itself has brought about fundamental changes in the



Evaluation Summary                                                Page v
thinking of many Malagasy on the community- and school-based development approach
(tested under PRAGAP between 1994-1998) that should be followed to improve the
quality and the efficiency of the education system. Those changes are also reflected in
the new sector policies that have been adopted and which are unlikely to be reversed.
The substantial achievements in terms of institutional development and physical
objectives should last because the Government and the Bank have tried to design
activities that are both reasonable and affordable, so that they could be taken up under the
Government budget once project financing ends. Also, the more participatory approach
at the local level promoted under PRAGAP means that many new stakeholders will want
to ensure that project assets are properly operated and maintained and that the new sector
policies are not abandoned. Finally, successful activities under this project will be
continued under the Education Sector Development Project (Cr. 3046-MAG) approved in
1998. The October 1998 Public Expenditure Review concluded the need to further
decentralize decision-making at the school level, while allocating increased resources to
hire teachers (under contract) and provide basic teaching-learning materials.
14.   Outcome. Regarding the outcome of the project, major reforms have been
undertaken in higher education and the "assainissement" of universities has been
remarkable. The performance on public funding has been disappointing but education
has not been treated worse than other sectors. The targets for increases in enrollment and
internal efficiency have not been achieved, but recent trends present a more encouraging
picture, at least with respect to enrollments and graduation rates. There is also evidence
that the quality of education has already begun to improve. In retrospect, some of the
targets were ambitious in the sense that they were difficult to reach within the project
period. It is clear that it takes time for the favorable impact of the project activities to be
felt at the level of the schools and the students. The principal merit of the project has
been to halt the disastrous degradation of the educational system, and even to reverse the
trends in certain areas. On balance, the proceeds of IDA Credit 2094-MAG have been
well spent and served useful purposes. The outcome of the project is satisfactory overall.
Summary and Key Lessons Learned.
15.   Based on a correct and lucid assessment of the problems and constraints facing
the education sector, the project aimed at improving the quality and efficiency of the
education system. It was ambitious and risky. Much has been done for the training of
teachers and the provision of textbooks, teaching materials, and support services, as well
as for education planning, budgeting and administration. A number of important policy
measures and reforms have also been carried out in conjunction with the project.
Implementation experience has shown the importance of flexibility in approach to
facilitate the achievement of project objectives. Although all the targets have not been
reached, the project has been a success, and the project achievements are likely to be
maintained in the future. Some of the actions undertaken under this project, particularly
school-based projects developed with local communities, will be continued and expanded
under the Education Sector Development Project (CR. 3046-MAG) approved in 1998. In
summary, increased participation, community involvement, devolution of responsibility



Evaluation Summary                                                    Page vi
to lower levels, and "ownership" of school-based contracts represent an overwhelming
achievement of CRESED.
16.   The following lessons can be learned from the implementation of this Education
Sector Reinforcement Project:
* Participatory approaches at all levels have proved effective instruments for
project planning and implementation, as well as instruments of learning from
experience. Development of social capital at national and local levels, formation
of tearns, continuity and cross-fertilization between regions and localities are
additional benefits which accrue from the participatory approaches adopted.
* The policy of centrally-managed redeployment of staff adopted in the early
1990s has not proved successful. However, redeployment at local level (within
school districts) has shown itself to be a satisfactory policy option (for example,
under the PRAGAP more than 1,000 teachers have been transferred to rural
primary schools). There is also a need for a diversity of specific initiatives to
address the problems of the misdistribution and underemployment of teaching and
other staff.
* There is a need for a gradualist (planned and phased) approach to the
devolution of responsibility and resources to the local level, accompanied by
appropriate capacity building measures (e.g. pre-contract workshops, dialogue
with communities representatives and school teachers, training for acceptance of
financial responsibility, managing financial resources). Experience gained under
PRAGAP shows that management capacity has to be developed first at regional
level (DIRESEB, or Provincial Directorate of Education) before it can be
delegated to district level (CiSco, or District Office for Education). In the 20 pilot
districts where PRAGAP has been implemented since 1993, it is now clear that
the day-to-day management of the community-based development process has to
be delegated to the sub-district level (ZAP, or Local Administrative Zone which
groups an average of 10 primary schools), supported by appropriate technical
specialists from the District Office.
* On-the-job training, tailored to the specific needs of the trainees, should be the
main vehicle for developing skills and assisting local authorities.
* Local communities, when given the initiative and modest resources, can
effectively identify their own priorities, deliver a sustainable quality primary
education, and increase their participation in the development process. The
project has demonstrated the effectiveness and sustainability of local community-
based development operations at primary level. Beneficiary assessments carried
out under the project indicate that communities are willing to incur the necessary
costs to send their children to school and to participate in school rehabilitation. A
number of communities overshot the objectives of their school-based contracts by
constructing additional classrooms to accommodate increases in enrollments.



Evaluation Summary                                                    Page vii
* Financial and budgetary constraints may have some favorable consequences,
in that they may force public sector institutions to become more efficient and to
better utilize available resources while also encouraging the development and
participation of the private sector.
* Since Government resources will be insufficient to cover all the financial
requirements at secondary and higher education levels, there is a need to diversify
participation in the financing and provision of education at these levels and to
increase beneficiary contributions, particularly in higher education where benefits
are captured mainly by beneficiaries.



PART 1:
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT



IMPLENENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
EDUCATION SECTOR REINFORCEMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 2094-MAG)
1. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Project Objectives
1.1   At the time the project was prepared and appraised, the educational system of
Madagascar was in disarray. In early 1980, Madagascar had achieved near universal primary
school enrollment due to a rapid increase in enrollments in the 1970s. But in the 1980s the
educational system deteriorated drastically and enrollments decreased significantly. The
implementation of new curricula based on extensive use of Malagasy as the language of
instruction, for which unqualified, poorly paid and ill-motivated teachers were not trained,
together with dilapidated school buildings and the absence of educational materials and
equipment for the increased number of students, had drastically affected the quality and the
internal and external efficiencies of education. Repetition and dropout rates were extremely
high, and the percentages of success in end-of cycle examinations were very low. Substantial
numbers of school-leavers were unemployed, despite prevailing shortages of technicians,
skilled workers and middle-level managers. The decline of the educational system had to be
halted and the trend reversed.
1.2   As succinctly stated in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), the objectives of
the project were to improve the quality and the internal and external efficiencies of the
education system. The President's Report and Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) made it clear
that this was a first credit to help the Government start its education development program,
which would be implemented over 10 to 15 years. The project was to begin a major sector
reform, which included inter alia: (i) control of recurrent costs at all levels to free resources
for quality improvement and increased primary enrollment; (ii) a rolling three-year sector
public expenditure program (PEP) to be reviewed annually, to reflect increased spending on
primary education and on quality at all levels; and (iii) a progressive reorientation to
employment needs of vocational education and training.
1.3   To help achieve the above objectives, a number of policy measures were to be carried
out in conjunction with the project. The project itself consisted of three components: (a)



Page 2                                          Projecit Implementation Assessment
improving the sector administration, management and planning, by purchasing computer and
office equipment, by conducting studies and training, by reorganizing planning and statistics
services and by establishing project coordination; (b) improving the quality of basic and
general secondary education, by setting up a pedagogical unit (Unit d'Etude et Recherche
Pedagogiques - UERP), by increasing the role of inspectors, education advisers and
headmasters, as well as pre-service and in-service training for teachers, by providing
textbooks and teachers' guides, and by upgrading secondary school laboratories; and (c)
strengthening higher level education, by setting up two short-cycle higher technical training
institutes and by developing plans to modernize university curricula and to improve
university administration and the cost/financing balance at university level.
1.4   The Education Sector Reinforcement Project was to be implemented through both the
Ministry of Basic and Secondary Education (MINESEB) and the Ministry of Higher
Education (MINESUP). To coordinate, support and monitor implementation of the long-
term program and project, the Education Project Coordinating Committee (CCPE), the
Committee to Coordinate Pedagogical Activities (CCAP), and a Project Implementation Unit
(BPE), were established under the two education ministers. The total project cost estimate
was US$55.0 million equivalent; the project was expected to be completed by December 31,
1995 and the credit closed on June 30, 1996.
1.5   The project's objectives were clear, and many criteria for judging the achievement of
objectives were quantified in the SAR, the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) and in
five supplemental letters to the DCA. Because of the tremendous deterioration in both the
quality of education and the functioning of the system during the preceding 10 years, the
objectives were very important for Madagascar and the education sector, as well as for the
Bank's country assistance strategy. The project was responsive to changes in Madagascar
circumstances and development priorities. The situation of the education sector had become
so bad across the board that it made sense to attempt to do something in all areas and it was
difficult, if not impossible, to set priorities; therefore, the project looked like a Christmas
tree. In effect, the project together with the accompanying policy measures was a sector
development program. It was part of a generation of investment, programs in other sectors in
Madagascar and other countries in the region which aimed at tackling, or at least beginning
to tackle all the major problems of the sector. There is no question that the project was
complex and risky and demanding for Government and the ministries and institutions
involved with education. Some of the quantified targets were not very realistic. On the other
hand, the SAR did not underestimate the difficulties likely to be encountered: it included a
very candid and lengthy discussion of risks associated with the project. In particular, it
acknowledged that the CRESED reform program was complex and required many actions by
a wide range of people, and that the political implications of somLe of the measures made their
implementation risky.
Achievement of Project Objectives
1.6   The design of the project, with its emphasis on the re-establishment of teacher
training and the production and distribution of textbooks to students in the classrooms, was
appropriate for achieving the project's objectives. However, experience showed that the



Page 3                                          Project Implementation Assessment
design overemphasized actions and measures at, or originating at the central level. That
problem was corrected during project implementation by introducing more participation at
the local level. In assessing the degree to which the project achieved its major objectives,
one should keep in mind that some of the targets were very ambitious and difficult to reach
within the project period.
1.7   Achievements are highlighted in the Aide- Memoire of the last supervision mission of
June 1998 (Appendix A) and in the Borrower's Report (Appendix B); also, Tables 5 and 6
provide a summary of the achievements and shortcomings of the project through key
indicators for project implementation and operation. Achievements include inter alia: (a)
approval by Parliament in March 1995 of a new law setting the goals and major orientations
of education and training; (b) production in 1997 of a sector strategy to improve delivery of
primary and secondary education, based on extensive work in both the primary and
secondary sub-sector and the higher education system, as well as in vocational training; (c)
following a successful experiment in one Province, implementation of an ambitious program
(PRAGAP) to improve delivery of primary education at the school level in a total of 20
school districts (out of 111) and for about 2,600 public primary schools (out of about 12,600
schools nationwide); (d) establishment of two Higher Institutes of Technology (IST), and
adoption of a master plan for development of higher education and scientific research; (e) the
partial implementation of recommendations of project-financed studies aimed at reforming
management of primary and secondary education; (f) implementation of CRESED-financed
activities, including provision of about 3.3 million textbooks and teaching-learning materials
(maps, charts, and teachers' guides), provision of transportation facilities (vehicles at district
level and bicycles at sub-district level) to supervise schools, and improved pre- and in-service
training for teachers, with the rehabilitation and equipment of teacher training colleges and
in-service training centers; (g) establishment of institutional processes aimed at shaping
policies, defining investment priorities (including production of public expenditures
programs) and implementation change in the education system; and (h) in recent years,
increased budgetary allocations for direct transfer to primary schools for provision of school
implements to pupils and staff. However, the budgets for non-salary expenditures have not
always been equal to the levels agreed upon between the Government and the Bank during
the Public Expenditures Review (PERs) and, therefore, may not have been commensurate
with the quality improvement measures that the Government wished to implement.
1.8  In summary, achievements can be assessed as "substantial" for sector policies,
institutional development and physical objectives, "partial" for public sector management
and private sector development, and "negligible" for financial objectives; other objectives
listed in Table 1 do not apply. Regarding sector policies and institutional development,
policy measures were carried out in conjunction with the project to strengthen planning and
management and make education administration more efficient. Unfortunately, not all the
recommendations of the study of the management of MINESEB (completed in 1992) were
implemented, particularly those regarding personnel management at the primary and
secondary levels (hence, a rating of "partial" for public sector management).  The
achievements, which included a reform of higher level education (with the eviction of
"professional students" or squatters from university campuses) and a reorganization of
vocational and technical training, are nevertheless substantial. As for physical objectives,
much has been done to rehabilitate and equip teacher training colleges, training centers and



Page 4                                          Project Implementation Assessment
primary schools; to train personnel at all levels and in many disciplines; and to produce and
distribute textbooks and teaching materials. New intakes at primary level which had
continued to decline started again to increase above their previous level only in 1995-1996,
but with an acceleration in the rate of increase (an increase of about 10 percent in 1997-
1998). As discussed below under the "Assessment of Outcome", there is evidence that the
quality of education has actually improved, although the project was only the first phase of a
long term effort to rehabilitate the education system.
1.9   On the other hand, performance on financial objectives is rated negligible. Between
1990 and 1997, public expenditures for education declined as a share of GDP (from 2.3% to
1.4%), with a decrease in real terms in the budget for primary education. As a share of the
total budget, however, public spending on education was unchanged over the same period, at
around 9%. Given Government efforts to reduce public expenditures across the board (total
government budget share of GDP fell from 24% to 15% in 1991-97), therefore, the education
sector as a whole appears to have fared neither better nor worse than other sectors. The share
of primary education in the total education budget and the total budget also remained about
the same, at about 30% and 2.9%, respectively. In recent years, some progress has been
made in redistribution of public expenditures from wages and social services (in higher
education) to non-salary expenditures for quality inputs.
1.10  It should be noted that, despite the drop in education expenditures in relation to GDP
and in real terms, the education sector has been able to continue to operate and expand, and
even experience some improvements. There are two reasons why this happened. First,
public education has become more efficient through redeploymient and control of staff and
other measures to better utilize available resources, maybe as a consequence of the budget
squeeze. Second, private education has continued to expancl at primary, secondary and
tertiary levels, and community and parent financial participation increased significantly in the
context of school-based contracts.
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting The project
1.11  The Borrower's report in Appendix B describes the imnplementation record for the
project. Performance on implementation and achievement of development objectives have
varied widely. After a difficult and slow start, the project came to a standstill in 1991
because of the political events and civil disturbances, and it was not until mid-1992 that the
sector picked up momentum again, with gradual progress linked to transition to a democratic
regime. These events account for implementation delays of about two and a half years.
Extensions of the closing date of the credit were justified by the progress made by
Government on the agreed upon work programs, as reflected by the pace of implementation
of project-financed activities and level of disbursement.
1.12  The latest estimate of the cost of the project is US$61.3 million, compared to the SAR
estimate of US$55.0 million including taxes, or an 11 percent increase. Because of the
increase in the dollar value of the SDR, IDA disbursements in dollars were more than
originally forecast (plus 10 percent), other donors (OPEC/Germany/UNDP) contributed less
than the original estimates (minus 20 percent) but Government contributed more than the
original estimates (plus 43 percent). Forty-four percent of the US$61.3 million were spent



Page 5                                         Project Implementation Assessment
for the administration and planning component, 36 percent for the quality and efficiency
improvement component, and 7 percent for the higher education component; the balance of
13 percent was for taxes.
1.13  A number of factors affected project implementation and the achievement of the
project objectives. The factors that affected project implementation negatively were the
political crisis and civil disturbances of 1991, problems and delays with civil works
contractors and suppliers, a lessening of the Government commitment to reforms (at least to
the most politically sensitive) during the "transition" period and beyond, some delays in the
provision of counterpart funds, and cumbersome administrative procedures. On the positive
side, there was continuity in staff on the Bank side during implementation, as well as in the
ministry from 1992 to 1996. Both the Government and the Bank showed flexibility and were
receptive to changes in approach (i.e., more participation at the local level) to better achieve
the project objectives. The BPE was not always as efficient as it could have been on
administrative matters, particularly in the early years, but on the other hand it did spend a lot
of time and energy, through visits and workshops, on the monitoring and operational follow-
up of the various programs in the field.  The Bank-UNESCO Cooperative Program
participated actively in project preparation. All cofinanciers (OPEC/Germany/UNDP) made
also a positive contribution: as an example, the GTZ team of Germany developed capacity in
the pedagogical unit (UTERP) for designing, testing and producing textbooks.
1.14 Particularly noteworthy was the joint decision by the Government and the Bank to
complement the sector strategy with activities at the immediate level of the schools and
school children. This program for strengthening management and improving quality of
primary education (Programme de Renforcement et dAmelioration de la Gestion
Administrative et Pedagogique - PRAGAP), which fitted well within the project's objectives,
was adopted after the mid-term review of the project by the Government and the Bank. It
started experimenting with new methods for ministry-community collaboration in improving
primary education through school-based contracts. PRAGAP was based essentially on a
decentralized and participatory approach, giving more responsibility to local authorities,
teachers and parents to decide what had to be done and how it should be done, taking into
account existing constraints (mostly financial constraints) and the particular situation of each
school. Each plan of action was incorporated into a contract between the CiSco and the local
steering committee (comite de pilotage) representing the community, spelling out the
responsibilities and contributions of each party.  In December 1993, the Provincial
Department of Education in Mahajanga initiated school-level projects in two pilot school
districts (CiSco). Following an interim evaluation in February 1995, the Government and the
Bank agreed, based on the success of this first attempt, to expand the program to eight other
CiScos in Mahajanga and to introduce the approach in two CiScos in each of the other five
Provinces. According to impact studies completed in September 1997 and in May 1998, the
results of the program, in both implementation and impact, have been good. The main
conclusions are: (a) The program has been very successful at reaching local communities,
especially in remote rural areas, and in developing effective collaboration between local
authorities of MINESEB and representatives of the community. More than 95 percent of all
communities with a public primary school have committed themselves to implementing the
school-based improvement contracts (fanakena). (b) Implementation of contracts (prepared
and negotiated locally) is satisfactory in more than 80 percent of the 2,600 schools having



Page 6                                          Project! Implementation Assessment
contracts (out of about 12,600 schools operating in the whole country); moreover in some
schools, the community has constructed additional classrooms or teachers' houses beyond
those in the contract. However, some delays have occurred, especially because of late
delivery of materials to the schools and lack of coordination of works implemented by local
communities themselves. (c) About US$2.0 million has been spent on construction materials
for the schools, averaging about US$800.00 per school. (d) In the 20 PRAGAP-CiScos (out
of I l l in the whole country) Grade 1 enrollment increased by 28 percent between 1993-1994
and 1995-1996 (compared to 15 percent nationwide), and overall enrollment increased by 15
percent (compared to 7 percent nationwide); and (e) anecdotal evidence suggests that transfer
of teachers has formally increased teacher availability by about one additional teacher to
every two schools in participating PRAGAP-CiScos.
Project Sustainability
1.15  The achievements generated in relation to the project's major objectives are likely to
be maintained in the future, provided that the financial constraints do not become worse. The
project itself has brought about fundamental changes in the thinking of many Malagasy, not
only in Government circles, the ministries and education personnel, but also in the civil
society about how to improve the quality and the efficiency of the education system. There
is an increasing recognition that a very centralized approach does not work and that many of
the problems of the education sector can best be solved at the local level. Those changes in
thinking are also reflected in the newly adopted sector policies unlikely to be reversed. The
substantial achievements in institutional development and physical objectives should last for
two reasons. First, in finalizing the project's activities, the Government and the Bank have
tried to design activities that are both reasonable and affordable under the Government
budget once project financing ends. For example, textbooks are' relatively cheap, and only a
small amount for rehabilitation is to be included in each school-based contract under
PRAGAP. Second, the more participatory approach at the local level promoted under
PRAGAP means that many new stakeholders will want to ensure that project assets are
properly maintained and that the new sector policies are not abandoned. But it is important
that the Government also increases its financing for the activities which have become its
responsibility, as highlighted in paragraph 23 of the aide-memoire of the last supervision
mission for the project in June 1998 (Appendix A). The sustainability of the project will also
be reinforced by the Education Sector Development Project (CR. 3046-MAG) approved in
1998 which will continue and expand some of the activities undertaken under this project,
particularly school-based projects developed with local communities.



Page 7                                          Project Implementation Assessment
Bank Performance
1.16  The Bank performance on this project has been highly satisfactory at the
identification stage and for supervision, and satisfactory for preparation assistance and
appraisal. The project provided a breakthrough in the relationship between the Government
and the Bank in the education sector. As mentioned earlier, the project objectives were
important for Madagascar and for the Bank's country assistance strategy, and the project was
very responsive to changes in circumstances and development priorities in Madagascar.
1.17  The Bank performance for preparation assistance (and also for appraisal, which did
not always involve an independent review of work done during preparation) was satisfactory.
The preparation of a project of such scope and complexity required very intensive work from
the Bank in collaboration with Government and other donors (including the Bank-UNESCO
Cooperative program). Although the design was satisfactory overall, certain aspects of the
project were unrealistic and some of the targets too ambitious.
1.18 Regarding project implementation, the project has been well supervised by the Bank,
with a remarkable continuity in staff The Bank has shown great flexibility. For example,
with the design and implementation of PRAGAP (a good initiative undertaken jointly by the
Government and the Bank), it adopted an approach more focused on the schools and
students, and it adjusted the in-service training programs to make them more responsive to
the needs of teachers at the local level. Finally, sometimes the Bank has acted as a catalyst
for actions taken by Government; as an example, the "assainissement" of universities, which
is quite unique in Africa, was not a condition of the credit, but has been done within the
context of the project. The question arises of whether the Bank could have been more
forceful in reminding Government to comply with its commitments to increase, in real terms,
expenditures for primary education and to allocate a larger share of public expenditures to
non-salary expenditures, as well as to redeploy administrative and teaching personnel. Such
pressure might have been counterproductive and have jeopardized the satisfactory results
which have been achieved in the end.
1.19 More generally, the Bank has been Madagascar's lead donor supporting the
development in education and training policy, and has been instrumental in preparing sub-
sectoral and integrated sectoral master plans that draw lessons from experience (for example
in PRAGAP), as well as encouraging donor coordination and information exchange. The
Bank brought its macroeconomics and decentralization-related policy dialogue to influence
education sector issues, particularly with regard to community involvement, encouragement
of the private sector and public expenditures. Equity issues have also been at the center of
the policy dialogue between the Bank and the Government, and with other donors. As an
example, it is at the Bank suggestion that Government discontinued the cost recovery for
textbooks because of parents' limited capacity to pay.
Borrower Performance
1.20  The Borrower performance can be rated  as satisfactory  for preparation,
implementation and covenant compliance.



Page 8                                            Project Implementation Assessment
1.21  The ministries were very much involved in the preparation of the project, with a
strong Government commitment when the project was prepared and appraised, and there was
a strong desire, by political authorities at all levels, for the project to be implemented.
1.22  For many years, there had been great continuity in the leadership at the primary and
secondary levels (the Minister and Secretary General appointed in early 1992 were still in
position in May 1996). But in recent years, high staff turnover at key managerial positions in
MINESEB, especially Directors at central and regional levels and District officers, has been
a problem mainly caused by frequent changes in Government and political leaders. During
the period from mid 1996 to mid-1997: there have been three ministers of education, and the
vast majority of the 6 provincial directors and 111 district officers have been replaced.
Nevertheless, a stable approach to policy development has been maintained despite these
changes. Thanks to the continuity in the staff of the BPE (project implementation unit), the
central team (Equipe Centrale de Gestion) and support staff at district level (accountants,
pedagogical advisers, and implementation specialists), the projiect has been able to sensitize
the newly appointed managers to the PRAGAP approach and to provide the necessary
continuity, albeit at the cost of implementation delays. On the financial side, counterpart
funds have not always be made available on time.
1.23  Established in 1990, the project implementation unit (BPE) has been the main
executing agency responsible for project implementation. After a slow start, the BPE has
gained experience and confidence in managing complex procurement operations (such as
procurement and distribution of 3.3 million textbooks, maps, charts, and teaching guides to
about 12,600 primary schools and more than 700 colleges), in effectively acting as liaison
with line staff at central, regional and district levels; and in delivering support services
(equipping services, training staff, monitoring implementation and reporting) to MINESEB
and MINESUP. More could have been done to develop an effective planning and monitoring
system at all levels, and to assist staff in regional, district and sub-district offices in
understanding the system, in developing the necessary skills to use and evolve within the
system, in strengthening decision-making skills and processes at all levels, and in
participating in all phases of project implementation.
1.24  The Borrower also deserves credit for its role in the design and implementation of
PRAGAP and for the commitment it has shown to the devolution of responsibilities to the
local level. In higher education, the Government has been willing to undertake politically
difficult and sensitive decisions since 1992, as well as to maintain a consistent and
developmental approach to planning for the sub-sector.  University reforms included:
evicting "professional students" or squatters from university campuses, leading to the return
of normal functioning in the universities; delegating greater academic autonomy to the
universities and within the universities with the establishment of board of directors for each
university, and councils at faculty and departmental levels; substantially reducing "student"
numbers (from over 44,000 in 1993 to about 18,000 in 1997); introducing selection for entry
for all subjects; rationalizing and devolving budgetary responsibility, by introducing
budgetary norms and cost centers in each university, as well as moving towards the
introduction of contract programs.



Page 9                                          Project Implementation Assessment
1.25  Despite the promising achievements and institutional developments discussed earlier,
fulfillment of project developmental objectives has suffered from the inability of
Government to increase, in real terms, expenditures for primary education. Government was
also unable to make timely, consistent decisions in some very important areas, such as
increased participation at primary and secondary levels and effective use of teaching and
administrative staff; and progress remained timid on some key indicators.  Many
recommendations from the study of the education system management were not
implemented. Obviously, the political implications relating to management of education
personnel cannot be ignored. However, the much needed redeployment of staff (from
administrative to teaching positions, and from urban to rural areas) and their increased
productivity on the job can only be achieved if more responsibility and authority are given to
provincial and district officials, and if the teachers themselves are subjected to the same kind
of discipline that they do not hesitate to impose on their students.
Assessment of Outcome
1.26  An assessment of the project's impact is in the Aide-m6moire of the last supervision
mission of June 1998 (Appendix A) and in the Borrower Contribution to the ICR (Appendix
B), as well as in Table 6 on key indicators for project operation. To assess the outcome of
the project, the key indicators of development outcome/impact can be summarized as
follows: (i) decline in enrollments at primary and secondary levels stopped and trends
reversed; (ii) major reform in higher education begun with the goal to make it more effective
and more responsive to economic and social development priorities; (iii) quality of learning
improved at all levels of education; and (iv) allocation of public funding to primary education
increased.
1.27  As discussed above, major reforms have been undertaken in higher education, and the
"assainissement" of universities has been remarkable.  Regarding public funding, the
performance has been very disappointing since there has been no increase in the budgetary
allocations for primary education in real terms. However, public education has become more
efficient and has taken measures to better utilize available resources. Also, there has been a
steady increase of enrollments in private schools, especially at secondary level where there
has been a continued decrease of enrollments in public schools, so that the budgetary
allocations per public school student may have been adequate.
1.28  Despite a satisfactory implementation of activities to improve the quality of
education, the targets for increases in enrollment and in the internal efficiency at all levels
have not been achieved. From 1987-1988 to 1997-1998, new intakes have increased by only
2.6 percent per year at level I (compared to the target of 4.0 percent per year); new intakes
have decreased by 0.2 percent per year at level II (compared to a target of 2.0 percent
increase), by 2.8 percent per year at level III (compared to a target of 1.0 percent increase),
and by 5.0 percent per year at level IV (compared to a target of 0.5 percent increase). The
annual increase in the school age group of about 3.0 percent (based on population growth)
contributed to the substantial decline in the net enrollment ratio in primary schools from 74
percent in 1988/1989 to 59 percent in 1994/1995; the trend was reversed only in 1995/1996
with an enrollment ratio of 65 percent (figures for the last two years are not available).
Throughout the period 1988-1997, the percentage of repeaters has remained in the 30-35



Page 10                                         Project Implementation Assessment
percent range at primary level (compared to a target of a maximnum of 10 percent by the end
of 1994), and at about 20 percent at secondary level. On the other hand, dropout rates have
decreased to about 10 percent at primary level, and have varied widely between 1 and 11
percent at secondary level. Recent trends, however, present a more encouraging picture, at
least with respect to enrollments. New intakes at primary level which had continued to
decline started again to increase above their previous level only in 1995-1996. In the last two
years, the rate of increase in number of children entering primary school has accelerated (an
increase of about 10 percent in 1997-1998) and has been above the population growth rate.
A study of the impact of PRAGAP in 10 CiScos shows a new intake rate of 31 percent, and a
rate of increase in total enrollments in primary schools of 17 percent. Although the project
was only the first phase of a long term effort to rehabilitate the education system, there is
evidence that the quality of education has begun to improve. The proportion of students
completing successfully primary and secondary education has varied widely but the trend
shows some improvement, particularly for secondary education.. However, the success rates
remain unacceptably low: 42 percent for the primary school certificate in 1996-1997, and 22
percent for the baccalaureate in 1995-1996 (figures for more recent years are not available).
In retrospect, some of the targets were ambitious as they were difficult to reach within the
project period. It is clear that it takes time for the favorable impact of the project activities to
be felt at the level of the schools and the students.
1.29  Although all the targets have not been achieved, the principal merit of the project has
been to halt the disastrous degradation of the educational system, and even to reverse the
trends in certain areas. Despite some shortcomings of project design and implementation, the
proceeds of IDA Credit 2094-MAG have been well spent and served useful purposes. In the
end, the objectives of the project have been essentially met or are in the process of being met,
and the outcome of the project is satisfactory overall.
Future Operation
1.30  Under the project, a major effort was undertaken since 1995 to assist a team of
Malagasy educators and decision-makers in preparing a revised strategy for the education
and training sector. These efforts culminated in the production of a Second National
Education Improvement Program (PNAE II), which incorporates strategies developed under
the CRESED, and draws on lessons learned since the inception of the first national program
(PNAE I) approved in 1988. At Government initiative, meetings of all donors active in the
sector were called by the three ministries (MINESEB, MINESUP and METFP) in April and
July 1997 to ensure support for the Government's program and facilitate the coordination of
financial inputs; the Second National Education Improvement Program (PNAE II) was
approved by Government in December 1997.
1.31  Some of the actions undertaken under this project will be continued and expanded
under the Education Sector Development Project (Cr. 3046-MAG) approved in 1998. The
new project, also referred to as CRESED II, will support the dlevelopment objectives of the
Second National Education Improvement Program (PNAE II) to produce more and better
trained students at all levels of education at sustainable costs. The impact of the program
would be measured through improvements in learning outcoimes, in internal and external
efficiency of education, and in access to primary and secondary education, particularly in



Page 11                                         Project Implementation Assessment
rural areas. The strategic orientation adopted is centered on the devolution of responsibility
to local and institutional levels, supported by a set of coherent policies at the national level.
The Government has shown its commitment to the new program (PNAE II) through the
preparation of sub-sectoral plans and an integrated national master plan for the development
of education and training, as well as the formation of an inter-ministerial coordinating
committee and an inter-sectoral working group, which have agreed priorities for the
government's program.
1.32 A future evaluation by OED may throw new light on the impact of the project or
identify additional lessons learned, particularly since it takes time for the impact of project
activities (as well as those of CRESED II) to be felt at the level of the schools and the
students.



Page 12                                           Project Implementation Assessment
Key Lessons Learned
1.33  A number of lessons can be learned from the implementation of this Education Sector
Reinforcement Project, particularly from the PRAGAP experience. Most of them relate to
the question of decentralization. They have been taken into account in the design of
CRESED II, but could also apply to other sectors. The main lessons are the following:
0 Participatory approaches at all levels have proved efFective instruments for project
planning and implementation, as well as instruments of learning from experience.
Development of social capital at national and local levels, formation of teams,
continuity and cross-fertilization between regions and localities are additional
benefits which accrue from the participatory approaches adopted.
e The policy of centrally-managed redeployment of staff adopted in the early 1 990s
has not proved successful. However, redeployment at local level (within school
districts) has shown itself to be a satisfactory policy option (for example, under the
PRAGAP more than 1,000 teachers have been transferred to rural primary schools).
There is also a need for a diversity of specific initiatives to address the problems of
the misdistribution and underemployment of teaching and other staff.
a There is a need for a gradualist (planned and phased) approach to the devolution
of responsibility and resources to the local level, accompanied by appropriate
capacity building measures (e.g. pre-contract workshops, dialogue with communities
representatives and school teachers, training fcr acceptance of financial
responsibility, managing financial resources). Experience gained under PRAGAP
shows that management capacity has to be developed first at regional level
(DIRESEB, or Provincial Directorate of Education) before it can be delegated to
district level (CiSco, or District Office for Education). In the 20 pilot districts where
PRAGAP has been implemented since 1993, it is now clear that the day-to-day
management of the community-based development process has to be delegated to the
sub-district level (ZAP, or Local Administrative Zone which groups an average of 10
primary schools), supported by appropriate technical specialists from the District
Office.
* On-the-job training, tailored to the specific needs of the trainees, should be the
main vehicle for developing skills and assisting local authorities.
. Local communities, when given the initiative and modest resources, can
effectively identify their own priorities, deliver a sustainable quality primary
education, and increase their participation in the development process. The project
has demonstrated the effectiveness and sustainability of local community-based
development operations at primary level. Beneficiary assessments carried out under
the project indicate that commun;i.ies are willing to incur the necessary costs to send
their children to school and to participate in school rehabilitation. A number of
communities overshot the objectives of their school-based contracts by constructing
additional classrooms to accommodate increases in enrollments.



Page 13                                           Project Implementation Assessment
* Financial and budgetary constraints may have some favorable consequences, in
that they may force sector institutions to become more efficient and to better utilize
available resources while also encouraging the development and participation of the
private sector.
* Since Government resources will be insufficient to cover all the financial
requirements at secondary and higher education levels, there is a need to diversify
participation in the financing and provision of education at these levels and to
increase beneficiary contributions, particularly in higher education where benefits are
captured mainly by beneficiaries.



2. STATISTICAL ANNEX



Page 15                                                      Statistical Annex
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievements of        Substantial    Partial   Negligible      Not
Objectives                                                      Applicable
Macro Policies                                                      X
Sector Policies               X
Financial Objectives                                   X
Institutional Development     X
Physical Objectives           X
Poverty Reduction                                                   X
Gender Issues                                                       X
Other Social Objectives                                             X
Environmental Objectives                                            X
Public Sector Management                  X
Private Sector                            X
Development
Other (specify)                                                     X
B. Project Sustainability     Likely         Unlikely         Uncertain
x



Page 16                                                        Statistical Annex
Table I: Summary of Assessments (continued)
C.. Bank Performance              Highly       Satisfactory     Deficient
Satisfactory
Identification                      X
Preparation Assistance
Appraisal
Supervision                         X
D. Borrower Performance           Highly       Satisfactory     Deficient
Satisfactory
Preparation                                         X
Implementation                                      X
Covenant Compliance                                 X
Operation (if applicable)         N/A.            N/A.            N/A.
E. Assessment     Highly      Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory     Highly
of Outcome      Satisfactory                                Unsatisfactory
x



Page 17                                                     StatisticalAnnex
Table 2: Related Bank Loans and IDA Credits
Credit or                Purpose                 Year of    Status
Loan Title                                       Approval
Preceding
Operations
CR. 510     Technical education and secondary       1967    Completed
teacher training
CR. 663     In-service teacher training and education  1976    Completed
administration, and production of
educational materials
CR. 1155    Accounting and Audit                    1981    Completed
CR. 1661    Accounting and Management Training      1986    Completed
Following
Operations
Ongoing.
CR. 2382    Vocational Education (PREFTEC)          1992    Closing
6/30/99
CR. 2474    Food Security and Nutrition (SECALINE)    1993    Ongoing.
Closing
12/31/98
CR. 2778    Social Fund H (FID)                     1995    Ongoing
Cr. 3046    Education Sector Development            1998    Starting
Cr. 3060    Community Nutrition II                  1998    Starting



Page 18                                                         Statistical Annex
Table 3 Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle        Date planned       Date actual / latest
estimate
Identification                                      _       Jul 1986
Preparation                                                 1987-1988
Appraisal                                                   Apr 1989
Negotiations                                                Dec 1989
Board Presentation                                        Feb 13, 1990
Signing                                                    Apr 4, 1990
Effectiveness                         May 1990             Jul 24, 1990
Midtenn Review                            --              Oct/Nov 1992
Project Completion                   Dec 31, 1995          Jun 30, 1998
Credit Closing                       Jun 30, 1996          Jun 30,1998
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
Fiscal Year   1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998   1999
Appraisal
Estimate       3.0   9.0  17.0  25.0  35.0  39.0  39.0  39.0   39.0   39.0
Actual           -   2.8   5.7   9.5  12.5  20.6  29.9  38.9   42.9    42.9
Actual as %
of Estimate         31.5  33.7  38.1  35.8  52.7  76.7  99.9  109.9  109.9
Date of Final Disbursement: August 25, 1998
Note: Amount canceled: SDR 500,000 (US$685,500) on July 24, 1997



Page 19                                                                   Statistical Annex
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Implementation Indicators in SAR/President's              Estimated          Actual
Report
Institutional Development
Study of the management of education                              Yes              Yes
Establishment of a pedagogical unit                               Yes              Yes
Establishment of a national institute for pedagogical taining     Yes              Yes
Establishment of 6 teacher traIiing colleges for primary teachers  Yes             Yes
Establishment of 1 teacher training college for lower secondary   Yes              Yes
teachers
Establishment of centers for in-service training                   33               17
Establishment of 2 higher institutes of technology                Yes              Yes
Establishment of a cuniculum for educational planning at the      Yes              Yes
IMATEP
Establishment of a "Technop8le"                                  N.I.O.           Yes (1)
Training
Primary education
Initial training of primary teachers                             N.N.E.            824
Initial training of pedagogical advisers                         N.N.E.             58
In-service training of primary teachers                          N.N.E.             (2)
Secondary education
Initial training of secondary teachers                           N.N.E.             90
Initial training of pedagogical advisers for secondary level     N.N.E.             97
In-service training of secondary teachers                        N.N.E.         22,050 (2)
N.N.E. = Number not estimated - N.I.O. = Not included originally



Page 20                                                                  Statistical Annex
Key Implementation Indicators in SAR/President's            Estimated          Actual
Report
Higher level educafion
Graduates of higher institutes of technology                   N.N.E.             72
Trainers for higher institutes of technology                   N.N.E.             32
Computing
Persons trained                                                N.N.E.            306
(7861 persons/days)
Textbooks and teaching materials
Establishment of the cell for the distnbution of teaching materials -  Yes       Yes
Cellule de Distribution des Auxiliaires Pedagogiques (CDAP)
Textbooks                                                     9 different     18 different
tewtbooks   textbooks for a total
of 2,978,000 copies
Teaching guides                                               7 different    12 different guides
guides        for a total of
204,480 copies
Maps and charts                                               7 different   7 different maps and
maps and    charts for a total of
charts       89,400 copies
Rehabilitation and equipment
Training colleges for primary teachers                            6              5 (3)
Higher institutes of technology                                   2               2
In-service training centers                                      33               17
Primary schools                                                N.I.O.           112 (4)
Provhicial Directorates of Education (DIRESEB)                 N.I.O.             6
N.N.E. = Number not estimated - N.I.O. = Not included originally



Page 21                                                                Statistical Annex
Key Implementation Indicators in SAR/President's           Estimated         Actual
Report
PRAGAP
School-based contracts, providing for logistical and pedagogical           2,600 pnrmary
support within the context of aprograin centered on the schools and  N.I.O.  schools in 20
students, and with the participation of communities and local                 CiScos.
authorities.
Education planning (MAGPLANED)
Strengthening of the management and planning activities of
MINESEB and MINESUP:
Studies                                                      N.N.E.             9
Overseas training for staff                                  N.N.E.             49
Local training for staff                                     N.N.E.      2,600 persons/days
Missions by planning experts                                 N.N.E.             14
Higher level education
Preparation of a master plan                                  N.I.O.           yes
National program for the improvement of education -
Programme National d 'Ameliorafion de l'EnseignementII        N.I.O.           Yes
(PNAE II)
N.N.E. = Number not estimated - N.I.O. = Not included originally
Footnotes to Table 5:
(1) Technopole of Toamasina - 4 centers for infonnation- & vocational taining.
(2) about 10 days of training per person.
(3) 1 training college is operating in a building that has not been rehabilitated because of the suspension
of disbursements by OPEC.
(4) 112 primary schools have been rehabilitated under an emergency program following the Geralda and
Gretelle cyclones.



Page 22                                                      Statistical Annex
Table 6: Key indicators for Project Opervation
The SAR/President's Report, the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) and the five
supplemental letters to the DCA included a number of key indicators for project and
sector operation and for monitoring the development outcome/impact of the project.
Those key indicators can be summarized as follows: (i) decline in enrollments at primary
and secondary levels stopped and trends reversed; (ii) major reiform in higher education
initiated with the goal to make it more effective and more responsive to economic and
social development priorities; (iii) improved quality of learning outcomes at all levels of
education; and (iv) increased allocation of public funding to primary education.
Indicator: Improvement of the quality of education through an increase in resources
allocated to teacher training, support services and teaching materials.
Actual: Although there has been no systematic learning assessment in the country,
anecdotal evidence indicates that quality of teaching and learning have improved through
in-service training, provision and use of teaching-learning materials, introduction of new
curricula, and improved pedagogical supervision and support. Success rates at end-of-
cycle examinations at primary level have improved significantly; however, the project
was not successful at reducing repetition rates which stand at 35 percent at primary level.
Indicator: A gradual increase, in real terms, of expenditures at the primary level to
achieve over the medium term the goal of universal enrollment of children aged 6-12.
Actual: The performance is disappointing at that level. Figures on the trends in GDP and
budgets for the last 8 years are provided at the end of this Table. Between 1990 and
1997, the budget for primary education has decreased in real terms, a decline that has
continued even when enrollments at primary level started to increase in 1995/1996. Over
the same period, the percentage of expenditures allocated to primary level has remained
about the same: about 2.7% to 2.9% of total public expenditures and, apart from some
increases in 1994-1995, about 30% of the education budget. During the period, the total
government budget has not increased in the same proportion as GDP, and the share of
education in the total budget has remained about the same at around 9 percent. It seems,
therefore, that the education sector as a whole was no better no worse than other sectors.
Nevertheless, up to and including 1997 the Government has certainly not given any
priority to primary education. It should be noted that private education has continued to
expand at primary, secondary and tertiary levels, and community and parent financial
participation increased significantly in the context of school-based contracts.



Page 23                                                      StatisticalAnnex
Indicator: An allocation of a larger share of the overall education budget to non-salary
expenditures.  The share of the overall public budget for primary and secondary
education earmarked for non-salary expenditures will be gradually increased: 3.5 percent
in 1988; 4.4 percent in 1989; 4.9 percent in 1990; 5.2 percent in 1991; 5.5 percent in
1992; 6.6 percent in 1993.
Actual: In recent years, some progress has been achieved in redistribution of public
expenditures from wages and social services (in higher education) to non-salary
expenditures for quality inputs.
Indicator: Control of student flows, with increases for new entrants by around: 4 percent
per year at level I, 2 percent per year at level II, 1 percent per year at level m, and 0.5
percent per year at level IV (see attached table on page 28).
Actual: From 1987-88 to 1997-98, new intakes have increased by only 2.6 percent per
year at level I (increases in new intakes at primary level started only in 1995/1996, later
than originally expected); but have decreased by about 0.2 percent per year at level II, by
about 2.8 percent per year at level m, and by about 7.0 percent per year at level IV.
Indicator: Expenditure priorities among levels I, II and Ell will be reviewed, and the
percentages for 1989 will at least be maintained during the years 1990, 1991 and 1992, so
that 72 percent of sector public expenditures for level 1, I and III will go to level I, 19
percent to level II, and 9 percent to level III.
Actual: The actual categorization of the budget does not allow detailed analysis between
lower (level II) and upper (level IEI) secondary. However, as noted above, the proportion
of public resources allocated to primary level has remained about the same over the
period of the project.
Indicator: At the primary level, gradual reduction in the proportion of repeaters per class
to a maximum of 10 percent by the end of 1994 (see attached table on page 28).
Actual: Throughout the period 1990-1997, the percentage of repeaters has remained in
the 30-35 percent range at primary level, with important variations at regional and district
levels. However, available data from the PRAGAP districts indicate that repetition rates
have decreased in those districts.
Indicator: Full employment of teaching and non-teaching personnel, and hiring as
teachers of graduates of training colleges. Better distribution of teaching personnel, in
particular between urban and rural areas, and better distribution between teaching and
non-teaching personnel. The goal is to reduce taux de suppMance at the primary level to
15 percent by 1991/92 and to 10 percent by 1992/93. To avoid unemployment among



Page 24                                                      Statistical Annex
EN3 graduates, the EN3 will enroll only those numbers of students that are needed to
meet actual level III requirements. In general, the objective is to improve education
sector personnel management.
Actual: This covenant was not implemented because in 1990 the Government supported
by the Bank decided to impose a freeze on recruitment of public civil servants. As a
result, stipends (pre-salary) to students in teacher training colleges were abolished in
1993, and graduates were not automatically employed by the Ministry of Education.
Many of these graduates were actually hired and paid by local communities, and a
smaller proportion were employed in private schools. Under PRAGAP, efforts were
made to redeploy teachers from urban to rural areas, and from administrative positions to
teaching positions. In 1997, following discussions between Government and the Bank,
an agreement was reached to hire 1,000 new teachers per year, provided that these newly
recruited teachers be assigned in rural schools where there was a, demonstrated need.
Indicator: Strengthening of planning and management withi.n the system to control
student flows and make maximum use of existing buildings.
Actual: Planning and management functions were strengthened through technical
assistance, staff training, provision of materials and support for key operations. Results
include: development of micro-planning capacity at provincial and district levels;
competent staff (from the pool of existing administrative staff) trained and assigned to
planning offices at district level; production of educational statistics and studies on
schooling, participation and efficiency.
Indicator: Study and implementation of measures to make education administration
more efficient.
Actual: A major study was undertaken in 1990(-91, and results were implemented,
although partially, throughout the period of the project. These include a redefinition of
roles and responsibilities of administrative staff at all levels of the hierarchy;
reorganization of provincial and district offices with a view to reduce redundant staff and
improve productivity; establishment of a database for staff in MINESEB.
Indicator: Reallocation of resources earmarked for higher education, with a view to
improving quality.
Actual: Allocation of public resources on quality inputs was increased significantly while
"social services" (fellowships, room and board) subsidies were decreased substantially.
Indicator: Reorganization of vocational and technical training to develop a practical
training system geared to job market requirements, with a coordinating structure in which



Page 25                                                    Statistical Annex
employers would be represented.
Actual: A reform of vocational training was undertaken by the Ministry of Vocational
Training (established in 1992), assisted by the Bank under the PREFTEC (Credit 2382-
MAG).
Indicator: Allocation of funds for building maintenance, and preparation of a
maintenance policy.  Gradual increase in the proportion of Fonds National de
Developpement Economique funds earmarked for school building rehabilitation.
Actual: Under PRAGAP, allocations for maintenance were increased, and maintenance
procedures were elaborated and implemented. More needs to be done in both financial
(budgetary transfers) and institutional (staff, systems and procedures) aspects on
rehabilitation and maintenance.
Indicator: Preparation of action plans for improving the quality of higher education: (i)
action plan for the review of academic programs; (ii) action plan for enhancing the
efficiency of university administration; and (iii) action plan for reallocating to the
objective of improving the quality of university education the resources presently devoted
to other objectives at the university level. For item (iii) issues to be dealt with include: a
more appropriate distribution of budget funds among actual education, administration and
student social expenditures (oeuvres universitaires), definition of strategies governing
future university enrollment; development of management policies on scholarships,
access to student social services and repeater rates; adoption of budgetary and financial
procedures to regulate recurrent budgets; and adoption of administrative procedures to
enable the universities to operate with numbers of non-teaching staff that do not exceed
the minimum requirements.
Actual: In 1995-1996, the Ministry of Higher Education (MINESUP) prepared a Master
Plan, which was integrated into the National Program for the Improvement of the
Education System (PNAE II) in 1997. In addition, since 1996, each public university and
IST is producing and updating a rolling development plan that is discussed and approved
by the Board (of each autonomous institution) prior to being submitted to MINESUP.
Indicator: Preparation of all textbooks to be handled or coordinated by the Unite d'Etude
et de Recherche P&dagogiques (UIERP), with the final choice approved by a newly-
formed Textbooks Commission. Textbooks will be limited to books in the basic subjects
(Malagasy, French, science, mathematics) at the primary and secondary level, levels I and
II being assigned priority; agreement on their pedagogical quality and content must be
reached between UERP and IDA; and their presentation must be as economical as
possible, but this should not detract from their educational value. Analysis of the system
for recovering book distribution costs will be financed out of the credit; it will be
important to step up the contributions from local authorities and parents, but it must be



Page 26                                                      Statistical Annex
remembered that their capacities in that area are obviously limited.
Actual: UERP is coordinating effectively the production of all teaching-learning
materials. A cell for the distribution of teachinig materials (Cellule de Distribution des
Auxiliaires Pedagogiques - CDAP) was established. Under CRESED a total of about 3.0
million textbooks were produced, printed and distributed to all primary and lower
secondary schools; in addition, reference books, posters and other pedagogical materials
were distributed. A cost recovery mechanism for textbooks was introduced under the
project, but was not successful, in part because of parents' limited capacity to pay. At the
Bank suggestion the Government discontinued the cost recovery for textbooks (at the
same time, more appropriate forms of contributions by beneficiaries to school
expenditures were being considered under school-based contracts).
Indicator: The provisions governing the system of education at the Higher Institutes of
Technology (IST) will include the following stipulations: (a) students shall not spend
more than three years in any one of the Institutes; and (b) stuidents leaving an IST may
not enroll at a university for five years.
Actual: ISTs offer short training programs of no more than two-year duration, entry is
governed by strict admission procedures following competitive examinations, and
students are not allowed to repeat more than one time. As a result, internal efficiency
rates are extremely high compared to those in public tertiary education. More than 80
percent of graduates find employment within months following graduation, and generally
stay in their jobs and are promoted within the enterprises.



Page 27                                                        Statistical Annex
Trends in budgets (1991 to 1997)
(in billion FMG)
Year               1  19901  19911  19921  19931  19941  19951  1996   1997
asic data
GDP                  4,604   4,914   5,593   6,459   9,131  13,640  16,404 20,515
Government Budget             1,200   1,315   2,458   2,522   2,863   2,966   3,073
Education                      111    122    137    139    202    242    286
MINESEB                        79     94    103    105    164    200    236
MIDNESUP          _            32     28      34      34      38      42      50
Primary    ___                 351    361    38       69      76      80      87
Index (1991 = 100)
GDP                     94    100    114    131        186    278    334    418
Government Budget              100    110    205    210    239    247    256
Education                      100    110    124    125    182    218    258
'N NESEB                      100    119    131    134    209    255    300
MINESUP                  I   100       871   105    106    118    129    155
Primary           I___        1001   1031   108    198    218    228    249
Ratios
Total budget/ GDP             24%    24%    38%    28%    21%    18%    15%
Education / GDP        -      2.3%    2.2%    2.1%    1.5%    1.5%    1.5%    1.4%
Education/total               9.2%    9.3%    5.6%    5.5%    7.1%    8.2%    9.3%
budget
MNEESEB /                     71%    77%    75%    75%    81%    83%    82%
Education
MINESUP /                     29%    23%    25%    25%    19%    17%    18%
Education
MINESEB / total               6.5%    7.1%    4.2%    4.2%    5.7%    6.7%    7.7%
budget
Primary / MINESEB             44%    38%    37%    66%    46%    40%    37%
Primary / total               2.9%    2.7%    1.5%    2.7%    2.7%    2.7%    2.8%
budget                                            I
Primary!7 GDP                 0.7%    0.6%    0.6%    0.8%    0.6%    0.5%    0.4%



TABLE 7: EVOLUTION OF PRIMARY, SECONDARY AND TERTIARY EDUCATION (1987-1997)
Level / Indicators            1987-88  1988-89  1989-90    1990-91  1991-92    1992-93   1993-94  1994-95   1995-96   1996-97   1997-98    % Average
Annual
Growth Rate
98/8798/87
PRIMARY
NumberofPupils                 1,487,725 1,534,142 1,512,322   1,570,721 1,496,845   1,490,317  1,504,668  1,511,408  1,638,187  1,752,851  1,921,087   2.6%
o/w inprivate schools         224,681  237,036  252,317    278,812  325,579       322,015   318,593   337,812   337,154    371,303   430,978    6.7%
(%pnvate/total)               15%      15%       17%         18%      22%         22%        21%       22%        21%        21%        22%
Number of Pupils in Grade 1    547,998  588,850  560,226    598,942  578,689    552,348   554,362   566,412   553,708   686,181   763,177    3.4%
o/w girls                     255,429  278,559  268,102    292,007  261,330    266,723   268,210   277,553   262,489   332,879   371,585           3.8%
(% girls/total)              47%       47%       48%        49%       45%         48%       48%        49%        47%        49%       49%
Repetition rate in Grade 1     47%      47%       48%         49%      37%         41%        36%       43%        46%        NA         NA
Repetition rate in Grade 5     36%      32%       33%         29%      32%         41%        32%       34%        39%        NA         NA
NumberofSchools                13,449   13,672    13,575      13,791    13,696     13,508     13,624     13,486    10,817     12,338    NA
o/wprivate                    1,797    2,004    2,154        2,159    2,297       2,315      2,463     2,674      2,508      2,508     NA
(%private/total)              13%      15%       16%         16%      17%         17%        18%       20%        23%        20%       NA
Number of teachers             38,361    37,894   38,342      38,933   39,837      38,743    37,676    38,536    37,552       39,775     39,908      0.4%
o/wprivate                    4,791    5,756    6,291        6,436    7,372       8,122      8,091     9,880      9,203      11,365     12,018     9.6%
(% private/total)             12%      15%       16%         17%      19%         21%S,      21%       26%        25%        29%        30%
Pupils sitting at end-of-cycle exam 178,675   159,725   152,048  148,642  151,019  120,933    140,911    141,911    148,251    NA        NA
Pupilspassingend-of-cycleexaTn  56,543   36,261    72,482     52,025   55,877      38,586    61,714    53,041      76,134    NA          NA
LOWER SECONDARY
Students                       271,054  255,846  259,178    259,989  235,322    243,705   237,909   235,766   241,249   261,713   264,766    -0.2%
o/wprivate                    81,070   78,523   84,557       87,536   9(),173     96,887     103,181    105,672    102,086    114,489   117,429    3.8%
(%private/total)              30%      31%       33%         34%      38%/        40%        43%       45%        42%/.      44%        44%
Students in Grade 6            86,188   74,783   80,892       80,170   74,476      80,200    69,102    69,762    72,433       86,855     75,370     -1.3%
o/wgirls                      42,828   35,413   39,294       39,314   36,546      38,735    34,440    34,583    36,017    43,118        35,787     -1.8%
(% girls/total)               50%      47%       49%         49%      49%         48%        50%       50%        50%        50%        47%
Repetition rate in Grade 6     14%       13%      15%         16%       19%        21%        18%        16%       17%        NA         NA
RepetitionrateinGrade9         26%      27%       33%         31%      32%         38%        33%       27%        31%        NA         NA
NumberofSchools                1,133    1,113    1,128        1,165     1,141      1,136      1,153      1,2(04    1,204      1,132      1,267       1.1%
o/w private                   459      440       454         482      486         482        492       533        549        527        554         1.9%
(% private/total)             41%      40%       40%         41%      43%         42%        43%       44%        46%        47%        44%
Numberofteachers               9,341     9,478    10,516      9,750     10,687     10,792     11,161     11,387    11,692     12,326     12,817      3.2%
o/wprivate                    2,523    2,014     3,035       2,858    3,302       3,358      3,473     3,699      3,165      4,720      5,279      7.7%
(%private/total)              27%      21%       29%         29%      31%         31%        31%       32%        27%        38%        41%
Students sitting,end-of-cycle exam  80,288   70,547   64,911  62,410   66,740      66,829    65,494    69,213    68,326       NA         NA
Sudents passing end-of-cycle exam 33,896   23,651    16,537   15,603    16,685     20,272     16,158     17,226    18,547     NA         NA
StatisticalAnnex                                                                                                                                         Page 28



Level / Indicators           1987-88  1988-89  1989-90    1990-91  1991-92    1992-93   1993-94   1994-95   1995-96   1996-97   1997-98    % Average Annual
Growth Rate
98/8798/87
UPPER SECONDARY
Number of Students            78,970   73,786    72,060    64,783    58,399     60,724    60,332    57,683    54,686    57,092    59,271        -2.8%
o/wprivate                   34,599   31,560    29,862    26,937    25,623     28,924    29,991    29,262    27,431    28,059    29,258        -1.7%
(%private/total)             44%      43%       41%       42%       44%        48%       50%        51%       50%        49%       49%
Students in Grade 0          24,380   29,541    26,091    21,454    20,442     20,141    21,026     19,132    18,378    19,317    21,900       -1.1%
oAvgirls                     11,689   14,154    12,457    10,547    10,237     10,193    10,550    9,583      9,232      9,685     10,665      -0.9%
(% girls/total)              48%      48%       48%       49%       50%        51%       50%        50%       50%        50%       49%
Repetitionratein GradelO      15%      16%       17%       17%       19%        22%       15%        11%       12%        NA        NA
Repetition rate in Grade 12   29%      33%       31%       34%       44%        42%       31%        34%       36%       NA         NA
NumberofSchools               239      262       259       280       288        281       291        314       316        301       304         2.4%
o/wprivate                   160      180       174       193       201        193       193        225       208        206       217         3.1%
(%private/total)             67%      69%       67%       69%       70%        69%       66%        72%       66%        68%       71%
Numberofteachers              3,131    3,682     3,866     5,106     3,738      3,978     3,957      4,274     4,803      5,151     4,981       4.8%
o/wprivate                   1,008    1,277     1,242     1,460     1,255      1,307     1,402      1,700     2,164      2,572     2,443       9.3%
(% private/total)            32%      35%       32%       29%       34%        33%       35%        40%       45%        50%       49%
Students sitting end-of-cycle exarn 46,984   46,748    47,624    42,874    42,154  32,611  35,878    28,904    27,357    NA         NA
Sudentspassingbaccalaureat    7,650    8,909     8,673     5,857     6,323      6,128     8,047      8,054     6,107      NA        NA
(%passing/sitting)           16%      19%       18%       14%       15%        19%       22%        28%       22%        NA        NA
HIGHER EDUCATION
Students in6ppublic universities   36,269   37,095    37,046    35,824    NA    33,202    26,937    21,997    20,808    18,945    NA
Enrollments in distance education                                    NA         9,306     9,208      8,286     7,707      8,133     NA
Enrollments in the 2 ISTs                                            NA         173       382        344       344        431       NA
Total                         36,269   37,095    37,046    35,824    NA         42,681    36,527    30,627    28,859    27,509    NA
(% girstotal)                NA       NA        NA        NA        NA         45%       45%
Statistical Annex                                                                                                                                    Page 29



Page 30                                                         Statistical,Annex
Table 8: Studies Included in Project
Description of study                                    Impact of Study
Study of the establishment of a distribution network for   -Establishment of CDAP/BPE
textbooks and teaching-learning materials.       - Distribution of textbooks and
learning-teaching materials.
Study of the management of the education system,  - Operation "PRAGAP"
including planning, budgeting, management of human    - Preparation of PNAE II and
resources and computing.                         CRESED II
Study of the history of Madagascar to prepare textbooks  -Improvement of programming in
for all levels.                                  MINESEB
Study of the factors affecting schooling and participation  -Improvement of programming in
(including repetition rates) in primary schools.  MINESEB
Diagnosis of the situation and recent trends of the  -Improvement of programming in
education system, and evaluation of the different policies  MINESEB
and strategies for the development of primary and
secondary education.
Study of the factors affecting access, attendance and  -Improvement of programming in
drop-out rates in primary schools.               MINESEB
Study of the cost and financing of primary and secondary  -Improvement of programming in
education.                                       MINESEB
Study on the availability and utilization of teaching-  - Provided useful inputs for the
learning materials.                              preparation of a national policy on
textbooks.
Study of monitoring system and indicators to follow  -Provided useful inputs for the
progress in the implementation of the educational policy. preparalion of PNAE II and
CRESED II.
Study of social services for university students.  - Reallocation of resources to
higher priority objectives
Study of a management information system for higher    - Improvement in planning and
education.                                       budgeting.
Study of the cost and financing of higher education.  - Provided useful inputs for the
preparation of an action plan to
rationalize the allocation of
resources.
Master Plan for higher education.                - Preparation of CRESED II /
FADES.
Study of the feasibility of an evaluation system, and  - Capacity building for planning
identification of the factors related to learning in primary  department.
education.



Page 31                                                                  Statistical Annex
Table 9A: Project Costs
(US $ million)
Project Components                                      Appraisal        Actual/Latest
Estimate          Estimate
Administration and Plamiing                                 9.9              27.2
Quality and Efficiency improvement                         21.8              21.7
Higher Education                                            8.8               4.4
Sub-total base costs                                       40.5              53.3
Contingencies                                               8.1
Total Project Costs (excluding taxes)                      48.6              53.3
Taxes                                                       6.4               8.0
Total Project Costs (including taxes)                      55.0              61.3
Table 9B  Project Financing
(US$ million)
Source                            Appraisal       ActualtLatest
Estimate          Estimate
Government - counterpart funds                             2.5                4.7
Government - taxes                                          6.4               8.0
IDA                                                        39.0              42.9
OPEC                                                        5.0               3.6
Federal Republic of Germany                                 1.1               1.1
UNDP                                                        1.0               1.0
Total                                                      55.0              61.3



Page 32                                                     Statistical Annex
Table 10 : Economic Costs and Benefits
The Staff Appraisal report (SAR) did not include any economic analysis of the project.
There are no data available to calculate a posteriori the economic rates of return or the
costeffectiveness of the investments that were actually financed under the Project.



Table 11: Status of Legal Covenants in the Credit Agreement
Section   Covenant  Present  Fulfillment               Description of Covenant                    Comments
Type      Status      date
2.02(b)      1         C      Continuous   Open and maintain in dollars a Special Account in the  Because of foreign exchange
name of its Central Bank in a commercial bank, on    regulations, from 1990 to
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, to be  1992 account was in a
operated in accordance with Schedule 5 of DCA,  commercial bank in Paris.
3.01 (a)    4, 5       CP    Continuous   Borrfowers commitment to project objectives;    Budgetary allocations agreed
Borrower to carry out project through MINESEB and  upon at the beginning of the
MINESUP with due diligence and efficiency and in   year have not always been
conformity with appropriate admninistrative, financial, deposited in full into the
educational and engineering practices, and to provide, caisse d'avance during the
promptly as needed, funds, facilities, services and  year.
other resources required for project.
3.01 (b)     4         CP    Continuous   Borrower to maintain a Caisse d'Avance in the name   Same as above.
of, and to be operated by BPE, and to make funds
available for it in a timely fashion.
Continuous   Procurement of goods, works and consultants' services The procedures were
3.02       10         C                   financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be  followed, but procurement
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to the  activities experienced
Development Credit Agreement (DCA).           substantial delays because of
cumbersome procedures and
poor management.
3.03      5, 10       C     By July 31 of By July 31 of each year, Borrower to prepare and  BPE prepared training
each year    fumish to IDA for approval a training program for the  programs since 1992-93 and,
next following school year.                   in March 1994, updated for
remainder of project in the
context of a comprehensive
planning review.
Statistical 4nnex                                                                                           Page 33



Section   Covenant  Present   Fulfillment               Description of Covenant                     Comments
Type      Status      date
3.04        5         C      Continuous    Borrower to keep BPE with adequate responsibilities,  Performance evaluation
and to keep the position of Director of BPE staffed    conducted in November 1995
with an individual whose qualifications are acceptable  and 1996; results were
to IDA.                                        satisfactory.
3.05      5,10        C      Continuous    Before commencement of any study on internal and    Studies conducted under
external efficiency of education system and    MAGPLANED and
improvement of educational quality, Borrower to  completed in March 1996.
fumish to IDA for approval the terms of reference for
that study.
3.06        9         CD    By Dec 31,   By December 31, 1991, Borrower to prepare and     Mid-term review document
1991         furnish to IDA action plans on development of higher  prepared by Government and
education and a mid-term review report on: execution  sent to the Bank on
of the project, performance of the Borrower, and the   September 28, 1992. Mid-
accomplishment of the purposes of the credit.  term review mission visited
Madagascar between October
26 and November 12, 1992.
Action Plan for higher
education completed in June
1993.
Statistical Annex                                                                                             }'age 34



Section   Covenant  Present  Fulfillment                Description of Covenant                     Comments
Type      Status       date
4.01        1          C                                                                   Audit reports  have  been
By June 30    Borrower to maintain adequate project records and    submitted as follows:
of each year,  accounts, to have the accounts (including the special  Date    Year
for the      account and statements of expenditures) audited by  Submission
preceding    independent auditors acceptable to IDA, and to    03/1991         1990
year.        furmish to IDA, not later than six months after the end    05/1992  1991
of each fiscal year, the report of such audit by said  05/1993   1992
auditors.                                         05/1994        1993
05/1995        1994
05/1996        1995
10/1996    1st half 1996
05/1997    2d half 1996
10/1997    lsthalf 1997
06/1998    2d half 1997
4.02        11         C     By October   By October 31 of each year, Borrower to prepare and  PEPs for primary/secondary
31 of each    furnish to IDA for approval a three-year rolling public and higher education have
year.        expenditure program (PEP) in the education sector    been submitted regularly to
consistent with the education strategy.        the Bank for review and
comments, and the Bank
conducted public expenditure
reviews.
6.01    3, 4, 5, 10    C     Conditions of (1) Borrower has taken all necessary measures (i) to   Credit was made effective on
effectiveness  make the UERP (pedagogical unit) fully operational,  July 24, 1990.
and (ii) to establish BPE and appoint its Director; (2)
the cofinancing agreement with the OPEC Fund has
been signed, and the cofinancing from IJNDP is
effective; and (3) the BPE "caisse d'avance" has been
established.
Statistical Annex                                                                                              Page 35



Section    Covenant  Present  Fulfillment               Description of Covenant                   Comments
Type      Status      date
Schedule     3,10       C      Condition of  A condition of disbursement for university quality  On the basis of satisfactory
1 to DCA                       disbursement  improvement, rehabilitation of three primary teacher  progress on production and
training colleges, and production of six out of nine  distribution of school books
text-books was agreement between Borrower and IDA  and reform of management at
on action plans for: (i) university curricula  primary and secondary levels,
modernization, administration and financing    IDA authorized
improvements; (ii) more efficient use of staff in  disbursements under the
MINESEB and strengthening of education        second phase of the project in
administration, and (iii) school book distribution and  the follow-up letter dated
.___________ storage and cost recovery for school books.    February 4, 1994.
Schedule
4 to DCA
1.       6, 10       CD    By June 30,   Borrower to prepare and review with IDA programs to UERP has integrated these
1991        integrate nutritional, enviromnental and population    concerns into the new
concerns into public education.               curricula that have been
developed and introduced at
primary and secondary levels
starting in the academic year
1995-1996.
Statistical Annex                                                                                           Page 36



Section    Covenant   Present  Fulfillment                Description of Covenant                      Comments
Type      Status       date
2.         10         CD     By June 30,   Borrower to prepare and review with IDA programs   It is not clear why such a
1991         for improving female enrollment rates.           covenant was included in
DCA, since female
enrollment has never been a
problem (girls account for
close to 50 percent of
enrollments). In any event, in
1995, MINESEB issued a
policy statement which calls
for increases in enrollment of
girls.
3 .        10         CD     By June 30,   Borrower to issue adequate directives to directors and  MINESEB issued a policy
1990         teachers of primary schools to set objectives for  statement for 1995 and
maximum repetition rates in each section of 25% by   beyond which calls for a
1991, 20% by 1992, 15% by 1993 and 10% by 1994.  reduction of repetition rates.
However, despite a slight
improvement in recent years,
repetition rates remain high,
above the agreed upon levels.
4.         10          C     Before June   Borrower to ensure that no new universities or new  No new universities
30, 1993     faculty at the universities (excepting the two higher    established as of June 1993.
technological institutes included in project) be
established before June 30, 1993.
Statistical Annex                                                                                                Page 3 7



Section    Covenant  Present  Fulfillment              Description of Covenant                    Comments
Type      Status      date
5.         12        CD    By December Borrower to establish an interninisterial agency  In March 1992, a decree was
31, 1990     responsible for the coordination of vocational training  issued by Government to
and technical education activities.           establish the "Conseil
National de Formation
Technique et Professionnelle"
under the FY 1992 PREFTEC
Project (Cr. 2382-MAG).
6.       10, 12      CP                  Upon completion of training colleges, Borrower to    The emergency rehabilitation
Continuous   ensure that they function at full capacity, and that at   phase for training colleges
least 600 qualified primary teachers and 300 qualified  was completed in 1992; by
lower secondary teachers are recruited per year.  that time a freeze on new
recruitment had been imposed
and remained in force until
the end of the project. In
response to the freeze on
recruitment in the public
sector, Government delinked
admission to Teacher
Training Institutions from
em.ploym,ent Ai Fubu  se, vice,
thus responding to growing
needs for trained teachers in
private schools. In 1997-98,
MINESEB recruited 900
teachers at primary level,
most of them graduates from
Teacher Training Institutions.
Statistical Annex                                                                                           Page 38



There were five supplemental letters to the DCA. Compliance with the stipulations of those letters is referred in part in tables 5 and 6, and I
I discussed in the main text of the Implementation Completion report (ICR).
Covenant types:
1 = Accounts/audits.                     8= Indigenous people.                    Present status:
2 = Financial perfornance/revenue        9 = Monitoring, review and reporting.
generation from beneficiaries.      10 = Project implementation not covered by    C  = Covenant complied with.
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds.  categories 1-9.                        CD = Complied with after delay.
4 = Counterpart funding.                 11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or   CP = Complied with partially.
5 = Management aspects of the project or  other resource allocation..              NC = Not complied with.
executing agency.                   12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
6 = Environmental covenants.             policy/regulatory/ institutional action.
7 = Involuntary resettlement.            13 = Other.
StatisticalAnnex                                                                                                Page 39



Page 40 __                                                  Statistical Annex
Table 12: Compliance with Operational Maniual Statements
Statement Number andTitle            Describe and comment on lack of
i________     compliance
Bank Operational Manual Statements (OD or OP/BP) have been substantially complied
with.
Table 13: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle             Actual
Weeks           US$
Preparation to Appraisal      168.3          213.1
Appraisal                      19.4           37.2
Negotiations through Board     9.5           21.7
Approval                                _
Supervision                   192.2          469.2
Completion                     7.6            .4
TOTAL                          397           741.6
Sour oe: FACT



Page 41                                                                                    Statistical Annex
Table 14: Bank Resources: Mssions.
Stage of      Month      Number   Days    Specialized staff         Performance Rating            Types of
Project Cycle    /Year        of        in    skills represented                                     Problems
Persons   Field
istplemen-     Develop-
tation Status     ment
._.___.__                      _________________                    Objectives
Through           From
appraisal        7/86 to
3189                      1
Appraisal         4/89         5        26    ED,EC,IMP,TEX
through Board
Approval
Supervision 1    2-3/90        4        21    EC,ED,T.ED,PLA
Supervision 2     7/90          1        15   IMP
Supervision 3    10-11/90       1        10    ED                        2
Supervision 4     6/91          1        12    ED                        2 _  _ -   --   .
Supervision 5     2/92         2         11    EC, T.ED                  2              2
Supervision 6    2-3/92        4        21    ED,PLA,AR,ED               2              1        PMP, CLC
Supervision 7     6/92         2         7    ED,FA                      2              1        PP, CLC
Supervision 8    10- 11/92     6         16    ED,PLA,H.ED,T.E           2              1        PP, CLC
D,AR
Supervision 9     7/93         7         15    ED,PLA,H.ED,              2              1        PP, CLC
AR,IMP,FA
Supervision 10    11-12/93     6        20    ED,H.ED,                   2              2        PMP, PP, CLC
IMP,AR,T.ED,EC                                   ___ ___
Supervision 11    3/94         2         12    ED,H.ED                   2              2        pp
Supervision 12    4/94         1         15    CO                        S              S        PP
Supervision 13   6-7/94        3         10    ED,IMP                    5              S        pp
Supervision 14    9-10/94      5         16    ED,H.ED,IMP,                             S 5      PP
MA
Supervision 15    1-2/95       5         17    ED,IMP,MA,AR             U               S        PMP, PP
Supervision 16    5-6/95       3         14    ED,T.ED                   S              5        PMP, PP
Supervision 17    10/95         1        8    TEX                        S              S        PMP, PP, AP
Supervision 18    11-12/95     3         14    ED,H.ED,AR                S              S        PMP, PP, AF
Supervision 19   4-5/96        3         16    ED,H.ED,IMP               S              S        PMP, PP, AF
Supervision 20    11-12/96     6        28    ED,H.ED,IMP,EC             S              S        PMP, PP
Supervision 21    3-4/97       6        20    ED,H.ED,IMP,EC             S              S
Supervision 22   6-7/97        7         16    ED, H. ED,                S              S
__________    _______ _______           EC,IMP,TEX                                        _
Supervision 23    10-11/97     4         16    ED, H.ED, ECIMP           S              S
Completion       5-6/98        3        29    ED, H.ED, IMP              S              S
Key to specialized staff skills
ED     =       Education Specialist                           EC      =      Economist
H.ED   =       Higher Education Specialist                    IMP    =       Implementation Specialist
T.ED   =       Technical Education Specialist                 PLA    =       Education Planner
AR     =       Architect                                      FA      =      Financial analyst
CO             Country Officer                                MA             Education Management Specialist
TEX      =    Textbook Specialist



Page 42                                                                                        Statistical Annex
Ke  t  eformance rati
1 = Problem Free                                             2 = Modert Problems
3 = Major Problems                                             4 = Major Problems - Corrective acfion to be taken.
HS = Highly Satisfactory                 HU = Highly Satisfactory                       NR = Not Rated
U = Unsatisfactory                         S = Satisfactory
Ke!L tooblems
AF Ke Availability of fr s                      |PFP   = Financial performance                   PP = Procurement progress
CLC = Compliance with legal covenants            PDO = Project Development Objectives           SP = Studies progress
PMP = Project management performaice           0 = Other (*)



ANNEX A
AIDE-MEMOIRE



REPUBLIQUE DE MADAGASCAR
Aide-memoire de la mission du secteur de 1'ducation de la Banque mondiale
sur la supervision du Credit de Renforcement du Secteur Educatif
(CRESED, Crdit 2094-MAG)
du 2 au 29 juin 1998
1. Une mission du secteur de I'ducation de la Banque mondiale I a s6journe a
Madagascar du 2 au 29 juin 1998 dans le but de faire le point sur I'achevement des activites
financees par le Credit de Renforcement du Secteur Educatif (CRESED, Credit 2094-MAG)
dont la date de cl6ture est le 30 juin 1998. La mission tient a remercier toutes les personnes
qu'elle a rencontrees pour leur accueil chaleureux et leur collaboration efficace.
2.   Comme il s'agit de la derniere mission de supervision, le pr6sent Aide-m6moire a pour
objet de dresser un bilan provisoire des principales realisations du projet par rapport aux
objectifs convenus lors de son approbation, de son impact actuel et previsible sur le systeme
educatif, et des enseignements tires de sa mise en oeuvre.
3.   Au cours de son sej our, la mission a travaille en etroite collaboration avec le Bureau
Projet Education (BPE) et les directions et services responsables de la mise en oeuvre
d'activites financees par le CRESED. En particulier, elle a rencontre les cadres du Ministere
de l'Enseignement Secondaire et de 'Education de Base (MINESEB), ainsi que les
Directeurs et responsables de composantes au sein du Ministere de l'Enseignement Superieur
(MINESUP) et de l'Institut Superieur de Technologie (IST) d'Antananarivo. La mission a
sejoume a Tulear du 7 au 9 juin 1998, et a Tamatave du 14 au 16 juin. Ces visites ont permis
d'etablir un bilan des realisations sur le terrain, en collaboration etroite avec les cadres des
Directions Inter-Regionales de l'Enseignement Secondaire et de I'Education de Base
(DIRESEB) et les autorites des etablissements d'enseignement superieur. La mission a
examine le rapport d'audit des comptes du Projet pour l'annee financiere 1997. Enfin, le
BPE et la mission sont convenus d'un plan de travail pour la fermeture des comptes du
projet, la retrocession des equipements et materiels du Projet au CRESED II, et la preparation
d'un rapport d'achevement du Projet.
La mission 6tait composee de Messieurs Daniel Viens, chef de mission, James Lynch, specialiste en
enseignement superieur, et Pierre Mersier, specialiste en formation professionnelle et execution des
projets.



Aide-Memoire                                                              Page 2
Bilan Provisoire
4.   S'appuyant sur le premier Programme National d'Amelioration de I'Education (PNAE
I) approuve par le Gouvernement en 1988, le CRESED avait pour but d'assister la mise en
oeuvre de reformes institutionnelles, administratives et pedagogiques a tous les niveaux
d'enseignement. Conscientes de la chute alarmante des effectifs d'elves aux niveaux
primaire et secondaire, des augmentations incontr6lees d'effectifs d'etudiants dans les
Universit6s publiques, de l'urgence d'ameliorer l'efficacite de I'administration et de la
gestion des ministeres responsables de 1'education, et d'une n,cessaire redynamisation des
programmes d'enseignement, de la formation des maitres et de la dotation en manuels
scolaires, les autorites du Gouvernement s'etaient engagees sur une batterie de mesures et de
programmes d'action consignes dans la Lettre de politique de ckveloppement du secteur.
5.   Depuis la mise en vigueur du Credit le 27 juillet 1990, le bilan des principales
realisations du CRESED inclue:
(a) la creation d'une entite responsable de l'elaboration des curricula aux niveaux
primaire et secondaire -- l'Unite d'Etudes et de Recherches P6dagogiques (UERP) --
qui a concu, teste et publie de nouveaux programmes d'enseignement aux niveaux
primaire et secondaire, des manuels scolaires et des guides pedagogiques destines aux
enseignants;
(b) la mise sur pied d'une cellule specialisee -- la Cellule de Distribution des Auxiliaires
P6dagogiques (CDAP) -- qui a coordonne le colisage et la distribution de plus de 2,1
millions  de  manuels  scolaires,  d'ouvrages  de  reference  et d'auxiliaires
d'enseignement (cartes et planches) dans toutes les Ecoles Primaires Publiques (plus
de 11.500 EPP fonctionnelles), ainsi que dans les Colleges d'Enseignement General
(plus de 700 CEG);
(c) la redynamisation des six Ecoles Normales de Niveau I (une EN I dans chaque
Province de Madagascar) et d'une Ecole Normale de Niveau II (F'actuel MNFP) qui
accueillent actuellement quelque 900 616ves-instituteurs, enseignants des colleges,
conseillers pedagogiques et inspecteurs du niveau primaire dans des programmes de
formation qui ont e  entierement revises;
(d) la redynamisation de 16 centres de perfectionnement continu du personnel enseignant
(CRPP) qui ont organise annuellement environ 10 journees de formation continue a
l'intention des instituteurs de l'enseignement primaire., des enseignants du niveau
secondaire et des encadreurs pedagogiques;
(e) le lancement d'une nouvelle approche pragmatique visant l'amelioration de
l'efficacite de l'ecole primaire -- le Programme de Renforcement et d'Appui a la
Gestion Administrative et Pedagogique (PRAGAP) -- qui a permis d'associer les
communaut6s locales (parents, enseignants, directeurs cd'cole et responsables de la
societe civile) dans la r6alisation de plus de 2.500 contrats-ecole (ou 22% des ecoles
publiques fonctionnelles) cibles sur 20 Circonscriptions Scolaires (CiSco) (parmi les
112) dans les six provinces de Madagascar;
(f) la realisation d'6tudes sur la gestion du MINESEB qui ont permis de redefinir les
missions, attributions, r6les et responsabilites des principaux gestionnaires et des
acteurs dans une perspective coh&ente de decentralisation et de responsabilisation a



Aide-Memoire                                                               Page 3
tous les niveaux, et de renforcer les bases de donnees sur les effectifs d'61eves,
d'enseignants et de personnels administratifs;
(g) la r6alisation d' etudes, la formation sur le tas et le renforcement des capacites de
planification scolaire dans les deux ministeres responsables de 1'education. Ces
activites ont permis de cerner les problemes lies a la scolarisation, de mettre en
oeuvre des outils de gestion et de renforcer les capacites de collecte et de mise a jour
des donnees a tous les niveaux administratifs, et de publier des annuaires statistiques
annuels. Le Projet a egalement permis de former des cadres de 1' education sur
l'elaboration du Programme des Depenses Publiques et du Programme
d'Investissement Public (PIP);
(h) la creation de deux nouvelles institutions d'enseignement superieur -- les Instituts
Superieurs de Technologie (IST) d'Antananarivo et d'Antsiranana -- qui ont
developpe des programmes de formation superieure de courte duree (moins de 2 ans),
en reponse directe aux besoins des entreprises; le projet a egalement apporte une
assistance a la creation du Technop6le de l'Universite de Tamatave, en collaboration
etroite avec d'autres bailleurs de fonds;
(i)  la realisation d'etudes et la mise sur pied de tables de concertation au niveau de
1'enseignement superieur qui ont pernis le montage d'un Plan directeur de
developpement de l'enseignement supbrieur et qui ont soutenu les reformes
institutionnelles et les programmes d'assainissement des universites publiques; et
(j) le soutien aux travaux des Commissions interministerielle et intersectorielle qui ont
prepare, en collaboration etroite avec les trois ministeres techniques responsables de
l'education et de la formation (MINESEB, MINESUP et METFP 2) et les ministeres a
vocation economique, un second Programme National d'Amelioration de l'Education
et de la Formation -- le PNAE II -- adopte par le Gouvernement en decembre 1997.
Impact du Projet
6.   Les principaux impacts du Projet sur l'evolution du systeme d'education peuvent etre
examines par rapport aux dimensions suivantes: (a) la capacite d'accroitre la participation des
enfants a la scolarisation de base mesuree par Les taux d' admission des enfants en premiere
annee d'enseignement et les taux de retention de ces enfants au cours du cycle primaire; (b)
I'efficacit6 inteme des etablissements d'enseignement primaire et secondaire mesuree par
1'evolution des taux de promotion, de redoublement et d'abandon des eleves; (c) l'efficacit6
interne et externe des etablissements d'enseignement superieur mesuree par les cofits de
fornation et les taux de placement des sortants des IST; (d) le renforcement de la gestion
administrative et pedagogique mesuree par l'appropriation de l'ecole primaire par les acteurs
de la communaute, et la presence effective des enseignants a 1'ecole et leur encadrement; (e)
l'efficacite du systeme dans la gestion des ressources publiques mesuree par l'evolution de la
part des depenses publiques et privees en education, le ciblage des depenses publiques en
reponse aux objectifs du Gouvernement et l'efficacite de l'utilisation des ressources; et (f) la
capacite du systeme d'education de tirer des enseignements, de s'adapter constamment, de
2 Le Ministere de 1'Enseignement Technique et de la Formation Professionnelle a egalement ete appuyd par
le Projet PREFTEC (Cr. 2382-MAG) qui a demarre en 1992.



Aide-Memoire                                                                Page 4
prioriser ses programmes d'actions et de les mettre en oeuvre. Les paragraphes qui suivent
presentent des el6ments provisoires d'6valuation d'impact sur chacune de ces dimensions.
7.   L'accroissement de la participation des enfants a 1'ecole constituait l'un des
principaux objectifs du PNAE I. La Lettre de politique de developpement enon,ait les cibles
suivantes: (a) 1'augmentation des nouveaux entrants au niveau. primaire de 4% par an; et (b)
l'augmentation des nouveaux entrants au niveau secondaire de 2% (Niveau II) et 1% (Niveau
111) par an. L'examen des annuaires statistiques de 1'education fait ressortir les constats
suivants (Annexe 1). La baisse des effectifs d'eleves aux niveaux primaire et secondaire qui
a ete constatee depuis le milieu des annees 1980 s'est maintenue jusqu'a 1993. Depuis, une
legere reprise a 6te observee dans les taux d'inscription de nouveaux entrants en premiere
annre de l'enseignement primaire et de l'enseignement secondaire. Dans le cadre du
PRAGAP, la participation effective des communautes de base dans la realisation des
contrats-ecole, les visites regulieres de suivi effectuees par les agents locaux du MI4NESEB et
1'affectation et le redeploiement des enseignants aux ecoles primaire publiques ont eu un
impact imm6diat sur l'accroissement des effectifs d'el&ves i(plus de 15%). De plus, les
distributions successives de manuels d'enseignement en langue malgache dans les matieres
de base (qui n'existaient pas avant 1993) ont egalement eu un impact positif sur la motivation
des enseignants, la qualite des enseignements et la participation des enfants a l'ecole. Enfin,
on a constate que la fourniture de cahiers, crayons et autres materiels scolaires A tous les
enfants scolarises dans le cadre de l'operation "filet de securite" lancee en 1995-96 (sur
financement de l'E-tat) a eu un impact immediat sur l'augmentation des nouveaux inscrits A
l'ecole primaire.
8.   L'amelioration de I'efficacite interne des etablissements publics devait se traduire,
dans la Lettre de politique, par la reduction graduelle des taux de redoublement au niveau
primaire de 40% en 1989 a 10% en 1994. A l'instar de l'evolution des effectifs d'elves, les
premiers signes d' amelioration des taux de redoublement et d'abandon n'ont ete observes
qu'a partir de 1993, avec une reprise timide et de fortes variations regionales et sous-
regionales. Par contre, l'evolution des taux de succes aux examens de fin de cycle primaire
montre une tendance a la hausse depuis 1993-94. Alors que l'ecole primaire accueille une
proportion plus grande d'enfants, elle eprouve encore de nombreuses difficult6s a maintenir
ces enfants A 1'ecole et, surtout, a assurer le succes des apprentissages.  Il demeure
inacceptable que pres de 40 pour-cent des eleves redoublent les premieres classes du
primaire, que le taux de succes au baccalaureat n'atteigne que 20 ou 30 pour-cent, et que plus
de 80 pour-cent des etudiants inscrits en premiere annee des Facult6s de Lettres et de
Sciences A l'Universit6 echouent alors qu'ils repr6sentent un pourcentage infime d'une
cohorte d'enfants qui entrent au primaire.  L'introduction de nouveaux programmes
d'enseignement, l'apport de materiels pedagogiques d'appui, les formations continues des
enseignants et l'encadrement plus serre des Chefs des Zones Administratives et
Pedagogiques (Chefs ZAP) et des autres groupes d'encadreurs (assistants et conseillers
p6dagogiques) presentent certes une batterie de conditions n6cessaires A l'amelioration des
enseignements et des apprentissages chez les enfants. Mais ces conditions demeurent encore
insuffisantes pour renverser des taux d'echec tres eleves. Les perspectives d'amelioration
testees sous le CRESED doivent encore etre renforc6es, incluant entre autres les dimensions
qualitatives du contrat-ecole, une volonte affirmee de centrer les efforts de l1'cole sur



Aide-Memoire                                                                  Page 5
1' amelioration de I' apprentissage des enfants, et des ressources financieres consequentes et
mieux utilisees. Par contre, l'ecole doit aussi lutter avec des conditions externes difficiles: la
pauvrete des menages, la malnutrition, I'absence des enfants qui doivent participer aux
travaux agricoles et les difficultes de communication en saison des pluies.
9. L'efficacite externe des etablissements d'enseignement superieur etait visee a
travers la creation d'un nouveau type d'etablissement, les IST, qui, par effet de
demonstration, allaient entrainer une reforme des programmes, une redefinition de leur
finalite, et un partenariat etroit avec le monde professionnel. Les deux IST ont demontre,
avec des taux d'insertion sur le marche du travail de plus de 80 pour-cent de leurs sortants,
que des programmes bien cibles sur les besoins des entreprises, des enseignements pratiques
a des etudiants admis sur concours, et la cooperation etroite avec les employeurs dans la
definition des enseignements et l'organisation de stages pratiques, peuvent ameliorer
l'efficacite exteme et inteme des etablissements d'enseignement superieur. Alors que les
coats unitaires annuels de formation sont plus eleves que ceux des facultes traditionnelles (en
raison notamment des petits groupes d'etudiants et d'un meilleur encadrement), les couts
totaux de production d'un dipl6me qui s'insere rapidement sur le marche du travail sont
considerablement reduits. Egalement, l'introduction du concept des IST a donne naissance a
la creation de nombreux programmes de formation professionnalisante au sein des 6coles,
instituts et facultes des Universites publiques. La perennisation des deux IST demeure
cependant preoccupante. En effet, il appartient au Ministere responsable de 1'enseignement
superieur (NINESUP) de doter ces etablissements de budgets de fonctionnement adequats,
de financer sur les fonds propres du Gouvernement des equipements qui n'ont pu &re achetes
sur financement exteme 3, de recibler certaines formations, en particulier en bureautique, qui
sont par ailleurs offertes par des dtablissements priv*s, et de developper des formations
continues.
10. Le renforcement de la gestion administrative et pedagogique du ministere
responsable de l'enseignement primaire et secondaire (MINESEB) constituait la premiere
composante du Projet. Cette composante comportait deux grands types d'activites. D'une
part, il s'agissait de renforcer les services de planification du ministere, en particulier en ce
qui concerne la carte scolaire et la preparation des budgets. D'autre part, il etait prevu de
mettre en oeuvre une reorganisation du ministere. Les travaux de reorganisation ont demarr6
en 1990 avec le lancement d'une etude sur la gestion, dont le rapport final a ete produit et
discute avec les autorites debut 1992.  Ce rapport recommandait, entre autres, une
restructuration du Secretariat General, la creation d'une Direction Generale, une refonte des
responsabilites des Directions centrales, et la reconfiguration des directions provinciales et
des administrations locales. Il proposait egalement une batterie de mesures pour renforcer la
gestion du personnel, incluant la definition de r6les et responsabilites de chaque poste, le
renforcement du r6le de la direction de l'ecole, et une gestion par poste budgetaire. Alors
que la reorganisation du MINESEB n'a pas eu de suivi, les travaux de diagnostic du systeme,
d'analyse des r6les et responsabilites, de montage de bases de donnees sur les personnels, et
3   En raison de la suspension des decaissements sur le Credit de l'OPEP en cours de realisation du projet, des
equipements et des materiels d'une valeur estimee A 3,3 milliards FMG n'ont pu etre achetes avant
F'achevement du Credit.



Aide-Memoire                                                                Page 6
de gestion previsionnelle des effectifs ont neanmoins servi de base a la mise en oeuvre du
PRAGAP.
11. Le PRAGAP est ne de deux constats majeurs. D'une part, les efforts investis entre
1992 et 1993 pour restructurer et renforcer la gestion au niveau central n'ont pas eu de suivi.
Par exemple, les operations de redeploiement d'enseignants en surnombre dans la capitale
vers les provinces et les localites ou il y avait un besoin r6el ont et rapidement stopp6es par
des decisions des plus hautes autorites de I'Etat. D'autre part, suite a une etude sectorielle
sur les facteurs de 1'efficacit6 de 1'ecole, il est apparu urgent et faisable d'adopter une
strategie d'amelioration de la qualit6 des enseignements a la base, c'est-a-dire en developpant
un partenariat etroit entre la communaute de base et les autorites locales du MINESEB.
Ainsi, les objectifs initiaux du PRAGAP visaient a regagner la confiance des populations
locales vis-a-vis de leur ecole ("communale") et a mobiliser les parents d'eleves, le directeur,
les enseignants et les autorites locales dans la r6alisation de contrats-6cole. Le programme a
demarre en 1994 dans deux CiSco pilotes de la Province de Mahajanga, avant d'etre 6largi en
1995 a huit CiSco additionnelles de Mahajanga et a deux CiSco dans chacune des cinq autres
provinces. S'appuyant sur des 6quipes de cadres a tous les niveaux -- une Equipe Centrale de
Gestion (ECG) au sein du MINESEB, des Equipes Provinciales de Gestion (EPG) a la
DIRESEB, des Equipes Locales de Gestion (ELG) dans les CiSco, et un Comite Local de
Pilotage (CLP) a l'ecole -- le PRAGAP a cree une synergie caracterisee par une approche
nouvelle "centree sur l'elkve, basee sur l'ecole, et ascendante". L'ECG a produit et valide
de nouvelles d6finitions de missions, attributions, r6les et responsabilites (MARR) qui
presentent les bases d'une approche decentralisee. Les EPG et les ELG ont par ailleurs
assist& les communautes locales de quelque 2.500 EPP dans 20 CiSco a rehabiliter le
domaine scolaire et a redeployer des enseignants. Deux evaluations externes du PRAGAP,
l'une en septembre 1997 et l'autre en mai 1998, ont d6montre que cette approche a produit
des resultats positifs et qu'elle offre une opportunite reelle d'arnelioration de la qualite et des
apprentissages.
12. La Lettre de politique de developpement reconnaissait l'urgence de mieux gerer les
ressources financieres publiques et 6noncait des objectifs d'accroissement de la part des
depenses publiques allouees a l'Fducation, de reallocation en faveur de l'enseignement de
base et d'amelioration de l'efficacite de l'utilisation de ces ressources. Or, les resultats
enregistres lors des revues annuelles des depenses publiques sont peu encourageants et
commandent une n6cessaire vigilance sur l'evolution des depenses. Ainsi. la revue des
d6penses publiques de 19984 notait, entre 1995 et 1997, une baisse de la part des depenses
publiques en education par rapport au PIB (de 1,7 a 1,5%), une baisse de la part des depenses
publiques en education par rapport aux d6penses courantes du Gouvemement (de 28,5 a
24,1%), une baisse de la part des depenses hors-solde pour l'6ducation (de 41,5 a 38,8%) au
profit d'une hausse pour l'enseignement superieur (de 39,3 a 44,9%), et, enfin, le triplement
du budget de la solde pour l'enseignement sup6rieur alors mrnee que les effectifs d'etudiants
se contractaient. Par contre, les operations de filet de securit6 (1995) et l'introduction de
nouvelles allocations budgetaires pour les depenses de redeploiement d'enseignants et pour
Voir la "Contribution de la mission du secteur de l'education a I'Aide-mremoire de la Revue des Depenses
Publiques" en date du 29 octobre 1997.



Aide-Memoire                                                               Page 7
les budgets de fonctionnement des etablissements, traduisent bien la volonte du
Gouvernement d'accompagner la responsabilisation des communautes de base et de 1'ecole.
De meme, la creation des conseils d'administration independants des Universites publiques et
les obligations de rendre des comptes sur la gestion de leurs fonds ont permis de
responsabiliser les acteurs sur I'efficacite de la gestion des ressources publiques limitees; il
est A noter toutefois que les Universites publiques ont continue d'accumuler des deficits
courants depuis 1992 jusqu'a 1997. Enfin, la preparation du PNAE II et les necessaires
arbitrages entre ministeres sectoriels, niveaux d' education et categories de depenses ont
foumi une occasion de redefinir le r6le de l'Etat dans le secteur, ses priorites d'intervention
et l'obligation de rendre des comptes.
13. Le systeme d'education est-il mieux en mesure aujourd'hui de tirer des
enseignements et de s'adapter aux changements necessaires? D'une facon generale, la
reponse est positive.  La priorite affichee A 1'enseignement primaire a ete reconnue
explicitement par les autorit6s et les responsables de tous les ordres d'enseignement.
L'approche ascendante preconisee par le PNAE II tire ses fondements des experiences
lancees et appuyees par le CRESED, en particulier dans le PRAGAP et le renforcement des
capacites locales de gestion et de planification. Les difficultes rencontrees dans 1' affectation
et le redeploiement d'enseignants dans les etablissements publics afin d'assurer une presence
effective des maitres A l'ecole ont trace la voie et prepare le terrain de la mise en oeuvre de
mesures sensibles, mais essentielles: gerer les nouveaux recrutements d'enseignants en
fonction des besoins reels des ecoles en milieu rural, et lier le contrat de travail au lieu
d'affectation; redeployer les personnels plethoriques des administrations provinciales et des
villes vers les etablissements des centres peripheriques, puis des regions rurales,;
l'importance de rapprocher le paiement des salaires des enseignants du lieu de 1'ecole afin de
minimiser les absences prolongees et d'associer la communaute A la gestion de la presence
effective des enseignants; et la preparation, a terme, de la gestion par postes budgetaires
attaches A l'etablissement. L'implication de la communaute locale dans des contrats-
programme d'ecole, quant a elle, a ouvert la voie a un partage des responsabilites de
financement et de gestion ou le MINESEB apporte un appui financier reel en complement de
la contribution de la communaute. Alors que les operations physiques de rehabilitation
d'ecoles et de foumitures de livres et de tables-bancs ont ete relativement faciles A mettre en
oeuvre, elles ont aussi demontre toute la complexite de s'attaquer a la qualite des
apprentissages des eleves dans la salle de- classe.  Le renforcement des structures
d'encadrement pedagogique, de la formation des maitres et du perfectionnement continu des
enseignants doivent 8tre maintenant mis a contribution pour renforcer les resultats
d'apprentissage. Enfin, la coordination interne des programmes et activites du PNAE, ainsi
que la coordination des actions des bailleurs de fonds doivent 8tre renforcees.
Principaux enseignements a tirer et defis A relever
14. L'experience de la mise en oeuvre du CRESED et de la preparation du PNAE II a
permis de tirer les enseignements suivants.
15.  Une reforme d'un systeme d'enseignement est un processus long et complexe, qui
commande une approche pragmatique, guidee par quelques objectifs strategiques:



AideA-Memoire                                                                   Page 8
(a)  I'approche qui s'est degag6e des resultats (et des frustrations) de la mise en oeuvre du
CRESED -- une strat6gie centree sur 1'elve, basee sur /l'eole ei adoptant une
approche ascendante -- resume pleinement les trois pr incipes fondamentaux qui ont
guid6 l'evolution du Projet et l'elaboration du PNAE ;I;
(b) l'elve doit 6tre au centre de toutes les activites de leducation: qu'il s'agisse des
programmes d'enseignement, des auxiliaires p6idagogiques, des strategies
pedagogiques de l'enseignant en classe, de la gestion de 1'ecole ou des services
d'appui du ministere responsable, toutes les actions doivent converger vers
l'apprentissage chez 1'61lve qui constitue la finalite premi6re de I'education;
(c)  1'ecole est un lieu privilegie oiu I'apprentissage peut 6tre ameliore: la participation
active des parents, des eleves, des enseignants, de la dlirection de l'etablissement et
des autorites locales doit etre recherchee et soutenue, afin que les premiers acteurs
responsables identifient et agissent sur les facteurs d'amnelioration de I'apprentissage
qu'ils maitrisent; et
(d) les politiques et les directives doivent emaner et tenir compte de la realit6 des ecoles:
1'experience du terrain doit guider le choix des politiques, des normes a appliquer et
de la volont6 des autorites locales de s' engager a leur realisation.
16.  I1 doit exister un dialogue constant entre le terrain et la politique du secteur:
(a) le premier eclaire la pertinence, la faisabilite et le succes de mesures et d'actions
specifiques;
(b)  la seconde s'appuie sur des resultats tangibles et la pression du terrain pour justifier
une reorientation ou des decisions a un niveau superieur.,
(c) l'application de la politique et ses adaptations sur le terrain renforcent la legitimite
des acteurs du terrain et l'impact de leurs actions; et
(d) fort des resultats, les decideurs politiques peuvent a leur tour rechercher un consensus
sur des decisions plus generales, complexes et sensibles.
17. Plusieurs illustrations concretes peuvent &re degagees de 1'experience du CRESED et
des defis qui se posent a la mise en oeuvre du CRESED II. Parmi celles-ci, retenons: le
recrutement et l'affectation des enseignants a l'ecole; le perfectionnement continu des
enseignants; la responsabilisation de la direction de 1'etablissement et des autorites locales; la
mobilisation de ressources financieres (de I'association des parents d'elves, de la
cooperative scolaire, du budget de l'Etat et des bailleurs de fionds) pour la realisation du
contrat-ecole, et l'amelioration des resultats de l'apprentissage.
18.  A  titre d'exemple, l'analyse du processus de recrutement et d'affectation  des
enseignants a 1'ecole est revelateur.  Les tentatives de redeploiement d'enseignants en
sumombre qui ont &te amorcees au niveau central n'ont pas eu de suivi. Par contre, les
premieres descentes sur le terrain dans le cadre du PRAGAP ont clairement demontre les
deficits, en particulier dans les milieux ruraux, ou les excedents dans chaque ecole. De plus,
les enseignants eux-memes ont 6voque qu'ils etaient peu motiv6s au redeploiement en raison
notamment des retards d'avancement de carriere et des difficultes a toucher leur salaire en
zones rurales eloignees. Conscientes de ces problemes, les autorites provinciales et centrales
sont convenues de regulariser les dossiers des agents de l'Etat et, d'experimenter des formules



Aide-Memoire                                                             Page 9
de rapprochement de paiement de la solde des fonctionnaires. Les premieres decisions de
redeploiement A l'interieur de la CiSco ou de la Province, par ailleurs, se sont rapidement
heurt6es A des comportements dysfonctionnels et A la lourdeur de I'administration de la
fonction publique (par exemple, les decisions qui doivent etre signees au ministere central et
qui peuvent etre revoquees par une autorite de niveau superieur). Ces problemes ont A leur
tour mobilise les decideurs politiques a questionner l'efficacite du systeme actuel et A
rechercher, par etapes, des solutions intermediaires telles: l'etablissement d'une base de
donnees fiables sur les personnels de l'Etat et leur affectation; l'appui des autorites centrales
aux decisions prises aux niveaux de l'administration provinciale ou de la CiSco; la
decentralisation effective des decisions de recrutement de nouveaux enseignants au niveau de
la CiSco sur la base des besoins reels en milieu rural; la mise sur pied d'experiences pilotes
de paiements de salaires au niveau local, associant le Conseil d'ecole A des sanctions
eventuelles en cas d'absences non-motivees; et, a terme, la mise sur pied d'une gestion par
poste budgetaire.
L'ach6vement des activites du Projet
19. La mission a revu en detail le plan de travail propose par le BPE pour l'achbvement des
activites du Projet. Le dernier rapport d'activites montre que le Cr6dit est entierement
engage, que les decaissements cumulatifs atteignent 98 pour-cent en date de debut juin, que
lFach6vement des activites en cours est prevu au plus tard A la fm juin 1998, et que les
derniers decaissements pour le paiement des factures auront 6te effectues au plus tard le 15
septembre 1998.
20. Lors des rencontres-synthese avec Messieurs les Ministres du M1NESEB et du
MINESUP, il a et convenu que: (a) le BPE actualisera l'inventaire exhaustif de tous les
biens et 6quipements acquis par le projet au plus tard A la fin aofut 1998; (b) les biens et
6quipements du BPE seront transferes progressivement au Bureau de Coordination du Projet
CRESED II et en totalite au plus tard a la mi-septembre 1998; et (c) la fermeture des comptes
et la passation de services seront effectues au plus tard le 15 septembre 1998.
21. Concemant le rapport d'achevement du projet, le BPE et la mission ont revu les
principales activites qui doivent etre r6alisees par le BPE, le Gouvernement et la Banque
mondiale. I1 a ete convenu que: (a) le consultant de la Banque responsable de la preparation
du rapport, Monsieur Paul Ge1i, etablira avec le BPE un programme de travail et un
calendrier detaille lors de son sejour pr6vu courant juillet 1998; (b) le BPE preparera une
ebauche du rapport d'achevement de la partie malgache avant la fin aofit 1998; (c) le
consultant effectuera une visite de travail avant fin septembre 1998 dont l'objectif sera de
finaliser une premiere ebauche du rapport d'achevement incluant les 6valuations du
Gouvernement et de la Banque mondiale, ainsi que les annexes techniques; et (d) apres
revision A Washington, une deuxieme ebauche complete sera transmise au Gouvemement de
Madagascar debut novembre 1998, pour avis et commentaires, avant sa transmission au
Conseil d'Administration de la Banque fin decembre 1998.
22.  Une copie du rapport d'audit des comptes du Credit 2094-MAG pour l'ann6e
financi6re termin6e le 31 decembre 1997 a ete transmise a la mission le 22 juin 1998. La



Aide-Memoire                                                                Page 10
mission  a note l'importance de mettre a jour l'inventaire physique complet des
infrastructures, biens et equipements acquis sous le Projet.  Elle a indique que des
commentaires detailles sur ce rapport seront transmis par le siege de la Banque mondiale a
Washington avant fin juillet 1998. En ce qui conceme I'audit des comptes du projet pour
I'ann6e financiere debutant le ler janvier 1998, it a ete convenu que le BPE transmettra le
dernier rapport d'audit au plus tard le 30 septembre 1998, apres la ferneture des comptes du
Credit.
23. Enfin, la mission a souligne la n6cessite, pour le Gouvernement, de preparer un plan
d'action pour la perennisation des investissements et programmes inities sous le CRESED.
En particulier, la mission a attire I'attention des autorites sur: (a) la prise en charge effective
des depenses liees a la formation initiale et continue des enseignants, de I'UERP et des IST
sous le budget de l'Etat; (b) la necessite de prevoir des credits complementaires
d'investissement pour I'acquisition de materiels pedagogiques et d'equipements, estimes a
environ 3,3 milliards FMG, qui n'ont pu 6tre achet6s dans le cadre du Credit de l'OPEP, en
raison de la suspension des decaissements; et (c) la prise en charge de la suite des operations
PRAGAP dans les 20 CiSco visees par le CRESED afin d'achever les contrats d'ecole signes
et en cours, et de poursuivre les contrats-programme visant I'aamnlioration de la qualite.
Antananarivo, le 25 juin 1998.
Annexe



Mmnexe I
REPUBLIQUE DE MADAGASCAR
EVOLUTION DE L' ENSEIGNEMENT PRIMAIRE, SECONDAIRE ETUNIVERSITAIRE (1987-1997)
Nivem I Indicatenrs                   1987-88      1988-89      1989-90      1990-91     1991-92      1992-93     1993-94      1994-95      1995-96     1996-97      1997-98
NIVEAU I (PRIMAIRE)
Effetifd'dlivffl                    1,487,725    1,534,142    1,512,322    1,570,721    1,496,845    1,490,317    1,504,668    1,511,408    1,638,187    1,752,851    1,921,087
dont Prive                          224,681      237,036      252,317     278,812      325,579     322,015      318,593      337,812     337,154      371,303      430,978
(% priv-'tota)                          15%          15%          17%         18%          22%         22%          21%          22%         21%          21%          22%
Eleves en llne                        547,998     588,850      560,226      598,942     578,689      552,348      554,362     566,412      553,708     686,181      763,177
dont filles                         255,429      278,559      268,102     292,007      261,330      266,723     268,210      277,553      262,489     332,879      371,585
(% fmllen/1taD                          47%          47%         48%          49%          45%         48%          48%          49%         47%          4984         49%
TauxderedoublemertenlleIme                47%         47%          48%         49%          37%          41%         36%          43%          46%          NA           NA
Tanx de redoublemuet en 7&                36%         32%          33%         29%          32%          41%         32%          344%         39%          NA           NA
ktablisshmets                          13,449      13,672       13,575       13,791      13,696       13,508       13,624      13,486       10,817       12,338          NA
dontPrive                              1,797       2,004        2,154       2,159        2,297        2,315       2,463        2,674        2,508       2,508          NA
(% prive total)                         13%          15%          16%         16%          17%         17%          18%          20%         23%          20%          NA
Ensegnants                             38,361      37,894       38,342       38,933      39,837       38,743      37,676       38,536       37,552      39,775       39,908
dentPrive                              4,791       5,756        6,291       6,436        7,372        8,122       8,091        9,880        9,203      11,365       12,018
(% privd'tltal)                         12%          15%          16%         17%          19%         21%          21%          26%         25%          29%          30%
Aleves insoiib an CEPE                178,675     159,725      152,048      148,642     151,019      120,933      140,911     141,911      149,251          NA           NA
Ple&sedmi an CEPE                      56,543      36,261       72,482       52,025      55,877       38,586       61,714      53,041       76,134          NA           NA
NIVEAU II (ler CYCLE SECONDAIRE)
Effentifd'l6ves                       271,054     255,846      259,179      259,989     235,322      243,705     237,909      235,766      241,249     261,713      264,766
dontpried                            81,070       78,523       84,557      97,536       90,173       96,887     103,181      105,672      102,086     114,489      117,429
(% privetota)                           30%          31%         33%          34%          38%         40%          43%          45%         42%          44%          44%
Mlives en6imoe                         86,188      74,783       80,892       80,170      74,476       80,200       69,102      69,762       72,433       86,855      75,370
dont f7les                           42,828       35,413       39,294      39,314       36,546       38,735      34,440       34,583       36,017      43,118       35,787
(% tDIe/leVtaD                          50%          47%         49%          49%          49%         48/c        50%          50%         50%          50%          47%
Tauxderedoublemaenen6rme                  14%         13%          15%          16%         19%          21%          18%         16%          17%          NA           NA
Tsexderedoublemtenen3eme                 26%          27%          33%         31%          32%          38%         33%          27%          31%          NA           NA
titblisments                            1,133        1,113       1,128        1,165        1,141       1,136        1,153       1,204        1,204        1,132       1,267
dont Prive                              459          440          454         482          486          482         492          533          549         527          554
(% priv6'tob])                          41%          40%         40%          41%          43%         42%          43%          44%         46%          47%          44%
Enseignanb                              9,341        9,478      10,516        9,750       10,687      10,792       11,161      11,387       11,692       12,326      12,817
dont Priv6                            2,523        2,014        3,035       2,858        3,302        3,358       3,473        3,699        3,165       4,720        5,279
(% privehtotl)                          27%          21%         29%          29%          31%         31%          31%          32%         27%          38%          41%
Blbes inscritls eBEPC                  80,288      70,547       64,911       62,410      66,740       66,829       65,494      69,213       68,326          NA           NA
tlves admnis euBEPC                    33,896      23,651       16,537       15,603       16,685      20,272       16,158      17,226       18,547          NA           NA
NIVEAIJ III (2eme CYCLE SBCONDADRE) (Fnseignrmmntg&nralI seulement)
Effeetifd'iAves                        78,970      73,786       72,060       64,783      58,399       60,724       60,332      57,693       54,686       57,092      59,271
dordprive                            34,599       31,560       29,862      26,937       25,623       28,924      29,991       29,262       27,431      28,059       29,258
(%priveltotal)                          44%          43%         41%          42%          44%         49%          50%          51%         50%          49%          49%
tlves en 2ene                         24,380      29,541       26,091       21,454      20,442       20,141       21,026      19,132       18,378       19,317      21,900
dontfilles                            11,689      14,154       12,457      10,547       10,237       10,193      10,550        9,583        9,232       9,685       10,665
(% f-lJs/totaD                          48%          48%         48%          49%          50%         51%          50%          50%         50%          50%          49%
Tsmxdererdoble tmenen2 .ee                15%         16%          17%          17%         19%          22%          15%         11%          12%          NA           NA
TsaxderedoublrnmentTermniale             29%          33%          31%         34%          44%          42%         31%          34%          36%          NA           NA
ttablissemenib                           239          262          259         280          288          281         291          314          316         301          304
dont Prve                               160          180          174         193          201          193         193          225          208         206          217
(% priv'etota4                          67%          69%         67%          69%          70%         69%          66%          72%         66%          68%          71%
Enseigaants                             3,131       3,682        3,866        5,106       3,738        3,978        3,957       4,274        4,803        5,151       4,981
dont Puri                              1,008       1,277        1,242        1,460       1,255        1,307       1,402        1,700        2,164       2,572        2,443
(% privltotl)                           32%          35%         32%          29%          34%         33%          35%          40%         45%          50%          49%
Inscrib au Bae                         46,984      46,748       47,624       42,874      42,154       32,611       35,878      28,904       27,357          NA           NA
Admis au Bac                            7,650       8,909        8,673        5,857       6,323        6,128        8,047       8,054        6,107          NA           NA
(% admis/inscritf)                      16%          19%          18%         14%          15%          19%         22%          28%         22%           NA          NA



ANNEX B
BORROWER ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION



INTRODUCTION
Conformement a la section 3.06 de l'Accord de Credit, le pr6sent rapport foumit une synthese des
realisations des diff6rentes composantes du Projet.. Il passe en revue les conditionnalites du
proj et et donne une analyse des points forts et des faiblesses du projet.
1. ENVIRONNEMENT DU PROJET
Environnement national
Pendant la duree du proj et, il convient de rappeler qu'en plus des ev6nements de 1991, plusieurs
changements gouvemementaux sont intervenus. Ces changements aux niveaux politiques ont 6te
accompagn6s de changements de cadres techniques a plusieurs occasions.
Comme tous les projets en cours d'execution, le CRESED a ete mis en veilleuse de Juin a
D6cembre 1991 et ralenti durant le premier trimestre de 1992.
Environnement adninistratif
La complexite du CRESED, la multitude de ses actions et notamment l'existence d'operations de
formation (celles des CPIE plus particulierement) constituent des elements difficiles a mettre en
oeuvre dans un systeme administratif malgache base sur le controle a priori et un pays tres vaste
en superficie.
Le Bureau du Projet a rencontre des difficultes dans la gestion des fonds de contrepartie et des
taxes car la plupart du temps ceux-ci etaient insuffisants.
La lourdeur des procedures de la Commission Centrale des Marches doublee pendant la premiere
partie de la Troisieme Republique d'une Inspection Gen6rale de l'Etat a egalement ralenti le
travail du proj et. Il a donc fallu trouver progressivement des solutions idoines pour atteindre les
objectifs assign6s.
Enfin, les mecanismes mis en place a la creation du Projet pour les decaissements de fonds ont
6galement connu des changements, par exemple le Compte Sp6cial initialement place a la
"Banque Nationale de Paris" a Paris a 6t6 ensuite transfere dans une banque primaire malgache.
Si au d6but du projet la comptabilit6 6tait de type publique, elle a ensuite ete completement
remani6e pour repondre aux imperatifs de la comptabilite en partie double.
Environnement sectoriel
Le CRESED, pour la partie cofinancee par la GTZ a eu des r6sultats plus que satisfaisants
puisqu'il a imprim6 tous les manuels et les guides pedagogiques elabores par ce projet. Des 1992,
le projet a pu imprimer et distribuer le premier manuel de lecture GARABOLA.
Pour le cofmancement OPEP et CRESED dans le cadre de la composante 3.1 et 2.4, les objectifs
assignes a la phase I ont pu 8tre atteints mais la suspension du financement OPEP a partir du
mois de Mars 1996 a eu des cons6quences sur la construction de l'Ecole Normale de Toamasina
et sur les 6quipements des Instituts Superieurs de Technologie.



-2-
Dans le cas de la composante 1.2, le cofinancement PNUD-U,NISCO/BAD/CRESED n'a pu etre
finalise qu'au mois de Juin 1992 compte tenu du fait que le PNUD a cause des ses difficultes
financieres a reduit sa contribution.
Apres la mise en vigueur du Projet, le CRESED a du harmoniser son action avec des projets
nouveaux comme le projet PRESEM de la Cooperation Fran,aise.
En dernier lieu, il faut attirer l'attention sur certains elements de politique sectorielle qui ont
influe sur les operations du CRESED.
* Le gel du recrutement des fonctionnaires n'a pas permis le respect du recrutement des elves-
stagiaires des Ecoles Normales
* Les changements intervenus post6rieurement a l'valuation du Projet en ce qui conceme la
politique des langues d'enseignement et l'enseignement des langues a influence le projet.
L'adoption du fran,ais comme langue d'enseignement au niveau Primaire a ete a l'origine du
reajustement de la formation des enseignants et de Pacquisition de manuels.



-3-
2. EVALUATION QUALITATIVE DU CRESED 1
Le projet a eu un impact particulier sur les points suivants:
1. PLANIFICATION
En matiere de planification, les decisions de politique globale de I'ducation peuvent maintenant
etre prises par les deux ministeres de l'Education en fonction d'une base des donnees sur
l1'ducation dont le processus de collecte et de mise A jour est decentralisee. Les principaux cadres
de ces deux departements ont ben6ficie de formations permettant de maltriser les outils de
planification.
Le CRESED 1 a finance la publication des "Annuaires statistiques de I'education" depuis 1988.
2. BUDGET
Le projet a permis de former des cadres de I'ducation sur l'elaboration du Programme des
D6penses Publiques (PDP) et du Programme d'Investissement Public (PIP) et de concevoir un
modele informatise pour les deux ministeres.
Avant la presentation finale du proj et de Budget, des sessions de preparation budgetaire se font
au niveau des structures de l'Education. Ensuite, des conferences budgetaires sont tenues avec les
hauts responsables des Ministeres des Finances et du Plan.
3. GESTION
Le projet a permis de clarifier les "Missions, Attributions, Responsabilites et Roles" des
differents echelons de l'Administration de l'Education et un Manuel des Procedures a ete adopt6.
Tous les Directeurs Provinciaux, certains directeurs centraux du MlNESEB et certains directeurs
du MINSUP ont beneficie de formation en Management. Les agents des secretariats des
directions centrales ont suivi des cours  en Informatique et des equipements bureautique et
informatique ont ete accordes A ces directions centrales.
Les Directions R6gionales (actuellement DIRESEB) ont acquis des capacites de gestion
pedagogique et financiere des activites de l'education.
4. ENSEIGNANTS
La formation initiale des Enseignants a ete relancee grace A la mise en place de six (6) Ecoles
Normnales de Formation d'Instituteurs (ENI) et d'un (1) Institut National de Formation
Pedagogique pour les Enseignants de Colleges et les Conseillers Pedagogiques du Niveau
Primaire.
Les Enseignants du Secondaire en cours d'emploi ont benefici6 de sessions de recyclage
annuelles ger6es pedagogiquement et financierement par les Directions des Faritany.
Le projet a lance le processus de Recensement du Personnel de l'Education et de Mise a jour des
dossiers d'avancement de ce personnel.



-4-
5. ECOLES
Le Programme PRAGAP a permis d'atteindre deux objectifs essentiels: d'une part, l'etablissement
de Contrat - Programme - Ecole definissant les engagements de chaque acteur sur le terrain
e et d'autre part, la concr6tisation d'une participation communautaire dans tout ce qui touche les
activit6s de l'cole.
6. ELEVES
Le progres a lNcole a pu etre realise grace a l'impression et a la distribution dans toutes les ecoles
de l'ile de manuels de base relatifs a la LECTURE et au CALCUL pour le niveau Primaire et
manuels de MATHS, d'ANGLAIS et de FRAN(AIS pour le niveau Secondaire.
D'autres Auxiliaires Pedagogiques comme les Cartes de Geographie ou les Planches de Sciences
Naturelles ont pu etre distribues a toutes les ecoles du Primaire et dlu Secondaire. Ils ont ete des
outils essentiels dans I'amelioration de la p6dagogie a lecole.
Si d'un c6te il faut perenniser ces acquis, de l'autre, il faudra ameliorer les points ci-apres
1. PLANIFICATION
La Carte Scolaire et la Micro - Planification doivent etre generalisees dans toute l'ile.
IL BUDGET
Le PDP et le PIP sont maitris6s par les techniciens de la DPE mais ne sont pas encore
suffisamment maitris6s par les techniciens des autres directions.
Les acteurs du terrain ne sont pas suffisamment ecoutes quant A leurs besoins reels.
III. ENSEIGNANTS
Le desequilibre de la repartition des enseignants entre les grandes villes et les zones rurales
persiste.
La gestion decentralisee des enseignants est a ses debuts.
Le paiement des salaires des agents des ecoles rurales cause toujoUrs l'absence plus ou moins
longue des enseignants qui doivent rejoindre les "centres de paiement" souvent tres eloignes des
centres scolaires.
IV. ECOLES
Les Directeurs d'ecoles n'ont pas une qualification suffisante ni de pouvoir formel pour gerer
correctement pedagogiquement et administrativement les ecoles.
La Communaute et la Commune ne sont pas bien organisees pour une participation efficace aux
activites de l'cole.



-5-
V. ELEVES
Dans les milieux ruraux, les eleves rencontrent trois difficultes principales:
a) la malnutrition due a la pauvrete
b) le manque de soutien pedagogique de la part des parents
c) l'environnement culturel faible
COMPOSANTE 1: RENFORCEMENT DES ACTIVTES D'ADMINISTRATION, DE
GESTION ET DE PLANIFICATION DE L'EDUCATION
Actions prevues dans I'Accord                    Realisations
- Etude sur l'amelioration de la Gestion du
MINESEB y compris les Directions
- Realisation d'une etude permettant de  Provinciales
definir les mesures et actions necessaires  - Etude sur l'amelioration de la gestion des
pour le renforcement de l'administration de   Circonscriptions Scolaires au niveau de 6
1'enseignement primaire et secondaire   Fivondronana-pilotes
- Manuel de gestion de suivi des ressources
humaines
- Manuel de suivi de la gestion des
etablissements
- Organigrarnme du MEN, fonctions et
attributions des services
- Mise en oeuvre des mesures et actions  PRAGAP:
d6finies dans l'etude.                 * Mise en place d'une Equipe Centrale de
Gestion (ECG)au Ministere de l'Education
Nationale chargee du suivi de la mise en
couvre du PRAGAP dans les 6 Faritany
* Mise en place d'une Equipe Provinciale de
Gestion (EPG) dans chaque Direction
Provinciale dirigee par le Directeur
Provincial
* Etude et Assistance Technique sur la
definition des "'Missions, Attributions,
R6les et Responsabilites (MARR) du
Ministere et de ses structures
decentralisees"
* 2600 EPP (dans 20 Circonscriptions
Scolaires experimentales) ont beneficie
d'un contrat-programme avec 1 e proj et
* Chaque ecole a benefici6 de materiaux de
construction (t6les et sacs de ciment
principalement) ainsi que des mobiliers
scolaires, des manuels scolaires, des
auxiliaires pedagogiques pour la classe et



-6-
Actions prevues dans I'Accord                    1R6alisations
de la formation,. Les fonds d6bloques ont
et geres directement par les Directions
Provinciales et inclut, en plus de ceux cites
ci-dessus, le budget de fonctionnement
ainsi que les achats d'equipements de
chaque direction. Cette experience
PRAGAP basee sur l1'cole, la
communaute et les autorites locales servira
de base du CRESED 2.
AUTRES REALISATIONS
- Formation en rnanagement des Directeurs
Provinciaux (DIRESEB) et Directeurs
centraux
- Mise en place du Centre de Formation
Informatique Cresed (CFIC)
- Fornation en Informatique des agents du
MINESEB central et des 6 DIRESEB
- Equipements en Informatique et Mobilier
pour les Directions du MIINESEB et les 6
DIRESEB
- Equipements en Bureautique pour les 110
CISCO
Activites du solIs projet MAGPLANED
Formnation de planificateurs et de      execut6 par le CRESED avec l'UNESCO:
statisticiens de l'education aux niveaux
central, provincial et local.          - 49 cadres des Directions de la Planification
des 2 Ministeres de l'Education ont beneficie
d'une formation en Planification a l'etranger
- 2600 jours de formation locale en
planification ont ete dispenses au niveau des
Directions Provinciales et Circonscriptions
Scolaires
- Mise en place d'une filiere planification a
l'IMATEP apres forrnation des formateurs a
1'IIPE-UNESCCO a Paris
-14 Specialistes ont apporte leurs expertises
aux 2 Ministeres de l'Education
- 9 Etudes ont ete achevees
- Assistance teclnique pour la mise en place
des Programme des Depenses Publiques
Preparation des plans de developpement du  (PDP) des Minist6res de l'Education
secteur a court, moyen et long terme et  Nationale et de I'Enseignement Superieur.
mise en place dun mecanisme de maitrise   - Les PDP ont ete revises annuellement par
des cofits et d'un systeme de          les agents de ces Ministeres.
programmation des depenses publiques.    - Etudes, seminaires et formations sur les
f"couts et financement" a travers le sous projet



-7-
Actions prevues dans I'Accord                    Realisations
MAGPLANED
- Elaboration d'une strategie de
redynamisation du secteur education
visant l'amelioration de la qualite des
enseignements
Planification des objectifs portant sur les    Prepare dans le cadre de la production du
inscriptions a chaque niveau de         PDP annuel
l'enseignement, estimation des besoins
budgetaires et identification des mesures
permettant de generer le financement
necessaire
- Elaboration et impression des "fiches
Collecte et analyse de statistiques     d'enquete statistique etablissement"
demographiques et budgetaires portant sur  - Impression et distribution de 8 annuaires
1'ensemble du secteur et publication des    statistiques MINESEB depuis 1988
dites statistiques.                     - Impression et distribution de 5 annuaires
statistiques MINESUP depuis 1988
- Asssitance technique pour la mise en place
Creation d'un systeme de carte scolaire  de la carte scolaire du MIVNESEB
pour la programmation du d6veloppement  - Operations pilotes sur 6 CISCO
de l1enseignement primaire et secondaire et - Mise en place du systeme de suivi des
d'un systeme de carte universitaire.    etudiants dans le cadre du Systeme
d'information (SI) du MINESUP
- Expertise et formation locale a l'utilisation
du SI informatise
- Fornation des formateurs des cadres de
1IMATEP et formation des cadres du
Formation sur la collecte des statistiques,   MINESEB a 1' etranger
l'etablissement de la carte scolaire et les    - Formation des agents du MINESEB, des
projection de la demande d'enseignement   DIRESEB et des CISCO pilotes
pour le personnel regional, les inspecteurs   - Formation des inspecteurs et des chefs
et les chefs d'etablissement.           d'etablissement par le projet PRESEM.
- Elaboration et distribution de
VADEMECUTM pour Chefs d'etablissement,
Chefs ZAP, Chefs CISCO et Enseignants
Renforcement des activites de planification  - Equipements informatiques MINESEB et
et de statistiques grace a l'execution de  DIRESEB (Service programmation)
petits travaux de rehabilitation/construction - Rehabilitation et s6curisation des salles
des batiments, la fourniture de materiel    informatiques du MINESEB et des 6
informatique et de bureau, la formation et  DIRESEB
la mise en place de systemes informatises   - Equipement pour la Direction de la
pour les statistiques, l'administration et la   Programmation du MINESUP, les 6
planification                           Rectorats d'Universites, les 6 Ecoles ES a
Antananarivo, les 2 IST et le Centre de Tele
Enseignement
Etude visant a pr6parer une strategie   Rapport termine mais a valider par les
d'entretien pour les ecoles et les batiments  autorites du Ministere



Actions prevues dans I'Accord                       Rialisations
administratifs
- Etude sur la distribution terminee ayant
permis la mise en place de la Cellule de
Etude visant a ameliorer le systeme de   Distribution des Auxiliaires Pedagogiques du
distribution des livres scolaires et a   CRESED
e1aborer un mecanisme de recouvrement    - Fiches de Suivi sur la distribution des
des couits de production, de stockage et de   auxiliaires p6dagogiques terminees et
distribution des livres scolaires        utilisees dans le cadre du suivi pedagogique
- Manuel sur l'utilisation des manuels et la
gestion des stocks dans les EPP
- "Les determinants du parcours scolaire -
Etudes sur l'efficacite inteme et exteme du  MINESEB"
systeme d'education et sur l'amelioration de - "l'aide sociale - NIVNESSUP"
la qualite de lenseignement.            - "Couit et financement - MINNESUP et
MINESEB"
Etudes sur l'efficacite interne et exteme du  - 'les determinarits de F'acces et de la
systeme d'education et sur l'am6lioration de retention dans l'enseignement primaire -
la qualite de l'enseignement.            |MIEN"



-9-
COMPOSANTE 2: AMELIORATION DE LA QUALITE DE L'ENSEIGNEMENT
Actions prevues dans i'Accord                  Realisations
- Elaboration des programnmes provisoires de
toutes les classes du niveau 1 et du niveau 2
Preparation de programmes           par l'UERP
pedagogiques et elaboration de methodes - Distribution des programmes provisoires
et de materiaux pedagogiques        EPP, CEG et Lycee par la CDAP
- Elaboration des programmes definitifs par
I'UERP:
Niveau 1: classes de 11me, 10eme
et 9eme
Niveau 2: classes de 66me, 5&m` et
4eme
Niveau 3: classes de 2nde, 16" et
Terminales
- Distribution des programmes cites ci-
dessus par la CDAP du CRESED
- 2 seminaires d'elaboration des programmes
des EN 1
Preparation de programmes de formation - Seminaire des enseignants des EN I
initiale et en cours d'emploi, y compris le -1 Seminaire d'6laboration des programmes
tele-enseignement pour le personnel  de l'INFP (ex-ENNN 2)
d'encadrement pedagogique et les    - Programnmes de l'INFP termin6s
enseignants
- Conception de 7 manuels et 8 guides
pedagogiques pour enseignants par la GTZ et
Coordination de la preparation des  1'UERP
manuels et des guides de l'enseignants et - Assistance technique pour la mise en place
supervision de leur publication et de leur du Service Editorial de l'UERP
distribution                        - Distribution par la Cellule de Distribution
des Auxiliaires Pedagogiques (Voir HI et
H2)
- Preparation de Tests permettant   -Formation en "Docimologie" et
d'evaluer les progres r6alis6s par les  "Evaluation" des cadres de 1'UERP en plus
eleves                              de ceux du MINESEB
- Remise en etat des locaux provisoires
- Bftiment definitif R+3 a Ampefiloha
R6habilitation des bureaux de l'UERP et termine
fourniture de mobilier, de materiel (y  - Equipements fournis: mobilier, vehicules,
compris le materiel informatique), des   ordinateurs, documentation
vehicules et de formation            - Assistance technique, formation locale et a
l'etranger pour les services editorial et
pedagogique
- Formation de 97 Conseillers
Pedagogiques pour l'enseignement primaire



-10-
Actions prevues dans I'Accord                 lRealisations
Renforcement du r6le des personnels   a l'INFP (ex ENNII)
d'encadrement pedagogique pour leur   - Formation de conseillers pedagogiques
permettre d'encadrer les enseignants sur   pour 1Penseignerrent secondaire a 1'ENS d'
le lieu de leur travail, et foumiture du  Antananarivo et a I'Universite de Liege et
materiel, des bicyclettes, des        lInstitut de Draguignan
motocyclettes et d'autre materiel de  - Achat de 112 vehicules CISCO + 6 DPEN
transport et de formation donnee      - Achat de 1300 velos pour les animateurs
localement et a l'etranger            ZAP
- Rehabilitation de l'ENI provisoire de
Manj akandriana et Construction de P'EN I
Execution de la formation initiale des    Antsirabe pour le Faritany d'Antananarivo
enseignants du niveau I dans 3 ecoles    - Travaux de rehabilitations des ENI de
normales regionales,                Mahajanga et Toliara terminees
rehabilitation/construction des      - Mobilier, equipement et vehicules foumis
installations et foumiture de vehicules,   - Recyclage annuel des formateurs des ENI
de mobilier, de materiel et de formation
- Travaux de rehabilitations des ENI
d'Antalaha et de Fianarantsoa termines
Execution de la formation initiale des    (OPEP)
enseignants du niveau I dans 3 ecoles    - Travaux de PEN I de Toamasina non
normales regionales,                terrines (OPEP) A cause de la suspension du
rehabilitation/construction des      Credit par P'OPEP
installations et fourniture de vehicules,   - Mobilier, equipements et vehicules foumis
de mobilier, de materiel et de formation  - Recyclage annuel des formateurs des ENI
- Fornation de 90 Enseignants du Niveau II
A l'INFP (ex-EN2)
Ex6cution de la formation initiale des    - Programmes de formation "nouvelle
enseignants de niveau II dans une ecole  formule" terminees
normale nationale de niveau II a     - Materiels p6dagogiques, mobilier,
Antananarivo, preparation des        equipements vehicules livres
programmes de formation et foumiture   - Recyclage de 22.050 Enseignants du
de mat6riel didactique, de vehicules, de  Secondaire sur 5 ans
bourses et de voyages d'etudes a
1P6tranger
- Rehabilitation de 4 bAtiments du plateau
superieur et de 3 batiments du plateau
Rehabilitation et construction de    inferieur termin6e
batiments, fourniture de mobilier, de  - R6habilitation de P'Ecole Primaire
materiel, de vehicules pour l'Institut  d'application termin6e
National de Formation Pedagogique (ex  - Foumiture de materiels pedagogiques,
ENII)                               mobilier, equipenient cuisine, materiel et
equipement de bureau et vehicules
- Documentation livr6e
Rehabilitation et construction d'environ   - Rehabilitation et construction de 3 Centres
15 centres de formation pour la     Regional de Perfectionnement Permanent
formation en cours d'emploi des     (Mahanoro, Manakara et Belemboka)
enseignants du niveau I et foumiture de



-11-
Actions prevues dans l'Accord                  Realisations
mobilier et de materiel.
- Rehabilitation et construction de 14
Centres R6gional de Perfectionnement
Rehabilitation et construction d'environ   Permanent (Ambatondrazaka, Ambanja,
18 centres de formation pour la     Ambositra, Antanimalandy, Antsohihy,
formation en cours d'emploi des     Arivonimamo, Ihosy, Maintirano,
enseignants du niveau I et foumiture de   Maroantsetra, Maevatanana, Morondavza,
mobilier et de materiel.             Sambava et Tolagnaro )
- Foumiture de mobilier pour 17 CRPP
OBSERVATIONS: L'Accord prevoyait que
dans chaque centre le projet rehabilite une
salle de dortoir et une cuisine, le meme
budget a permis de faire de grands travaux
pour 17 Centres.
- Rehabilitation des bureaux des CPIE dans
les 6 DIRESEB
Rehabilitation et construction des   - Fourniture d'6quipements bureautique et
installations et foumiture de mobilier et  informatique (6 DIRESEB)
de materiel pour les comites pedagiques  - Rehabilitation et foumiture de mobilier
inter-etablissement                 pour les 6 DIRESEB
- 102 Ecoles Primaires Publiques rehabilitees
ou reconstruites dans le cadre de l'operation
Cycl6ne GERALDA
- 10 Ecoles Primaires Publiques r6habilitees
dans le cadre de l'operation Cycl6ne
GRETELLE
- Mise en place de la Cellule de Distribution
des Auxiliaires Pedagogiques:
Fourniture d'installations de stockage en  * rehabilitation des locaux definitifs et
vue de la distribution des manuels et des    equipement livre
mat6riels pedagogiques               * informatisation du systeme de distribution
et suivi
- Operation sur "l'utilisation des manuels
scolaires " avec 21.000 affichettes de
sensibilisation
-Rehabilitation des 11 magasins de stockage
de manuels scolaires pour les 20 CISCO
p6oes



-12-
Actions pr6vues dans I'Accord                  Realisations
Impressions realisees pour le niveau I
(soit 3 types de manuels et 5 types de guides)
Impression, publication et distribution
d'environ 3 maniuels, d'environ 3 guides
de l'enseignant et autres materiels        480 000 manuels Garabola
pedagogiques                               430 000 manuels Tongavola
450.000 cahiers d'exercices Kajy
11 eme
28.000 guides Garabola
26 000 guides Tongavola
37 500 guides d'Eveil 1
20.000 guides Kajy
30.000 guides d'Eveil 2
Au total 7 manuels et 4 guides:
Impression pour le niveau 1 : (4 manuels et 3
Impression, publication et distribution    guides)
d'environ 6 manuels, d'environ 4 guides    - 350.000 manuels Rosovola
de l'enseignant et autres materiels        - 250.000 manuels Kingavola
pedagogiques                               - 210.000 manuels Haivola
- 400.000 manuels Kajy 10eme
25 000 guides Rosovola
20.000 guides pour Kingavola et
Haivola
20.000 gui des Kajy lOeme
Acquisition pour le 'Niveau 2 (11 manuels et
4 guides)
- 148.500 manuels de Mathematiques
(6, 5, 4 et 3 rne)
- 139.138 manuels de Francais (6, 5
et 3 eme)
- 185.000 manuels d'Anglais 6, 5, 4
et 3eme)
- 8800 guides d'Anglais (6, 5, 4 et
3 emre)
* Autres auxiliaires:
- 30 000 ardoises (contrat UNICEF)
- 14 000 cartes de Madagascar
- 680 lots de 3 dictionnaires et 2
grarnmaires malagasy pour CEG
- 14.000 mappemonde/Afrique
- 56.000 planches de Sciences
naturelles
- 33.000 planches de calcul Kajy
- Rehabilitation de 9 laboratoires de Lycees
p6les:
Rehabilitation et construction de    * -Etudes faites par .Le Projet PRESEM
batiments et foumiture de materiels et de * R6habilitation des paillasses, peintures,



-13-
Actions prevues dais l'Accord                      RWalisations
materiaux pour ameliorer les laboratoires    electricite et securisation.par le CRESED
de certaines ecoles secondaires



-14-
COMPOSANTE 3: RENFORCEMENT DE LENSEIGNEMENT SUPERIEUR
Actions prevues dans l'Accord                       Realisations
IST d'ANTSIRANANA:
Genie civil termine
Creation de 2 Instituts Superieurs de      Mobilier termine
Technologie (IST) a Antananarivo et a      Materiel roulant termine
Antsiranana, rehabilitation des batiments   . Assistance technique termin6e
et fournitures de mobilier, de materiel (y   Formnation a l'exterieur termin6e
compris de materiel informatique), de       Formations locales annuelles par contrat
v6hicules et de formation.                  . Equipement livre sauf lots non lances en
raison suspension OPEP
IST d'ANTANANARI[VO:
. Genie civil batiment R+4 termine
. Mobilier termine
. Materiel roulant termin6
. Asssitance technique termin6e
Formation a i'exterieur termin6e
. Formations locales annuelles par contrat
. Equipement livre sauf lots non lanc6s en
raison suspension OPEP
|ETUDES
Etudes visant A analyser les procedures   - Travaux preparatoires A la synthese nationale
pedagogique et administrative des    - Travaux preliminaires du volet I CRESED
universites et A faire des propositions en   - Etudes sur la restructuration des universites
vue de leur reorganisation et de leur  - Audit de l'Universite de Fianarantsoa
renforcement.                        - Audit de l'Universite de Toliara
- Plan Directeur de l'Enseignement Superieur termine
AUTRES REALISATIONS:
TECHNOPOLE de TOAMASINA (activites en
relation avec le Secteur Prive)
* Rehabilitation de 4 Centres du Technopole
a Achat d'equipement pour les 4 Centres (Technique,
Informatique, Bureautique, Audio-Visuel .....)
* Achat de manuels et documentation
* Formation a l'etranger en Management des
Responsables des Centres
Etablissement d'un systeme d'information Voir Systeme d'information du MINESUIP
pour orienter les etudiants concemant le  (MAGPLANED)
marche de l'emploi
Formation des enseignants et du      Suppression de l'operation a la suite de la demande de
personnel administratif des universites    rehabilitation cyclonique GERALDA
Preparation de programmes informatises  Suppression de l'operation a la suite de la demande de
et installation de syst6mes informatises   rehabilitation cyclonique GERALDA
pour la gestion des universites et mise en
place de systeme de communication entre
les universites



-15-
Impression, edition et distribution de  Suppression de Pop6ration a la suite de la demande de
manuels                             rehabilitation cyclonique GERALDA
Suppression de l'operation a la suite de la demande de
Achat et installation de materiel de  rehabilitation cyclonique GERALDA
laboratoire



ANNEX C
MAP



IBRD 29353
D  E
'~~NSRNANA          1
<~~~~
MAHAJANGA
m-1bique                                                                             OCEA
ionnel
180 ,TOAMASINA
ANTANANARIVO                        /
&  4    NTANANARIVO                       /:0S00  ;            ;000<
20'
FIANARANTSOA@
TOLIARA    FIANARANTSOA !                              0
22"
TOLIARA
This mop sw pooRIomdW                                                                                  -
Wd s cod cey
6o~dW~                       ER5R:E  Si;00;00REt0\ 0\REE; l  0kuAF RICA   '
o. this mop do not                                      /                                            INDLA,
The Wmd BA Group,                              X;ATLAN1wC
or. ofoC.Ico oforck Ly
JANUARY 1998



