Page  1
                                                  CREDIT NUMBER 2094 MAG
                       Development Credit Agreement
                 (Education Sector Reinforcement Project)
                                  between
                     DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                            Dated April 4, 1990
                                                   CREDIT NUMBER 2094 MAG
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated April 4, 1990, between DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF
MADAGASCAR (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the
Project;
      (B)   The Borrower intends to contract from OPEC Fund for
International Development (OPEC Fund) a loan (the OPEC Fund Loan) in an
amount of $5,000,000 to assist in financing the Project on the terms and
conditions set forth in an agreement (the OPEC Fund Loan Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and OPEC Fund;
      (C)   The Borrower intends to contract from United Nations Development
Programme (UNDP) a grant (the UNDP Grant) in an amount of $1,000,000 to
assist in financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (the UNDP Grant Agreement) to be entered into between
the Borrower and UNDP;
      (D)   the Borrower has contracted from the Federal Republic of Germany
a grant to assist in financing the Project;
      (E)   the Borrower, having stated in a letter of the same date hereof
its program of objectives and actions designed to improve the efficiency of
the education sector (the Education Strategy) and having requested the
financial support of the Association for the execution of the Education
Strategy; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
Page  2
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last
sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms
defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement;
      (b)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advance granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to exchanges of
letters dated July 16, 1986, August 25, 1986, November 19, 1987, December
11, 1987, July 12, 1989 and August 4, 1989, between the Borrower and the
Association;
      (c)   "MINESEB" means the Ministry of Basic and Secondary Education
of the Borrower;
      (d)   "MINESUP" means the Ministry of Higher Education of the
Borrower;
      (e)   "BPE" means the Bureau du Projet Education established pursuant
to Decree 89-355, dated October 17, 1989;
      (f)   "UERP" means the "Unite des Etudes et de la Recherche
Pedagogiques" established pursuant to Decree 89-356, dated October 17, 1989;
and
      (g)   "Universities" means collectively, the Universities of the
Borrower Antananarivo, Antsiranana, Mahajanga, Toamasina and Toliara.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty million four
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights SDR 30,400,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special account in the name of its Central Bank in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself
the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation
Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid
charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such later
Page  3
date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from
time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each
year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates
on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account
or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately
preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time
to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June
30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind
imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency
specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time
to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to
time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual
installments payable on each February 1 and August 1, commencing August 1,
2000 and ending February 1, 2030. Each installment to and including the
installment payable on February 1, 2010 shall be one percent (1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%)
of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita,
as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985
dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the
Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to
the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the
Association and after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under
paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of
each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may
revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase
in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic
condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so
requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform
to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
Page  4
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and,
to this end, shall carry out the Project through MINESEB and MINESUP, all
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, educational and engineering practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without any limitation upon the provision of paragraph (a) of
this Section, the Borrower shall maintain a caisse d'avance in the name of
BPE, make funds available for such caisse d'avance in a timely fashion and
ensure that the Director of BPE is empowered to authorize payment out of
such caisse d'avance.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. By July 31 of each year during execution of the Project,
the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association for approval a
training program setting forth all training activities to be carried out
under the Project during the next following school year.
      Section 3.04. During execution of the Project, the Borrower shall keep
BPE with adequate responsibilities and shall keep the position of director
of BPE staffed with an individual whose qualifications are acceptable to the
Borrower and the Association.
      Section 3.05. Before commencement of any study to be carried out under
Parts C.3 and C.4 of the Project, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association for approval the terms of reference of any such study.
      Section 3.06. By December 31, 1991, the Borrower shall prepare and
furnish to the Association for review the action plans referred to in
paragraph 3(b) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and a mid-term review report
of such scope as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execution
and initial operation of the Project, the performance of the Borrower of its
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Credit up to that time.
                                ARTICLE IV
                              Other Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
                  (a) of this Section including those for the Special
                  Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                  appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in
                  any case not later than six months after the end of each
                  such year, a certified copy of the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
                  Association shall have reasonably requested; and
            (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit thereof
                  as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
                  request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Page  5
Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                  paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                  reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Association has
                  received the audit for the fiscal year in which the last
                  withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records
                  (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                  documents) evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine such
                  records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
                  annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
                  and that the report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
                  with the procedures and internal controls involved in
                  their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
      Section 4.02. By October 31 of each year during execution of the
Project, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association for
approval a three year rolling public expenditure program in the education
sector which shall be consistent with the Education Strategy.
      Section 4.03. Except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the actions in the education
sector set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified:
            (i)   Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
                  (A)   The right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
                        of the OPEC Fund Loan or the UNDP Grant made to the
                        Borrower for the financing of the Project shall
                        have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
                        whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the OPEC
                        Fund Loan Agreement or the UNDP Grant Agreement, or
                  (B)   the OPEC Fund Loan shall have become due and
                        payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
            (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the
                  Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the
                  Association that:
                  (A)   such suspension, cancellation, termination or
                        prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                        Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                        such agreement; and
                  (B)   adequate funds for the Project are available to the
                        Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
                        consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
                        under this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified; namely that the event specified
in paragraph (i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject
to the proviso of paragraph (ii) of that Section.
                                ARTICLE VI
Page  6
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Borrower has taken all necessary measures to establish UERP
at a level equivalent of a Direction within MINESEB, has transferred to it
all pedagogical functions relating to training and teaching programs and to
the conception and preparation of teaching materials and UERP has become
fully operational;
      (b)   the Borrower has taken all necessary measures to establish BPE
with adequate responsibilities, reporting directly to the ministers of
MINESUP and MINESEB, has appointed a director of BPE, whose qualifications
are acceptable to the Association, and BPE has become fully operational;
      (c)   all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the UNDP Grant
Agreement, other than effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled
and the OPEC Fund Loan Agreement has been signed; and
      (d)   the Borrower has established a caisse d'avance in the name of
BPE for the purposes of the Project.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministere des Finances et du Budget
            B.P. 61
            Antananarivo
            Madagascar
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  MINFIN                        22489-MG
                  Antananarivo
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                  Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their
respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as
of the day and year first above written.
Page  7
                  DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
                  By /s/ Pierrot J. Rajaonaivelo
                                                Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Paul Isenman
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit
to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
       Amount of the
     Credit Allocated                % of
       (Expressed in             Expenditures
CategorySDR Equivalent)         to be Financed
(1)     Civil works,                                100% of foreign
    equipment,                                      expenditures and
    and supplies                                    80% of local
    under:                                          expenditures
    (a) Parts A.1,                 2,000,000
        B, C.1
        through C.3,
        D, E, F,
        G.1, G.3,
        G.5, G.7, I,
        J, K.1 and K.2
        of the
        Project
(b)     Parts A.2,                 7,500,000
        C.4, G.2, G.4
        G.6, G.8, H.2,
        K.3 through
        K.6 of the
        Project
(2)     Publication,                                100%
    printing and
    distribution
    of books under:
    (a) Part H.1                   2,300,000
    (b) Part H.2 and               2,900,000
        K.4 of the
        Project
(3)     Training, studies                           100%
    and consultants,
    services under:
    (a) Parts A.1, B,              4,900,000
        C.1 through C.3,
        D, E, F, G.1,
        G.3, J, K.1
Page  8
        and K.2 of
        the Project
    (b) Parts A.2,                 3,100,000
        C.4, G.2, H.2,
        J.2 and K.3
        through K.6
        of the
        Project
(4)     Operating cost             2,000,000        100%
(5)     Refunding of               1,200,000        Amount due pur-
    Project Prepara-                                suant to Section
    tion Advance                                    2.02 (c) of this
                                            Agreement
(6)     Unallocated                4,500,000
        TOTAL                     30,400,000
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower; and
    (c)   the term "operating cost" means costs relating to vehicle and
office operation, travel expenses, and operating expenses of training
institutions included in the Project.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of:
    (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
    (b)   payments made for expenditures under Categories (1) (b), (2) (b)
and 3 (b) until the Borrower and the Association have agreed upon action
plans:
          (i)   concerning university curricula modernization, university
                administration and improvement of the cost/financing
                balance for the universities;
          (ii)  for more efficient use of personnel paid under the MINESEB
                education budget and strengthening of education
                administration; and
          (iii) on school book distribution and storage and a cost recovery
                mechanism for school book production, storage and
                distribution.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to improve the quality and the
internal and external efficiencies of the education system.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Component 1:    Development of Sector Administrative, Management and
                Planning Capacities
Part A:
Page  9
1.  A study to define measures and actions required for the strengthening
of the administration of primary and secondary education, including for the
better use of teaching and administrative personnel and provision of
equipment and supplies (Phase 1).
2.  Implementation of measures and actions defined under Part A.1 above
(Phase II).
Part B:
1.  Training of education planners and statisticians for the Departments of
Planning and Statistics of MINESEB and MINESUP, the regional and local
offices of MINESEB and the Universities (Phase I).
2.  Preparation of short-, medium- and long-term sector development plans
and establishment of a cost-control mechanism and a public expenditure
programming system for the education sector (Phase I).
3.  Planning enrollment targets of each level of education, estimation of
budgetary needs and identification of measures to generate necessary
financing (Phase I).
4.  Collection and analysis of sector-wide education and budgetary
statistics and publication thereof (Phase I).
5.  Setting up of a school mapping system for the programming of the
development of primary and secondary education and of a university mapping
system (Phase I).
6.  Training for the collection of statistics, school mapping and projection
of the demand for schooling for regional staff, inspectors and headmasters
(Phase I).
7.  Strengthening of planning and statistics activities through carrying out
of minor rehabilitation and construction works of facilities, provision of
computer and office equipment, training and implementation of computerized
systems for statistics, administration and planning (Phase I).
Part C:
1.  A study to develop a maintenance strategy for school and administrative
buildings of MINESEB and MINESUP (Phase I).
2.  A study to improve the school book distribution system and to develop
a cost recovery mechanism for school books production, storage and
distribution (Phase I).
3.  Studies on the internal and external efficiency of the education system
and the improvement of educational quality (Phase I).
4.  Studies on the internal and external efficiency of the education system
and the improvement of educational quality (Phase II).
Part D:
    Rehabilitation of facilities and provision of furniture, equipment,
including computer equipment, vehicles and training for PCU (Phase I).
Component 2:    Improvement of the Quality of Basic and General Secondary
                Education
Part E:
1.  Preparation of curricula and development of teaching methods and
materials (Phase I).
2.  Preparation of pre-service and in-service training programs, including
distance teaching programs, for teachers and pedagogical supervisory and
advisory staff.
3.  Coordination of the preparation of textbooks and teachers' guides and
Page  10
supervision of their publication and distribution (Phase I).
4.  Preparation of tests to assess student progress over time.
5.  Rehabilitation of office buildings of UERP and provision of furniture,
equipment, including computer equipment, vehicles and training (Phase I).
Part F:
    Strengthening the role of pedagogical supervisory and advisory staff in
the support and training of teachers at their place of work through
provision of equipment, bicycles, motorcycles, other transport equipment and
training, locally and abroad (Phase I).
Part G:
1.  Carrying out of pre-service training for Level I teachers in three
regional training colleges, rehabilitation and construction of facilities
and provision of training, vehicles, furniture and equipment (Phase I).
2.  Carrying out of pre-service training for Level I teachers of three
regional training colleges, rehabilitation and construction of facilities
and provision of training, vehicles, furniture and equipment (Phase II).
3.  Carrying out of pre-service training for Level II teachers in one
national Level II training college in Antananarivo, preparation of training
programs and provision of teaching materials, vehicles, fellowships and
study trips abroad (Phase I).
4.  Rehabilitation and construction of facilities, provision of furniture,
equipment and vehicles, for the national Level II training college (Phase
II).
5.  Rehabilitation and construction of about 13 training facilities for in-
service training of Level I teachers and provision of furniture and
equipment (Phase I).
6.  Rehabilitation and construction of about 20 training facilities for in-
service training of Level I teachers and provision of furniture and
equipment (Phase II).
7.  Rehabilitation of the facilities of, and provision of furniture and
equipment for the Comites Pedagogiques Inter-Establissement (Phase I).
8.  Provision of storage facilities for distribution of school books and
teaching materials (Phase II).
Part H:
1.  Printing, publication and distribution of about three textbooks, about
three teachers' guides and other teaching materials (Phase I).
2.  Printing, publication and distribution of about six textbooks, about
four teachers' guides and other teaching materials (Phase II).
Part I:
    Rehabilitation and construction of buildings and provision of materials
and equipment to upgrade secondary school laboratories of selected secondary
schools (Phase I).
Component 3:    Strengthening of Higher Education
Part J:
    Establishment of two higher technological institutes at Antananarivo and
Antsiranana, rehabilitation of facilities and provision of furniture,
equipment, including computer equipment, vehicles and training therefor
(Phase I).
Part K:
Page  11
1.  Studies to analyze the pedagogical and administrative procedures of the
Universities and to make proposals for their reorganization and
reinforcement (Phase I).
2.  Establishment of an information system to provide guidance to students
on employment opportunities and provision of furniture, equipment, including
computer equipment, therefor (Phase I).
3.  Training of teachers and administrators of the Universities (Phase II).
4.  Preparation of computer programs, and installation of
computer system for the administration of the Universities, and of
communication systems between the Universities (Phase II).
5.  Printing, publication and distribution of textbooks (Phase II).
6.  Acquisition and installation of laboratory equipment (Phase II).
                                 *   *   *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and printing services shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the
Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described
in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Madagascar may be granted a margin
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of
paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Goods and printing services estimated to cost less than the equivalent
of $100,000 but more than $20,000 per contract and civil works shall be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally; provided however that:
    (a)   registration of bidders in the Borrower's Registry of Commerce
shall not be required for the acceptance of their bids;
    (b)   no procurement shall be made on the basis of selected
tendering or direct contracting except in the case of rejection of all bids;
    (c)   bids shall be opened in public, i.e., bidders or their
representatives shall be allowed to be present;
    (d)   no special preference shall be given to local bidders in the
evaluation of bids; and
    (e)   the aggregate value of goods and printing services and the
aggregate value of civil works so procured shall not, without the prior
approval of the Association, exceed the equivalent of $3,500,000 and
$3,000,000, respectively.
2.  Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $20,000 per contract
up to an aggregate of the equivalent of $500,000 may be procured on the
basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
Page  12
acceptable to the Association.
3.  Textbooks, specified by title and author, may be purchased directly from
publishers or distributors of such books subject to prior approval by the
Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or more and each contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that
the two conformed copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the
Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                          Actions Referred to in
                      Section 4.03 of this Agreement
1.  By June 30, 1991 the Borrower shall prepare and review with the
Association programs to integrate nutritional, environmental and population
concerns into public education.
2.  By June 30, 1991 the Borrower shall prepare and review with the
Association programs for improving female enrollment rates.
3.  By June 30, 1990 the Borrower shall issue adequate directives
instructing directors and teachers of primary schools to set objectives for
maximum repetition rates in each section of 25% by 1991, 20% by 1992, 15%
by 1993 and 10% by 1994.
4.  The Borrower shall ensure that no new universities or new faculty at the
Universities, with the exception of the higher technological institutes
referred to in Part J of the Project, will be established before June 30,
1993.
5.  By December 31, 1990, the Borrower shall establish an interministerial
agency responsible for the coordination of vocational training and technical
education activities in the education sector.
6.  Upon completion of Parts G.1, G.2 and G.3, the Borrower shall ensure
that:
          (i)   the respective training colleges function at full capacity;
Page  13
                and
          (ii)  at least 600 qualified primary teachers and 300 qualified
                lower secondary teachers are recruited per year.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time
to the eligible Category in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of $2,000,000 to
be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall
be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into
                the Special Account at such intervals as the Association
                shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
                shall furnish to the Association the documents and other
                evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule
                for the payment or payments in respect of which
                replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such
                request, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                requested and as shall have been shown by said documents
                and other evidence to have been made out of the Special
                Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other
evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit
Page  14
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice
the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn
amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; (ii) was
not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the
Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit
or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding
amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special
Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
