Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23398
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-38260; SCL-3826A; SCPD-3826S; TF-2301 1)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 146.4 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF PERU
FOR A
PRIMARY EDUCATION QUALITY PROJECT
December 27, 2001
Country Management Unit for Bolivia, Ecuador and Peru
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective December 18, 2001)
Currency Unit = Peruvian Nuevo Sol (PEN)
I PEN = US$ 0.28
US$ 1 = 3.5 PEN
ACADEMIC YEAR
April 1     December 15
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CRECER              National Learning Achievement Test
DEC                 Department of Education of Callao
DEL                 Department of Education of Lima
ECB                 Basic Curriculum Structure (curriculum reform)
FONCODES            National Fund for Compensation and Development
GTZ                 German Technical Cooperation and Development Agency
GOP                 Government of Peru
IDB                 International Development Bank
IE                  Implementing Entities
10                  Intermediary Organisms
INFES               National Institute for Infrastructure in Education and Health
ISP                 Higher Pedagogical Institutes
KfW                 Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (German Development Credit Agency)
MOE                 Ministry of Education.
NGO                 Non Governmental Organizations
OINFE               Office for Infrastructure in Education.
PCU                 Project Coordinating Unit
PDI                 Institutional Development Plan
PLANCAD             National In-Service Teacher Training Plan
PLANCGED            Training Plan for Management Skills
POA                 Annual Operational Plan
QAG                 Quality Assurance Group
SAL                 Structural Adjustment Loan
SAR                 Staff Appraisal Report
SENCICO             National Training Service for the Construction Industry
SOE                 Statement of Expenses
UNE                 Unit for the Measurement of Education
UNICEF              United Nations Finds For Children
USE                 Unit for Education Service
Vice President:    David de Ferranti
Country Director:   Isabel Guerrero
Sector Manager (Acting):    William Experton
Country Sector Leader:    Evangeline Javier
Project Task Manager:    Livia Benavides
ICR Task Manager:    Martha Laverde



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PERU
PRIMARY EDUCATION QUALITY PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
I. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                  13
6. Sustainability                                                                      15
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       16
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     17
9. Partner Comments                                                                    19
10. Additional Information                                                             19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   22
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   23
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   25
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      26
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  27
Annex 8. Infrastructure Improvement                                                    29
Annex 9. Government Contribution                                                       30
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P008055                                       Project Name. PRIMARY EDUCATION QUALITY
PROJECT
Team Leader: Livia M. Benavides                           TL Unit: LCSHE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: December 27, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: PRIMARY EDUCATION QUALITY PROJECT              L/C/TF Number: CPL-38260;
SCL-3826A;
SCPD-3826S;
TF-23011
Country/Department. PERU                                                 Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector. EP - Primary Education
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  12/10/1993                              EffJctive: 03/07/1996          05/28/1996
Appraisal:  06/20/1994                                MTR:  11/02/1998            11/02/1998
Approval:  12/15/1994                              Closing: 06/30/2000           06/30/2001
Borrower/lmplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF PERU / MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      David de Ferranti                          Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager:    Isabel M. Guerrero                          Rainer Steckhan
Sector Manager:      William Experton (Acting)                  Alain Colliou
Team Leader at ICR.   Livia Benavides                           Ernesto Cuadra
ICR Primary Author:   Martha Laverde
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry: S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project was designed to assist the Government in increasing the quality of primary education in order
to improve student achievement and reduce repetition and dropout rates. The project also intended to
improve educational management at the Ministry of Education (MOE) and in the schools themselves.
The specific objectives of the project were to: (i) improve teaching and learning conditions within primary
school classrooms; (ii) strengthen public school management; (iii) improve the planning, monitoring and
management capacity of central, departmental and local education authorities; and, (iv) improve
educational infrastructure.
The project was directed towards 3.5 million children in grades one to six (corresponding to the entire
primary school population in the public sector), 110,000 teachers and 25,000 primary school principals
and administrators. In conformity with the equity concern of the project, the improvement of schocl
facilities was targeted to poor and rural areas, those areas of the country that had the highest portion of
schools with inadequate facilities and had large shares of population living under extreme poverty
conditions.
While the World Bank loan was being negotiated, the Government of Peru (GOP) was also looking for ID13
support through a parallel loan, and requesting technical and financial assistance from other intemational
agencies (GTZ and KfW) in support of its educational strategy. The convergence of the work of all thesz
agencies helped consolidate the government's long-term policy geared toward enhancing the Peruvian
education system.
The Bank's country assistance strategy (June 1997 - Report 16796-PE) outlined policies to support the
Government's efforts to achieve a sustained reduction of poverty, by supporting programs to stimulate the
social integration of Peru. For the educational sector interventions expected to lessen the gap between rural
and urban education, increase coverage at the preschool and primary school levels and promote school
management autonomy, according to the 1995-2010 Education Development Plan. Overall, the project's
objectives were clear and consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), with the
following positive dimensions: (i) national coverage; (ii) access to the new educational materials guaranteed
in every school; (iii) improved teaching inside the classrooms as a result of the national teacher training
program; (iv) rationalization of the pedagogical criteria for pre-service training and improved in-service
teacher training programs; (v) participation of the textbook publishing companies in the design and
dissemination of the new curriculum; and, (vi) provision of improved school and classroom infrastructure
in the poorest areas of the country.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
In accordance with the objectives of the Project, three components were designed:
a. EDUCATIONAL QUALITY (Appraisal US$88.1 million - latest US S96.8 million). The main
purpose was to increase learning ability levels and reduce retention and dropouts rates in all schools,
including multi-grade and single-teacher Spanish language schools, by improving: (i) the availability and
quality of textbooks and instructional materials; (ii) the competencies of primary school teachers; and, (iii)
the scope, sequence and relevance of the curriculum. The following sub-components were designed to
- 2 -



achieve these three objectives.
*   Curriculum Sub-Component. Its purpose was to establish a flexible curriculum that could be easily
adapted to the cultural and social diversity of the country and to improve the articulation between and
within grades. It is important to mention that the curriculum had been previously modified by MOE to
fit preschool and first grade teaching programs and that the second grade curriculum was being
modified when project implementation started. By project completion, all the curricula for grades one
through six had been modified in compliance with the stated objectives.
*   Instructional Material Sub-Component. This sub-component focused on providing textbooks,
workbooks and related didactic guides to students grades one through sixth in all public primary
schools. It aimed also at developing reading and non-printed didactic materials and teachers guides,
promoting the adequate use of these materials in the training of teachers and principals, and improving
classroom and school management techniques. The production and distribution of instructional material
was linked to the design and implementation of a strategy to promote excellence in teaching, including
the establishment of model educational centers.
o  In -Service Teacher Training Sub-Component. It aimed to: (i) equip teachers with student-centered
teaching methods; (ii) enhance pedagogical supervision methods for primary school principals; and,
(iii) develop a permanent system of in-service teacher training, through the establishment of an
innovative voucher system that would finance the participation of primary school teachers in training
activities.
b. MODERNIZATION OF EDUCATIONAL ADMINISTRATION (Appraisal US$44.0 million -
latest US$54.5 million). A key factor to support the successful implementation of the project was related to
the introduction of measures to strengthen the management capacity of MOE, the Intermediary Organisms
(10) such as the provincial and district level education departments, and the schools themselves.
Modemizing the educational administration involved working on four specific activities:
*   Strengthening the capacity to plan, administer, supervise and monitor, by carrying out: (i) a
management audit study to evaluate the necessary structural and procedural changes and
capacity-building actions required to improve the management of the educational system; and, (ii) a
program to improve the management of the educational system.
*   Developing management capacities, based on: (i) a Pilot Plan for the Modemization of School
Management, including its monitoring and evaluation; and, (ii) a program of gradual decentralization
of the education sector.
*  Establishing a management information system, comprised of two main systems: the first one to assist
MOE in its planning, monitoring and decision-making functions and the second one to facilitate the
exchange of information and experiences among schools.
*  Setting up a student assessment system, considering the country's limited experience in assessing the
leaming achievements of primary school students, it was necessary to promote activities related to: (i)
the establishment and operation of a national student assessment system; (ii) the strengthening of the
capabilities of MOE in student assessment through workshops, short-term visiting courses and general
training on student assessment for MOE's technical staff, and, (iii) a program to strengthen the
research capacity and information on student assessment at the national level through promotional
activities and the provision of research grants and graduate training on a competitive basis.
- 3 -



c. INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENT (Appraisal US$121.8 million - latest US$117.7 million).
This component supported the improvement of teaching and learning conditions by rehabilitating and
rebuilding primary school infrastructure in rural and poor urban areas where the proportion of inadequate
classrooms and the proportion of population living under extreme poverty conditions was above the
national average. Prior to the Loan Agreement signature, an agreement was reached with the main Peruvian
institutions responsible for school infrastructure programs (the Social Fund - FONCODES and the
National Education and Health Infrastructure Institute - INFES) in order to reduce the risk of overlapping
or duplicating construction activities. The agreement was supposed to give MOE full leadership in
coordinating school infrastructure operations in the whole country. The proposed goals of this component
were: (i) the construction of approximately 3,200 primary school classrooms; (ii) the rehabilitation of
approximately 960 primary school classrooms; and, (iii) the improvement of sanitary services and
reconditioning of primary school classrooms and office space. In addition, the component included a
program for school maintenance, directed to school principals and members of the community (usually
parents associations). The program aimed at establishing school maintenance as a regular activity through:
(i) a computerized infonnation system that included a data base, training and other procedures for school
rehabilitation and maintenance; (ii) the updating and publication of approximately 3,000 manuals with
technical specifications for school buildings and classroom furniture; and, (iii) the design, production and
distribution of approximately 25,000 school maintenance manuals.
To ensure a propitious pedagogical classroom environment, the project included: (i) the provision of
fumiture for all new primary school classrooms and for 380 rehabilitated classrooms; (ii) the provision of
office fumiture for approximately 490 among the schools targeted for construction of classrooms; (iii) the
provision of bookshelves to all primary school classrooms for storage of textbooks, non-printed didactic
materials and supplementary reading materials distributed under the project; and (iv) the provision of
teaching equipment for the model educational centers that were going to be established.
To ensure that the implementation of the infrastructure project activities did not take precedence over the
quality improvement activities, the GOP and the Bank agreed that disbursements for civil works and school
fumiture, excluding bookshelves, would be conditional upon achievement of specific annual targets for
textbook distribution and teacher training. The number of schools included in the annual infrastructure
plans were determnined on the basis of the achievement of the annual implementation targets for textbook
distribution and teacher training, as agreed during negotiations.
Finally, the component planned to finance the update of the national cadastre of educational infrastructure
and the development of a computerized monitoring system to strengthen MOE's capacity to plan and
monitor school building, rehabilitation and maintenance.
3.4 Revised Components:
The Modemization of Educational Administration component had originally been designed as a key tool to
promote the decentralization of the education sector and increased school autonomy. It was modified in
September 1995, before loan signature in December 1995, to focus on the modernization of management
tools to improve school management while maintaining a centralized system.
In 1997, as a consequence of a functional and budgetary reform modifying the distribution of functions
between the MOE and the IO, the Peruvian Government and the Bank agreed to change the subcomponent
devoted to "strengthening the capacity to plan, administer, supervise and monitor". Instead of
implementing the decentralization model agreed at the time of appraisal, the project would finance activities
to modernize management at the central level, in the Departments of Education of Lima (DEL) and Callao
- 4 -



(DEC), in all education units in the Province of Lima, and in the Departments of Education in the other
provinces.
3.5 Qualitv at Entry:
ICR Rating: Even though no formal Quality at Entry criteria were available at the time of project
preparation and appraisal, this report follows Bank Assurance Group standards and the quality at entry of
this project is considered satisfactory.
While it is undeniable that significant results were achieved, the fact that there were no baseline data when
the project started makes it difficult to measure the full impact of the project and the extent to which its
objectives were reached.
The project objectives were consistent with the CAS and government priority for poverty alleviation.
Different evaluations have emphasized that the project's main strength lied in its adequate design,
specifically in its technical aspects. Project identification started with a participatory workshop which
helped build a consensus on the main problems and priorities, including the need for instructional materials,
teacher training, public school autonomy and accountability, school infrastructure and bilingual /
intercultural education. It was assumed initially that the content of the curriculum did not need to be
changed but that the focus of curriculum reform should be on its scope, relevance and sequencing. This
diagnosis provided enough information to improve the articulation between the preschool curriculum and
the first grade curriculum.
Among the most positive aspects of the project was the full integration of components and subcomponents.
All components converged toward the same goal, quality enhancement, which allowed an adequate
coordination of the different basic elements that guarantee education quality. The project design was driven
by the integration of the curriculum, in-service teacher training programs, and improved pre-service
training programs for teachers (this latter dimension was introduced after the midterm review mission),
instructional materials and assessment of learning achievement.
An additional strength was the framework used in the development and contracting of training programs
around different areas of concentration (pedagogical, technical and administrative) promoted private sector
and NGO participation. These processes improved the delivery of educational services and placed
education as a national priority with strong incentives for public and private participation.
The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) identified the following risks as the main threats to project
implementation: (i) lack of capacity to implement policies and programs at the central (MOE) and
departmental lcvel; (ii) possible opposition of departmental and local authorities to the strategy to increase
public school autonomy and accountability proposed by the central government; and, (iii) possible changes
in govemment priorities, starting with the foreseen arrival of a new administration in 1995.
Other important risks were not adequately considered at the time of project design:
* Government transition - The transition was not taken into account especially in the lengthy period
between the final design of the project (June, 1994) and the time of negotiations and signing of the
Loan Agreement (December, 1995).
*   Political commitment related to the decentralization of the education sector - This aspect was not
sufficiently analyzed and the lack of commitment forced the revision of several activities.
*   Peruvian political and financial crises - Even though such crises were likely to happen, considering
Peru's vulnierability and instability, no contingency plans were included in order to mitigate their
- 5 -



possible negative impact on the project.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4. 1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall outcome of the project is rated Satisfactoiy.
Even though the project documents did not have baseline data on student achievement to measure progress
in quality improvement, it is estimated that the project development objectives were met to a large extent,
despite significant political, financial and administrative difficulties during the implementation period. The
project was instrumental in establishing an integrated quality improvement strategy which brought about
concrete changes in pedagogical practices in the classroom. In the absence of comparative data on the
results of academic achievement tests (the first national test took place in 1998 under the project), it is
noteworthy that the project achieved a substantial reduction in repetition and dropout rates. The average
repetition rate decreased from 14.6% in 1993 to 10.4% in 1999 in primary education. Over the same
period, the average dropout rate fell from 6.1% to 4.4%.
The evaluation study carried out by the Instituto Apoyo, an outside consulting firm hired by MOE,
determined that a critical factor of success was the integrated quality improvement strategy of the project,
which helped strengthen all levels of the education structure (MOE, 10, the schools, especially in the
classroom where teaching and learning were improved). The project supported improvements in
complementary aspects of the educational environment, including the pedagogical, management,
organizational and infrastructure dimensions.
Notwithstanding the technical limitations of the first national assessment effort in 1998, the results were
sufficiently significant and valuable to demonstrate the potential use of educational outcomes to reduce
disparities and improve the overall quality of education. They provided for example detailed data on
learning outcome differences linked to language of instruction, regional location, teacher training and years
of service. They helped focus project activities on an integrated strategy which brought about
improvements in learning processes through the alignment of in-service teacher training programs with
enhanced school management and school environment, as well as the availability of good quality textbooks
and pedagogical materials.
Although increasing education coverage was not one of the project's specific objectives, significant results
were achieved especially at the level of preschool education, with an increase in coverage from 78.5% in
1993 to 82.4% in 1999. Primary education enrollment rose by 9.4% between 1993 and 1999. The
enrollment rates in the departments of Apurimac, Ucayali, Puno and San Martin increased by 5.9%
between 1993 and 1999.
The project improved educational organization and management, as reflected in a better interaction between
the different levels (MOE, IO and schools). School management improved with the implementation of
in-service training programs for principals and staff where they learned the use of planning and
management tools, methods and techniques aimed to reach effective results.
4.2 Outputs by comnponents:
Educational Quality
ICR Rating: Satisfactory
- E -



The rating is based on the following elements: (i) consistency between the programs, the instructional
materials and the pedagogical transformation proposed by the new curriculum structure (ECB); (ii)
improvement in the fit between the individual needs of children with their environment; (iii) demonstrated
enjoyment of students in the use of the new materials because of their good quality (reflected in their design
and illustration); (iv) the quality of training offered by the Implementing Entities (IE) in charge of the
teacher training programs; and, (v) stronger commitment from civil society towards education and in
particular increased responsibility from parents in the supervision of their children's education. The open
and competitive process followed to select the institutions delivering teacher training and the publishing
companies involved in the production of textbooks resulted in an overall improvement in the supply of
teacher training programs and pedagogical materials in Peru.
Sub-component 1.]: Curriculum: The new ECB designed by the project responds to problems identified in
the 1993 diagnosis study of the education sector. The design was based on competencies not on content. It
incorporates an active methodology, supports a horizontal student-teacher relationship, integrates the
student into his/her cultural and social environment and identifies itself with the environmental needs of the
different regions. The teaching of values embodied in the curriculum is innovative and provides useful tools
for teachers to promote the integral development of students.
The development of ECB was characterized by a participative process with contributions from the Higher
Pedagogical Institutes (known as ISPs), UNICEF, and education specialists. Curriculum development was
organized in three phases, the first one involved preschool, first and second grades, the second one involved
third and fourth grades and the third one fifth and sixth grades.
Since the start of the project, the new curriculum included a teacher's manual to make sure that all would
understand the basic concepts. The distribution of the curriculum and the teacher's manual was gradual.
The new curriculum for the first phase of education reached schools in 1994 and it has reached a 95%
national coverage. The second phase started in 1998 and 92% of the teachers have received it. The third
phase started reaching schools in 1999 with a national coverage of 91%.
Curriculum dissemination was a strong aspect of the project. A two-step strategy was used. Teachers were
trained first. Then, members of the school's boards of directors attended workshops to discuss the
curriculum's content and application with the teachers. Teacher participation was 74% in the Coast, 78%
in the Sierra, 81% in the Selva and 83% in Lima. The curriculum and the manual reached 92% of the
schools in the Sierra, 93% in the Selva, and 98% in the Coast.
Another positive aspect of the project was the overwhelming acceptance of ECB by the teachers (99%).
Among the main difficulties encountered by teachers in using the new curriculum were: (i) the lack of
resources to buy didactic materials; and, (ii) parental disagreement with the direction taken by the
curriculum (Coast 38%, Sierra 31%, Selva 33% and Lima 33%). MOE could have encouraged more
community participation to increase the acceptance of the new curriculum by parents. Many parents
pressured teachers to stay with the old curriculum where the immediate results of rote reading and writing
were seen as being more effective.
An important achievement of the project has been the improved curriculum. This has facilitated the
introduction of an active pedagogy aiming at enhancing student competencies and developing feelings,
attitudes and values adapted to the social, cultural and environmental context. The new Basic Curriculum
Structure (ECB) improved leaming and teaching conditions. It achieved a better articulation of the
conceptual structure with the organization of contents, text development and design (received by at least
80% of the nation's schools) and the design of in-service teacher training programs. The curriculum reform
- 7 -



(ECB) and the improvement in teaching practices were rated as satisfactory. 85% of the teachers were
appreciative of the ECB because it made their work easier and because their students reached a higher level
of learning. The study carried out by the Apollo Group showed that teamwork increased, especially in the
schools of the Sierra region (80%). In Lima and in the Coast departments, students were reading from 24 to
30 minutes a day (the official standard reading time per day is 15 minutes) compared to an average reading
time of 16 minutes a day in the Sierra and Selva regions. In 65% of the classrooms observed, the use of
didactic materials was verified.
Sub-Component 1.2: In-Service Teacher Training: PLANCAD was created in 1995 under MOE
responsibility to coordinate teacher training throughout the country. Teacher training was achieved by
sub-contracting implementing entities (IE) such as universities, ISPs, NGOs and other associations, chosen
through open competition. The evaluation of the project shows that the participants obtained many benefits:
(i) personalized training, (ii) introduction of a support system in the classroom (experienced teacher
working as adviser, work guide), and (iii) the creation of 8 "study groups" (each one comprising 10
teachers) to reinforce learning. The IE benefited themselves from the experience. First, they had to improve
the quality of their services to be selected and, second, they leamed and understood the new ECB and the
role of the teachers in using it. Training programs included different aspects related to the use of the ECB
such as knowledge, methodology, use of materials, etc. 89% of the primary teachers in the country were
trained. The remaining 11% were not trained mainly because their principals did not allow them or because
their geographical area was not covered by PLANCAD. In terms of additional difficulty, it should be noted
that (i) the training program was launched before the materials were available, so that the first two groups
of teachers were not trained in their use; (ii) there were differences in quality among the training institutions
The main purpose of this subcomponent was to improve teaching and student leaming. Results show that
the most often used IE were the ISPs (50%), followed by NGOs. Regionally, the Sierra and the Selva areas
were the ones that used ISPs the most (68%), then carne the Coast (36%), and Lima was last (14%). The
universities were second with an average participation in all regions of 19%.
The project achieved significant changes in teachers' attitudes. The most important indicators of this
positive evolution were: (i) the use of active methodologies in 76% of classrooms, especially through
teamwork which favored social integration, participative attitudes, and respect for differences among
students; (ii) in 50% of the classrooms, student work was displayed, enhancing their self-esteem; (iii) better
use of the school schedule by the teachers was evident (of the officially established time for work, teachers
from the Sierra worked 75% of the time and in the Coast 80%); (iv) 80% of the time used in class was
dedicated to dialogue; and, (v) at least 15 minutes were dedicated to reading activities according to the
stipulated standards.
However, a number of factors hindered the implementation of this sub-component: (i) excessive centralism
and rigidity of the MOE as far as the content of the training program and the selection of the training
institutions were concemed, which prevented participating institutions from trying out innovative
approaches; and, (ii) the absence of training programs in those departments where the MOE considered that
no local organization would have the qualifications to carry out teacher training.
In conclusion, the main achievement of this component was to establish the foundations for a strong
in-service training system which will be the basis of the new Bank project under preparation. Due to a
change of priorities after a new Minister of Education was appointed in 1996, the project did not implement
the voucher system for teacher training proposed as part of the initial design.
- 8 -



Sub-Component 1.3: Instructional Material: Activities concerning this sub-component were influential in
reaching the project's objectives. Instructional materials were distributed nationwide. These materials
comprised student workbooks (language and math), pedagogical guides for teachers, didactical materials
and classroom libraries (with 194 different titles). The regional coverage achieved at the end of the
distribution process was: 90% in the Coast, 88% in the Sierra, 76% in the Selva. The achieved coverage of
classroom libraries distribution was: 92% in the Coast, 82% in the Sierra, 87% in the Selva.
Considering the Peruvian geographical characteristics as well as the history of problems related to
distribution of instructional materials, the distribution strategy developed by the project can be rated as
highly satisfactory. Decentralized participation and standardized mechanisms were used to reach 315
different distribution points and the effectiveness of the strategy was verified by the evaluation. The
institutionalization of this delivery strategy has been an important project contribution to MOE and serves
as a guarantee of sustainability.
The distribution of workbooks to schools began in 1998 (starting with the workbooks for language and
math for second, third and fourth grades), but the highest level of distribution was not achieved until 2000
(98% in the Coast, 99% in the Sierra, 99% in the Selva and 99% in Lima). Classroom libraries distribution
was 85% on average. The project developed a verification system to find out if the instructional material
distributed was being used. It was found that 99% of teachers considered the materials useful and were
using them in their regular classroom activities. Distribution processes were improved over the course of
the project's execution. For example, in 1998, 59% of the materials were delivered only at mid-year; in
1999, 48% of the schools received the materials before the beginning of the school year or during the first
months, and the performance improved even further in 2000, with 85% reception at the beginning of the
school year.
Institutional Development
ICR Rating: Satisfactory
Sub-component 2. 1.Institutional Modernization: Emphasis was put in this component on the audit study
of the Ministry, which permitted to identify shortcomings in a number of key processes and redesign some
of them, namely the human resources functions, the production of pedagogical materials, and the
processing of administrative requests for schools in Lima and Callao. Significant progress was achieved,
for example, in expediting requests from teachers which used to take months before.
Sub-component 2.2: School Management Modernization: PLANCGED, the training plan for school
principals, was managed by the School Management Support Office of the MOE and entirely financed out
of the government budget. This program, which was implemented through a combination of on site and
distance education workshops, was the principal instrument to disseminate the pedagogical and institutional
management dimensions of the new education policy. This strategy was crucial for the effective training of
school principals and teachers in planning and management techniques as well as for the implementation of
decentralization at the school level. This program resulted in greater participation and increased
responsibilities for local authorities and the schools themselves. It also brought about more efficient
administrative processes and organizational methodologies, more systematic information collection, and the
development of an evaluation culture based on results. Several manuals were designed and distributed. The
main topics covered were: school management for principals (45,000), budget and financial management
(20,000), personnel administration (43,000), management of pedagogical resources (38,000) and
management of supplies (35,000). Although there is anecdotal evidence that school principals gained from
this effort, the PLANCGED did not benefit from a monitoring and evaluation program.
-9-



Fourteen school networks were created, linking 207 rural schools to improve their administrative and
financial management capacity. As a result, 14,737 students and 739 teachers are now able to share
pedagogical experiences and resources . These rural networks serve as management models for a better
articulation and optimization of financial, human, pedagogical and administrative resources. Networks
share resources among schools with similar goals and needs as a strategy to increase coverage and equity in
the rural sector. They also promote participation, communication and autonomy skills. Networks are a
flexible and decentralized structure that contributes to the improvement of planning processes through the
Institutional Development Plans (PDIs) prepared by individual schools. A similar strategy was
implemented in the urban areas. This strategy also provided guidance for the use of technical tools and
administrative methods to improve management processes in 185 schools in 24 departments.
The networks are linked to MOE through the IO and they are managed by an executive council comprising
a network coordinator and a group of teachers from the network schools. The strategy used by these
networks should be evaluated to leam about their actual pedagogical impact.
The project did not support the decentralization process as initially designed in the project preparation
phase. No progress was achieved in terms of increasing school autonomy at the local level, and there was
no significant structural reform at the central level. Even though some positive changes were observed: (i)
the schools and the regional Education Departments got closer, (as indicated by 25% of the principals
interviewed); (ii) the USEs improved (33% of principals agreed); (iii) IO improved their performance in
terms of solving administrative problems and handling teachers needs and complaints; (iv) school
management was enhanced through the participative formulation of the PDIs (75% of the cases); and, (v)
98% of the schools elaborated their own Annual Operational Plan (POA), thereby improving their
organization and understanding of the principals manual (78% of schools received the manual). All these
elements helped strengthen school management.
Sub-component 2.3: Student Assessment System: To implement this sub-component, the MOE established
in 1995 the Department of Evaluation of Education Quality (Unidad de Medici6n de la Calidad
Educativa-UMC). UMC carried out two sample assessment tests and a third one is planned for the end of
2001. The first test, administered in 1996, reached 45,000 fourth-grade students in 1,420 urban and rural
schools and measured leaming in language and math, as well as a number of variables characterizing the
school principals, the teachers and the parents. The second round, administered in 1998, tested 33,236
fourth-grade and sixth-grade students in 575 primary schools, as well as 32,529 fourth and fifth-grade
secondary education students. It measured leaming in language, math and science as web as variables
having to do with the school principals, teachers, parents, and school / classroom equipment. The first two
tests were similar in methodology and focus. The third test, to be applied in November 2001, will reach
28.000 primary and secondary students in 632 schools and will measure achievement in language and
math. The design of the third test, which differs quite significantly from the previous two, will measure
leaming achievements against the criteria of the new curriculum.
Even though no specific measurable targets had been defined in the SAR for this subcomponent, the
outcome can be rated as insufficient because the highest political echelons of the MOE refused to allow
publication of test results. There were commendable technical efforts in terms of test design, test
application and analysis of student performance outcomes in different types of schools (single-teacher,
multi-teacher and multi-grade schools). The results of the 2001 test are being used as a leaming exercise
for teachers. For the first time, the test includes specific instruments to identify the performance gap
associated with different first languages: Spanish, Quechua and Aymara. For this reason, a new strategy
for the diffusion of test results is now being elaborated together with the analysis of the instruments in the
- 10-



new ECB. But one of the major problems that the Ministry faced in relation to this component was the lack
of acceptance of the results of the academic achievement tests by the Ministry's leadership, the teachers
and the government in general. It is clear that more efforts are needed to create an evaluation culture at all
levels.
Suib-component 2.4 Information System: This sub-component focused on the systematic development of
education statistics and the geographical mapping of schools. A lot of progress has been achieved in terms
of svstem design to support the planning, monitoring and decision-making activities of the MOE. Today
MOE has timely access to statistics at the school level and is connected online with the regions. The work
is currently concentrated on data analysis and updating. Measures must be taken in order to reinforce the
concept of data maintenance (permnanently feeding the database) and the use of information as an essential
asset to support proposals and make decisions (technical and political) that reflect sector needs. Together
with the design and development of the system, the project supplied computers to the regional
administrations and the schools.
Infrastructure Improvement
ICR Rating: Satisfactory
Sub-component 3.1: Replacement and rehabilitation offacilities. During implementation, the link between
the targeting of infrastructure activities and the implementation of quality improvement activities was not
respected. There was, however, a deliberate effort to focus most of the infrastructure in the poorest regions
at first. In that initial phase, the targeting criteria used to reach the neediest schools (2,000 schools
participated in the initial selection process) functioned well. This explains why 73.3% of total
infrastructure expenditures actually went to the initially targeted departments 22 Cajamarcaq,
Huancavelica, Loreto, Puno, Cuzco, Ancash, Junin, Lima, San Martin, Apurimac, Huanuco, La Libertad y
Amazonas. Later on, there was less of a regional focus. The decision to move to a nationwide coverage was
influenced by two factors. First, the norrns established by INFES were only appropriate for urban zones.
Second, school construction in the rural areas was the responsibility of FONCODES which was financed
through a different Bank loan. The second phase of nationwide coverage involved 442 schools where 3,573
new classrooms were built and 396 rehabilitated. That can explain why a significant share of project
resources (48%) was directed to infrastructure facilities to improve the school environment and promote
equity by targeting the neediest schools. The resources for the infrastructure component were spent in the
following way: 84% for classroom construction and rehabilitation, 11.4% for classroom furniture, and
4.6% for instituitional strengthening of the Social Infrastructure Fund - OINFE.
Although the original goals were greatly surpassed, the complexity of the process must be acknowledged.
This complexity was due to the great number of actors and institutions involved, as mentioned earlier.
INFES was the implementing agency responsible for the technical aspects (feasibility studies, project
design, contract award, works supervision, inter alias) The MOE was in charge of the supervision of the
technical aspects through OINFE, and the financial aspects.
It is generally recognized that the project used adequate criteria to target activities related to the
infrastructure component, except for the schools affected by the Nifio phenomenon during 1998. The main
probleni regarding this component, however, was the multiplicity of entities involved in project
implementation: (OINFE, INFES, IO, construction firms and local communities), which sometimes led to
delays, duplication of efforts and diverging views on priorities. Nevertheless, the results were satisfactory
overall. The construction and rehabilitation of classrooms reached 99.7% of the planned targets. (Annex 8)
- 11 -



One of the most important achievements was the school maintenance program whose objective was to
increase the useful life of school infrastructure and to protect its investment value. The program consisted
in applying preventive maintenance through minor repairs and restorations. In 2000, 663 classrooms in 76
schools were repaired in 18 departments throughout the country. The goal for 2001 is to reach 2,121
classrooms in 303 schools in 21 departments. Second, a national maintenance training program was
implemented to promote a culture and practices of school preservation and maintenance involving the
community, school principals, teachers, administrative staff and students. The project delivered 63,566
manuals and 13,824 tools kits, and the training activities reached 13,824 schools.
Sub-component 3.2: Equipment and furniture: The provision of classroom equipment and furniture
followed several steps that went from the establishment of technical specifications according to national
and international standards to the design and development of prototype didactic materials, furniture and
bookshelves. Participative activities were carried out with principals and teachers in order to guarantee
sustainability. 3,680 classrooms were equipped with student modules and 14,694 bookshelves.
Sub-component 3.3: Institutional Strengthening of OINFE: The main responsibilities of OINFE were
twofold. First OINFE kept an updated inventory of school land and constructions through proper
registration with the relevant Ministry office, gave legal opinions relating to the acquisition of land for new
schools, and coordinated activities regarding the legal aspects of school constructions. Second, OINFE
coordinated the maintenance training programs for 10,000 schools involved. It is important to mention that
the land and construction inventory consists in a database that identifies, in each school, the following
elements: a) record of buildings, b) condition of the buildings, c) actual equipment, and d) maintenance
routines developed in the school.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of this project is considered to be important in the following aspects:
* The learning and teaching conditions improved as a result of a better articulation between the
conceptual structure of the curriculum and its application through an active pedagogy aiming at
enhancing student knowledge and developing attitudes and values adapted to the social, cultural and
environmental context. Active methodologies were actually used in 76% of classrooms, especially
through teamwork which favored social integration, participative attitudes, and respect for differences
among students.
*   There was a stronger commitment from civil society towards education in general, and an increased
responsibility from parents in the supervision of their children's education. One of the most important
achievements with the community was the school maintenance program whose objective was to
increase the useful life of school infrastructure and to protect its investment value. The program
succeeded in applying preventive maintenance through minor repairs and restorations with strong
community involvement.
*   The rural education networks were effectively used as management models for the articulation,
participation and optimization of the financial, human, pedagogical and administrative resources.
- 12 -



Networks shared resources among schools with similar goals and needs as a strategy to increase
coverage and equity in the rural sector. They also promoted participation, communication and
autonomy skills. The rural schools pilot networks came in as a preparation activity for the upcoming
project.
*   The Management Information System: focused on the systematic collection and use of education
statistics and the geographical mapping of schools.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
*   Fiscal problems - The global economic crisis affected the macroeconomic situation in Peru. In 1999
and 2000 the Ministry of Finance significantly reduced the flow of funds to all investment projects,
including this one. As a result, the project was extended twice (until June 2001) and part of the loan
was canceled. It was impossible to accelerate disbursements because all Bank projects in Peru were
affected by the budgetary limits (on counterpart funds and foreign resources) enforced as a result of the
IMF standby agreement.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
a   Peru's difficult political context - Given the frequent political changes at the beginning of the project
implementation period, the MOE remained largely in a standby mode, which slowed down the
launching of project activities. Frequent turnover of key MOE personnel created a tense environment
affecting the productivity of the members of the project implementation team. The fact that not enough
attention had been paid to political risks in the project design phase led to an absence of corrective
measures when problems arose due to the lack of commitment and absence of clear education policies
of successive administrations. Project implementation suffered from delays and a lack of decision at
important moments.
-   Centralism  - Originally, implementation of the project was to be linked to the effective
decentralization of key education management processes. It was planned, for example, that the project
would assist in increasing public school autonomy and accountability by transferring the financial,
administrative and pedagogical responsibility for school management from the provincial units of the
MOE directly to the schools, and decentralizing some central functions to the provincial units. But in
reality the provincial units participated only in the distribution of textbooks following detailed
instructions from the MOE. Similarly, for the teacher training programs, the selection of participating
institutions was done at the central level, which explains why there was no training in the poorest and
furthest departments. The decentralization efforts were stopped and, in some cases, reverted during the
project period, reflecting the fact that Peru continues to be characterized by a culture of strong
centralism. Also, when the country faced fiscal problems in 1999 and 2000, the few resources available
were assigned by the Government to other sectors where visible results could be achieved more rapidly.
*   Multiplicity of Institutional Actors, added to the lack of leadership in some departments within
MOE, was a source of difficulty which adversely affected project implementation - The fact that
several institutions (OINFE, INFES and SENCICO) reporting to different government authorities were
involved in the infrastructure component restrained the capacity of the implementing agency to
coordinate and execute. Within the MOE itself, project implementation was often hampered by the
bureaucratic procedures of the public service, which led the UPC to take sometimes a more proactive
role at the detriment of the line departments. The implementation of the modernization component
suffered from the multiplicity of actors and the complexity of procedures which made coordination
- 13-



difficult and resulted in delays.
*   The two-tier education structure - In Peru, the Ministry of the Presidency is the entity in charge of
paying teachers. And through INFES is responsible for the infrastructure of the education sector; and
MOE designs and implements education policies. This fragmented structure made it difficult for the
project implementing agency (within MOE) to coordinate and operate as effectively as it could have
had within a unified education structure.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
*   Performance of the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) - The establishment and consolidation of a
PCU contributed substantially to the effective implementation of the project. The Unit coordinated well
among the different departments of MOE involved in the implementation of project activities and also
provided some institutional continuity for the project, thereby reducing significantly the negative impact
of frequent personnel changes in the Ministry.
*   Administrative aspects that hampered the implementation of the project - (i) disbursement
procedures - the PCU faced difficulties in complying with Bank disbursement norms and procedures,
especially in the preparation of SOEs; and, (ii) procurement procedures and technical specifications -
OrNFE and INFES had to harmonize Bank procurement guidelines for school construction with the
country's own procedures, which caused significant implementation delays for that component. The
school furniture sub-component was also delayed because of difficulties in writing technical
specifications appropriate for the reality and capacities of Peruvian firns.
-   Technical decisions that affected the implementation of the project: use of the student assessment
results - Because of MOE's resistance and an overall political reluctance, the results of the student
assessment tests were only published in the last year of project implementation. Not having this
information deprived the project from useful feedback and impeded the reorientation of some of the
project's quality improvement components. Moreover, by not making the results available the MOE
lost the opportunity to start a public debate with education specialists outside the government and
parents that could have contributed to the implementation of the project.
5.4 Costs and financing:
Project Costs by Components in US$ million)
Project component         Appraisal Estimate    Revised   Actual/latest Estimate
Infrastructure improvement      121.8         121.6           117.7
Improving Educational quality    88.1          98.1           96.8
Institutional Development        44.0          53.2           54.5
Physical Contingencies           15.8
Price Contingencies              28.9
Total                           298.6         272.8          269.0
The total estimated cost of the Project was initially US$298.6 million, including physical and price
contingencies (US$146.4 (49%) IBRD Loan and US$152.2 (51%) local counterpart funds). But in 2000
the Peruvian government decided to reduce the IBRD loan by US$20.7 million, and counterpart funds by
US$5.1 million, which represented a revised total amount of US$272.8. Final project cost was US$269.0
million, of which USS 117.7 (43.8%) was for infrastructure improvement, US$96.8 (36.0%) was for
improving educational quality, and US$54.5 (20.3%) for institutional development. On October 29, 2001,
the undisbursed amount of US$3,491,684.23 was cancelled.
- 14 -



Between 1997 and 1998 the project encountered difficulties in mobilizing counterpart funds due to the
fiscal crisis and disbursements slowed down as a result. Disbursements picked up significantly in 1998 and
1999, reaching US$41,198 million in 1999.
Compared to the original plan, the share of loan resources in total project expenditures went down from
49% to 45.4% as a consequence of the 2000 reduction in loan amount. At the end of the project, 90% of
the planned resources had been disbursed. Despite the fiscal problems, a significant achievement of the
project in terms of sustainability is that the Government has committed sufficient national resources
(US$13.27) to provide funding for the quality improvement components beyond the project duration
(Annex 2c).
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
There are a number of factors that are likely to help guarantee the sustainability of the project:
Political Change. Even though it is early to confinn whether the recent political transition in Peru will
create an environment of political stability, conditions are very different today. The new government has
given strong signals in favor of continuing the activities needed to sustain the positive impact of the
investments supported by the project, as indicated by the medium and long term sectorial plans presented to
Congress.
Pedagogical Strengths. The following aspects are likely to be strong factors of sustainability: (i)
consistency in terms of new curriculum, teacher training and textbooks; (ii) innovative constructivist focus
which encourages the teaching of basic competencies; (iii) information campaigns to involve parents more
in their children's education; and, (iv) systematization of training programs for administrators, principals
and teachers, which is a major factor of quality improvement and has multiplier effects.
Managerial Expertise. MOE staff have gained a lot of technical know how during the implementation of
the first project. Maintenance of the same Project Coordination Unit for the implementation of the second
project (under preparation) will guarantee that the advances made are protected, provided that key
personnel are kept in place.
Participation of Civil Society Institutions in Project Implementation. One of the project's major
innovations was to involve civil society, through institutions such as the public and private universities,
education associations and NGOs, in the implementation of several components. It contributed to the
success of these components and also to capacity building in the country at large.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Second Primary Education Quality Project - The implementation of the Rural Education and Teacher
Development Project (MECEP II) will undoubtedly guarantee the sustainability of many aspects of the first
project. The preparation of the second project takes the achievements and difficulties of the Primary
Education Quality Project into full consideration.
Outlook for Education Sector Reform. The project under review and the SAL have planted the seeds for
sector-wide reform by starting to raise key issues affecting education development, including: (i) the
two-tier structure of the education system (as discussed in section 5.2); (ii) the unfinished decentralization
process; (iii) the limits to school autonomy; and, (iv) the need to analyze and disseminate the results of the
leaming achievement assessment tests.
-15-



Institutionalization. In as much as the project was implemented by MOE line departments and the PCU
will continue with the responsibility of implementing the new project, very little transition arrangements are
necessary.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation and appraisal phases of the project are
considered satisfactory. The project was prepared within the framework of the 1994 CAS which aimed
specifically to assist the government in formulating and implementing a poverty alleviation strategy,
providing social services for the poor, and improving existing social programs. Wide participation from
community organizations and other non-governmental organizations was encouraged during project
preparation. The Bank's own preparation team had a lot of experience in the design and implementation of
similar projects. It put in place a strong technical design integrating all the key dimensions of an effective
quality improvement strategy (school infrastructure and environment, curriculum reform, teacher training,
pedagogical materials, school management with community participation). However, the Bank team did not
fully understand the specific challenges of the Peruvian context, which explains why several project
objectives were not achieved because the proposed measures, such as school autonomy, the voucher system
for teacher training, and decentralization, were not embedded in the local political reality. What was also
missing was a comprehensive statistical baseline to be able to monitor the project's achievements.
7.2 Supervision:
Overall, Bank performance is rated as satisfactory because there was close and regular monitoring of
project issues throughout the years of implementation. The technical relationship between the Bank and
MOE was even stronger during the last three years of project implementation with the in-country presence
of the task manager. It should be stressed that project implementation happened in a highly politicized
context, with a lot of special interests involved, which made supervision all the more challenging.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance.
The Bank performance can be considered as satisfactory. The Bank showed a lot of flexibility in times of
economic and political crisis and played a role of mediator among some of the Peruvian institutions
involved in project implementation, which facilitated the search for solutions and adjustments. At the same
time, it is felt that the Bank could have been more firm in negotiating action plans to bring implementation
and disbursements back on track. The Bank could have insisted more on compliance with the
decentralization plan as agreed during Negotiations. One could also argue that the Bank could have taken
advantage of the long delay between Board approval and effectiveness (from November 1994 to July 1996)
to require changes in conformity with the evolution of country conditions. But it is fair to recognize that
the possibilities of dialogue with the new administration at the time of loan effectiveness were very limited
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The performance of MOE during identification and preparation of the project was satisfactory. The fact
that all actors relied on the 1993 General Diagnosis of the Education System was a major positive factor
that permitted to involve all departments of the Ministry and to reach consensus on the main issues faced
by the sector with all stakeholders.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Throughout the implementation of the project the country found itself in an unstable political situation
- 16 -



which negatively affected the leadership of the MOE and its capacity to make key decisions.
Because of the two-tier structure of the education system, institutional coordination among the MOE, the
Ministry of the Presidency and the Ministry of Finance was important for smooth project implementation.
Unfortunately, coordination among these entities remained below expectations throughout the duration of
the project.
One of the positive outcomes of the project was to achieve the full commitment of the Ministry of Finance
to guarantee the necessary level of counterpart resources to continue supporting the quality improvement
components in 2001 and 2002 after the closure of the project. This should be a major factor of
sustainability.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Project Coordination Unit (PCU) did an excellent job facilitating the work of the different actors
involved in the implementation of the project. This unit played a crucial role in maintaining the project
together when the MOE went through difficult stages of instability. The PCU also managed to
institutionalize the project within the MOE, giving each department involved in the implementation a sense
of belonging and ownership.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, the borrower's performance was partially satisfactory, reflecting a mixed performance in the
following way:
*   Successful implementation of the Quality Improvement component which introduced genuine changes
in curriculum content and pedagogical methods, with direct positive results in terms of learning
achievements. The Government has set aside $US7.2 million to continue supporting this component
after project closure.
-   Weak participation of the MOE in the implementation of the Infrastructure component, even though the
level of disbursements was high.
3   Insufficient achievements in the Institutional Development component, especially in the decentralization
aspects, reflecting the absence of political will and the MOE's ambivalent attitude toward school
autonomy.
8. Lessons Learned
The Ministry of Education and the Bank evaluated together the positive and negative results in order to
improve future operations in Peru. The most important lessons were:
*   The importance of considering the political and administrative context of projects in order to
minimize the risks of transition or administration changes. The project implementation team
worked well within the normal structure of the MOE. Many difficulties emerged during project
implementation because of the multiplicity of extemal actors involved in the infrastructure component.
The governmnent needs to simplify the institutional arrangements governing the planning and
implementation of school infrastructure projects in order to improve their technical quality and reduce
their financial cost. The Project Coordination Unit was effective in sustaining a high level of
commitment among Ministry officials and focused well on its coordination role, which greatly reduced
the number of conflicts with line departments, thereby saving time and resources.
*   The importance of developing an evaluation culture among staff at different levels. (MOE, regional
- 17-



institutions, and local community), and the need to establish a baseline at the beginning of the project
for evaluation purposes, in order to make the results understandable and acceptable, and to inform
decision making. The national student assessment system requires to be further developed. The
insufficient results achieved in terms of acceptance and use of the achievement test results point at the
need for additional work. It is recommended to implement a sensitization campaign to generate
awareness of the usefulness of such tests and support for their application as a diagnosis tool at all
levels (MOE, 10, schools, parents).
*   The need to focus on the school autonomy concept in an operational way. The School need to learn
to prepare and implement educational improvement plans in an effective way: The relevance of PDIs as
a developmental tool for schools has to be evaluated. The evaluation seems to show that PDIs do not
encourage the expected school autonomy. A more systematic evaluation is recommended.
*   Gradual approach in implementation of major reforms. To achieve a better integration of the
various components during implementation, it would have been necessary to rely on gradual
interventions and pilot experiences, considering that full-scale successful interventions require ample
time for capacity building.
o   Improvement in the quality of training institutions and programs.  The approach used by
PLANCAD and PLANCGED, which consisted in selecting the providers of teacher and management
training programs through open competition, had a very positive effect on the institutional capacity of
these providers and on the quality of their programs. The only limiting factors were the concentration
of providers in the Lima area and the rigidity in terms of program requirements imposed by the MOE.
A more decentralized and flexible approach could be even more effective.
-   Financing of the quality improvement component with national counterpart funds. Very often in
Bank projects, financing of the quality-related components is reserved for Bank funding for fear of
insufficient counterpart funds. In this project, however, even though the bulk of Bank funding went to
the infrastructure component (62%) and the share of Bank funding in the quality improvement
component was less than 14%, which generated a considerable amount of skepticism about the likely
outcomes of the project implementation, the government not only contributed the planned resources but
managed to inject additional resources equivalent to 10% of the component's total.
*   Importance of a unified education system. One of the major difficulties faced by the project was the
absence of a single authority in charge of defining and implementing education policies and regulations
for the entire education system. The Ministry of Presidency is responsible for administering the career
and remuneration of teachers, pedagogical aspects come under the authority of the Ministry of
Education, and school infrastructure is managed by a third government agency. This creates a
segmentation of the system which hinders the proper functioning of the system. Identification of this
problem during project implementation has helped the government become aware of the necessity to
carry out important reforns, for example the transfer of responsibilities for the management of teachers
to the Ministry of Education and the establishment of adequate information systems to monitor the
actual distribution of teachers throughout the country. These reforms were implemented in 2001
through the Bank's Structural Adjustment Loan.
*   Need for stronger supervision and monitoring mechanisms to ensure that the project design and
objectives are adhered to during project implementation. The implementation experience of this
project shows that it is very difficult to monitor and control, as much from the Bank's standpoint as
- 18 -



from the country's own perspective, changes in the components, scope, targets and implementation
modalities of the project. As far as the Bank is concerned, regular supervision instruments do not
always permit to apply the level of firmness that is sometimes needed to protect the integrity of project
design from undue political influences and changes. On the government side, it would be valuable to
have independent monitoring mechanisms that could guarantee compliance with the technical and legal
agreements with the Bank. Taking this dimension into consideration is especially important when there
is a long delay between loan approval and project effectiveness, as occurred with this project. The
challenge is to decide how much to push for adherence to the original design and how much flexibility
to sectorial and political changes can be allowed.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The government's contribution to this document is included in Annex 9.
In general, there is full agreement with regards to the figures / data therein, as well as to the
achievement of project objectives, physical targets and financial goals. Most comments on the
major issues, lessons learned, and performance of the Borrower and the Bank match those set
forth by the Bank in this ICR.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable
10. Additional Information
Not applicable
- 19-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome/impact Indicators
Indicator                   Baseline 1993                 Actual (1999)
Initial Diagnostic as part as
the project preparation
Preschool coverage                         78.5%                         82.4%
Primary enrollment*                      3,913,601                     4,282,819
Dropout                                    14.6%                         10.4%
Repetition                                 6.1%                          4.4%
*Between 1993 y 1999, enrollments grew by 9.4% whereas the 6 to 11 age group increased by 2.5%, which
explains the improvement in coverage.
Output indicators
Component                       Indicators                    Projected in    Revised in   Actual/Latest
SAR /or Loan   July 1997/     Estimate
Agreement      or 1999
Improving        Curriculums improved and evaluated                  10             6             6
Educational      Principals and teachers trained*                  126,331       121,791       144,300
Quality          Textbooks distributed                            5,398,432     2,558,145     1,500,197
Workbooks distributed                           13,274,174    24,033,088    26,548,839
Pedagogical guides distributed                   240,143       1,122,557     1,247,599
Non printed material module                      122,128       170,921       182,646
Library materials modules distributed            122,128       164,278       172,240
Modernization of  Government officers receiving training at central  300          1,335         954
Educational      level in management issues
Administration   Government officers receiving training at regional  2,400        5,650         1,993
level in management issues
Training of principals -presencial-               38,287        10,000        8,938
Training of principals -a distancia-               n.a.         6,800         5,663
Systems in operation                               27             5             9
Nodes installed at central level                   70            100           749
Nodes installed at decentralized levels            344           440          3,601
Government officers receiving training at central  650           500           1,005
level in management information system.
Government officers receiving training at regional  5,558       5,650         1,679
level in management information system
National student assessment -                       3             2             5
Final administrations tests                         2             5             3
Report of result                                    0             2             14
Dissemination workshops                             3             24            37
Infrastructure   Number of classrooms constructed and rehabilitated  4,200        3,584         3,573
Improvement      Schools benefited                                  1,750          448           442
Classrooms equipped                               4,200         3,584          3,680
Classrooms with bookshelves                       98,260        25,000        14,694
Geographical system information                     1              I             I
Cadastre Departments legally sanitized              25                          23
School maintenance manuals                        25,000        105,084       63,566
*The SAR established as indicator 126,331 directors and teachers trained, in 1999 the supervision mission
determinates specific goals as follows: 5,000 principals trained and 116,791 teachers.
- 20 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 2a: Project Costs by Com onents ( in U.S.$ million eq uivalent)
Project Component          Appraisal    Revised   Actual/latest    % of        % of
Estimate s/g              Estimate    Appraisal   Revised
SAR
Improving Educational Quality       88.1        98.1          96.8       110%         99%
Institutional Development           44.0        53.2          54.5       124%        103%
Infrastructure improvement         121.8       121.6         117.7        97%         97%
Physical Contingencies              15.8                                     0         0%
Price Contingencies                 28.9                                     0         0%
TOTAL                              298.6       272.8         269.0        90%         99%
Annex 2b: P oject Costs by Procurement Arrangements (in US$ million equivalent)
Categories     Procurement method Appraisal estimate   Procurement method Latest /revised estimate
ICB   NCB   OTHER   NBF   TOTAL    ICB    NCB   OTHE  NBF   TOTAL
R
WORKS                 76.2    41.0            117.2      0.0   104.5    2.8    0.0   107.3
GOODS                 21.7    12.1   54.5    88.3    16.5         5.6    3.3   59.9    85.2
SERVICES                       26.8   58.9    85.7       0.0      0.0   23.2   49.9    73.2
MISC                                    7.4     7.4      0.0      0.0    0.0    3.7       3.7
TOTAL          0.0   97.9    79.9  120.8   298.6    16.5   110.1   29.3  113.5   269.5
Annex 2c: Project Financin by Components (in U.S.$ million equivalent) -Primary Education Project
Total         PARI-PASU                                   Execution
Components       SAR        BIRF          Local        BIRF         Counterpart, local   Total Local    Total
(US$)   (US$)  0/0  (US$)  %    (US$)   %/o   (US$)    (US$)   (US$)   %
Educational      103.0     2.0   2%   101.0  98%      6.2    6%       83.4      7.2      90.5   94%    96.8
Quality
Modemizationof   49.6    23.5  47%   26.1  53%    23.8   44%          30.7               30.7   56%    54.5
Educational
Administration
Infrastructure  145.9   120.8  83%   25.1  17%    92.1   78%          25.6              25.6  22%   117.7
Improvement   i                  _  L   _____
T  TOA L   1 298.6    146.4  49%   152.2 l 51%   122.2   45%      139.7      7.2    146.9  55%   269.0
(1) KfW
- 21 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable
- 22 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
#1  11/24/93                8   Education Planner, Education
Spec., Costing Spec.,
Decentralization Spec.,
Institutional Strengthening Spec.,
MIS Spec., Student Assessment
Spec., Decentralization Spec.
#2 02/11/94                 9   Education Planner, Education
Spec., Project Costing Spec.,
Decentralization Spec., Project
Costing Spec., Consultants, Mmt.
Information System Spec.,
Architect
Appraisal/Negotiation
#1 03/17/94                 2   Education Planner,
Education Spec.
#2 04/28/94                 10   Education Planner, Education
Spec., Consultant,
Decentralization Spec.,
Institutional Strengtening Spec.,
Impact Evaluation Spec. &
Mgmt. Information System Spec.
Architect, Student Assessment
Spec.
#3 04/29/94                10   Education Planner, Education
Spec., Costing Spec.,
Decentralization Spec.,
Institutional Strengthening
Spec., Impact Evaluation Spec.,
M.4gmt. Information System
Spec., Architect, Student
Assessment Spec.
#4 07/01/94                 6   Education Planner, Education
Spec., Costing Spec., Impact
Evaluation Spec., Student
Assessment Spec.
#5 12/09/94                 2   Division Chief, Education
Planner
#6 03/18/95                 1   Infrastructure Spec.
#7 09/28/95                 3   Division Chief, Education
Planner, Infrastructure Spec.
Supervision
#1 05/01/95                  -  Not applicable                      S             S
#2 06/26/95                  -  Not applicable                      S             S
#3 03/21/96                  6   Education Planner, Engineer,       U             U
- 23 -



Consultants
#4 06/25/96                   -  Not applicable                       U             U
#5 01/17/97                  2   Project Officer, Education Spec.     U              S
#6 07/4/97                    8   Implementation Spec., Sr.           S             HS
Education Spec., Sr. Operations
Officer, Ed. Spec., Information
Spec., Admin. Spec.,
Infrastructure Spec., Education
Materials Spec.
#7  10/24/97                  3   Operations Officer, Training        S              S
Officer, Implementation Spec.
#8 06/12/98                   8   Operations Officer, Projects        S              S
Oficer, Public Sector Spec.,
Infrastructure Spec., Education
Spec., Public Education Spec.,
Education Spec.
#9  11/6/98                   6   Operations Officer, Projects        S              S
Officer, Public Sector Spec.,
Infrastructure Spec., Consultant,
Education Spec
#10 02/18/99                  1   Operations Officer                  S              S
#11 06/18/99                  -  n/a                                  S              S
#12 08/26/99                  6   Operations Office, Operations       S              S
Spec., Infrastructure Spec.,
Project Assistant, Consultant,
Education Spec.
#13 05/05/00                  -  n/a                                  S              S
#14 06/09/00                  6   Sr. Social Sector Spec.,            S              S
Education Spec., Education
Materials Spec., Education Spec.,
Insfrastructure Spec., Operations
Consultant
#15 11/17/00                  3   Sr. Social Sector Spec.,            S              S
Education Spec., Education
Materials Spec., Education Spec.
ICR
#1 05/15/01                  2    Sr. Social Sector Spec.,            S              S
Education Spec.
#2 11/03/01                  1    Education Spec.                     S              S
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks               US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                52.9                      122,700
Appraisal/Negotiation                     30.4                       72,000
Supervision                              155.6                      346,281
ICR                                        8.7                       14,244
Total                                    247.6                      555,225
- 24 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OMacro policies                           OH   OSUOM  O N  * NA
OSector Policies                          O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
Z Physical                                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Financial                               O H  *SUOM  ON  O NA
O Institutional Development               0 H  0 SU * M  0 N  0 NA
FEnvironmental                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
ZPovertv Reduction                 O H  OSU*M  ON  O NA
O Gender                           O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
E Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Private sector development              0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management                0 H  O SUO M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)                  0 H  O SU O M  0 N  * NA
- 25 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HIU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
N Lending                                            OHS *@S OU OHU
N Supervision                                        O HS * S  O  U  O HU
Z1 Overall                                           OHS OS  O  U  O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
@ Preparation                                        O HS *S   O u  O HU
X Government implementation performance              0 HS * S  0  U  0 HU
Z Implementation agency performance                  O HS * S  O  U  O HU
Z Overall                                            OHS OS  0 U O HU
- 26 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Study                             Abstract                  T      Author       Year
LENDING
General Education      Assess the education system                     MOE and Bank   1993
Assessment
Institutional Assessment:  Identify the institutional capacity at the regional and   MOE and Bank   1994
Regional and Local levels local level to develop the activities proposed by the    staff
project
IMPLEMENTATION
Streamlining Strategy  Identify the procedures to improve the achievements of Arthur Andersen  1997
(first step)           the MOE according to its nature and social objectives S.A.
Technical and Institutional Procedures analysis to define improvement quality    Arthur Andersen  1997
Procedures Analysis    services                                        S.A.
Strategic plan for data    Institutional assessment for systems development plan CORISERV  1997
collection and                                                          S.A.
management systems.
File system hardware   Application Description                         M+S               1997
Consultores S.R.
Ltda.
Data base for in service   Application Description                     CORISERV          1997
training school programs                                               S.A.
Student assessment system Test design, and hardware development for    Asociaci6n Civil  1998
management student assessment system            Grupo de
Analisis para el
Desarrollo -
GRADE
GPS data base          Application Description                         GMD S.A.          1998
Legal data base -      Application Description                         Editora Normas   1998
COMPULEG                                                               Legales S.A.
Evaluation of bonus    Criteria definition for the bonus system management  Instituto APOY    1999
system to rural teachers
EVALUATION PHASE
Evaluation Project Study  Goals project 's verification on field       Instituto         1998
APOYO
Institutional assessment   Additional Data analysis for the CRECER test results Asoc. Grupo  1999
and correlation coefficient with development    Analisis para el
objective's project                             Desarrollo -
GRADE
Improvement school     Management enhancement for the ISP in order to   Escuela de       1999
training programs      improve the school training programs offered by these Administration
entities                                        de Negocios para
Graduados -
ESAN
- 27 -



Supply and demand study Main needs for improving quality in the primary  Instituto      1999
for up-grading school  education sector related with in the teacher education  APOYO S.A.
teachers and cost-     system
effectiveness.
Improvement procedures: Analysis of the main problems related with the  Grupo Analisis   2000
Curriculum development  activities conceming curriculum development and  para el
and instructional material instructional material design, in order to propose  Desarrollo -
different mechanisms to improve them           GRADE
Designing and developing Pilot program aimed to improve rural primary  Instituto       2001
a program for rural    education by developing special human resources  APOYO
teachers               management for rural teachers
Impact Evaluation Study  Analysis information related with modifications  Instituto    2001
obtained in the learning and teaching activities due to  APOYO S.A.
the project
- 28 -



Additional Annex 8. Infrastructure Improvement
Number of schools bv department and poverty level N ith neNs or rehabilitated classrooms
Department    Region    Poverty lecel   Preschool    Primary Classrooms_    Total
News  1Relhabilitated Classrooms       %
Classroomn 
s
Amazonas         Selva     Extreme             8          3 7          ()          45          1.26%
Poverty                   |          _
Ancash           Costa    Poverty              27 i       134          13          174        4.87%
Apurimac         Sierra    Extrcme Ploverty     2         4S           29          89         2.49%
Arequipa         Costa     Others              73         7 iS                     105        2.94%
Ayacucho         Sierra    Extreme Povertol    I1         59           l0          80         2.24%
Cajamarca        Sierra    Extreme Povert1    29    1   151    !                   188        5.26%
Cuzco            Sierra    Extreme Povertv,   24          137          36          197        5.51%
Huanuco          Selva     Extrcme Povertv,    1-7        103                      125        3.50%
Huancavelica     Sierra    Extreme Poverty    10    t    54             7           w]         1.99%
Ica              Costa     Others         i _9                       4i            169         4.73%
Junin            Sierra    Others s            20         161                      199         5.57%
La Libertad      Costa     Others              37 =       )4o  ----_-   304                    8.51%
Lambayeque       Costa     Others              24         162    _    1-.      !   198         5.54%
Lima            Costa      Others              9_5 ___-             _ 11           767        21.47%
Loreto           Selva     Poverty             2           12    t_I               i5         0.42%
Madre de Dios   Selva      Poverty                                                  Li 1    -   0.00%
Moquegua        Costa      Others                          -0                                  0.00%
Pasco            Sierra    Povertv                        213                       26         0.73%
r   >  @        t        -t-          + ---__  I -- -- r
Piura           Costa     Others          l                            'I 17il     219         6.13%
Puno             Sicrra   1Extreme Ploxert\1   t     !    1 25                     2 298       8.34%
l ~      ~~~ l                        -  --    ----             -- - -_--
San Martin       Selva     Poverty                        '  18   ____    __ )     148         4.14%
Tacna           Costa      Others         l    3__ .  t                0 _          20         0.56%
Tumbes          Costa      Others              3_ 3        17          0            20         0.56%
Ucayali          Selva     Poverty        i    14          84     l       8         116        3.25%
Total                  _         __  _    1468           2,709   1    396      1  3.573       100.00%
13%        76k     I   I
- 29 -



Additional Annex 9. Partner Comments
Antecedentes
El Ministerio de Educaci6n (MED) inicio en 1995, sobre la base del Diagn6stico General de la Educaci6n
Diagn6stico General de la Educaci6n (1993), Ministerio de Educaci6n, BIRF, PNUD, GTZ y
UNESCO-OREALC. y de las necesidades que alli se sefialaban, el programa de Mejoramiento de la
Calidad de la Educaci6n Peruana (MECEP) que abarca desde la articulaci6n de la educaci6n inicial con la
primaria hasta la educaci6n para el trabajo. El Programa de Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educaci6n
Primaria que cont6 con financiamiento del Prestamo 3826-PE, suscrito con el Banco Intemacional de
Reconstrucci6n y Fomento (BIRF), constituy6 el inicio de este esfuerzo.
El monto inicial del prestamo fue de USD 146.4 millones, sin embargo el mismo se redujo a USD 125.7
millones luego de que el Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas (MEF) devolviera al BIRF USD 20.7 millones
en el anio 2000. El Programa cont6 ademas con el co-financiamiento del Kreditanstalt fir Wiederaufbau
(KfW) por DM 15 millones (equivalente a USD 7.6 millones de los cuales a junio se us6 el equivalente a
USD 7.2 millones) y del Tesoro Publico por USD 139.7 millones.
Evaluaci6n de los objetivos, diseiio e implementaci6n
El objetivo original general planteado en el SAR, que se termin6 de preparar en noviembre de 1994, fue
incrementar la calidad de la educaci6n primaria puiblica para mejorar los logros de los estudiantes y reducir
la incidencia de la repetici6n y la deserci6n de los estudiantes de ese nivel educativo. Ademas se consider6
como meta el fortalecimiento de la capacidad de gesti6n del MED  y de las escuelas debido a que
constituyen un factor clave para lograr el mejoramiento de la calidad de la educaci6n.
Los objetivos especificos fueron: a) mejorar las condiciones de ensefianza en las aulas de educaci6n
primaria; b) fortalecer la gesti6n en las escuelas publicas; c) mejorar la capacidad de monitoreo y gesti6n
de las autoridades centrales, departamentales y locales; y d) mejorar la infraestructura educativa.
En el Convenio de Prestamo, suscrito en diciembre de 1995, se propone como objetivo del Programa
incrementar la calidad de la educaci6n primaria publica para mejorar los logros de los estudiantes y reducir
la incidencia de la repetici6n y la deserci6n de los estudiantes de ese nivel educativo.
Estos objetivos, que respondian al diagn6stico de 1993 estuvieron bien planteados y se mantuvieron hasta
el final del proyecto, sin embargo en el disefio se subestim6 la importancia de la "voluntad politica" para
implementar algunos de ellos de la manera como se concibieron inicialmente, esto fue asi fundamentalmente
en aquellos relacionados con la gesti6n tanto a nivel de las escuelas como a nivel de los 6rganos de
gobiemo del sector. Los parrafos que siguen muestran como se fueron modificando las metas en el
transcurso de la implementaci6n a fin de cumplir con los objetivos trazados. Tres momentos importantes,
debido a que implicaron cambios en metas que se reflejaron en cambios en indicadores de desempenio, son
la Misi6n de septiembre de 1995, que se realizara antes que se diera el primer desembolso, la Misi6n de
Supervisi6n de agosto 1997 y la Misi6n de Revisi6n del Cronograma de Desembolsos de febrero de 1999.
Componente 1: Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educaci6n con tres subcomponentes
Subcomponente Consolidaci6n Curricular, su objetivo era ajustar el curriculo vigente mejorando la relaci6n
de los contenidos entre grados y al interior de los grados y haciendolo mas flexible, diversificado y
adecuado a la diversidad cultural y social del pais. Se proponia completar el ajuste realizado en los
- 30 -



curriculos de inicial-5afios, primer y segundo grado, ajustando los de tercero a sexto grado y el de escuelas
unidocentes.
Los objetivos planteados para este subcomponente en el Convenio de Prestamo son los mismos. Sin
embargo, estos se modificaron, por acuerdo con el Banco en 1997 cuando se revis6 la matriz de
indicadores, estableciendose como metas el mejoramiento y evaluaci6n de los 6 curriculos correspondientes
a los 6 grados de educaci6n primaria.
Logros del subcomponente: se disefiaron, experimentaron y generalizaron los curriculos para los 6 grados
de primaria, las estructuras curriculares impresas fueron distribuidas a nivel nacional. Se viene trabajando
en el fortalecimiento de la gesti6n pedag6gica del docente y la consolidaci6n del proceso de evaluaci6n de
los aprendizajes.
Subcomponente Materiales Educativos, debia distribuir un texto integrado y el cuademo de trabajo
correspondiente a cada alumno de primer y segundo grado (incluyendo a los de escuelas unidocentes y
multigrado). A los alumnos de tercero a sexto (excluyendo a los de escuelas unidocentes y multigrado) se
les entregaria un texto integrado a cada uno y su correspondiente cuademo de trabajo mas un cuademo de
trabajo de matematicas. Los alumnos de escuelas unidocentes recibirian dos textos integrados que
incorporarian el cuademo de trabajo correspondiente, uno de lengua y uno de matemAticas. Cada docente
recibiria una guia didactica relacionada a los textos y cuademos de trabajo distribuidos. Ademas debia
distribuirse bibliotecas y materiales didacticos no impresos para cada aula de primaria. En el Convenio se
agrega el disenio de una estrategia para alcanzar la excelencia en la provision de educaci6n primaria,
incluyendo la implementacion de centros educativos modelo.
En febrero de 1999 al modificarse los costos por subcomponentes del Programa, durante la Mision de
Revisi6n del Cronograma de Desembolsos, se plantea a) la distribuci6n de: 2.558.145 textos (uno por cada
4 alumnos), de 24.033.088 cuadernos de trabajo, de 1.122.557 guias para docentes, de 170.921 m6dulos de
material didactico y de 164.278 m6dulos de biblioteca de aula y b) el desarrollo de 3 instrumentos de apoyo
pedag6gico.
Logros del subcomponente: a) la distribuci6n de: 1.500.197 textos de personal social y ciencia y ambiente
para 50 y 60 grado de primaria, de 26.548.839 cuademos de trabajo, de 1.274.599 guias para docentes, de
182.246 m6dulos de material didactico y de 172.240 m6dulos de biblioteca de aula y b) el desarrollo de 4
instrumentos de apoyo pedag6gico.
Subcomponente Capacitaci6n Docente para fortalecer las competencias de los docentes en metodos de
ensefianza centrados en los alumnos y en el manejo de aula y de los directores en metodos de supervision
pedag6gica. Este subcomponente debia, ademas, disefiar e implementar un sistema de vouchers para
financiar la participaci6n de los docentes en cursos y seminarios de capacitaci6n ofrecidos por las
universidades e institutos pedag6gicos publicos y privados.
Estos objetivos se plantean tanto en el SAR como en el Convenio de Prestamo. Las metas que se
establecieron en 1999 fueron: informar a 18.746 directores, capacitar a 5.000 directores y a 116.351
docentes, capacitar a 440 unidocentes, realizar 5 seminarios de orientaci6n a las Direcciones Regionales,
25 seminarios de informaci6n y 20 seminarios de evaluaci6n a los Entes ejecutores encargados de la
capacitaci6n disefiar un sistema de capacitaci6n permanente y hacer una prueba piloto con 17.000
docentes.
Logros del subcomponente: se inform6 a 13.308 directores, se capacit6 a 10.042 directores y a 134.258
- 31 -



docentes, a traves de 44 seminarios de inforrnaci6n v 33 seminarios de evaluacion a los Entes Ejecutores
encargados de la capacitaci6n.
Componente 2: Modernizaci6n de la Administraci6n Educativa con cuatro subcomponentes:
Subcomponente Modemizaci6n de la Gesti6n, tanto en el SAR como en el Convenio se plantea Ilevar a
cabo una auditoria de gesti6n proftinda que pernitiera identificar los cambios necesarios y definir la nueva
estructura, funciones y procesos en la scde y 6rganos interrnedios teniendo en cuenta las implicancias en la
gesti6n y organizaci6n para delinear una estrategia de reclutamiento y capacitaci6n del personal bajo la
nueva estructura. Ademas. sobre la base de ese diagn6stico se debia acordar la preparaci6n de normas y
regulaciones necesarias.
En 1997 debido a la modificaci6n de la relacion futncional y presupuestal de los 6rganos intermedios con el
MED se acuerda una estrategia diferente de intervencion mediante la cual debia llevarse a cabo la
adecuaci6n institucional en la sede central del Ministerio, en las direcciones de educaci6n de Lima y Callao
(DEL y DEC), en las unidades de servicio educativo (USE) de Lima y un trabajo de reingenieria en ellas.
Debia tambien realizarse la misma labor en las direcciones regionales de educaci6n en todo el pais y se
debia capacitar en gestion a 1.335 funcionarios de la sede central, la DEL, la DEC y las USE de Lirna y a
5.650 funcionario en las regiones de educaci6n.
Logros del subcomponente: se capacit6 en gesti6n a 954 funcionarios de la sede central, la DEL, la DEC y
las USE de Lima y a 1.993 funcionarios cn las regiones de educaci6n. Ademas se equipo a 6rganos
intermedios (fax, equipos de energia, equipos de comunicacion. motos, deslizadores y camionetas)
Subcomponente Implementaci6n de la Gestion de Cen-tros Educativos, inicialmente este componente, tal y
como fue planteado en el SAR, era un plan piloto para promover la autonomia de los centros educativos
publicos lo que implicaba transferir la responsabilidad del manejo financiero, administrativo y pedag6gico
a los centros educativos empezando con 300 de primaria y secundaria en Lima y Cuzco y luego se
expandiria la experiencia gradualmetite. Esto mismo se plantea en el Convenio de Prestamo.
En 1995 se modifica la concepci6n y el nombre del subcomponente y en 1997 se establecen las siguientes
metas: elaborar 2 modelos de gesti6n y aplicarlos en 24 ambitos, capacitar en gesti6n a 10.000 directores
de escuela mediante una estrategia presencial y a L16.000 mediante una estrategia de capacitaci6n a
distancia, realizar 36 seminarios de gesti6n para directares y docentes y elaborar y distribuir 5 manuales de
gesti6n. En 1999 la meta de directores capacitados a distancia se reduce a 6.800.
Logros del subcomponente: se capacit6 en gesti6n a 8.938 directores de escuela mediante una estrategia
presencial y a 5.663 mediante una estrategia de capacitaci6n a distancia, se realizaron 33 seminarios de
gesti6n para directores y docentes, y se elaboraron y (listribuyeron 5 manuales de gesti6n para el director.
Por otro lado se encuentran instaladas 14 redes: Huarochiri - l (San Lorenzo de Quinti), Yauyos - 2
(Ayavirii y Quinches), Loreto - 4 (Santa Clotilde, Geraro Ilen-era, San Luis de Tacsha Curaray y Sapuena
Bagazan), Piura - 2 (Suvo y Montero), Cusco - 2 (Yaurisque y Patacancha) y Madre de Dios -
I(Laberinto). El 2001 (Mayo) se instalo una red en Sullana (Vuichaval) y una en Madre de Dios
(Mazuko).
Subcomponente Sistemas de Informaci6n, los objetivos planteados tanto en el SAR como en el Convenio
fueron: desarrollar 5 sistemas que aVudaran a la gestion y la toma de decisiones tanto a nivel de sede
central como de 6rganos intermedios del sector, dotarlos de los equipos de c6mputo necesarios y capacitar
en su uso a 650 trabajadores de la sede central y a 5.558 trabajadores de los 6rganos intermedios. En 1997
- 32. -



las metas de capacitaci6n se modifican a 500 y 5.650, respectivamente. El cumplimiento de las metas
implico la elaboracion de un plan de datos y sistemas, la construccion de una plataforma tecnol6gica, la
adquisici6n de hardware y software base, la elaboraci6n de las aplicaciones, la elaboraci6n de una
plataforma de administraci6n de la red y la capacitaci6n para el manejo de los sistemas.
Logros del subcomponente: 5 Sistemas Basicos desarrollados: Sistema de Planillas, Sistema de Plazas y
Escalaf6n, Sistema de Administraci6n y Finanzas (BAAN), Sistema del Educando y Soporte Educativo y
Sistema de Tramite Documentario. 4 Sistemas Complementarios: Sistema de Margesi de Bienes, Sistema
de Capacitaci6n Docente, Pagina Web del MED y Memoria Electr6nica del Programa MECEP BIRF.Se
cuenta con el equipo de c6mputo de la Sede Central, y se adquirieron equipos de c6mputo para las
Direcciones Regionales, Direcciones Subregionales, la Sede Central del MED, USES, Institutos Superiores
Pedag6gicos y colegios.Se capacitaron 1.005 funcionarios de la sede central del MED y a 1.679
funcionarios de los 6rganos intermedios.
Subcomponente Sistema de Evaluaci6n del Rendimiento Estudiantil, debia establecer un sistema nacional
de evaluaci6n de los estudiantes, fortalecer las capacidades de evaluaci6n del MED, crear una cultura de
evaluaci6n, aplicar pruebas de matematicas y lenguaje a nifios de cuarto y sexto grado y ademas debia
aplicar pruebas en los centros educativos comprendidos en el plan piloto de autonomia de centros
educativos para hacer seguimiento del impacto de la misma en el rendimiento, difundir los resultados y
estimular tanto la investigacion como la capacitaci6n a nivel universitaria en el tema de evaluaci6n. En el
Convenio no aparece la aplicaci6n de la prueba en los centros educativos del plan piloto de autonomia, las
demas metas se mantienen hasta la culminaci6n del Programa.
Logros del subcomponente: en 1995 y 1996 se tomaron la prueba piloto y la prueba definitiva de 40 de
primaria, y en 1997 y 1998 la Prueba Piloto y Definitiva de 4 y 6 grados de primaria (ambito urbano
solamente) habiendo publicado y difundido los resultados del 98. En Junio del 2000 se tom6 la prueba
piloto a 4 y 60 grado de primaria y la definitiva esta programada para Noviembre del 2001. Por otro lado
se public6 15 Boletines CRECER (6 el anio 2000 y 9 el 2001), ademas del primer numero de la Revista
CRECER el mes de abril del 2000. El informe de los resultados de CRECER 96 ha sido distribuido en
abril del 2001.
Componente 3: Infraestructura Educativa con tres subcomponentes
Subcomponente Sustituci6n y Rehabilitaci6n, se proponia, seguin el SAR financiar la construcci6n de 4.200
aulas y rehabilitaci6n de 1.270. Esta meta se modifica en el Convenio a: la construcci6n de 3.200 aulas y la
rehabilitaci6n de 960 y en 1999 se acuerda construir 3.584 aulas en 448 centros educativos
Logros del subcomponente: durante la ejecuci6n del Programa se atendieron 442 Centros Educativos a
nivel nacional, con 3.177 aulas nuevas (468 para inicial y 2.709 para primaria) y 396 aulas rehabilitadas.
Subcomponente Mobiliario y Equipamiento, inicialmente debia dotar de mobiliario a todas las aulas
construidas, a 30 % de las rehabilitadas. En el Convenio esta meta se precisa en 380 muebles de oficina
para 490 centros educativos y muebles de biblioteca para todas las aulas de primaria. En 1999 las meta
que se fijan son: dotar a 3.584 aulas con el correspondiente mobiliario y a 98.270 aulas con muebles de
biblioteca, esta uiltima meta se reduce a 25.000 muebles debido al recorte del prestamo decidido por el
MEF.
Logros del subcomponente: se dot6 de mobiliario escolar a 3.680 aulas de inicial y primaria. Se adquiri6
14.694 muebles de biblioteca que se estan distribuyendo a igual numero de aulas de Primaria
- 33 -



Subcomponente Consolidaci6n de la OINFE, Mantenimiento de Locales Escolares, los objetivos
establecidos en el SAR para este subcomponente eran: 460 eventos para capacitar a los directores de las
escuelas y a las APAFA, mas adelante se convierten en comites de mantenimiento, en rutinas de
mantenimiento, actualizar 3000 manuales con especificaciones tecnicas de construcci6n de escuelas y
mobiliario de aulas y producir y distribuir 25.000 manuales de mantenimiento. El Convenio de Prestamo
agrega un sistema computarizado que incluya una base de datos, capacitaci6n y otros procedimientos para
la rehabilitaci6n y mantenimiento de escuelas. Finalmente, en 1999 se establecen las siguientes metas:
realizar 2.000 eventos de capacitaci6n en mantenimiento de locales escolares para los comites de
infraestructura que debia conformarse, distribuci6n de 90.000 manuales de mantenimiento de centros
educativos y de 15.084 kits de herramientas.
Mapeo de Centros Educativos y Sistema de Seguimiento de Infraestructura, debia desarrollarse los
sistemas y mantener al dia el catastro de centros educativos puiblicos.
Logros del subcomponente: se ha realizado 2.304 eventos de capacitaci6n en mantenimiento de centros
educativos a traves de SENCICO, capacitandose 13.824 Comites de infraestructura (compuestos por 5
representantes del C.E.), ademAs se han entregado 63.566 manuales de mantenimiento de los cuales 37.810
se han distribuido a otros C.E. no considerados en el plan de capacitaci6n, y 13.824 kits de herramientas (1
por cada Comite). Por otro lado se logr6 sanear 9.392 Propiedades y se inscribieron 13.98 1.
Los graficos que siguen muestra el desempeiio financiero.del Programa:
Ejecuci6n por afio y por fuente de financiamiento:
Apore Local (oompromisos)        77""
ro-- | =BM (deserbolsos)
..~~~ToMMtalH
150M
2D
20   kmig                  gim,.Qh2,,3,0.
1995     1996      1997     1998      1999      2000    Jun-2001
Aihos
- 34 -



Ejecuci6n acumulada por fuente de financiamiento
300
-_0Aporte Local (compromisos)                       247.6
- - 8M (desembolsos)                                          .
250 --Total                                  0_ .. 
200
185.8 
D   .                 ,     . /             .      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~144.9
.X 150'
o                          ~~~~~~       ~     ~ ~~110.5   -
i00                                           10o tkat1t
100
1995     1996       1997      1998      1999      2000    Jun-2001
An~os
Evaluaci6n del Desempenoh del Prestatario
La ejecuci6n de los recursas del Prestamo ha tenido tres etapas definidas: la primera, que corresponde a la
etapa inicial, estuvo marcada par la dificultad en la ejecucion del componente de infraestructura y par la
indefinicion respecto al componente de modernizacion; la segunda, que se inicia en la segunda mitad de
1997, en la que la ejecuci6n del Programa fue franca y sostenida; la tercera, que se inicia en el uiltimo
trimestre de 1999, en la que se desacelero el ritmo de ejecucion a raiz de los escasos recursos asignadas par
el Ministerio de Ecanomia y Finanzas (MEF) y par la dificultad para canseguirlos, situacion que se revierte
en el anoa 2001. La lentitud en la ejecucion en la parte inicial del proyecta se debi6, principalmente, a: (i) La
demora de un anoa entre la aprobacion del Prestamo en el Directoria del BIRF y la firma del Convenio que
se debio, fundamentalmente, a la revision del prayecta planteada par el Ministro entrante en ese momenta.
(ii) La decision del MED de ejecutar el prayecta par intermedia de sus Direccianes y Oficinas de linea y na
a traves de una Unidad Ejecutara ad hac tipa "burbuja". Esta significo tener que implementarlas can
persanal y equipas adecuados e implantar pracedimientas que permitieran una accion fluida y caardinada.
(iii) La demara en establecer pracedimientas de caardinacion de las actividades can el Instituta Nacianal de
Infraestructura Educativa y de Salud (INFES), dependiente del Ministeria de la Presidencia (MIPRE), can
el que se habia firmada un canvenia para encargarle la gerencia de las cantratas de sustitucion a
rehabilitacion de abras contemplados en el Canvenia de Prestamo. En febrera de 1999 se firmo una Acta de
Acuerdas entre el Programa y el INFES en la que se establecia el rnumero de canvacatarias y de cantratas
que se debia ejecutar par mes a fin de asegurar que a la fecha de cierre se hubiera culminada can las abras
senialadas coma meta, y (iv) La lenta implementacion de procedimientas administrativas, de pragramacion
y de monitarea a nivel de la Unidad Coordinadara del Pragrama (UCP).
La ejecucion camienza a acelerarse en 1997 can la firma de 91 cantratos de abras y continu~a durante 1998
y 1999 hasta el camienza del cuarta trimestre cuanda par razanes fiscales el MEF recarta y luego ejerce un
estricta cantral sabre las desembolsas. En el anoa 2000 esto se acentuia pues debida a prablemas extemaos al
Programa el MEF solicita el recarte del Prestamo en USD 20.7 millanes.
Durante la ejecucion se dieran algunos prablemas causadas par:
- 35 -



* La descoordinaci6n inicial entre los componentes y aun los subcomponentes del Programa que se
fue superando con el establecimiento de comites de coordinaci6n en diferentes niveles. La ultima
descoordinaci6n en resolverse fue la que se present6 entre el subcomponente de capacitaci6n
docente y los subcomponentes de materiales educativos y desarrollo curricular del componente de
calidad educativa, esta soluci6n se materializ6 en los manuales PLANCAD 2000.
* La falta de difusi6n de las actividades del Programa entre los actores educativos y la sociedad civil.
*   El desconocimiento por parte de las autoridades del MED de las normas del Banco y de las
condiciones aceptadas por el prestatario al suscribir el Convenio de Prestamo.
*   Las condiciones de la economia nacional que hicieron que las compras del sector pub lico fueran
muy importantes para la marcha y aun la supervivencia de las empresas.
*   Hay que sefialar que la decisi6n de ejecutar el Programa a traves de las Direcciones y Oficinas de
linea del MED, a pesar de haber causado una demora inicial, result6 siendo efectiva para
consolidar la institucionalidad del mismo y para la sostenibilidad y perfeccionamiento de las
acciones iniciadas con este proyecto.
* Auque el desempenlo del Programa en cuanto al cumplimiento de metas ha sido bastante bueno, los
efectos y resultados en la practica pedag6gica, en el rendimiento de los alumnos y en la gesti6n no
son claros todavia y se necesitara de mas tiempo para poder evaluarlos por la naturaleza de los
cambios introducidos. Sin embargo, hay que sefialar que los efectos y resultados estan
condicionados, fundamentalmente, por a) la organizaci6n institucional del sector, y el enfasis en
este tema esta en la descentralizaci6n y el empoderamiento por parte de los actores, y b) el
desempefio y participaci6n de los docentes, y al respecto son aspectos clave la formaci6n docente,
la estructura de la carrera magisterial, los mecanismos actuales de contrataci6n y las condiciones
en las que los docentes realizan su trabajo.
Evaluaci6n del Desempeino del Banco
Con relaci6n al disefio del Programa no se tuvieron en cuenta suficientemente algunos condicionantes
extemos que incidieron en su marcha como son entre otros:
   No incluir a los docentes ni a la sociedad civil en la discusi6n de las metas y estrategias.
*   No considerar con mas enfasis la importancia de la "voluntad politica" para Ilevar a cabo algunos
cambios planteados como la voluntad de descentralizar lo que tuvo efecto en la propuesta de
autonomia de las escuelas, el temor a tomar medidas que pudieran parecer privatizadoras como es el
caso del sistema de vouchers para la capacitaci6n docente y la misma autonomia escolar. Esto tuvo
efecto sobre todo en el componente de Modernizaci6n puesto que para llevar a cabo cambios en
sistemas como los de recursos humanos, por ejemplo, se requiere de un acuerdo de la autoridades del
MED.
*   No haber considerado la participaci6n de los 6rganos intermedios en la ejecuci6n del Prograrna. Esta es
una responsabilidad compartida con el equipo tecnico nacional encargado de la preparaci6n del
proyecto.
El traslado de la responsabilidad del otorgamiento de las no objeciones a la Representaci6n en Lima agiliz6
mucho la ejecuci6n del Programa. A esto contribuy6 tambien las reuniones mensuales con la task manager
del proyecto, su voluntad de colaboraci6n y su conocimiento profundo del sector y del proyecto.Con
relaci6n a las Misiones del Banco estas siempre fueron de mucho provecho para la marcha del Programa.
La utilidad de las Misiones estuvo directamente relacionada con los profesionales que las conformaron y
con la coincidencia entre los mismos y los problemas especificos de cada momento.
- 36 -



Finalmente, hay que mencionar el acierto del Banco en organizar talleres de desembolsos y de adquisiciones
para apoyar la parte administrativa de los Programas.
Mecanismos de Coordinaci6n:
Vale la pena destacar los mecanismos de coordinaci6n que se pusieron en marcha para superar las
descoordinaciones que afectaron de manera importante la marcha del Programa inicialmente.
Para superar las descoordinaciones al interior del MED se decidi6 trabajar en comites a diferentes niveles,
como ya se mencion6 antes. Estos comites fueron los siguientes:
Comite 1 de coordinaci6n entre el Programa MECEP y las altas autoridades del MED. Se cre6 por
Resoluci6n Suprema N 123-98-ED y esta conformado por los Vice Ministros, el Secretario General y el
Director del Programa como secretario. El Ministro asiste eventualmente.
Comite 2 de coordinaci6n entre los componentes del Programa. Asisten ademas de los jefes de componente
los Directores y Jefes de Oficina involucrados en la ejecuci6n, el jefe de Administraci6n de la UCP y el jefe
de la Unidad de Seguimiento y Monitoreo (USM) del Programa.
Comite 3 dirigido a la coordinaci6n de temas especificos entre subcomponentes, a traves de mesas de
trabajo.
Comite 4 de coordinaci6n entre la USM y los componentes para evaluar el avance en la ejecuci6n de cada
uno.
Para superar las descoordinaciones con el INFES y agilizar la ejecuci6n del componente de infraestructura
se establecieron reuniones mensuales, a partir de 1998.
Con el fin de verificar el cumplimiento de lo acordado en el acta suscrita entre el MED y el INFES para la
ejecuci6n del componente de infraestructura y hacer seguimiento del avance del Programa se opt6 por tener
reuniones mensuales con la task manager del proyecto.
- 37 -



