Document of
The World Bank
Report No.13426-PE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PERU
PRIMARY EDUCATION QUALITY PROJECT
NOVEMBER 14 ,1994
HUMAN RESOURCES DIVISION
COUNTRY DEPARTMENT III
LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN REGION OFFICE



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of August 31, 1 994)
Current Unit = Nuevo Sol (S/.)
US$1.00  = S 2.25
US$1 million  = S 2.250 million
US$444,444  = S 1 million
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
April 1 - December 1 5
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
APAFAS             Asociaci6n de Padres de Familia
ADES               Areas de Desarrollo Educativo
CEI                Centros de Educacion Inicial
COMUNED            Consejo Comunal de Educaci6n
DINFE              Direcci6n de Infraestructura Educativa
DRE                Direcci6n Regional de Educaci6n
ENSA               Encuesta Nacional de Salud
FONCODES           Fondo Nacional de Compensacion y Desarrollo Social
GDP                Gross Domestic Product
GOP                Government of Peru
GTZ                German Agency for Bilateral Cooperation
IDB                Inter-American Development Bank
INFES             Instituto Nacional de Infraestructura Educativa y de Salud
ISP                Institutos Superiores Pedag6gicos
KfW                Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
MHC                Ministry of Housing and Construction
MOE                Ministry of Education
MEF                Ministry of Economy and Finance
MEP                Ministry of the Presidency
NEC                Nucleos Escolares Comunales
ORDES              Organismos Regionales de Desarrollo
PRONOEI            Programas no Escolarizados de Educaci6n Inicial
OREALC/UNESCO   Oficina Regional de las Naciones Unidas Para la Educaci6n y Cultura
SENCICO            Servicio Nacional de Capacitaci6n para la Industria de la Construcci6n
UNDP               United Nation Development Program
USES               Unidades de Servicios Educativos



PERU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PRIMARY EDUCATION QUALITY PROJECT
Table of Contents
LOAN AND  PROJECT SUMMARY   ......................................  iii
BASIC   DATA   SHEET                    ...............................................   iv
1. BACKGROUND, ISSUES AND STRATEGY ....                                                           ....................                                        1
A. Economy and Poverty in Peru  ....                                            ......................                                            1
B. Overview   of The  Education  Sector   ..............................                                                                          3
C. Main  Issues  in  Primary  Education   ...............................                                                                         5
D. Government Strategy in Primary Education ....                                                   .................                              8
E. Bank  Role  and   Strategy   ......................................                                                                            9
F. Lessons  Learned   ..........................................                                                                                10
2. THE  PROJECT                           ........................                                   ........................                               13
A. Project Objectives                                                                ..1 3
B. Project Components   .......................................                                                                                 14
C. Project Description   ........................................                                                                               1 5
3. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ........ 27
A. Project Costs  ......                         .............. ........................                                                        27
B. Financing   Plan    ...........................................                                                                              29
C. Recurrent Costs  Arising  from   the  Project    .........                                         ...............                          30
D. Project Sustainability    ................                                        ......................                                     30
E. Procurement    ............................................                                                                                  31
F. Disbursement  ............................................                                                                                  35
G. Accounting   and  Auditing                        ...............                      ....................                                  36
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT  ........                                                                   ..             ............  37
A. Status  of Preparation    ................                                        ......................                                    37
B. Implementation   Schedule                        ...................................                                                        37
C. Project Management .......................................                                                                                  37
This report is based on the findings of en identification misson In November 1993, a preparation missions in January 1994, a preeppreisal n-ossion in April 1994, and
en apprasalr mission in June 1994 comprised of Messrs. Ernesto Cuedra Mission Leederl, Donald Winkler ILATADI) Emmanuel Jimenez end Laura Rawlings IPRDPH-,
Jamil Selmi tLA2HR), Linda Lsrach and Josd Moscoso (LAlHRI, Richard Moore (LA3PSI Hoveida Nobakht (PMDTRI; and Messrs. Herbert Bergmann (GTZI, Erika
Himmel, Alison McGowan, Jos6 Robles, Alfonso Oporto, Rodolio Sanjurjo. Carlos Ihlie y Cerlos Chemorro (consultanlel. Eduardo Velez (LA2HRI and Vincent Greeney
(ASTHR) acted as peer reviewers. The Department Director. Project Advisor, and Sector Division Chief were Mssrs. Yoshiaki Abe, Robert Crown and Julian
Schweitzer, respectively



ii
5. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ............           ..       ................ 39
A. Project Benefits ...............      ..       .................... 39
B. Project Risks ....................................... 40
C. Environmental Impact ................................. 40
6. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ...................... 40
7. LIST OF TABLES IN MAIN REPORT
Table 3.1: Summary of Project Costs by Component ............. 27
Table 3.2: Summary of Project Costs by Category of
Expenditure ..................................... 28
Table 3.3: Financing Plan ................................ 30
Table 3.4: Procurement Arrangements ....................... 33
Table 3.5: Allocation and Disbursement of IBRD Loan ............. 35
Table 3.6: Estimated IBRD Disbursement ..................... 36
8. ANNEXES
ANNEX 1: SELECTED EDUCATION STATISTICS ................ 42
ANNEX 2: PROJECT COST TABLES  ........................ 50
ANNEX 3: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGY  ............. 56
ANNEX 4: BANK SUPERVISION REQUIREMENTS  ............... 66
ANNEX 5: PROPOSED NATIONAL ASSESSMENT SYSTEM   ...                  ..... 69
ANNEX 6: TEACHER TRAINING SUBCOMPONENT  ..............  71
ANNEX 7: INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIAL MODULES .............. 74
ANNEX 8: PILOT PROJECT ON DECENTRALIZATION  ...                  ......... 78
ANNEX 9: SCHOOL INFRASTRUCTURE COMPONENT ...                     ......... 87
ANNEX 10: DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILES .................. 89



iii
PERU
PRIMARY EDUCATION QUALITY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                   Government of Peru
Implementing Agencies:      MOE, INFES
Beneficiary:                Ministry of Education
Poverty:                    Program of Targeted Interventions
Amount:                     US$ 146.4 million equivalent
Terms:                      Repayment in 17 years, including a grace period of
five years with loan amortization based on level
repayments of principal at the Bank's standard
variable rate.
Commitment Fee:            0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances,
beginning 60 days after signing.
Financing Plan:             See Schedule paragraph 3.6
Net Present Value:          Not Applicable
Staff Appraisal Report N°:  1 3426-PE






iv
PERU
PRIMARY EDUCATION QUALITY PROJECT
BASIC DATA SHEET
DATA          YEAR
A. GENERAL COUNTRY DATA:
1. Population Estimate (million)              23.163           1993
2. Area ('000 Square Kilometers)                1,285
3. GNP per Capita (US$)                         2,113          1993
4. GNP p/c Average Annual Growth Rate (%)         4.9          1993
5. Income Share of Poorest 20% (%)                5.6          1986
B. DEMOGRAPHIC DATA:
1. Crude Birth Rate (Per 1000)                   28.5          1993
2. Crude Death Rate (Per 1000)                    7.4          1993
3. Annual Rate of Population Growth (%)           2.1          1993
4. Total Fertility Rate                             4    1985-1990
5. % of Population 0-14 years                    36.8          1992
C. EDUCATION DATA:
1. Adult Illiteracy Rate (%)                       15          1990
2. Female Illiteracy Rate (%)                      21          1990
3. Educational Attainment (yrs. of educ.)
Female ( >45 years old)                      3.0          1992
Male ( >45 years old)                        4.2          1992
Female (15 to 19 years old)                  5.7          1992
Male (15 to 19 years old)                    6.3          1992
4. Gross Enrollment Rates:
Primary Education                            126          1990
Secondary Education                           70          1990
Tertiary Education                            36          1990
5. Net Enrollment Rates:
Female (5 to 9 years old)                   78.7          1994
Male (5 to 9 years old)                     79.1          1994
Female (10 to 14 years old)                 60.0          1994
Male (10 to 14 years old)                   63.3          1994
6. % of Cohort Completing Grade 6                68.0          1988
7. Public Education Expenditures:
As % of total Public Spending                 11.9          1992
As % GDP                                       2.2          1993
SOURCES: MOE, 1994 School Census; INEI (1993) Censo de Poblaci6n y Vivienda; Cuanto
(1993) Peru en Numeros; World Bank, (1994) Country Assistance Strategy; World Bank (1993),
World Development Report; and Mission Estimates.






1. BACKGROUND, ISSUES AND STRATEGY
A. Economy and Poverty in Peru
1.1        As a result of bad economic policies and the overexpansion of the
state, the performance of the Peruvian economy after the 1 960s has been poor.
By the late 1 970s and into the 1 980s, output growth was well below the rate of
population growth, investment productivity had dropped steadily and inflation
pressures mounted. One of the legacies of this poor economic performance is the
persistence of high poverty levels. Poverty is widespread and has worsened over
the last decade.
1.2  Economic strategy. Peru's potential for economic growth has been frustrated
during the past three decades by heavy Government intervention and public
policies that seriously distorted most of the markets in the economy. In the last
decade, during President Garcia's administration (1985-1990), chronic inflation and
low growth was attributed to the fact that Peru was in a debt trap. It was argued
that servicing the external debt would accelerate devaluation and inflation, erode
domestic savings, and curtail investment. The administration, thus, put a ceiling on
foreign debt service, stopped repayments altogether, instituted widespread foreign
exchange controls, and increased protection. The Government also raised the
minimum wage, expanded credit and subsidies, decreased the value added tax
rate, and lowered public sector prices. This strategy led to a high fiscal deficit
and, after 1 987, there was a loss of confidence in the economy, inflation
rebounded, and economic output and real wages declined sharply. In 1 990,
inflation reached an annual rate of 3,000 percent, marking the climax of economic
mismanagement.
1.3   After elections in July 1 990, President Alberto Fujimori's administration
began a radical stabilization and structural reform program. The first stage of the
reform involved actions to stabilize the economy and rebuild ties with the
international financial community, and the second was on a series of broad-based
structural measures which aimed at eliminating trade barriers, privatizing public
enterprises and attracting foreign investments. These actions have led to
impressive results in some areas. For example, the public sector fiscal deficit
declined from 6.5 of GDP in 1990 to approximately 3 percent in 19931/, average
inflation was reduced to approximately 47 percent in 1 993, one of the most open
trade regimes in Latin America was established, foreign investment policies were
liberalized, and GDP increased 7.0 percent during 1 993.
" Note: The deficit for 1993 is still not 100% defined. The IMF estimates 2.8%, the World Bank 3% and the
central government 1.4%.



2
1.4  Poverty. In spite of these achievements, the legacy of economic stagnation
and deterioration remains most apparent in the persistence of a high incidence of
poverty, particularly in certain regions and ethnic groups. According to the 1991
Living Standards Survey, half of the households are poor (i.e. the value of total
daily expenditures is less than the cost of a basic food basket plus an estimate of
minimum non-food expenditures) and one fifth are extremely poor (i.e. the value of
total daily expenditures is less than the cost of a basic food basket). The
prevalence of poverty is highest in the rural Sierra where two-thirds of the
households are poor and 47 fall into the extreme poverty category. In Lima, only
1 0 percent of the households are extremely poor but because of its size, Lima
contains the highest number of poor (2.5 million people).2'
1.5  Investing in Human Capital. The economic growth program that has been
established by the Fujimori government is a crucial component of a poverty
alleviation strategy. Nevertheless, it is not the sole component. Poverty alleviation
strategies also require investments in the human capital of the poor in order to
enable them to participate fully in the expanding economy and benefit from it.
Thus, the second main element of a poverty alleviation strategy is improved and
more equitably distributed social services.
1.6  To tackle this problem in the short-term and respond to the immediate needs
of the poor, the Government of Peru (GOP) created the Social Emergency Program
in August 1990, with activities in education, health and nutrition, and employment
promotion for the poorest; in August 1991, the GOP created a National Fund for
Social Compensation and Development (FONCODES). For 1993, the GOP
allocated US$424 million (1 percent of GDP) for poverty alleviation programs and
plans to increase its support to a level of 1.5% of GDP by 1995. One half of these
investments are to be channelled through FONCODES.
1.7  Addressing these problems in the long-run requires sustainable increases in
the use of both health and education services, and improvements in the quality of
those services. This proposed project would build on government strategies for
economic competitiveness and poverty reduction by supporting improvements in
the quality of Peruvian primary education.
2t World Bank (1 993) Peru: Poverty Assessment and Social Policies and Programs for the Poor. Report No.
1 1 1 91 -PE.



3
B. Overview of The Education Sector
1.8  Structure of the System. The Peruvian educational system consists of four
levels and is offered in two forms. The four levels and their respective duration are:
pre-school, primary (6 years), secondary (5 years), and higher education (3 or 6 years
depending on the type of training, university or non-university track). In addition to
these levels, special education and vocational training programs also exist under the
authority of the Ministry of Education (MOE).
1.9  Pre-school, primary, secondary and vocational education are offered in two
forms: escolarizada (schooled) and no-escolarizada (non-schooled). These forms are
equivalent to what would be termed formal (escolarizada) and non-formal (no-
escolarizada) education in other countries. Although the non-formal form is most
frequently used for adult education, the GOP has used this form as an alternative for
increasing pre-school coverage. In fact, the majority of non-formal education centers
are pre-school centers and consequently, 82% of enrollment in non-formal programs
corresponds to pre-school enrollment.
1.10 Educational Coverage. Peru has been very successful in expanding educational
opportunities during the last two decades. According to Government figures, the
share of 6 to 14-year-olds attending school increased steadily from 78% in 1972 to
89% in 1991. In fact, Peru presently has one of the highest access rates among Latin
American countries for primary, secondary and higher education. In 1 990, Peru's net
enrollment rate for primary education was the second highest in Latin America (90%),
following Argentina (98%) and Mexico (98%). Peru's gross enrollment for secondary
and higher education in the same year was also the second highest in the region. In
secondary education, Peru's gross enrollment was 70%, following Argentina (74%)
and Chile (74%). In higher education, Peru's gross enrollment ratio (36%) closely
followed Argentina's (41 %), which is the highest in the region. The third highest is
Venezuela with 29% coverage.
1.11 Educational opportunities for women have expanded more quickly than for men,
contributing to a narrowing of the educational gender gap. This narrowing can be
appreciated through cross-generational comparisons of the number of years of
education for men and women. The 1 991 Living Standards Survey indicates that, in
1 992, men 45 years or older had on average 4.2 years of education, whereas women
of the same age group only had an average of 3 years. Among those aged 15-19,
this difference has been reduced to 6.3 years of education for men and 5.7 years for
women. Nevertheless, access to educational opportunities remains lower in the rural
areas of the sierra, where illiteracy rates are substantially higher for women than for
men. For example, in 1991 in the rural Sierra, 10.5% of the women aged 15-19 were
illiterate versus only 1.7% of the men.



4
1.12 Administration and Finance. In 1990, the previous Government initiated a policy
of administrative deconcentration whereby the administrative responsibility for the
education budget was transferred to the Regions. In this new system, the Ministry
of Education continues to set standards, to define the educational policy, and to
monitor its application. But in terms of direct financial and managerial responsibility,
it exercises its authority only over the Lima-Callao metropolitan region. The other
regions receive their educational budget directly from the Ministry of Finances.
1.13 This change in the distribution of responsibilities between the central and
regional authorities and the departure of many professionals as a result of the
downsizing of the civil service under the current government -the number of
employees of the Ministry of Education (MOE) was reduced from 2,500 to less than
500- has negatively affected MOE's ability to perform its planning, monitoring and
evaluation functions. At the present time, the MOE has totally lost control over the
collection and production of all statistics regarding educational expenditures and costs
in the provinces outside Lima-Callao.
1.14 In 1991, the MOE was further reorganized, changing from a system that was
organized by educational levels (e.g. primary, secondary, etc.) to one organized by
administrative areas. National direcciones (directorships/units) were created for the
following areas: educational technology, teacher training and educational research,
supervision and evaluation, and educational promotion, participation and development.
Furthermore, the deputy director positions were eliminated and previously separated
planning, programming, and budgeting functions were consolidated into a newly
created Oficina de Desarro/lo T6cnico (Office of Technical Development). Personnel
and information management functions were also consolidated into a new Oficina de
Administraci6n (Administration Office).
1. 1 5 The administration of the sector has also been reorganized to encompass two
levels instead of three (national, regional and district). The traditional structure has
been one where: the MOE heads the national level, the Direcciones Regionales de
Educaci6n (Regional Education Directorships) and the Sub-Direcciones Regionales de
Educacion (Sub-Regional Education Directorships) represent the regional level, the
Unidades de Servicios Educativos (Educational Service Units) embody the district level,
and the local level is constituted by schools. The recent changes that are being
implemented entail redefining the role of the regional offices, the Direcciones
Regionales de Educacion (DRE), and of the Direcciones Sub-Regionales de Educaci6n
(DSRE), and replacing the Unidades de Servicios Educativos (USE) with Areas de
Desarrollo Educativo (Education Delegations). The Areas de Desarrollo Educativo
(ADE) will be deconcentratedI' entities responsible for collecting, processing and
updating district information; and administering the student achievement tests that
3' These are functionally autonomous entities reporting directly to the Ministry of Education.



5
will be developed under MOE direction. In other words, the ADEs will be extended
technical units of the MOE in different parts of the country and thus, will depend on
and will be accountable to the central ministry.
1.16 Primary and secondary education are mostly publicly funded with limited
participation from the private sector and households.  Private sector schooling
accounts for 14% of primary and secondary enrollments and it is mostly confined to
urban areas, where 97% of private schools are located; in contrast, the public sector
manages 99% of rural schools. Household spending, quite naturally, is significantly
lower for students attending public schools than for those in private schools and thus,
it is not surprising that household spending is also greater in urban areas than in rural
areas. It is particularly high in Lima, where household educational expenditures are
40% higher than those in other urban areas and four times those in rural areas.
1. 1 7 A positive aspect of the Peruvian education system is the relatively balanced
distribution of resources between primary, secondary, and tertiary education. Unit
costs at the secondary level represent only twice the cost for primary education.
Similarly, unit costs in higher education were only 9 times as high as in primary
education in 1 965, and the ratio had gone down to 6.6 in 1990. This indicates that,
within the context of the general decrease in educational expenditures in real terms,
primary education has been relatively better protected than higher education.
C. Main Issues in Primary Education
1.18 Although Peru expanded educational opportunities substantially during the last
two decades, the basic educational system confronts problems of poor educational
quality, lack of equity, weak administration and insufficient financing, and inadequate
infrastructure.
1 .19 Educational quality. Although the proportion of each age cohort attending and
graduating from primary school is relatively high compared to other Latin American
countries, the achievement level of those who graduate is poor. It is estimated that
96% of each age cohort enrolls in first grade and that almost 75% of those graduate
from grade six, but field studies and expert opinions indicate that completion of
primary school does not assure functional literacy. The number of illiterates increased
by 1.5% between 1980 and 1 986, and a 1981 study revealed that a large percentage
of students reaching Grade 6 had not mastered basic skills in mathematics, social
sciences and natural sciences, a situation that probably deteriorated during the last
ten years due to decreasing resources in education.
1.20 Important factors contributing to the low quality of education are: (i) inadequate
availability and quality of teaching materials, (ii) inappropriate teaching methods in the
classrooms, and (iii) deficiencies in the curriculum's scope, sequence and adaptability.
A dramatic decrease in expenditures in Peru implied a decline in real teachers' salaries



6
of almost 70% between July 1985 and July 1993, and in the level of spending on
educational materials. Low salary levels have made teaching very unattractive,
leading to a consistent growth in the number of unqualified teachers and thus
affecting educational quality. Presently, almost 49% of teaching positions are held
by non-trained teachers up from 35% in the early 1 980s. Furthermore, according to
a 1 992 study of a sample of primary education classrooms, 93% of the students had
no textbooks. These problems are compounded by a curriculum which has an
inadequate scope and sequence and which is not flexible enough to adapt to the
heterogeneous educational contexts of Peru.
1.21 Equity.  The problems of educational quality are worse among the most
disadvantaged population, increasing the inequities between regions and between
urban and rural areas.  Illiteracy tends to be higher for women living in rural areas
than for men or women living in urban areas and repetition tends to be higher among
rural children living in non-Spanish speaking areas than among children living in
predominantly Spanish speaking urban areas. Furthermore, the regions with the
lowest indicators of educational quality (Sierra and Selva) tend to have the highest
proportion of uncertified teachers, the highest percentage of schools with no
electricity, water or sewerage, the highest proportion of multigrade schools, and the
highest proportion of illiterates.
1.22 Sectoradministration and finance. Frequent changes in the organization of the
system and the reduction of the educational budget have weakened the government's
institutional capacity for effective financial management and have reduced the amount
of financial resources allocated  to  non-salary  expenditures.   Furthermore,
regionalization efforts have not been accompanied by complementary modifications
of the basic administrative structure of the MOE, which was designed for a centralized
and hierarchical system. The MOE, as a result, was left with limited ability to monitor
and manage the national system and has little authority to implement policies for
improving the performance of schools.
1.23 Educational Expenditures. Per student public educational expenditures have
decreased dramatically. When compared to the average per student expenditure for
1980-1987, the 1991 per student expenditures for primary, secondary and higher
education were only 27%, 38% and 34%, respectively, of the expenditure levels
during that period. In comparison to 1 963-1969 expenditures, the 1 991 per student
expenditures for each educational level reflect an even more drastic reduction,
representing less than 1 6% of the per student expenditures for each level during this
1960 period.
1.24 The sparse data available indicate that the education budget has diminished
sharply in real terms over the last decade. However, information on the educational
budget is incomplete and inconsistent. The MOE is only responsible for its own
budget and the budget of schools in the Lima/Callao province (about 33% of total



7
educational expenditures). The education budget for the Regions comes directly from
the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) but there is little information on how the
money is spent. In addition, the bulk of the school construction budget comes under
the responsibility of the Ministry of the Presidency (MOP), under whose authority the
National Institute for Educational and Health Infrastructure (INFES) operates. It is
impossible, as a result, to have an accurate and reliable picture of the evolution of
total educational expenditures as well as to analyze public spending in the education
sector by level of education and category of expenditure. In order to improve this
current situation, the Bank is considering financing a sector study on educational
finance and expenditures.
1.25 Since salaries represent the bulk of the education budget (more than 95 percent
on average), the decrease in the budget in real terms implies a strong decline in real
salaries of teachers. While all civil servants have been adversely affected by this
trend, it is estimated that teachers have suffered the worst fall in income among all
categories of government employees. At the same time, non-salary expenditures have
been drastically cut, meaning that the level of spending on educational materials and
maintenance is absolutely insufficient.
1.26 Infrastructure. Financial difficulties have also affected the physical conditions
of the schooling environment. Only about 30% of the classrooms are in good
conditions, 57% require immediate repair and approximately 13% of the classrooms
are unsalvageable. Furthermore, schools in poverty stricken areas, which includes
rural and urban-marginal schools, lack basic furniture and only 2.4% of rural schools
have access to water, sewerage and electricity.  In rural areas, school parent
associations (APAFAs) and other members of the community support school
construction and in urban areas, although the participation of APAFAs is smaller, they
collaborate for rehabilitation and maintenance.  Nevertheless, APAFAs require
systematic training to ensure their effective participation in school building,
rehabilitation, and maintenance.
1.27 Summary. The low educational quality, the educational inequities between
different regions and between urban and rural areas, the sector's weak administration
and finance system, and the inadequate school infrastructure are major problems
which the Peruvian educational system faces. They reveal the pressing need to: (i)
increase textbook quality and availability in the classroom; (ii) improve teaching
conditions and practices and make the teaching profession more attractive; (iii) design
and implement a diversified educational strategy that addresses the diverse needs of
the Peruvian population; (iv) improve the curriculum's scope, sequence and
adaptability; (v) improve the financial management and administrative efficiency of the
system; (vi) design a modern auditing and information system that could help to make
managers and administrators more accountable; and (vii) improve educational
infrastructure conditions.



8
D. Government Strategy in Primary Education
1.28  Although the GOP lacks a clear strategy for improving the efficiency and
quality of education, as part of the preparation of the Primary Education Quality
Project, the Government has formulated a long-term strategy for expanding access
and improving quality of primary education. Recently, the GOP produced a draft of
a comprehensive strategy for the sector in a document entitled Long Term Education
Development Plan (1995-2010). The main objectives of this plan are to increase
coverage at the preschool and primary school levels, improve the quality of education
at all levels in order to meet the challenges of a technology-driven economic
development, and to strengthen the institutional framework and the management
capacity of the education system. Also the MOE, with the assistance of GTZ, has
recently prepared a set of guidelines for a long term plan to improve bilingual
education. Progress on the achievement of the goals of this plan will be discussed
during the mid-term review meeting (1.34, 6.1g).
1.29 An important element of the government strategy is to raise teacher salaries
gradually over the next ten years. On April and October, 1 994, a 40 and 35 percent
respectivly increases were granted to all teachers. In addition, teachers in rural areas
are now receiving a a 25 percent increase in their salary, and principals receive an
extra 45 to 70 nuevos soles, according to school size. The ultimate goal of the
Government is to double teacher salaries in real terms over the next ten years. A
second element of the strategy is to increase the availability and utilization of teaching
materials at the classroom level. Assuming that GDP grow at an annual growth rate
of five percent during the next five years, the implementation of the educational
strategy would require that the share of public spending on education in GDP
increases from the current level of 2.2% to a level of 3.3% by the year 2000, which
is not unrealistic given that this is about the same level of what the GOP was
spending on public education during the 1 970s.
1.30 In order to improve management at the school level, the Government is planning
to implement a plan to increase public school autonomy and accountability. Schools
would be granted a high degree of autonomy in determining resource allocation and
use, and in carrying out their pedagogical activities. The Ministry of Education
recently announced that the policy to increase public school autonomy would be put
into effect in a sample of schools of the Province of Lima and Cuzco at the beginning
of the 1 995 academic year and, if successful, progressively extended to the rest of
the country during the following years.
1.31 The education development plan will be financed by the national budget as well
as resources from the privatization program, loans from multinational and bilateral
organizations such as the World Bank, the Inter-American Development Bank, and
KfW, and contributions from bilateral donors (e.g. Spain and Germany).  The
Government, through the MOE and the MEF, has requested World Bank assistance in



9
the areas of quality improvements in primary education, rehabilitation of the primary
schools infrastructure, and modernization of the management of the education
system. Parallel to this, the Peruvian Government has also asked the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB) financial support for a project to expand access to preschool
education; improve the quality and relevance of secondary education; reform
vocational and technical education; and to strengthen the MOE's strategic planning
capacity. The GOP has also requested from the German Government financial support
to implement the teacher training component of the current project and technical
assistance for the preparation of a project to reform pre-service teacher training and
a bilingual education program. To ensure that these projects complement each other,
IDB, KfW, GTZ and World Bank staff have been in close contact throughout the
project preparation period.
E. Bank Role and Strategy
1.32 As presented in the Country Assistance Strategy (September 1 9, 1 994 draft
version). the Bank's country strategy for Peru focuses on four main long-term
objectives: (i) sustaining macroeconomic stabilization; (ii) fostering private sector
development; (iii) public sector reform and institution building; (iv) alleviating poverty
and promoting human resource development; and (v) rehabilitating key infrastructure
and reforming related policies. In regards to the fourth objective, the Bank specifically
aims at assisting the Government in formulating and implementing a poverty
alleviation strategy, providing social services for the poor, and improving existing
social programs. The Bank's work in the social sectors would also increase the
likelihood that the adjustment program would be maintained. Greater participation
from community organizations and other non-governmental organizations will imply
less reliance on the public sector and a larger private sector role in the provision of
social services.
1.33 Within this framework, the Bank's recent poverty assessment analyzed the
most recent information about the characteristics of poverty and identified the main
priorities for social programs. The Basic Health and Nutrition Project, approved by the
Board last February, will assist in the implementation of the poverty alleviation
strategy, the national nutrition policy, and reforms in food assistance programs and
a subsequent health operation would build on the experience of this project. A loan
for Peru's social development fund (FONCODES), approved by the Board last
December, will assist the government in carrying out local initiatives to rehabilitate
economic and social infrastructure and to provide direct assistance in health, food
production and distribution, education, and sanitation.



10
1.34 In collaboration with the Government of Peru, UNESCO, GTZ, and UNDP, the
Bank prepared a primary education sector report to help identify investment priorities
for improving the quality of educational services and the efficiency of resource use in
the sector. Discussions of this report were held at a one-week seminar (organized in
collaboration with the MOE, GTZ, UNDP, and UNESCO-OREALC) in which
representatives of MOE, MOP, MEF, teacher training institutes, NGOs, universities,
research institutes, and donor institutions participated, resulting in an overall
consensus on the main problems and priorities for primary education. Based on the
findings of the sector report and the results of the seminar, the GOP identified five
priority areas for investment (instructional materials, teacher training, public school
autonomy and accountability, school infrastructure, and bilingual-intercultural
education) and it is developing a comprehensive long-term education strategy. To
ameliorate current deficiencies on educational budget information, the Bank is
considering financing a sector study on educational expenditures and finance. The
proposed project would finance the first four prioritized areas while the GOP would
finance a Bilingual-intercultural Education Program. During negotiations the Peruvian
delegation presented to the Bank satisfactory evidence that the Ministry of Education
is actively working toward the completion of a comprehensive Bilingual-Intercultural
Education Plan. It is expected that this Plan would be finalized by the end of 1 995.
For this purpose, it has created a "Comisi6n Permanente de Educaci6n Intercultural
y Educaci6n Bilingue", drafted a general framework for the development of the Plan,
and allocated almost US$4.5 million to the MOE to begin the implementation of the
plan during the 1995 academic year. The Peruvian delegation and the Bank agreed
that the MOE would send to the Bank, no later than December 31, 1 995, a copy of
the Bilingual-Intercultural Plan (6.le), and that progress toward the achievement of
this Plan would be examined as part of the mid-term review of the Project (1.28,
6.1g).
F. Lessons Learned
1 .35 The lessons from the Primary Education (Second Education) Project (Loan 2465-
PE) in Peru and from Bank's experience with education projects in other countries
have been examined and have influenced the proposed strategy for this project.
These lessons relate to issues of sustainability, effective implementation, monitoring
and evaluation, and sector specific issues such as textbooks and instructional
materials and teacher training.
1.36 Sustainability. To increase the likelihood that education interventions financed
by the Bank will continue to produce benefits beyond project completion, countries
must develop a sense of ownership of the project. Engaging relevant policy makers
and technical staff in project preparation from early stages of project identification and
design is one of the best strategies to achieve this goal. Also, local involvement in
project preparation helps to ensure that project goals are in line with national goals.
Other important elements for project sustainability are: (i) defining both long and short



1 1
term project objectives to facilitate implementation and continuous monitoring and
evaluation; (ii) confronting from the very beginning, the issue of adequate initial and
future funding capacity for different project components, and (iii) defining and
addressing the weaknesses in the MOE's institutional capacity for project
implementation, monitoring and evaluation.
1.37 Issues of sustainability have been addressed in the preparation of the proposed
project by: (i) carrying out a one-week seminar in which the education sector report
was discussed among a diverse group of educational actors and which resulted in an
overall consensus on the main problems and priorities for primary education; (ii)
ensuring active participation of MOE staff and peruvian educators in project definition
and design; (iii) addressing issues of long term financing from the very beginning and
ensuring that all components include a sustainability plan; and (iv) assuring that the
Project Coordination Unit only plays a coordination role for MOE units that will be
responsible for the direct execution of project components.
1.38 Effective Implementation. In order to ensure effective implementation, the
Primary Education (Second Education) Project (Loan 2465-PE) confirms the value of:
(i) relying on clear feasibility criteria; (ii) developing project administration from the
beginning, attempting among other things that personnel changes do not compromise
the continuity or the orientation of the project; (iii) ensuring that project monitoring
is adequate and timely to enable correction of factors which might affect the
execution and results of the project; and (iv) holding a project launch workshop in
order to strengthen administration capacity and avoid unnecessary delays and
problems during later stages of project development and implementation.
1.39 Considering these factors for effective implementation, the proposed project
pays special attention to: (i) elaborating a project design that matches clear feasibility
criteria; (ii) developing grounds for project administration from the very beginning; (iv)
granting special attention to the needs of components requiring insterinstitutional
participation; (iii) institutionalizing adequate and timely monitoring and evaluation
procedures; and (iv) carrying out project launch workshops during early stages of
project development (1.43, 4.7). Furthermore, through technical assistance from the
Bank's training department and foreign consultants, a Computerized Project
Management system (CPM) was developed and training on CPM usage was provided
to key staff involved in project preparation.
1.40 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E). Institutionalization of M&E activities as an
integral function of planning and management of the education sector has been
identified as a key element to assess the effectiveness and sustainability of a project.
As mentioned in the previous paragraph, this project would provide for regularly
scheduled monitoring and evaluation to permit adjustments in implementation
(6.1c,d,g) and would include provisions for a mid-term review (2.26, 6.1h).
Furthermore, it would support improvements in the MOE's capacity to monitor the



1 2
educational system by strengthening the information management systems (2.26) and
by supporting the development of a national student assessment system (2.27). The
development of the student assessment system would take into account the lessons
learned from reviews of country experiences in the area of student assessment.4'
The reviews suggests that in order to strengthen countries' capacity to use the results
of a student achievement system, projects must: (i) define clearly the objectives of
the assessment, (ii) focus on improving institutional quality before addressing either
technical quality issues or dissemination issues; (iii) pay close attention to important
technical details in the test development process; (iv) design a clear promotion and
dissemination plan targeted at different audiences; and (v) include funds for research
as part of the assessment program.
1.41 Textbooks and Instructional Materials. The success of a textbook component
is directly related to the extent to which the project design addresses all aspects of
the system to provide textbooks, i.e. preparation, manufacturing, distribution and
financing. This does not mean that the project has to finance each aspect. The key
problem areas encountered in textbook programs are: (i) institutional arrangements,
poor distribution and poor system coordination; (ii) inadequate attention given to the
quality and appropriateness of the books provided; (iii) neglect of aspects related to
book utilization, such as teacher training and distribution, and (iv) conflicts between
government and local publishers. The proposed project focuses on issues of quality
and appropriateness of textbooks and instructional materials by ensuring that the
textbooks and materials are intimately linked with the curriculum reform and by
supporting quality improvement strategies.
1.42 Teacher training. For components supporting in-service teacher training,
experience has shown that it is crucial to make a clear distinction between activities
designed to certify or license untrained teachers and those aiming at upgrading the
level of knowledge and skills of current teachers. Generally, programs designed to
deal with special issues, such as training and textbooks, are successful only when
they are intensive and when they relate directly to the participant's work context.
The most effective programs are those which are locally initiated and implemented.
1.43 The proposed project takes these lessons into consideration by: (i) financing
programs for upgrading teachers and supporting the development of a separate
strategy for revamping the teacher certification system; (ii) financing training programs
that are practice-oriented and are linked with the new textbooks and instructional
materials; (iii) stimulating local implementation of training programs; (iv) conducting
4' Horn,R., Wolff, L. and Velez, E. (1991). Developing Educational Assessment Systems in Latin America: A
Review of Issues and Recent Experience. Latin America and the Caribbean Technical Department, Regional
Studies Program, Report No. 9. World Bank, Washington D.C.; and Larach, L. and Lockheed, M. (1992).
World Bank Lending for Educational Testing: A General Operational Review. Population and Human Resources
Department, Report No. PHREE/92/62R. World Bank, Washington, D.C.



1 3
a national project launch workshop which would be followed up by a series of similar
regional workshops (4.7); and (v) conditioning disbursement for civil works to the
achievement of previously agreed targets for textbook distribution and teacher training
(6.4a).
2. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
2.1   The project is designed to assist the Government to increase the quality of
primary education in order to improve student achievement and reduce repetition and
dropout rates.  Considering that a key contributing factor to the successful
implementation of quality improvements interventions would be the introduction of
measures to strengthen the management capacity of the MOE and of the schools
themselves another goal of the project is to improve educational management. The
specific objectives of the project would be to: (i) improve teaching conditions within
primary school classrooms; (ii) strengthen public school management; (iii) improve the
planning monitoring and management capacity of central, departmental and local
education authorities; and (iv) improve educational infrastructure. The project would
also attempt to increase the educational systems' equity by ensuring that priority is
given in all activities to poor urban and rural areas.
2.2   The project will benefit approximately 3.5 million children in grades one to six,
11 0,000 teachers and 25,000 primary school principals and administrators.  The
improvement of school facilities will be targeted to those areas of the country which
present the highest proportion of unsalvageable schools, the lowest proportion of
children enrolled in primary education, and the highest proportion of population living
under extreme poverty conditions".
2.3   As part of its long term education strategy, the Peruvian Government has also
asked the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) to finance a parallel loan to the
education sector. The main components of the proposed loan are: (i) expansion of
access to preschool education; (ii) improvement of secondary education; (iii) reform
of vocational and technical education; and (iv) strengthening the capacity of the MOE
for strategic planning. Also, the GOP has requested from the German Government
financial and technical assistance to implement a reform of pre-service teacher training
programs. To ensure that the three projects complement each other, IDB, KfW, GTZ
and World Bank staff have been in close contact throughout the project preparation
5' According to the 1991 Living Standards Measurement Survey, a household is classified as extremely poor
when the value of its total daily expenditures is less than the cost of a basic food basket. Data for identifying
target areas for the project would come from a recent work prepared at FONCODES for its publication "El
Mapa de la Inversi6n Social", FONCODES-UNICEF, 1 994.



14
period. During appraisal the Government rejected the idea of cofinancing the school
rehabilitation component of the proposed Project with the IDB because it is planning
to request from IDB the financing of rehabilitation and construction of preschool
facilities.
B. Project Components
2.4  The proposed project would consist of three components:
(a) an Educational Quality (US$88.1 million, or 35 percent of total base costs)
component to support improvements in: (i) the availability and quality of textbooks
and instructional materials; (ii) competencies of primary school teachers; and (iii) the
curriculum's scope, sequence and adaptability. The project would finance the
acquisition, production and distribution of teaching materials, such as textbooks,
reading materials, teacher's guides, and non-printed didactic materials; specialized
training programs for teachers to promote the effective use of the instructional
materials distributed under the project; a voucher system to develop a permanent
teacher training capacity in the country; dissemination and communication
campaigns, technical studies and technical assistance.
(b) A Modernization of EducationalAdministration (US$44 million, or 17 percent
of total base costs) component to: (i) strengthen the management capacity of the
education sector at the central, departmental and local levels; (ii) implement,
monitor, and evaluate the transfer of various budgetary and management functions
from the MOE, and USES to the schools; (iii) develop information management
capabilities at the central, departmental, and local levels; and (iv) establish a modern
student assessment system. More specifically, the component would support the
establishment of a project management and evaluation system, a national
educational management information system, and a national student assessment
system for monitoring educational quality. It would also support efforts to increase
public school autonomy and accountability by financing experimental pilots in order
to evaluate different alternative models of school management and governance.
The project would finance management training, technical assistance for
institutional development, projectimplementation, dissemination and communication
campaigns, computer hardware and software, and special studies.
(c) an Infrastructure Improvement (US$121.8 million, or 48 percent of project
costs) component to support the improvement of teaching and learning conditions
by rehabilitating and replacing primary school infrastructure in rural and urban poor
areas. The resources will primarily be targeted at financing the rehabilitation and



1 5
replacement of primary school classrooms in thirteen departments6' where the
proportion of unsalvageable classrooms is above the national average, the
proportion of student enrollment is below the national average, and the proportion
of population living under extreme poverty conditions is above the national average.
The project would finance rehabilitation and replacement of primary school
classrooms, training of school principals and representatives of parents associations
in school maintenance routines, the update of the national cadastre of educational
infrastructure, and the development of a computerized monitoring system to
strengthen the MOE's capacity to plan and monitor school building, rehabilitation
and maintenance.
C. Project Description
Component 1: Educational Quality
Sub-Component Curriculum
2.5  The curriculum, in general, does not need to be reformed. However, there are
deficiencies in the curriculum's coverage, relevance and sequencing that should be
corrected. The coverage is too broad, resulting in an excessive and unreasonable
number of topics to be covered in a school year, and the topics are presented in
isolated segments, without creating linkages and drawing relationships among them.
Furthermore, the curriculum is not flexible enough to adapt to the country's
heterogeneous schooling environments.
a) Curriculum Improvement
2.6  The objective of this component is to adjust the present curriculum  by
improving content linkages between and within grades and by making it more flexible,
diversified and responsive to the cultural and social diversity of Peru. The MOE has
already adjusted the curriculum for pre-school and first grade and is in the process of
adjusting the curriculum for grade two. In order to complete this process the project
would foster adjustment to single teacher schools and grades three to six curriculum,
through a series of local and national brain-storming sessions, seminars, and
workshops in which school teachers, university professors and curriculum specialists
would discuss a draft adjusted curriculum prepared by a group of experts working
under the direction of MOE's Division of Educational Plans and Programs. It is
expected that this work would be completed by the end of the third year of the
project, and that the curriculum changes for each grade would be completed one year
before the scheduled distribution of instructional materials for the corresponding
6/ See Annex 3 for a list of these departments.



1 6
grade. The project would finance technical assistance, seminars, and the publication
and dissemination of the adjusted curriculum.
Sub-Component Instructional Materials
2.7  Teaching is a difficult craft requiring not only high interpersonal and
communication skills but also appropriate instructional materials and methods. In
Peru, a large proportion of all teaching is done by untrained teachers who have very
little access to appropriate instructional materials. This results not only in poor
learning achievement but also in early departure from the system. In order to begin
correcting this situation, the current project would provide textbooks and workbooks
to students; reading and non-printed didactic materials to each classroom; and
teachers guides to teachers. The project would also promote the adequate use of
these materials by training teachers and principals on how to use and care for them,
and on classroom and school management techniques.
a) Textbooks, Workbooks and Teachers Guides
2.8  As a result of the lack of a textbook policy and the economic crisis of the last
decade, most students attending public primary schools do not have textbooks, and
the few books that they do have are of very poor quality in terms of content, art
work, and physical presentation. The objective of this component is to provide
primary school students with textbooks and workbooks, and teachers with teaching
guides. In order to respond to the challenges of the new curriculum, the project
would distribute one grade-specific "integrated" textbook and one corresponding
workbook to each student in first and second grade, including students in single-
teacher (multigrade) schools. For grades three to six, all students, excluding students
in single-teacher schools, would receive one "integrated" textbook and its
corresponding workbook and one additional workbook for math. Students in grades
three to six in single-teacher schools would receive two textbooks (math and
language), which would have the workbooks incorporated. All teachers would receive
a didactic guide that would correspond to the distributed textbooks and workbooks.
b) Supplementary Reading Books
2.9  Almost 30 percent of students repeat first grade, 23 percent repeat second
grade, and 1 5 percent repeat third grade. The high incidence of repetition in the first
three grades is an indication of the difficulties that students confront when learning
how to read and write. As a matter of fact, reading materials are almost never
available in classrooms and when they are available, they are of poor quality and are
not used properly. The few schools that have school libraries do not make active use
of them either because books and other teaching materials are too old or because
teachers are not used to asking students to go to the library. Consequently,
independent reading and writing is rarely carried out during class time in Peruvian



1 7
schools and when it is carried out, not much attention is given to students' interests
and/or reading abilities. To help overcome this problem, the project would create
classroom-based reading libraries to encourage independent reading in the classroom.
Classroom libraries would consist of a collection of reading materials that would vary
by grades in terms of the number of titles and copies7'.
c) Non-Printed Didactic Materials
2.10 To promote a positive modification of teaching style and to encourage active
learning on the part of students, the project would provide non-printed didactic
materials (e.g. learning games, puzzles, alphabet blocks and posters) to all primary
schools. The non-printed didactic materials would be grouped by learning areas (e.g.
communication, math and logic, psychomotor skills, arts and creativity, and ecology
and science) and by grade, within each area.
Sub-Component In-Service Teacher Training
2.1 1 In Peru, almost 50 percent of the teachers have less than five years of teaching
experience and 49 percent of them  are not certified. Often, the inexperienced
teachers only master a teacher-centered instructional technique.  This teaching
method assumes that students are more or less alike and that they learn at the same
pace. This assumption, however, does not hold for most Peruvian classrooms where
over-age students are the rule rather than the exception. Due to the lack of time to
prepare lesson plans and the shortage of teaching materials, more experienced and
certified teachers are also driven to use teacher-centered teaching methods,
perpetuating the dependency of the student on the teacher. Furthermore, Peru does
not have a continuous and solid national program for in-service teacher training and
the courses that are offered tend to be not pertinent. In response to these problems,
the proposed subcomponent aims at: (i) the provision of in-service teacher training in
student-centered teaching methods which stimulate active learning, in the use of new
curricula and teaching materials provided by the project, and in the effective use of
instructional time, and (ii) the development of a permanent capacity for in-service
teacher training.
a) In-Service Teacher Training
2.1 2 Teacher competencies in student-centered instructional methods and in
classroom management would be strengthened through specifically designed in-
service teacher training seminars. Through these seminars, teachers would receive
information about the content, pedagogy, and structure of the new curriculum; and
would get training on how to use the teaching materials distributed by the project,
7' Annex 6 provides further details on the type and number of library books that would be distributed by the
project.



18
how to better organize and administer teaching time, and how to promote active
learning habits. In-service training would be delivered on a semiannual basis to
teachers grouped by the grades they teach, and special training would be designed
for multigrade teachers8".  Each group would receive a total of three weeks of
training, supplemental by an in-school follow-up program. The first session of two
weeks would take place in March (just before the beginning of the school year) and
the third week would occur in August, during mid-term vacations. The follow-up
program, designed to assist teachers in applying new practices in their classroom,
would include a series of visits in which teacher trainers would visit classrooms,
provide teaching demonstrations and work with groups of teachers and princiapls.
Each group of ten teachers would receive three two-day follow-up visits during the
school year.
2.1 3 Given the key role of principals in ensuring that teachers change their teaching
practices and that teaching materials are used properly, the project would also train
elementary school principals in pedagogical supervision methods.  A week of
orientation at the beginning of the project would inform principals about the scope and
objectives of the project, about the changes in teaching practices sought by the
project, and about their role as facilitators of the desired changes. A second week of
training in the fourth year of the project would provide more techniques for
educational supervision, as well as strategies for continuing to strengthen the role of
principals as instructional leaders after the conclusion of the project. Additionally, as
part of the institutional strengthening component, principals would receive training in
school management and administration.
2.14 The organization and delivery of the training would be contracted out in each
department to teacher training institutes and universities. To ensure that the training
offered by the contractors meets minimum quality standards, promotes active learning
and the use of teaching materials, and covers a predefined minimum set of contents,
the MOE would develop training guidelines to be used by the training institutions for
designing the necessary training materials and teaching methodologies. The selection
of the teacher training contractors would be done by the MOE, notwithstanding the
regional secretaries of education would be asked to collaborate by providing
information about possible contractors. This implementation strategy would help
strengthen local teacher training capacity and develop a teacher training capacity that
is responsive to the diversity of local conditions. The project would finance the cost
of technical assistance, the development, production and distribution of training
materials, per-diem and travel costs of trainees, and costs of orientation seminars and
training workshops.
8a Annex 5 provides further details on the activities of this subcomponent.



19
b) Development of a Permanent Capacity for In-Service Teacher Training
2.15 Although the in-service training programs that would be offered during the
project's life would help strengthen the capacities of the existing teaching force and
would strengthen national training capacity by contracting local institutions, it would
not assure the development of a permanent capacity for in-service teacher training.
The subcomponent would foster such capacity by establishing a voucher system that
would finance the participation of primary school teachers in-service training courses
and seminars offered by private and public universities and teacher training institutes.
The voucher system would be piloted in the third year of the project, and implemented
during the last year of the project; information and guidelines about this new system
would be included in the principal's training provided in that year.
2.1 6 It is expected that the system would: (i) create the necessary conditions to
promote competition among universities and teacher training institutes to offer teacher
training courses that are of high quality and that are relevant to the diverse teaching
conditions prevailing in Peru; and (ii) strengthen the GOP's efforts to increase public
school autonomy and accountability by giving each school council full authority on
which teacher should receive training, and on where and what type of training they
should receive.  The project would finance the voucher system  and technical
assistance.
Component 2: Institutional Development
2.17 Weakened by the drastic reduction in personnel in 1992 and the loss of
financial control over all schools outside the province of Lima and Callao, the MOE's
capacity to manage the school system and to carry out any significant reform is
severely limited.   Therefore, a key contributing factor to the successful
implementation of the proposed project would be the introduction of measures to
strengthen the management capacity of the MOE and of the schools themselves. The
project would improve the management efficiency of the system through programs
that aim at: (i) strengthening the planning, administrative, supervision and monitoring
capacity of the MOE at national and provincial levels; (ii) supporting the
implementation and evaluation of a pilot plan to increase public school autonomy; (iii)
developing a management information system; and (iv) establishing a national student
assessment system for monitoring educational quality.
a) Modernization of Educational Administration
2.1 8 A preliminary evaluation of the management capacity of the MOE has revealed
the need for an in-depth management audit to spell out the necessary structural and
procedural changes and the capacity-building actions required to modernize the
management of the educational system. The project would support such in-depth
audits in two phases. The first phase would define the new structure, functions and



20
processes of the MOE and its intermediary bodies at the regional level, taking into
account the management implications and the organizational impact of the proposed
plan to increase public school autonomy and accountability. The second phase would
translate the results of the first audit into a detailed strategy and action-plan outlining
the recruitment and training needs of MOE staff under the new structure. The audits
would be carried out during the first eighteen months after the date of project
effectiveness. The results and recommendations of the audits would be presented to
the Bank for review and comments. No later than ninety days after completion of the
audits would a joint review meeting between the MOE and the Bank be organized to
agree on an action plan to implement the recommendations.
2.19 Based on the results of the management audit, this sub-component would
support the implementation of the action-plan agreed between the Bank and the MOE.
Activities to be financed under this sub-component would include: (i) reorganization
of the MOE, (ii) preparation of the laws and regulations that would need to be
modified for an effective implementation of the plan to increase public school
autonomy, (iii) recruitment of key professional personnel, and (iv) training of senior
and mid-level staff of the MOE and its intermediary bodies in management, planning,
monitoring and supervision.  The project would finance training, and technical
assistance. As a condition of disbursement, the MOE and the Bank shall agree on the
action-plan based on the results and recommendations of the management audit
review (6.4b).
b) Plan to Promote Public School Autonomy
2.20 Public School Autonomy.  The project would assist the Government in
implementing their plan increase public school autonomy and accountability which
would consist of transferring the financial, administrative and pedagogical
responsibility for school management from the provincial units of the MOE (USEs and
ADEs) directly to the schools. As a first step, a pilot plan for increasing public school
autonomy would be introduced in approximately 300 public primary and secondary
schools in Lima and Cuzco during the 1 995 academic year. This pilot project aims to
test whether giving schools increased autonomy results in improved administrative
efficiency, academic performance and internal efficiency within the education sector.
As a second step, the Government would gradually expand the plan for increased
public school autonomy to the rest of the schools based on a program and an
implementation plan which the MOE would develop based on the results of the pilot.
2.21 All of the schools participating in the public school autonomy experiment would
be given the greatest degree of autonomy presently possible under current laws. This
would include the authority to: (i) manage their own budgets in all aspects except
setting teachers' salaries, (ii) hire the candidate of their choice for vacancies, and (iii)
make all pedagogical and organizational decisions internal to the school.



21
2.22 Two basic management models would be implemented to test the optimal
administrative structure under which the autonomy would function. The models
would vary according to the balance of authority between the school director and the
school council. A third model, which would only be a variation of the model under
which the school council has greater authority, would introduce incentives aimed at
improving school efficiency.
2.23 Evaluation. An impact evaluation would be carried out of the public school
autonomy pilot. The evaluation would use a randomized control methodology to
assess whether the quality and efficiency of the education system has improved as
a result of the plan to increase public school autonomy and accountability. For the
purpose of the evaluation, the treatment schools and approximately 100 randomly-
selected control schools would be studied using baseline and follow-up applications
of student achievement tests, surveys, observation guides and reviews of
administrative records.
2.24 This evaluation would receive the support of the World Bank's Poverty and
Human Resources Division of the Policy Research Department and the Research
Committee since it is one of four projects within a World Bank evaluation research
project, Impact Evaluation of Education Projects: Decentralization and Privatization
Issues, that seeks to develop and integrate impact evaluation strategies into projects
that aim to devolve financial planning and educational decisionmaking to local levels.
This collaboration would enhance not only the technical quality of the project but
would build local capacity in both the MOE and the research institute responsible for
conducting the evaluation. The project would support the implementation, monitoring
and evaluation of the pilot experiments. This would involve training and technical
assistance.
c) Management Information System
2.25 Preliminary observations indicate that the present information system of the
MOE is inadequate. The existing hardware and software are obsolete, the technical
capacity to use and maintain the system is weak, and processes and applications at
the provincial and local levels are not standardized. As a result, the information
produced is outdated, unreliable, and in most cases irrelevant. The project would
support a complete overhaul of the system, focusing on timeliness and usefulness of
the information.
2.26 The main objective of this sub-component would be to establish a sound and
modern data collection and information management structure to support the
planning, monitoring and decision-making activities of the MOE. The system would
be designed to supply the MOE and its decentralized units with appropriate computer
equipment, develop the necessary applications for supporting the operational
procedures and management processes of the sector, and strengthen the technical



22
capacity of the staff in charge of running the information system. The management
information system would ensure that relevant data and information are available in
a timely fashion. Five information sub-systems would be put in place: (i) human
resources (administration of the teaching staff, remuneration, and promotions); (ii)
office automatization (record and documents flow); (iii) administration and finance
(budget, accounting, stock monitoring, and auditing); (iv) student flow and school
resources; and (v) geographical educational system information. Besides this sub-
component would support the equipment of computers and software requirements of
the rest of the sub-components of the project. Specifically, the project would finance
the purchase of computers and software, technical assistance, studies on data needs
and utilization, and training on data collection and aggregation, data entry, and
computer fundamentals. In order to strengthen the MOE's capacity to target its
programs to the neediest groups, the Government and the Bank agreed during
negotiations that the MOE's project annual progress reports would include, whenever
possible, breakdown of the information by gender and ethnic groups.
d) Student Assessment System
2.27 Peru's experience with assessing learning of primary students at a national level
is minimal and the few experiences that have been carried out have not assessed
learning of public and private school students in a systematic way and on a regular
basis. Considering the country's limited experience in this area and the need for a
student assessment system that can provide quality control and decision-analysis
tools to national, regional and local authorities, this subcomponent aims at: (i)
developing a national student assessment system which would provide periodic, valid
and reliable information on the progress toward national achievement goals in order
to inform primary education policy decisions; (ii) strengthening MOE's capacity to seek
and use timely, reliable and valid information; and (iii) fostering a culture of evaluation.
During the project's life, math, language and natural and social science achievement
tests would be administered to a sample of fourth and sixth grade students.9'
Furthermore, in addition to the national samples, the system would administer tests
to schools involved in the pilot program to increase public school autonomy and
accountability in order to facilitate a longitudinal study of the impact of that program.
2.28 The MOE would be responsible for the general management, logistical support,
promotion, dissemination and utilization of the system. All processes related to
coordinating and managing test development and administration, and data processing
and analysis would be contracted to an autonomous institution such as a university
or an independent research institute, whose performance would be closely evaluated
on a regular basis. A technical committee, constituted by two or three MOE staff,
would participate in the activities of the external institution, serving as a linkage
9' For design details of the proposed national assessment system, see Annex 4.



23
between the MOE and the external entity and receiving continuous institution-based
training.  These implementation arrangement are not only in line with the
government's new public sector management policies but also would serve to
strengthen the MOE's capacity for developing and managing a timely assessment
system of high quality.
2.29 The MOE's capacity to carry out its functions efficiently and effectively would
be strengthened by: (i) providing in-country workshops on related areas; (ii) financing
study tours to foreign institutions with experience in assessment; and (iii) ensuring
that the members of the technical committee receive adequate institution-based
training. Initially, the MOE would rely on consultants for support in monitoring and
supervising the quality of the products and processes carried out by the external
institution; by the end of the project, however, it is expected that the technical
committee will take on the responsibilities of these consultants. In other words, the
institution-based training of the technical committee would assist in ensuring
sustainability not only through capacity building but also through cost reduction.
2.30 In order to strengthen the general national assessment capacity and to foster
a culture of evaluation, the MOE would: (i) inform and motivate the general public
about the meaning and importance of assessment through special promotional
campaigns; (ii) encourage further analysis of the assessment results by sponsoring
competitions for research grants; and (iii) finance university graduate training in
educational measurement and research for one or two individuals selected through a
competitive process (with the requirement that these individuals make a firm
commitment to contribute to the assessment system after completing their training).
Component 3: Infrastructure Improvement
2.31 During the last two decades, underfunding of capital investment in the
education sector has led to the collapse of the school maintenance program and to
under-investment in school infrastructure, particularly in rural and newly emerging
urban areas. Consequently, only 30 percent of the classrooms are in good conditions
and almost 1 3 percent of poor classrooms have deteriorated to such degree that they
are now considered unsalvageable. Resource constraints have also weakened the
capacity of the public sector, especially the MOE, to plan and manage its school
infrastructure program.  In order to assist the government to improve physical
teaching conditions, the project would finance the construction, rehabilitation, and
furnishing of unsalvageable and highly deteriorated classrooms in rural and poor urban
areas, a school maintenance training program for principals and representatives of
parent associations, the update of the national cadastre of educational infrastructure,
and the strengthening of the capacity of the MOE to estimate the demand for new
schools and to plan and monitor school maintenance.



24
2.32 To ensure that implementation of project activities related to infrastructure do
not take precedence over the implementation of quality improvement activities, the
GOP and the Bank agreed during appraisal that disbursement for civil works and
school furniture, excluding bookshelves, would be conditional upon achievement of
specific annual targets for textbook distribution and teacher training. To this effect,
a disbursement condition will be included providing that no withdrawals for civil works
and school furniture, excluding bookshelves, shall be made unless they relate to a
targeted schools included in an annual plan approved by the Bank (6.4a). During
negotiations, planned targets (in number of school) were agreed for civil works and
school furniture as well as implementation targets for teacher training and textbook
distribution (6.2a). During annual reviews, the achievement of the implementation
targets for teacher training and textbook distribution will be evaluated (6. 1 g). On the
basis of this evaluation the final number of targeted schools to be rehabilitated and
furnished will be agreed as part of the respective annual plan (6.1g). In other words,
if the textbook and teacher training implementation targets are met, then the planned
annual disbursement ceiling for civil works would remain intact. However, if the
textbook and teacher training implementation targets are not met, then the planned
annual disbursement ceiling for civil works and school furniture would be reduced
accordingly, as agreed between the Bank and the GOP during each annual review
meeting.
2.33 In Peru, school infrastructure programs are managed jointly by the National
Institute for Education and Health Infrastructure (INFES) and the MOE'S Directorate
of Educational Infrastructure (DINFE). INFES was created in 1992 under the authority
of the MOP and was given the responsibility for building and maintaining schools and
health facilities. DINFE was given the responsibility for elaborating a national school
infrastructure plan and for keeping and updating a national registry of school buildings.
In addition to these two entities, in 1991 the GOP created a social development fund
(FONCODES) to mitigate the social costs of economic adjustment.  Between
November 1991 and April 1994, FONCODES financed a total of 5,68410' school
rehabilitation projects at a total cost of almost US$1 21.5 million.
2.34 At the beginning of 1994, FONCODES, INFES and MOE signed an agreement
whereby MOE was given full responsibility to coordinate school infrastructure
operations in the whole country.  Under the proposed project MOE's main
responsibility would be to identify schools that need rehabilitation and for developing
a monitoring system  for school maintenance.  INFES would be responsible for
designing and procuring school furniture, and for designing, contracting out,
supervising and monitoring all civil works. Rehabilitation works in remote locations,
where contract bidding would be improbable, would be done through direct
contracting procedures.  It is estimated that a total of up to US$11.7 million
l'° A total of 2,838 of these projects have been completed at a costs of US$48,374,351; 2,439 are under
implementation at a costs of US$66,254,259; and 407 have been approved at a costs of US$6,783,138.



25
equivalent would be done using these contracting procedures. The implementation
of the school maintenance training program would be done by the National Training
Service for the Construction Sector (SENCICO) which is an autonomous institution
under the authority of the Ministry of Housing and Construction.
a) School Rehabilitation
2.35 Under this sub-component the project would finance the construction of
approximately 4,200 classrooms to replace nearly 33 percent of the total estimated
number of unsalvageable classrooms in the country, and the rehabilitation of
approximately 1,270 classrooms in the same schools which would also benefit from
the replacement of unsalvageable classrooms. Overall, it is estimated that the project
would benefit approximately 1,750 primary schools of a total of approximately
23,300.  The program would be targeted to those departments which have a
proportion of unsalvageable classrooms above the national average, a proportion of
student enrollment below the national average, and where the proportion of population
living under extreme poverty conditions is above the national average. In addition, the
project would improve sanitation in all targeted schools by building bathrooms, and
would recondition classroom and office space in the same schools. DINFE would be
responsible for selecting school sites while INFES would contract out and supervise
all civil works activities related to this sub-component. To ensure the adequacy of
prices INFES will use a system of standard regional unit prices to guide the negotiation
of contracts for the civil works implemented through direct contracting (3.1 3, 6.1 k).
2.36 In order to reduce the risk of overlapping and duplicating infrastructure
programs implemented by FONCODES and INFES, the Government brought to
negotiations a final list of the selected departments that would participate in the
proposed project"'. At negotiations, the World Bank received assurances from the
Government that the current agreement between FONCODES, INFES and MOE will be
amended stating that FONCODES would not finance community based project for the
rehabilitation of targeted primary schools included in the annual project plan and that
INFES not finance any infrastructure related to primary schools in the above
mentioned targeted schools (6.1j, 6.3b).  Prior to effectiveness the MOE and
FONCODES should have amended the current agreement between FONCODES, INFES
and MOE (signed in January, 1994), and signed a subsidiary agreement with INFES
for the implementation of this component (6.3b,d).
'" See Annex 3 for the list of he selected departments.



26
b) School Maintenance
2.37 To assist all schools implementing a continuous school maintenance program,
under this sub-component the project would finance training of school principals and
APAFAs in school maintenance routines, updating and publishing 3,000 manuals with
technical specifications for school buildings and classroom furniture, and developing,
producing and distributing 25,000 school maintenance manuals to primary schools
and parent associations. The development of the manuals would be done by DINFE
in coordination with SENCICO, while the training itself would be conducted by
SENCICO. Prior to negotiations, the World Bank revised a draft subsidiary agreement
between the MOE and SENCICO for the implementation of this sub-component. A
condition of effectiveness would be the signing of the subsidiary agreement between
the MOE and SENCICO (6.3b).
c) School Furnishing
2.38 Under this sub-component the project would completely furnish all the
classrooms built under the project and approximately 30 percent of the furniture on
the rehabilitated classrooms. The project would also provide office furniture to
approximately 490 schools already participating in the classroom construction sub-
component. In addition, the project would provide bookshelves to all primary school
classrooms to store the textbooks, non-printed instructional materials and library
books that would be distributed under the project. DINFE would be responsible for
selecting school sites and for defining the technical specifications for classroom and
office furniture, and bookshelves, while INFES would procure the furniture. Prior to
negotiations, the World Bank revised a draft subsidiary agreement between the MOE
and INFES for the implementation of this sub-component.  A condition of
effectiveness would be the signing of the subsidiary agreement between the MOE and
INFES (6.3b).
d) School Mapping System and Infrastructure Monitoring System
2.39 To strengthen MOE's capacity to plan and coordinate all school infrastructure
operations at the national level, the proposed project would support the development
of a computerized school mapping and infrastructure monitoring system, and the
update and computarization of the cadastre of school buildings. The project would
finance data collection, technical assistance, hardware, software, and all necessary
training for establishing, operating, and maintaining the systems. DINFE would be
responsible for all aspects related to the implementation of this sub-component.



27
3. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT
A. Project Costs
3.1   Total project costs, including physical and price contingencies, are estimated
at US$298.6 million. Foreign exchange costs, local costs excluding taxes, and duties
and taxes amount to US$22.1 million (7 percent), US$234.4 million (78 percent) and
US$44.3 million (15 percent) of total project costs, respectively. Base costs are
estimated at US$253.9 million (US$19.5 million in foreign exchange costs, US$196.7
million for local costs excluding taxes, and US$44.3 million for duties and taxes).
Table 3.1 and 3.2 summarize the estimated project costs by component and
expenditure account. Annex 2 provides a further breakdown of project costs.
Table 3.1: Summary of Project Costs by Component
(US$ Million)
% Total
Local  Foreign    Total  Base Costs
1. Infrastructure Improvement  121.5    0.3   121.8  48
2. Improving Educational Quality    77.2    10.9    88.1  35
3. Institutional Development  35.7    8.3    44.0    17
Total BASELINE COSTS     234.4    19.5   253.9       100
Physical Contingencies   15.0     .8    15.8         6
Price Contingencies      27.1    1.8    28.9        11
Total PROJECT COSTS      276.5    22.1   298.6       118
Less Taxes                               44.3
3.2   Base Costs. Base costs are expressed in July 1994 prices. Estimated costs
of civil works and school furniture were based on recent experience in the country.
Estimated costs of equipment and vehicles were based on prices of similar imported
or locally available items. Estimated costs of instructional materials and dissemination
and promotion seminars were based on recent price quotations, past experience, and
expert opinion. Costs for overseas and domestic training and foreign and local
technical assistance were based on prevailing standards. All recurrent costs were
based on current estimates of salaries, equipment maintenance, office materials and
other operating expenses.
3.3   Contingencies. Total contingencies amount to US$44.7 million (US$16 million
for physical contingencies and US$29.3 million for price contingencies), or 1 5 percent
of total project costs. Physical contingencies were applied to base costs as follows:
9.5 percent for civil works; 5 percent for equipment, vehicles, training, furniture,
instructional materials, seminars, and recurrent costs; and 0 percent for technical



28
assistance. On the basis of World Bank estimates of local inflation rates for the life
of the project, price contingencies of 15 percent for 1994, 12.2 percent for 1995,
and 10 percent in subsequent years were applied to local cost components of all
components. Foreign price contingencies of 3.2 percent for all project years were
applied to foreign cost components of all components. This is the expected rate of
increase for international prices during the life of the project. The estimated exchange
rates (local/foreign) were 2.19 for 1994, 2.5 for 1995, 2.7 for 1996, 2.9 for 1997,
and 3.1 for 1998.
Table 3.2: Summary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure
(US$ Million)
% Total
Local   Foreign     Total  Base Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                           96.9        --      96.9         38
B. Equipment                              4.9       3.8       8.7          3
C. Vehicles                               0.0       0.1       0.1         --
D. Technical Assistance                  20.9       3.3      24.2         10
E. Training                              46.3       1.9      48.3         19
F. Furniture                             20.7        --      20.7          8
G. Instructional Materials               35.9      10.5      46.4         18
H. Seminars                               2.4        --       2.4          1
Total Investment Costs                    228.1       19.5     247.6         98
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                               0.5        --       0.5         --
B. Equipment Maintenance                  0.1        --       0.1         --
C. Office Materials & Operational Costs   5.8        --       5.8          2
Total Recurrent Costs                       6.3        --        6.3          2
Total BASELINE COSTS                      234.4       19.6     253.9        100
Physical Contingencies                   15.0        .8      15.8          6
Price Contingencies                      27.1       1.8      28.9         11
Total PROJECT COSTS                     276.5      22.1     298.6        118
3.4   Foreign Exchange. The foreign exchange component, estimated  at US$22
million, or 7 percent of total project cost, is based on past experience and expert
advice.  In general, foreign exchange estimates were based  on the following
percentages of the costs excluding taxes: (i) 100% for equipment and vehicles; (ii)
50% for non-printed instructional materials; (iii) 30% for service contracts for
technical assistance; (iv) 20% for printed instructional materials; (v) 1 0% for training;
and (vi) 0% for civil works, individual consultant contracts for technical assistance,
furniture, library materials and all recurrent costs. However, in particular cases where
it was clear that the foreign exchange costs would be higher or less than the



29
estimated percentage, these percentages were adjusted. The percentage for the
foreign exchange component of teacher training activities, for example, was adjusted
to 0%.
3.5  Taxes and Duties. Local taxes and duties amount to approximately US$44.3
million or 1 5 percent of total project costs. Locally procured goods and services are
subject to a value added (IGV) tax of 1 8 percent. Individual consultant contracts are
subject to an income tax of 1 0 percent. All imported goods are subject to duties
equal to 19.8 percent.
B. Financing Plan
3.6  The proposed project would be financed by a Bank loan of US$146.4 million.
The proposed loan would finance 49 percent of total project cost, or 58 percent net
of duties and taxes.  The loan would cover 34 percent of foreign exchange
expenditures (US$7.6 million) and 50 percent of the local exchange expenditures
(US$138.8 million). The government of Peru (GOP) would finance the remaining
US$152.2 million which includes US$44.3 million in duties and taxes. The loan
would be for 1 7 years at the Bank's standard variable interest rate, on a fixed
amortization schedule including a five year grace period. Table 3.3 presents the
financing plan and loan allocations by category of expenditure.
3.7  Retroactive financing. Retroactive financing of up to US$14.6 million will be
provided for expenditures made in accordance with Bank procurement guidelines for
a period covering July 5, 1 994 (project appraisal) to the date of loan signing. This
period can not exceed twelve months prior to loan signing. Retroactive financing is
recommended to ensure that technical assistance and civil works necessary for the
timely implementation of the project begins with sufficient lead time.



30
Table 3.3: Financing Plan
(US$ Million)
Proposed
IBRD Loan  Government     Total   IBRD %
Civil Works                  99.3       17.9      117.2      84.7
Equipment                    7.1         2.5       9.6       73.5
Vehicles                     0.1         0.0       0.1       70.7
Technical Assistance         19.5        7.2      26.7       73.0
Training                       0        56.3      56.3         0
Furniture                   20.4         3.7      24.1       84.7
Instructional Materials        0        54.5      54.5         0
Seminars                       0         2.7       2.7         0
Salaries                       0         0.5       0.5         0
Equipment Maintenance          0         0.1       0.1         0
Office Materials and           0         6.8       6.8         0
Operational Costs
TOTAL                       146.4      152.2      298.6      49.0
C. Recurrent Costs Arising from the Project
3.8   To ensure the long term sustainability of the investments associated with the
project, it is important that the MOE be in a position to carry on the expenditures
linked to the implementation of project activities after project completion and to
integrate them as part of the sector's recurrent costs. The additional annual recurrent
expenditures at the end of the project are estimated at about US$24 million in 1 994
prices, representing about 3.3%  of the MOE's recurrent budget for 1994.  The
estimated increase in recurrent expenditures will consist mainly of educational
materials (textbooks, teacher's guides), teacher training, and school maintenance.
D. Project Sustainability
3.9   The effect of the proposed project on total educational expenditures and the
ability of the GOP to finance the resulting increase in a sustainable manner has been
carefully discussed with the Government. The Government prepared a long term
sustainability plan outlining its strategy to improve the quality of education in Peru and
projecting the financial needs of the sector until 2010. According to this plan, it is
expected that by the end of the Project the Government would be allocating to
education an estimated 16% of total government expenditures, which represent an
increase of two percentage point from the current level of 14%. The budgetary
estimates of the plan, calculated for both investments and recurrent expenditures,



31
would be used as the basis for annual discussions with the Government on budget
allocations for the following year. The plan also identifies the budget line items, such
as educational materials and teacher training, that would be monitored during project
implementation to ensure adequate counterpart financing of the project.
E. Procurement
3.10 Since the annual budget law provides that good and works financed by
international financial institutions will be procured in accordance with the requirements
of these institutions, Bank procurement guidelines will be followed for the proposed
project. The project would involve the procurement of civil works, school furniture,
textbooks, workbooks, reading books, teacher's guides, computers and office
equipment, travel expenses, and consultant services, including studies, technical
assistance, training, auditing and supervision. During negotiations the Government
and the Bank agree that the executing agencies would use standard bidding
documents for the procurement of civil works, goods, equipment, and services (6.11).
3.11 The capacity of the MOE to handle the procurement of goods was assessed
during pre-appraisal, concluding that it would require technical assistance and
computer equipment in order to bring its procurement capacity up to Bank standards.
During appraisal these requirements were defined more clearly and were included as
part of institutional strengthening component of the project.
3.1 2 The total costs of civil works, including contingencies, is estimated at about
US$117.2 million equivalent, for the construction, rehabilitation and furnishing of
primary schools. Since it is estimated that civil work packages would not exceed
US$3.0 million, and thus are unlikely to interest foreign contractors, no international
competitive bidding (ICB) is anticipated for the procurement of civil works. Packages
of civil works of US$90,000 or more per contract would be awarded on the basis on
local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures. Below this limit, local shopping -with
three price quotations- would be followed up to an aggregated amount of US$29.3
million. In cases where it is not possible to obtain competitive proposals acceptable
to the Bank, direct contracting for civil works in remote areas, estimated to cost not
more than the equivalent of US$75,000 per contract, up to an aggregated amount
equivalent to US$11.7 million, would also be accepted. It is expected that LCB
packages would add up to a total estimated at US$76.2 million equivalent. Most
rehabilitation works in remote locations, where contract bidding would be improbable,
would be done under direct contracting. At negotiations the Government and the
Bank agreed that in order to assess the adequacy of prices, MOE will require that
INFES uses a system of standard regional unit prices, acceptable to the Bank, to guide
the negotiation of contracts for civil works implemented through direct contracting.
This system will be reviewed twice a year by the Bank, MOE, and INFES to assess the
adequacy of prices (6.1 k).



32
3.13 The total cost of furniture, including contingencies, is estimated at about
US$24.1 million equivalent. Given that school furniture would only be procured for
classrooms in rehabilitated schools that are fairly dispersed it would not possible to
package this type of furniture in a way to make ICB feasible. Packages for contracts
higher than US$50,000 equivalent would be procured through LCB procedures. Local
shopping, will be permitted up to an aggregate limit of US$2.4 million for packages
of furniture estimated to cost up to US$50,000 equivalent. If applicable, packages
valued at US$250,000 equivalent or more would be procured through Limited
International Bidding (LIB).
3.14 The total cost of instructional materials (including textbooks, reading books and
teacher's guides) is estimated at about US$54.3 million equivalent, including
contingencies. They will be financed entirely trough counterpart funding, and would
be procured according to local procedures already in place.
3.1 5 The total costs of office equipment, computer systems, and vehicles is
estimated at about US$9.7 million equivalent including contingencies.  The
procurement of computer systems and vehicle would be done through LIB procedures
among manufacturers who have established maintenance facilities in Peru. Contracts
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or less may be procured under
local/international shopping acceptable to the Bank, up to a limit of US$1.5 million
equivalent.



33
Table 3.4: Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Methods
Consulting
LCB'   Other          Services      NBFd        Total
A. Civil Works                    76.2     41.0                                  117.2
(64.5)   (34.8)b                               (99.3)
B. Equipment                         --     9.6              --          --        9.6
--    (7. l)b4c                              (7.1)
C. Fumiture                       21.7      2.4              --          --       24.1
(18.4)    (2.0)b                               (20.4)
D. Vehicles                          --     0.1              --          --        0.1
(0. 1)C                               (0.1)
E. Instructional Materials
Printed Material                 --       --             --       35.5        35.5
Non-Printed Materials           --        --             --       14.9        14.9
Library Materials               --        --             --        4.1         4.1
F. Technical Assistance              --       --          26.8           --       26.8
(19.5)                 (19.5)
G. Training                         --        --             --       56.3        56.3
H. Seminars                         --        --             --        2.7         2.7
I. Recurrent Costs                  --        --             --        7.4         7.4
Total                        97.9      53.1           26.8       120.9       298.6
(82.9)   (44.0)         (19.5)       (0.0)    (146.4)
-. Local Competitive Bidding
b Local and Intemational Shopping
c. Limited Intemational Bidding
d Not Bank-Financed
Note: Values in parentheses represent IBRD financing.
3.1 6 The total costs of technical assistance and consultant services is estimated at
about US$26.8 million equivalent. Consultants carrying out studies and technical
assistance would be hired following the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as ExecutingAgency (August 1981).
Contracts for small consulting services valued at US$100,000 equivalent or less for
consulting firms and at US$50,000 equivalent or less for individuals, up to an
aggregate amount of US$10.0 million equivalent, would be formalized on the basis



34
of standard terms of reference and employment conditions and would not require prior
review by the Bank.
3.1 7 The total costs of training, seminars, and recurrent costs will be financed
through counterpart funding, and procured according to local procedures already in
place. The total costs of these components, including contingencies, are US$56.3
million, US$2.7 million and US$7.4 million respectively.
3.18 MOE has agreed to use Standard Documents issued by the Bank for LIB and for
hiring consultants during project implementation. LCB standard bidding documents
which have already been agreed with the GOP and are in use for Bank-financed
projects may continue to be used. Changes needed to suit project requirements
would be approved by the Bank. During negotiations the Government presented to
the Bank model bidding documents which were considered acceptable for the
procurement of civil works, goods and services.
3.1 9 Bank Review Reguirements. The Bank will review and approve before contract
award: (a) all procurement documentation for LIB contracts; (b) the first two LCB
contracts for goods and civil works, regardless of size; (c) all contracts for civil works
above US$350,000 equivalent; and (d) all LCB contracts for goods in excess of
US$200,000.  For consulting firms on contracts estimated to cost less than
US$100,000 equivalent, and for individual consultants on contracts estimated to cost
less than US$50,000 equivalent, the Bank's prior review will cover only terms of
reference, except in cases of employment of single source selection firms. In all other
cases prior review for consulting services would follow the August 1981 " Bank
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World
Bank as Executing Agency. Prior Bank review of procurement documentation would
cover about 60% of the total amount of goods and services financed by the Bank.
All procurement documentation would also be subject to selective ex-post review by
the Bank and external auditors. The ex-post review of contracts with consulting firms
and individuals, for which only terms or reference are subject to prior review, will
cover no less than one in five contracts.



35
F. Disbursement
3.20 The project's completion date would be December 1 999, and the Closing Date
would be June 2000. The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed during a five-year
period as follows:
Table 3.5: Allocation and Disbursement of IBRD Loan
Amount of the
Loan Allocated   Percent of Expenditures
(US$ million)   to be financed
1. Civil Works                       90.7       85% of local
expenditures
2. Furniture                         19.5        85% of local
expenditures
3. Equipment and                      6.8        100% of foreign and
Vehicles                                       53% of local
expenditures
4. Consultant Services
(a) for instructional materials     4.6        100% of foreign and
and training of teachers and               70% of local
school principals                          expenditures
(b) for the modernization of       14.7        100% of foreign and
educational administration                 70% of local
expenditures
5. Unallocated                       10.1
TOTAL                         146.4
3.21 Withdrawals for civil works and school furniture, excluding bookshelves, would
be conditioned to the GOP meeting the annual targets for distributions of textbooks
and training of teachers as agreed during negotiations (2.32, 6.4a).
3.22 The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed against expenditures that would
be submitted to the Bank and fully documented for contracts valued at more than
US$350,000 equivalent for civil works; more than US$200,000 equivalent for goods;
and at US$100,000 or more for consultant services provided by firms and at
US$50,000 or more for individual consultant services. Claims for expenditures of
lesser amounts would be disbursed against presentation of Statements of Expenditure
(SOEs), for which the supporting documentation would be retained by MOE for
inspection by the Bank and external auditors.  All expenditures, SOEs and
procurement documents would be transmitted to the Bank through the PIU.



36
Table 3.6: Estimated IBRD Disbursement
Total Costs, Including Contingencies
(US$ Million)
Bank Fiscal Year  FY95 FY96 FY97 FY98 FY99
Annual          24.2  44.4  42.7  26.8  8.3
Cumulative     24.2  68.6  111.3  138.1  146.4
3.23 To ensure the efficient and timely implementation of the project, the
government would set up a Special Account in U.S. dollars in a commercial bank
satisfactory to the Bank with an initial deposit of US$7.0 million equivalent,
corresponding to about four months of project expenditures. Funds from the Special
Account will be available for financing only the Bank's share of eligible project costs.
3.24 The Bank will replenish the Special Account as requested upon receipt of
satisfactory evidence that expenditures paid were eligible for financing out of the
account. Replenishment requests will be sent to the Bank at agreed intervals.
G. Accounting and Auditing
3.25 Each of the project executing agencies (MOE and INFES) would establish and
maintain separate accounts and records for project expenditures of the project
component or subcomponent under their responsibility. The PIU would maintain a
consolidated account of all expenditures under the project. These accounts would be
audited annually by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank (6.1 i). The audit
reports, which would also include an annual audit of the financial statements of the
project account maintained by INFES and a separate opinion on the adequacy of
statements of expenditures, would be forwarded to the Bank no later that six months
after the end of each fiscal year (6.1 i).



37
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Status of Preparation
4.1  Project preparation benefitted greatly from a US$861,000 grant from the
Japanese Government. The Japanese grant financed a school census, consultant
assistance, training on project costing and scheduling, and pre-investment studies.
The consultant assistance as well as the training that was financed were key to
ensuring involvement of Peruvian NGOs and experts in the project preparation
process, providing crucial background information on sector management, and
supporting the Project Preparation Unit through adequate training and assistance in
setting up adequate project monitoring and evaluation procedures.
B. Implementation Schedule
4.2  The project is expected to be implemented over a five year period from January
1995 to December 1999. The MOE and the Bank would update and review the
implementation schedule during the annual reviews (see para. 4.9) based on the
implementation schedule and monitoring matrix shown in Annex 3.
C. Project Management
4.3  Project implementation would be carried out within the existing organizational
structure of the MOE supported by a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) and the
participation, via implementation agreements, of MOP's autonomous agency INFES,
and the MHC's autonomous agency SENCICO. To carry out its obligations, MOE,
INFES, and SENCICO would be directly responsible for contracting out services for
implementing the different components of the project and for ensuring that the
components are implemented according to project objectives.
4.4  MOE, through the directorates of Education Technology, Educational Research
and Training, Supervision, Infrastructure, Statistics, Planning, and Rationalization
would participate in the implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the different
components of the project. The DRE, DSRE, USEs, and ADES would be involved in
project implementation by assisting the MOE with the selection of textbooks and
teacher training institutes. In all instances, the PIU would provide technical assistance
and general support for coordinating implementation. Annex 3 provides a list of all
executing agencies and describes their individual roles in each of the projects'
components or sub-components.
4.5  The PIU, reporting directly to the Minister of Education, would coordinate
project activities. The PIU would be responsible for consolidating the yearly work
plans, coordinating activities among participating agencies, providing administrative
backup services, and carrying out project monitoring and evaluation. The PIU would
be established and staffed on a full-time basis with a Director, a planning specialist,
a procurement expert, an accountant, and five education specialists. Support to the
professional staff, would be provided by four mid-level technical staff and five support



38
staff. The organization and modus operandi of the PIU is presented in Annex 3.
During negotiations, the Government and the Bank agreed that the PIU would operate
within the MOE during the life of the Project, with an internal structure, functions, and
staffing acceptable to the Bank (6.1a). To facilitate project implementation and
coordination between units within the MOE and the PIU, the MOE created a high level
Advisory Council headed by the Minister of Education and comprised of the Vice-
Minister, the Chiefs of MOE's National Directorates, and the coordinator of the PIU
(6.1b). A condition of loan effectiveness would be the creation of the Advisory
Council (6.3e) and the appointment of the planning specialist, the procurement expert,
and at least three (3) of the educational specialists, with qualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Bank (6.3c).
4.6  To guide project implementation, the PIU has prepared a Project Operational
Manual. A draft copy of the manual was presented to the Bank prior to negotiations.
As condition of effectiveness, the MOE should have adopted the Operational Manual,
which should contain a description of procedures for project implementation
satisfactory to the Bank (6.3a).
4.7  To facilitate project implementation and to gain support from stakeholders, the
MOE would organize a four day project launch workshop with the participation of
MOE staff and regional coordinators. During this workshop, in addition to presenting
the project, members of the PIU would present the major findings and
recommendations of the recently completed education sector report, and the GOP
long term strategy and investment plan for the education sector. The workshop
would be organized in such a way as to ensure maximum participation and
involvement from all participants. After finishing the national workshop the PIU would
sponsor regional workshop conducted by the regional project coordinators with
assistance from the PIU. Participants to the regional workshop would include staff
from the DREs, representatives from teachers and principals, and educators working
in universities and teacher training institutes. Partial funding of these workshops
would come from GTZ.
D. Project Monitoring, Supervision and Evaluation
4.8  The PIU would be responsible for overall project monitoring and evaluation on
the basis of project monitoring indicators. During negotiations, agreements were
reached on the final monitoring and evaluation indicators (see Annex 3) and on the
system that would be used for tracking progress of project implementation using the
above mentioned indicators. Once a year, the PIU would consolidate and send to the
Bank for review: (i) annual project implementation reports assessing progress toward
meeting the targets in the implementation schedules; (ii) a work plan for the
implementation of project components during the following fiscal year. This plan shall
include, inter-alia, the number of targeted schools to be rehabilitated and equipped in
the following year; and (iii) annual reports describing progress in the implementation
of the education strategy which should include, whenever possible, MOE's statistics
with a breakdown of key indicators by gender and ethnic groups (6.1d).



39
4.9   Once a year, MOE and the Bank would conduct joint project implementation
reviews to: (i) analyze the previous year's performance and MOE's project budget
allocations for the following fiscal year; (ii) analyze the proposed work plan and
budget for the following year; (iii) review progress in the implementation of the
education strategy; (iv) discuss and agree on adjustment in the project implementation
schedule; (v) discuss the long term sustainability of the project investments; and (vi)
review the performance of the INFES and SENCICO agreements (6.1g). The agreed
targets for distribution of textbooks and teacher training would be considered as
bench mark for the targets agreed for disbursement of loan proceeds related to civil
works.
4.10 At negotiations the Government and the Bank agreed that: (i) MOE would
conduct, with prior approval of the terms of reference by the Bank and no later than
30 months after loan effectiveness, a mid-term review to analyze, inter alia, progress
towards the achievement of the Bilingual-intercultural Plan goals and the project
implementation experience and possible project impact, with focus on the monitoring
indicators presented in Annex 3 (6.1h);  (ii) submit to the Bank not later than
December 31 of each year of project execution, starting in 1996, reports on the
progress in the achievement of the goals of the Long-Term Education Development
Plan (6.1f); (iii) all project accounts will be audited annually in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank. These
audits would be submitted to the Bank within four months of the end of each fiscal
year (6.1i); and (iv) standard bidding document and letters of invitation satisfactory
to the Bank will be used in all procurement financed by the Bank under the project
(6.11).
5. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
5.1  The main benefits of the project would be improvements in the quality and
internal efficiency of primary education which would result in: (i) increased graduation
rates; (ii) reduced resource wastage from reduction of repetition and dropout; and (iii)
improvements in the learning achievement of primary students. Other benefits would
be increases in equity among regions and between urban and rural areas and
improvement in the MOE's capacity to formulate policies that respond to local needs,
to monitor school quality, and to assist local level education authorities in improving
the efficiency and quality of their systems.



40
B. Project Risks
5.2   Main project risks are associated with: (i) the lack of capacity at the central
(MOE) and departmental level to implement policies and programs, (ii) possible
opposition of departmental and local authorities to the strategy to increase public
school autonomy and accountability proposed by the Central Government; and (iii)
possible changes in government priorities, resulting from the inauguration of a new
administration in 1995. To strengthen MOE's implementation capacity of large scale
national programs the Bank has been providing during project preparation technical
assistance to the MOE's project preparation team on computerized project
management (CPM) techniques. The financial support of a Japanese Grant allowed
the MOE to procure training for the staff of the Project Preparation Unit is these
techniques which were used for the preparation of detailed project implementation
plans. During implementation, the project will support the creation of a small Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) responsible for providing project management support and
technical assistance to the MOE's operational departments. This unit would develop
and implement standard procurement, monitoring, evaluation, and accounting
procedures to be used by the project and the MOE for the procurement of good and
services. Also the project would finance training on project management, monitoring
and implementation of the staff of the MOE's departments responsible for instructional
materials, student assessment, teacher training, planning, and school infrastructure.
Although the risk of opposition of local governments is more difficult to control, the
project would try to overcome this obstacle by promoting early involvement of
departmental and local educational authorities both in the initiation of each activity
and in its implementation.
C. Environmental Impact
5.3  Since it mainly involves the rehabilitation of existing schools, acquisition of
materials, training, and technical assistance, the project is not expected to have any
significant environmental impacts.
6. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Agreements Reached
6.1   At negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Borrower will:
(a)   operate and maintain, during the execution of the project, the PIU with
an internal structure, functions and staffing satisfactory to the Bank
(4.5);
(b)   operate and maintain, during the execution of the project, a high level
Advisory Council (4.5);
(c)   submit to the Bank, not later than December 31 of each year of project
implementation, progress reports on the Project including, inter-alia: (i)
information on the progress achieved in the implementation of the
project and on the achievement of its objectives based, inter-alia, on the



41
monitoring indicators; (ii) assessment of the problems and issues derived
from the implementation of the project; and (iii) information on the
compliance by INFES and SENCICO of their obligations under their
respective participating agreements (1.40);
(d)  furnish to the Bank, for its review and approval, not later than December
31 of each year of project execution, a proposed annual investment plan
providing for the activities, implementation schedule, and proposed
budget for each component of the project during the upcoming year
(1.40, 4.8);
(e)  submit to the Bank, no later than December 31, 1995, a copy of the
Bilingual Education Plan (1.34);
(f)  submit to the Bank not later than December 31 of each year of project
execution, starting in 1 996, reports on the progress in the achievement
of the goals of the Long-Term Education Development Plan (4.10);
(g)   hold annual reviews jointly with the Bank not later than January 31 of
each year of project execution, starting in 1 996. Such reviews would
be based on the annual progress reports and would focus, inter alia, on
the: (i) evaluation of progress in the implementation and achievements
of the project based on, among other factors, the monitoring indicators
and the Long-Term Education DevelopmentPlan; (ii) the proposed annual
investment plan for the project, including the specific level of school
classrooms to be constructed, rehabilitated and equipped; (iii) any
changes in the project design and implementation that may be
necessary; and (iv) performance of the INFES and SENCICO agreements
(2.34, 4.9);
(h)   conduct jointly with the Bank, 30 months after effectiveness, a mid-term
implementation review of the project to analyze project implementation
experience and possible project impact, and progress in the achievement
of the goals of the Bilingual Education Plan (1.28, 1.34, 1.40, 4.10);
(i)   maintain through the PIU a consolidated account of all expenditures
under the project.  These accounts would be audited annually by
independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank. The audit reports would
be forwarded to the Bank no later than six months after the end of each
fiscal year (3.25, 4.10);
(j)   ensure that INFES  would not finance any infrastructure related to
primary schools in the targeted schools included in the annual project
plan approved by the Bank, and that FONCODES would not finance
community based projects for the rehabilitation of any of the above
mentioned targeted primary schools classrooms (2.36);
(k)  require that INFES uses a system  of standard regional unit prices,
acceptable to the Bank, to guide the negotiation of contracts for civil
works implemented through direct contracting. This system will be
reviewed twice a year by the Bank, MOE, and INFES to assess how
adequate are the prices been used (2.35, 3.12); and
(I)   would use standard bidding documents for the procurement of civil
works, goods, equipment, and services (3.10, 4.10).



42
6.2  Also, during negotiations, agreements were reached on:
(a)   a list of monitoring and evaluation indicators including the definition of
implementation targets for civil works, school furniture, teacher training,
and textbook distribution (2.32); and
(b)   a final list of the departments that would participate on the school
rehabilitation program (2.4c).
6.3  As condition of loan effectiveness the MOE would have:
(a)  adopted the Operational Manual, which should contain a description of
procedures for project implementation satisfactory to the Bank (4.6);
(b)  add to the MOE-INFES-FONCODES agreement and addendum whereby
FONCODES commits to not finance community based projects for the
rehabilitation of any of the targeted primary schools classrooms covered
in the project's annual plan (2.36);
(c)  appointed the planning specialist, the procurement expert, and at least
three (3) of the educational specialists, with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Bank (4.5);
(d)  signed the subsidiary agreement with INFES and SENCICO (2.36, 2.37,
2.38); and
(e)  established the Advisory Council on the basis of terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank (4.5).
6.4  As condition of disbursement:
(a)   withdrawals of loan proceeds for the construction, rehabilitation,
improvement, furnishing or provision of office furniture would be
conditioned to targeted schools included in the annual plan approved by
the Bank. The number of targeted schools to be included in the annual
plans would be determined on the basis of the achievement of the annual
implementation targets for textbooks distribution and teacher training to
be agreed at negotiations (1.43, 2.32, 3.21); and
(b)   withdrawal of loan proceeds for technical assistance related to the
modernization of educational management would be conditioned to the
Government and the Bank reaching agreement on an action-plan for
upgrading management capacity, based on the results of the
management studies (2.19).
6.5  With the above conditions and assurances, the project constitutes a suitable
basis for a Bank loan of US$146.4 million equivalent to the Republic of Peru for a
period of 1 7 years, including a grace period of five years, with loan amortization based
on level repayment of principal at the Bank's standard variable rate.



43
Annex 1
Page 1 of 8
ANNEX 1: SELECTED EDUCATION STATISTICS
Annex 1, Table 1: Enrollment Rates by Level, 1990
Country                      Primary    Secondary    Higher
Peru                             90           70        36
Argentina (1989)                 98           74        41
Bolivia                          82           34        17
Brazil                           88           39        12
Colombia                         73           52        14
Costa Rica                       87           42        26
Chile                            86           74        19
Ecuador (1989)                   80           56        25
Mexico                           98           53        14
Venezuela                        61           35        29
Average Latin America            88           49        16
Source: For secondary and higher it shows the gross enrollment rate
Annex 1, Table 2: Public School Enrollment and Classroom Size, 1980 and 1990
1980                            1990
Educational        Students Classrooms Stud/Class   Students Classrooms  Stud/Class
Level
Pre-school         167,373      4,745      35.3   412,699       8,325      49.6
Primary          2,816,580     67,558      41.7  3,418,421     86,193       39.7
Secondary         979,858     20,213       48.5  1,447,559     27,915       51.9
Higher             32,586        401       81.3   134,093       2,257       59.4
Vocational         60,120       1,288      46.7   137,171       2,260       60.7
Special             5.820        568       10.2    16,817       1,234       13.6
TOTAL       4,062,337     94,773      42.9  5,566,760    128,184       43.4
Source: Estadisticas de la Educaci6n 1980 and 1990 M.E.



Annex 1. Table 3: Average Grades Completed by Population Age Five and Older by Gender and Department, 1972, 1981.1985 and 1990
1972                   1981                    1985                     1990
Department                 Total  Male  Female  Total  Male  Female   Total   Male   Female   Total   Male   Female
National Total              3.7    4.2     3.2     5.1    5.6     4.7      5.9    6.5      5.3      6.7    7.3       6.1
Amazonas                    2.9    3.4     2.3     3.5    3.9      3.0     3.8    4.2      3.4      4.1     4.5      3.7
Ancash                      2.5    3.0     2.0     4.0    4.5      3.6     4.7    5.3      4.1      5.5    6.1       4.9
Apurimac                    1.8   2.5      1.1     2.6    3.3      2.0     3.1     3.9     2.3      3.6    4.4       2.7
Arequipa                    3.4    4.0     2.9     6.1    6.4      5.7     6.3    6.6       6.0     7.3    7.5       7.1
Ayacucho                    1.9    2.6     1.3     3.1    3.7      2.5     3.4    4.1      2.7      3.9    4.6       3.3
Cajamarca                   2.1    2.7     1.6     3.1    3.6      2.6     3.8    4.4      3.2      4.4     5.0      3.8
Callao                      5.6    6.0     5.2     7.6    7.5    7.7       7.3    7.7       6.9     7.9    8.3       7.5
Cusco                       2.1    2.8     1.5     3.8    4.3      3.2     4.2    4.8      3.6      5.0    5.5       4.5
Huancavelica                1.7   2.3      1.1     2.9    3.6      2.2     3.4    4.2      2.6      4.0    4.9       3.1
Huanuco                     2.2    2.8     1.7     3.4    3.9      2.8     3.9    4.5      3.3      4.5    5.1       3.9
Ica                         4.4    4.8     2.6     4.8    5.6     4.2      6.3    7.4      5.3      7.0     8.0      5.7
Junin                       3.4    4.2     2.6     4.8    5.4      4.2     5.2    5.9       4.6     5.8     6.4      5.2
La Libertad                 3.0    3.4     2.5     5.0    5.2     4.7      5.3    5.5      5.1      6.1     6.3      6.0
Lambayeque                  3.5    3.9     3.2     5.1    5.4      4.9     5.5    5.8      5.2      6.2    6.5       5.9
Lima                        4.4    4.9     3.9     7.1    7.5     6.7      7.3    7.7      6.9      8.3     8.7      8.0
Loreto                      2.7    3.2     2.2     4.2    4.5     3.9      4.7    5.0      4.4      5.4    5.7       5.1
Madre de Dios               3.0    3.7     2.4     4.9    5.4     4.2      5.5    6.1      4.9      6.4    6.9       5.9
Moquegua                    3.7    4.3     3.1     5.7    6.1     5.2      6.0    6.4      5.6      6.8    7.2       6.5
Pasco                       2.6    3.3     1.9     4.4    5.0     3.8      5.0    5.7      4.3      5.9    6.5       5.2
Piura                       2.8    3.1     2.5     4.2    4.4     3.9      4.6    4.8      4.4      5.2    5.4       5.1
Puno                        2.2    3.0     1.4     3.5    4.2     2.8      4.0    4.8      3.2      4.6    5.4       3.8
San Martin                  3.4    3.8     3.0     4.2    4.6     3.8      4.5    4.9      4.1      4.9    5.3       4.5
Tacna                       4.3    4.9     3,7     6.2    6.7     5.7      6.4    6.9      5.9      7.2    7.6       6.7
Tumbes                      3.6    3.9     3.3     5.3    5.6      5.0     6.0    6.3      5.7      6.9    7.2       6.5
Ucayali                     3.2    3.5     2.7     4.6    4.9     4.2      4.9    5.2      4.6      5.5    5.8       5.2
Source: OSP/DIPEVE
* Estimates
CD>
o x
#I. -A



45
Annex 1
Page 3 of 8
Annex 1, Table 4: Percentage of Over-age Students in Primary and Secondary School by Department, 1986
Level
Departments                                             Primary            Secondary
Amazonas                                                 22.28              26.27
Ancash                                                   22.99              23.81
Apurimac                                                 22.28               26.27
Arequipa                                                 15.41               16.71
Ayacucho                                                 31.81               33.23
Cajamarca                                                18.92               17.70
Callao                                                   12.75               15.42
Cusco                                                    30.91               36.91
Huancayo                                                 19.44              22.76
Huanuco                                                  18.92               17.70
Ica                                                      17.87              20.79
Junfn                                                    21.67               24.75
La Libertad                                              9.68                9.63
Lambayeque                                               9.30                8.65
Lima                                                     12.75               15.42
Loreto                                                   31.32               32.69
Madre de Dios                                            27.29               35.66
Moquegua                                                 15.19               17.36
Pasco                                                    13.88               13.92
Piura                                                    20.40               21.48
Puno                                                    22.28               26.27
San Martin                                              23.91               24.97
Tacna                                                    6.08                8.60
Tumbes                                                   8.50                7.98
Ucayali                                                  16.38               7.91
Average                                                   18.9               20.5
Maximum                                                  31.8                36.9
Minimum                                                   6.1                 7.9
Source: Planes de Tabulaci6n DD.ZZ.EE. 1986



46
Annex 1
Page 4 of 8
Annex 1, Table 5: Certified Public School Teachers, 1950-1990
Year      Total        %      Certified    %           Non-Certified           %
1950      24,433       100    16,630       68.06           7,803            31.94
1960      43,710       100   29,599        67.72           14,111           32.28
1970      101,729      100   71,559        70.34          30,170            29.66
1980      125,640      100    101,306      80.63          24,334            19.37
1990      256,648      100    126,875     49.44           129,773           50.56
Source: Ministerio de Educaci6n - Direcci6n de Estadistica
Annex 1, Table 6: Teachers Public School Teaching Experience*, 1992
Years Experience                                Teachers              %
0-4                                         113,445            49.5
5-9                                          49,045            21.4
10-14                                         26,356            11.5
15-19                                          13,751            6.0
20-24                                          16,730             7.3
25-29                                           7,792             3.4
30-34                                           1,833            0.8
35                                               115             0.5
+ 35                                              115             0.5
TOTAL                                         229,182             100
* Based on payroll up ro August
Source: Distribuci6n de Personal Docente por Niveles y Tiempo de Servicio
Annex 1, Table 7: Percentage of Teachers by Area and by Educational Levels and Forms, 1981
Levels and Forms                                   Total          Urban              Rural
National Total                                    100.0            70.3              29.7
Preschool                                         100.0            85.8              14.2
Primary (non-adults)                              100.0            60.3              39.7
Primary (adults)                                  100.0            97.5               2.5
Secondary (non-adults)                            100.0            92.4               7.6
Secondary (adults)                                100.0            98.9               1.1
Teacher Education                                 100.0           100.0                -.-
Technical-oriented Higher Education               100.0           100.0                -.-
Others                                            100.0            98.2               1.8
Source: Estadistica de Educaci6n 1981 (Encuesta Nacional CC.EE), April 1981



47
Annex 1
Page 5 of 8
Annex 1, Table 8: Administrative Personnel by Educational Levels, 1985-1990, Public Only
1970   1980    1985    1986   1987    1988    1989    1990
Administrative Units    2,170  7,496   5,594   6,400   6,676   7,669   9,707   10,165
(total)
Central Staff         1,544   1,830     744   1,247   1,366   1,260   1,249    1,298
Inte                                     77      78     81       81      82       82
Inide                          356      109    169    227      228      228      225
Autonomous bodies                       393    396    492       192   1,751    1,826
Decentralized bodies   626  5,310   4,271   4,510   4,510   5,908   6,397    6,734
Level and forms (total)  15,201  10,262  16,256  16,791  17,091 32,461  43,118   43,108
Pre-school             441    442    1,134   1,193   1,193   3,705   4,023    4,120
Primary (non-adults)   3,032   1,564   2,563   4,137   4,137   6,193  13,437   13,001
Primary (adults)      1,873   1,206     100      95     95     260      260      260
Secondary (non-adults)  9,401   6,455   10,191   8,598   8,598  17,110  20,002   20,257
Secondary (adults)                      118    657    657   1,226   1,226    1,226
Special                196    257       315    283    283       652     730      741
Vocational             258    338       414    398    698       827     854      865
Higher                                1,421   1,430   1,430   2,488   2,586    2,638
TOTAL                  17,371  17,758  21,850  23,191  23,767 40,130  52,825   53,273
Source: Plazas Administrativas Presupuestadas por Grupos Ocupacionales (Documento de Trabajo)
Annex 1, Table 9: Multigrade Schools by Area 1990
Total        Multigrade     Non-Multierade
#    %        #      0      
Public and Private
National Total                   46,988 (100)    17,364 (100)    29,624 (100)
Urban                         20,709  (44)     3,389  (20)    17,320  (58)
Rural                         26,279  (56)    13,975  (80)    12,304  (42)
Public
National Total                   40,683 (100)    16,509 (100)    24,174 (100)
Urban                         14,587 (136)    2.535  (15)     12,052  (50)
Rural                         26,096  (64)    13,974  (85)    12,122  (50)
Source:  Padr6n de Centros Educativos - 1990, Direcci6n de Estadfstica, Ministerio de Educaci6n



48
Annex 1
Page 6 of 8
Annex 1, Table 10: Activities of the National Institute for Educational Infrastructure (000's New Soles, 1990)
Category                               1990        %     1991       %    1st          %
semeste
r, 1992
Adminstration                         127.4     8.2%    109.9    2.7%   166.8     4.1%
School building                       531.4    34.2%    842.3   20.7%  1399.8    34.4%
Instructional Materials               116.5     7.5%    638.8   15.7%  415.0    10.2%
Furniture                             138.3     8.9%    305.2    7.5%   305.2      7.5%
Laboratories                           94.8     6.1%    455.7   11.2%   260.4     6.4%
School Rehabilitation                 351.2    22.6%   1436.4   35.3%  1379.4    33.9%
Libraries                             115.0     7.4%     85.5    2.1%   130.2      3.2%
Others                                 79.2     5.1%   195.3    4.8%   12.2        0.3%
TOTAL                               1553.9   100.0%  4069.1  100.0%  4069.1   100.0%
Source: Ministerio de Economia y Finanzas y Banco Central
Annex 1, Table 11: Real Expenditures in Education* 1990-1992 (000's 1990 New Soles)
Categories                  1990      %        1991       %       1992        %
Public Education Escol.   105,852   73.6%   25,423   26.6%      12,164    27.0%
Regions                  34,503   24.0%    63,403   66.4%    31,633    70.2%
ME Central Adm.           1,358    0.9%      2,182    2.3%        274      0.6%
Inide                       111    0.1%         59    0.1%         21     0.0%
Inte                         50    0.0%         32    0.0%          8     0.0%
Pedagogical Inst.           161    0.1%        159    0.2%         55     0.1%
Escuelas Nacionales         202    0.1 %       118    0.1 %        56     0.1 %
Educational Inf. Inst.    1,554     1.1%     4,069    4.3%        834      1.9%
TOTAL                   143,791   100.0%    95,445   100.0%    45,045   100.0%
Source: Banco Central (1993). Estrategias de Alivio de la Pobreza



49
Annex 1
Page 7 of 8
Annex 1, Table 12: Teachers, Students and Real Expenditures in Education by Regions, 1990-91
Teachers*      Students*        Expenditures     Expend/Teach   Expend/Stud   Stud/Teach
(000's)        (000' s)    (000s new soles 90)  (new soles 90)   (new soles 90)    ratio
Departments    1990   1991    1990   1991      1990      1991      1990    1991    1990 1991   1990 1991
Amazonas          4      4     106    96                1,442               340           15      27   24
Ancash           12      12    315   317                4,516               379            14     26  26
Apurimac          5      5     141    132               1,514               303            11     28  26
Arequipa          8      8    230   225        6,996    3,336      854      402      30   15      29  28
Ayacucho          7      7     182   178                2,683               366            15     26   25
Cajamarca        14     14    374   378                 4,785               331           13      27   27
Cuzco            10      10    309   308                4,307               412            14     31  31
Huancavelica      5      5     137   128                1,678               354           13      27  26
Huanuco           6      6     189   184                2,585               418            14     32  31
Ica               6      6    170   165                 2,558               409            16     28   28
Junin            12      12    318   315                4,453               376            14     27   26
La Libertad      11     11    305   304                 5,115              463            17      28   28
Lambayeque        8      9    245   239                 3,213               368           13      31   27
Loreto            8      9    223   216       5,136    3,258       618      380      23   15      28   24
Madre Dios        1       1     28    15                 347                329           23      28   15
Moquegua          2      2      41    30       1,213     717       780     449       29   24      21   15
Pasco             3      3      78    68                1,108               343           16      26   23
Piura            12     12    384   383       7,442    4,636       610      371      19   12      32   32
Puno             12     13    336   362       7,997    5,254       649     409       24   14      28   28
San Martin        6      6    165   151                 2,186               354           14      28   25
Tacna             2      2      62    52       1,859    1,214      862      549      30   23      31   26
Tumbes            2      2      57    46       1,559    1,089              483            23      29  23
Ucayalli          3      4      65    54      2,302     1,410               391           26      22   14
Regions Total   159    165  4,458  4,346    98,562   63,403        619      385      22   15      28   26
Lima and         58     60   1,423   1,373    36,033   24,319      617      408      25   18      25   23
Callao
TOTAL           217    225   5,881   5,719   134,595   87,722      618      391      23   15      27   25
Source: MED, Inst. Nac. de Estadisticas, Banco Central
* Includes preschool, primary and secondary public schools.



50
Annex 1
Page 8 of 8
Annex 1, Table 13: Indices of Real Education Expenditure Relative to Total
Budget, GDP and Total Enrollment', 1970-1992 (base yr. 1970)
Year          Total     Educ.    Educ/    Educ/        Exp/
Exp       Exp    Tot. Exp    GDP        Stud
1970         100.0      100.0    18.8%      3.2%      100.0
1971         112.6      107.8    18.0%      3.3%      102.8
1972         119.5      117.4    18.5%      3.5%      106.2
1973         138.5      136.5    18.6%      3.7%      115.2
1974         140.7      131.3     18.2%     3.4%      109.5
1975         151.4      140.7    17.5%      3.5%      107.1
1976         151.9      135.8    16.8%      3.4%       98.2
1977         167.1      121.0    13.7%      3.1%       84.5
1978         170.4      105.1     11.6%     2.6%       70.9
1979         168.1      109.4    12.3%      2.5%       73.3
1980         203.7      142.8    13.2%      3.0%       93.8
1981         192.9      152.2    14.9%      3.2%       96.0
1982         187.2      136.4    13.7%      2.9%       81.5
1983         187.1      119.7    12.1%      3.0%       70.1
1984         197.0      124.0    11.9%      2.9%       70.4
1985         195.0      121.9    11.8%      2.8%       67.6
1986         189.7      164.7    16.4%      3.5%       87.7
1987         174.3      116.7    12.6%      2.3%      60.6
1988         123.9      96.3      14.7%     2.4%      48.5
1989          85.7      70.8      12.5%     2.4%       34.6
1990          77.8      44.7      9.2%      1.9%      21.2
1991          59.3      40.8     11.1%     1.5%       19.5
1992          60.3      44.9     11.9%     1.7%       20.9
Source: Banco Central (1993)
* Education expenditure includes budgets for universities and other decentralized
public institutions. Total enrollment includes all public school students.



51
Annex 2
Page 1 of 6
ANNEX 2: PROJECT COSTS TABLES
Annex 2, Table 1: Primary Education Quality Project, Project Components by Year--Base Casts
(US$'000)
Base Cost
1994       1995       1996       1997        1998       Total
A. Improving Educational Quality
Curriculum Improvement                      158.9      498.5      292.2      308.3        46.1    1,304.0
Improving Availability and Quality/of Instructional    349.2    5,903.5   11,202.5   16,763.6    13,218.1   47,436.9
Materials
Improving In-service Teacher Training       175.3    9,008.7    9,532.3   11,248.3     9,358.6   39,323.3
Subtotal Improving Educational Quality          683.4   15,410.7   21,027.0   28,320.3    22,622.8   88,064.2
8. Institutional Strengthening
Modernization of MOE's Management Capacity  627.5    1,838.3    7,797.1    1,391.9     1,301.5   12,956.3
Decentralization                            772.9    1,632.5    2,158.4    2,416.4     3,528.9   10,509.1
Establishing a Management Information System  2,014.2    7,542.0    1,454.0    1,369.3  1,095.7   13,475.2
Establishing a National Student Assessment  104.3      272.4      608.4      328.6       740.1    2,053.9
System
Project Implementation Unit               1,099.1     1,215.0    1,083.1     891.8       729.4    5,018.3
Subtotal Institu:ional Strengthening          4,618.0   12,500.1   13,101.0    6,398.0      7,395.6   44,012.8
C. Infrastructure Improvement
School Furnishing                             0.0    4,760.3    6,543.8    5,403.0     3,681.4   20,388.5
School Rehabilitation and Maintenance        57.1   26,815.3   34,055.6   27,905.8     9,917.9   98,751.7
Strengthening MOE's Infrastructure and Planning  169.4  623.0     610.0      629.8       616.9    2,649.1
Capacity
Subtotal Infrastructure Improvement             226.6   32,198.6   41,209.3   33,938.6    14,216.2  121,789.3
Total Baseline Costs                          5,528.0   60,109.4   75,337.4   68,656.9    44,234.7  253,866.3
Physical Contingencies                      136.4    3,926.3    4,979.5    4,395.1     2,371.1   15,808.4
Price Contingencies
Inflation
Local                                   297.6   12,625.7   26,758.3   33,013.4    26,867.1   99,562.1
Foreign                                  22.5       267.8      351.4      586.7       614.1    1,842.5
Subtotal Inflation                              320.1    12,893.5   27,109.7   33,600.1    27,481.2  101,404.6
Devaluation                                   0.0   (8,627.2) (19,251.6i  (24,489.0)   (20.139.6)  (72,507.5)
Subtotal Price Contingencies                320.1    4,266.3    7,858.1    9,111.1     7,341.6   28,897.1
Total Project Costs                           5,984.5   68,301.9   88,174.9   82,163.1    53,947.3  298,571.8
Taxes                                       971.5   10,805.8   12,355.1   12,189.0     7,975.7   44,297.1
Foreign Exchange                          1,429.9    5,788.4    4,633.0    5,614.6     4,643.1   22,109.0



An   2. Tble 2: P.e. P           Eb E can utady Prject Eunltze Accmant bv Cauaqam-Totl Coats
MPROVUG EDUCATNAL                                                                                      1IFRASTRUCTURE
QUALrTY lTrIUTHlMAL STRENGTHEWG                                                                 MPROVENIENT
Improving                                                   Estellisng                                     Strergthering
AvSilty    Improving Modernization               Estabhalng a  a Naiolnal                                        MOE's
Ved (alty/of    inSrvic     of MOE's                Managemnt   Studet          Project                 School intrastructure
Curriulum  nlntructorai   Teachr  Management                   Informatin Asesammnt ImplementatIon    School    Rehhbltkon  *nd Plarning
Improvement    Matrlais    Trainin     Capacty DecentralIzaton     Systent    System        Urit  Furnishing and Maintrwen  Capecity     Total
1. Invetment Costa
A. CM Worka                      0.0        0.0          0.0       887.6          0.0           0.0      20.8        277.0       0.0     115,988.1        0.0 117,173.5
6. EuJIpmen
Computr *nd reloted           11.3       21.4         30.2       21.5          13.2       8,053.7      21.6        40.9        0.0           5.7       12.6   8,232.1
Othws                          6.2        6.2         9.6       513.6           6.4          0.0       8.1          16.8      0.0           0.0        14.7    581.5
Telephone Un                   2.0        2.0          2.0      772.2           2.0          0.0        2.0          3.9       0.0           2.0        0.0    788.0
Subtotal Equ _mnt               19.5       29.5         41.7     1,307.3         21.6       8.053.7      31.7         61.6       0.0           7.6        27.3   9,601.6
C. Vydde                         0.0        0.0          0.0         0.0          0.0           0.0       0.0         31.5       0.0           0.0       31.5      62.9
D. Tecncal Asalstance
ServIc Contracts               0.0      493.8       491.9      5.819.1      1.580.5       4,626.5   1,410.7       951.4      240.7       2,693.0      163.3  18,470.9
nivwkil Contrwct             588.4      410.2        7063        3225       1.087,4         719.8    467.0       3.587.5       0.0         367.9       42.2   8.305 1
Subtotal Trlmcal              588.4      903.9       1,198.2    6,147.5       2,667.9      5,346.3   1,877.7      4,538.9     240.7       3,060.9       205.6  26.776.0                    tJm
Assistance
E. Training                     67.1       64.5     42,733.6     2,199.8       6,394.5      1.542.8     139.4        367.3       0.0           0.0     2,787.6  56,296.6
F. Furniture                     7.9        7.9          6.9       522.1          8.8           0.0       3.2         44.3  23,501.6           0.0         2.7  24.105.2
0. ktbncdonad Matwda
Printed Matwias                0.0   35,457.0          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0        0.0          0.0       0.0           0.0        0.0  35,457.0
Non-printed MateIas            0.0   14,901.6          0.0         0.0          0.0          0.0        0.0          0.0      0.0            0.0        0.0  14,901.6
UIbrey Matertis                0.0    4.149.4          0,0         0.0          .000                    0.0          0.0      0.0            0.0        0.0   4.149.4
Subtotal Inatructional           0.0   54,508.0          0.0         0.0          0.0           0.0       0.0          0.0       0.0           0.0         0.0  54,508.0
Materias
H. Semninrs                    668.3        00                       0.0          0.0           0.0     154.9          0.0       0.0           00         0.0   2.682.6
Toat Inve sment Costs         1,351.1   55,513.8    45,839.9    11,064.3       9,092.8     14.942.8   2,227.8      5,320.5  23,742.3     119,056.6     3,054.7 291,206.5
II. Recurent Costs
A. SalarI                       40.3       69.1          0.0       394.9          0.0           0.0      24.2          0.0       0.0           0.0        0.0    528.6
B. Equipment Mainte              4.5        9.1         12.1         9.3         10.8           0.0       8.1         22.1       0.0           0.0        0.0      76.2
C. Office Matedrs wnd           68.0       47.3         63.1     3,490.1      2,766.1           0.0      47.3        214.1       0.0          47.3       17.1   6,760.6
Operaional Costa
Tota Recurrwnt Costs           112.9      125.6         75.2     3894.3        2.777.0          0.0      79.6        236.2       0.0          47.3       17.1   7.365.3
Total Project Cost           1,464.0   55,639.4     45,915.1    14,958.7      11,869.7     14,942.8   2,307.4      5,556.8  23,742.3     119,103.9     3,071.8 298,571.8
Taxes                        180.8    8,457.7      6,968.9     1,104.6      1,600.4       3,215.7    298.9        667.3   3,585.0       17,743.8      473.9  44,297.1
Foreign Excag                 78.1   12,387.9        152.5      778.0       2,152.6       4,773.5    832.8        641.0       0.0           4.0       308.5  22,109.0
co >
(D 
MCD
x



Annex 2. Tabe 3: Pwr, Primry Education Qualty Projct, Expencture Account by Components - Base Costs
(USS'OOO)
IMPROVING EDUCATIONAL OUAUTY                          INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING                              INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENT
Improving                                                         EstaNlhNng a                                           Strengtheing
Av rabOty mid    Improving  Modernizeto                 EatabsNng a        National                                  Schod         MOE's
Gumty/of      Ire-Sevice    of MOE's                 Magm  nt          Student       Project                Rehablitation  Irnfrastructure
Curricutum   Instructinl     Teacher   Mangement                    Informaton    Assmwnt Implmenttation         School           and   end Planning
Improvemen       Mateias       Trainng       Capacity Decentrlztkdlon    System        Systwn           Unit    Furnising   Maintennc         Capacty         Total
1. Ilvestment Costs
A. Civil Works                      0.0           0.0           0.0         742.2           0.0          0.0          17.7         236.0           0.0      95,932.8           0.0      96,928.7
B. Equipment
Computers and                    10.6          20.1          28.3          20.2          12.4       7,250.6         20.2          37.8           0.0           5.3          11.8       7,417.2
related equripment
Others                            5.8           5.8           9.0        454.2            6.0          0.0           7.6          14.8           0.0           0.0          13.8        516.9
Telephone Une                     1.8           1.8           1.8        704.6            1.8          0.0           1.8           3.7           0.0           1.8           0,0         719.3
Installation
Subtotal Equipment                 18.2          27.7          39.1       1,179.1          20.2       7,250.6         29.6          56.2           0.0           7.1          25.6       8,653.4
C. Vehicles                         0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0          29.5           0.0           0.0          29.5          59.0
D. Technical Assistance
Service Contracts                 0.0         442.0        450.0        5,082.5       1,475.5      4,256.1       1,254.8         875.9        218.0        2,439.0        149.4       16,643.2
Individual Contracts            544.2         372.3         642.4        299.2         986.9         654.0         423.1       3,254.1           0.0        332.0          38.8        7,546.9
Subtotal Technical Assistance     544.2         814.3       1,092.4       5,381.8       2,462.3      4,910.1       1,677.9       4,130.0         218.0       2,771.0         188.2      24,190.1
E. Training                        60.1          55.3      36,469.6       1,881.7       5,646.1       1,314.5        124.9         324.5           0.0           0.0       2,388.6      48,265.4
F. Furniture                        7.0           7.0           6.1        452.5            7.8          0.0           2.8          39.2      20,170.5           0.0           2.4      20,695.2
G. Instructional Materials
Printed Materials                 0.0      30,024.8           0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0      30,024.8
Non-printed Materials             0.0      12,856.5           0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0      12,856.5
Ubrary Materials                  0.0       3,543.4           0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0       3,543.4
Subtotal Instructional Materials    0.0      46,424.7           0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0      46,424.7
H. Seminars                       576.3           0.0       1651.5            0.0           0.0           0.0        132.6           0.            0.0           0.0           0.0       2,360.4
Total Investment Costs             1,205.8      47,329.0      39,258.7       9,637.2      8,136.5      13,475.2       1,985.5       4,815.3      20,388.5     98,710.9       2,634.3    247_576.9
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                        35.8          59.4           0.0         342.7           0.0          0.0          20.8           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0        458.6
B. Equipment Maintenance            3.9           7.8          10.3           7.9           9.2          0.0           6.9          18.9           0.0           0.0           0.0          64.7
C. Office Materials and            58.6          40.8          54.4       2,968.4       2,363.4           0.0         40.8         184.1           0.0          40.8          14.8       5,766.1
Operational Costs
Total Recurrent Costs                 982          108.0          64.6       3.319.0       2.372.6          0.0          68.4         203.0           0.0          40.8          14.8       6.289.4
Total BASELINE COSTS               1,304.0      47,436.9      39,323.3      12,956.3     10,509.1      13,475.2       2,053.9       5,018.3      20,388.5      98.751,7       2,649.1    253,866.3
Physical contingencies             37.9       2,343.1       1,911.5        631.0          133.4        428.3          19.5          54.9       1,008.5       9,115.9         124.4      15,808.4
Price Contingencies
Inflation
Local                           403.4      17,315,9      17,652.8       4,673.7       3,680.3      2,493.4         558.7       1,468.2       8,786.9      41,523.0       1,005.8     99,562.1
Foreign                           3.5       1,189.4           9.9          54.6        209.3         236.4          76.8          38.8           0.0           0.1         23.6        1,842.5
Subtotal Inflation                406.8      18,505.3      17,662.7       4,728.4       3,889.6       2,729.8        635.6       1,507.0       8,786.9      41,523.0       1,029.3    101 404.6
Devaluation                       1284.71    112,645.9)    (12,982.41    13,357.11     12,662.41     11,690.51      1401.6)      (1 023.4)    16,441.6)    (30,286.7)       1731.1)    i72,507.51
Subtotal Price Contingencies       122.1       5.859.4       4.680.3      1.371.3       1.227.2       1.039.3        233.9         483.6       2 3345.3     11.236.3        298.3       28,897.1
Total PROJECT COSTS                 1,464.0     55,639.4      45,915.1      14,958.7      11,869.7      14,942.8       2,307.4       5,556.8     23,742.3    119,103.9        3,071.8    298,571.8
Taxes                              180.9       8,457.7       6,968.9       1,104.6       1,600,4      3,215.7         298.9         667.3       3,585.0     17,743.8         473.9      44,297.1
Foreign Exchange                    78.1      12,387.9        152.5         778.0       2.152.6       4,773.5         832.8        641.0                         4.0         308.5      22.109.0
co >
CD>
O x



54
Annex 2
Page 4 of 6
Annex 2. Table 4: Peru, Primary Education Quality Project, Components by Financiers
(US $'000)
Intemational Bank For
Reconstruction and
Development     Govemment of Peru         Total
Local (Excl.   Duties &
Amount          %      Amount          %      Amount       %  For. Exch.        Taxes)      Taxes
A. Improving Educational Quality
Curriculum Improvement                     450.2       30.8      1,013.8      69.2      1,464.0    0.5       78.1        1,205.1      180.8
Improving Availability and Quality/of      687.7         1.2    54,951.7      98.8    55,639.4   18.6  12,387,9         34,793.8    8,457.7
Instructional Materials
Improving In-service Teacher Training      910.8        2.0    45,004.2       98.0    45,915.1   15.4       152.5       38,793.7    6,968.9
Subtotal Improving Educational Quality   2,048.7        2.0   100,969.7       98.0   103,018.5   34.5  12,618.5         74,792.6   15,607.4
B. Institutional Strengthening
Modernization of MOE's Management        6,715.4       44.9      8,243.2      55.1    14,958.7    5.0       778.0       13,076.1    1,104.6
Capacity
Decentralization                         1,970.6       16.6      9,899.1      83.4    11,869.7    4.0   2,152.6          8,116.7    1,600.4
Establishing a Management Information    9,747.2       65.2      5,195.5      34.8    14,942.8    5.0   4,773.5          6,953.5    3,215.7
System
Establishing a National Student          1,413.8       61.3        893.6      38.7      2,307.4    0.8      832.8        1,175.7      298.9
Assessment System
Project Implementation Unit              3,654.4       65.8      1,902.4      34.2      5,556.8    1.9      641.0        4,248.4      667.3
Subtotal Institutional Strengthening      23,501.4        47.3    26,133.9       52.7    49,635.3   16.6   9,178.0        33,570,4    6,886.9
C. Infrastructure Improvement
School Furnishing                       20,092.3       84.6      3,650.0      15.4    23,742.3    8.0         0.0       20,157.3    3,585.0
School Rehabilitation and Maintenance  100,535.1       84.4    18,568.8       15.6   119,103.9   39.9         4.0      101,356.1   17,743.8
Strengthening MOE's Infrastructure and     194.2        6.3      2,877.6      93.7      3,071.8    1.0      308.5        2,289.3      473.9
Planning Capacity
Total Disbursement                       146,371.7        49.0   152,200.1      51.0   298,571.8  100.0  22,109.0        232,165.8  44,297.1



Annex 2, Table 5: Peru, Primary Education Quality Project, Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(US$'000)
Loan Amounts
Suggested Allocation of
Loan Pfoceeds           Total Project Cost           Average                       Unallocated                Allocated
Disbursement
Loan Disbursement
Arnount           %      Total     Local Foreign   Total Loca Foreing    Total   Total    Local Foreign    Total   Local  Foreign
I
A. Civil Works            90.684.6         84.7 117,173.5 117,173.5     0.0   84.7  84.7    0.0  99,299.6  8,615.0  8.615.0    0.0  90,684.6  90,684.6     0.0
B. Furniture              19,455.4         84.7  24,105,2  24,105.2     0.0   84.7  84.7    0.0  20,428.1   972.8    972.8    0.0  19,455.4  19,455.4      0.0
C. Equipment and Vehicles
Equipment                6.737.1         73.5   9,601.6   5,458.2  4,143.3   73.5  53.3  100.0  7.053.0   315.9    118.6  197.3  6,737.1  2,791.1   3,946.0
Vehicles                    42.4         70.7     62.9       18.4    44.5   70.7  0.0  100.0    44.5        2.1      0.0    2.1      42.4      0.0     42.4
Subtotal Equipment and     6,779.5          0.0   9,664.5   5,476.6  4,187.9    0.0  0.0    0.0  7,097.5   318.0    118.6  199.4  6,779.5  2,791.1   3.988.4
Vehicles                                                                                                                                                                               LJ
tJl
D. Instructional Materials
Printed Materials            0.0          0.0  35,457.0  29,491.5  5,965.5    0.0  0.0    0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
Non-printed Materials        0.0          0.0  14,901.6   8,624.9  6,276.8    0.0  0.0    0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
Ubrary Materials             0.0          0.0   4,149.4   4,149.4     0.0    0.0  0.0    0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0
Subtotal Instructional Materials  0.0       0.0  54,508.0  42,265.7  12,242.3   0.0  0.0    0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
E. Technical Assistance   19,341.4         73.0  26,776.0  23,273.4  3,502.6   73.0  69.5   96.5  19,546.5   205.0    196.0    9.0  19,341.4  15,968.8  3,372.6
F. Training                    0.0          0.0  56,296.6  54,120.4  2,176.2    0.0  0.0    0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0    0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
G. Serninars                   0.0          0.0   2,682.6   2,682.6     0.0    0.0  0.0    0.0        0.0     0.0       0.0    0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
H. Recurrent Costs             0.0          0.0   7,365.3   7,365.3     0.0    0.0  0.0    0.0        0.0     0.0       0.0    0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
UnaHocated                10,110.8          0.0       0.0       0.0     0.0    0.0  0.0    0.0        0.0     0.0       0.0    0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0
Total                     146,371.7        49.0 298,571.8  276,462.8  22,109.0   0.0  0.0    0.0  146,371. 10,110.8  9,902.4  208.4  136,260. 128,899.  7,361.0
(0>
CD~
CJ1 CD
O x
0)



56
Annex 2
Page 6 of 6
Annex 2, Table 6: Peru, Primary Educaton Quality Project, Disbursement Account By Financiers
(US$'OOO)
International Srank
for Reconstruction
and Devolopment    Government of Peru          Total
Local     Duties &
Amount          %    Amount        %       Amount         %  Foreign Exch. (Exc. Taxes)      Taxes
1. Civil Works          99,299.6      84.7  17,873.9    15.3      117,173.5     39.2          0.0    99,299.6      17,873.9
2. Equipment             7,053.0      73.5   2,548.6    26.5        9,601.6      3.2      4,143.3      2,909.6      2,548.6
3. Furniture            20,428.1      84.7   3,677.1    15.3       24,105.2      8.1          0.0    20,428.1       3,677.1
4. Vehicles                 44.5      70.7       18.4    29.3          62.9      0.0         44.5          0.0         18.4
5. Printed Materials         0.0       0.0  35,457.0   100.0       35,457.0     11.9      5,965.5     24,082.8      5,408.7
6. Non-Printed Matenals      0.0       0.0  14,901.6   100.0       14,901.6      5.0      6,276.8      6,351.7      2,273.1
7. Library Materials         0.0       0.0   4,149.4   100.0        4,149.4      1.4          0.0      3,516.4        633.0
8. Technical Assistance  19,546.5     73.0   7,229.5    27.0       26,776.0      9.0      3,502.6     20,951.9      2,321.5
9. Training                  0.0       0.0  56,296.6   100.0       56,296.6     18.9      2,176.2     45,558.0      8,562.4
10. Seminars                 0.0       0.0   2,682.6   100.0        2,682.6      0.9          0.0      2,273.4        409.2
11. Recurrent Costs          0.0       0.0   7,365.3   100.0        7,365.3      2.5          0.0      6,794.2        571.2
Total                  146,371.7      49.0  152,200.1    51.0    298,571.8    100.0       22,109.0   232,165.8     44,297.1
Annex 2. Table 7: Peru. Prtnwy Educatlon Qualty Proect, Procurement Accounts by Finaniers
1US$'OOO
Intemational Sank for
Reconstruction and
Deveopnnt         Goveme nt of Peru           Total
Local lExcl.   Duties &
Anount       %       Amount        .        Amount       % Foregn Exchange       Taxesl       Taxes
A. Civil Works              99,299.6    84.7      17,873.9    15.3     117,173.5    39.2            0.0     99,299.6     17,873.9
S. Equipment                 7,053.0    73.5       2,548.6    26.5       9,601.6     3.2        4,143.3      2,909.6      2,548.6
C. Furniture                20,428.1    84.7       3,677.1    15.3      24,105.2     8.1            0.0     20,428.1      3,677.1
D. Vehicles                     44.5    70.7          18.4    29.3          62.9     0.0           44.5          0.0         18 4
E. Instructional Materials
Printed Materials                0.0     0.0      35,457.0   100.0      35,457.0    11.9        5,965.5     24,082.8      5,408.7
Non-printed Matefials            0.0     0.0      14,901.6   100.0      14,901.6     5.0         6,276.8     6,351.7      2,273.1
Library Materials                0.0     0.0       4,149.4   100.0       4,149.4     1.4            0.0      3,516.4        633.0
Subtotal Instructional Materials  0.0    0.0      54,508.0   100.0      54,508.0    18.3       12,242.3     33,950.9      8,314.8
F. Technical Assistance     19,546.5    73.0       7,229.5    27.0      26,776.0     9.0        3,502.6     20,951.9      2,321.5
G. Training                      0.0     0.0      56,29e.6   100.0      56,296.6    18.9        2,176.2     45,558.0      8,562.4
H. Seminars                      0.0     0.0       2.682.6   100.0       2,682.6     0.9            0.0      2,273.4        409.2
I. Recurrent Costs               0.0     0.0       7,365.3   100.0       7,3e5.3     2.5            0.0      6,794.2        571.2
146,371.7    49.0    152,200.1    51.0      298,571.8   100.0       22,109.0    232,165.8    44,297.1



57                            Annex 3
Page 1 of 10
ANNEX 3: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGY
1.   The Ministry of Education (MOE) will be responsible for coordinating and
implementing the project through: (a) its National Directorates, (b) its recently
established Project Implementation Unit (PIU), and (c) an Advisory Council headed
by the Minister of Education and composed of the National Project Director, the
Vice-Minister, and the General Secretary of Education. The National Institute for
Education and Health Infrastructure (INFES), and the National Service for Training
the Construction Industry (SENCICO) will also participate in project
implementation.
2.   In order to describe the main responsibilities of the different implementing
units involved in the project, and to help understand how they relate to each other,
the project implementation cycle has been divided into eight different functions: (i)
policy advice and inter-institutional coordination; (ii) general coordination; (iii)
definition and production of technical specifications, standards and guidelines; (iv)
selection of goods (e.g textbooks) and services (consultants); (v) procurement; (vi)
logistical support for implementing activities in the field; (vii) administration of
financial resources; and (viii) monitoring, control and evaluation of project
activities. The matrix presented in Annex 3: Table 1 summarizes the functions of
entities involved in project implementation and Annex 3: Table 2 provides
monitoring indicators for each component. What follows is a brief description of
the project's organizational linkages within the MOE and with other institutions.
Ministry of Education (MOE)
3.   The project's organizational linkages within the MOE are described below.
Annex 3: Chart 1 provides a diagram of these relationships.
4.   National Directorates. Each subcomponent will be adopted and implemented
by one of the National Directorates or similar sections of the MOE, which will
receive technical, administrative, and operational support from the Project
Implementation Unit.
* The National Directorate for Educational Technology (NDET) would direct
the Curriculum Improvement and the Instructional Materials subcomponents.
The Division of Educational Plans and Programs (DEPP) of this Directorate
would be responsible for all technical and selection activities related to the
curriculum improvement plan. The Division of Educational Resources (DER)
would be responsible for technical and selection activities related to the
instructional materials subcomponent. This will involve providing technical
specifications and selecting textbooks and workbooks, teaching guides,
supplementary reading books, and non-printed didactic materials.



58                           Annex 3
Page 2 of 10
* The National Directorate for Educational Research and Training (NDERT)
will be responsible for the In-Service Teacher Training Component through
its Division of Teacher Training (DTT). This division will be responsible for
all technical and selection activities included in the teacher training sub-
component, such as designing and organizing in-service teacher training
seminars and workshops, developing training guidelines for training
institutions selected to deliver the seminars and workshops, and designing
the voucher system.
* Due to the high-level political and policy decisions involved in the
Institutional Strengthening component, the subcomponents of this
component will be coordinated by a key advisor of the Ministry of Education.
Nevertheless, each subcomponent will be implemented and directed by
different sections of the MOE. The Office of Technical Development (OTD)
will be responsible for the Modernization of MOE's Management Capacity
and Decentralization subcomponents through the Division of Rationalization
(DR). More specifically, the Division would be responsible for supervising
the management studies, monitoring the decentralization pilot experiment
and, based on the results of the management studies, overseeing the action-
plan agreed between the Bank and the MOE. The Office of Administration
(OA), through its Division of Information (DINFO), will be responsible for
implementing the Management Information System subcomponent; and the
National Directorate of Educational Supervision and Evaluation (NDESE) will
be responsible, through its Division of Evaluation (DE), for all technical and
selection activities of the National Student Assessment System
subcomponent.
* The Division of Infrastructure (DINFE) of the Office of Technical
Development will be responsible for technical and selection activities of the
Infrastructure Component. These activities will involve, among others,
monitoring the work carried out by INFES.
* The regional authorities will provide logistical and monitoring support to
the Project Implementation Unit for those components being implemented in
their area.
5.   Project Implementation Unit (PIU). The PIU will be considered a "Proyecto
Especial" (Special Project), which means that it has technical, administrative and
financial autonomy but is accountable to the Minister of Education. It's main
functions will be to carry out project procurement activities, coordinate between
different entities involved in project implementation, and assure that all project
components are implemented in accordance with the technical and legal
requirements stipulated in the loan agreement signed between the GOP and
theBank, as described in the operational manual. In other words, it will support the



59                            Annex 3
Page 3 of 10
work of the National Directorates and will serve as the technical, administrative,
and operational counterpart of the Bank during the life of the project.
6.   To perform these functions, the PIU will be headed by a professional with
experience in the management of internationally-funded projects and will consist of
5 substantive and 4 support units. The substantive units are: (i) instructional
materials; (ii) teacher training; (iii) curriculum; (iv) infrastructure; and (v)
institutional strengthening. The institutional strengthening unit will encompass
three sub-units: (i) institutional strengthening and decentralization; (ii) management
information systems; and (iii) national student assessment. The four support units
are: (i) procurement (supported by a Technical Evaluation Committee); (ii) project
planning and control; (iii) legal aspects; and (iv) administration and logistics.
Consultants with specialized expertise not available within the MOE will be
contracted as needed with project funds throughout the life of the project and the
PIU will rely on regional offices for support in project logistics, supervision, and
monitoring.
7.   Advisory Council. The Advisory Council (headed by the Minister of Education
and comprising the Vice Minister, the General Secretary of Education, and the
Project Director) will support project implementation by ensuring coordination
between the PIU and the different executing agencies and facilitating the resolution
of conflicts that may arise during the life of the project. In order to ensure
institutionalization of the project and its effective implementation, the MOE will
also include the Directors as permanent members of the Advisory Council.
National Institute for Education and Health Infrastructure (INFES)
8.   INFES, under the supervision of the MOE's Infrastructure Division, will be
responsible for implementing the school rehabilitation and maintenance
subcomponent and the school furnishing subcomponent. This will involve
designing, contracting out, supervising and monitoring all civil works as well as
designing and procuring school furniture.
National Service for Training the Construction Industry (SENCICO)
9.   Based on the technical specifications provided by the MOE's Infrastructure
Division, SENCICO will be responsible for all training activities that aim at
improving schools' capacity for infrastructure maintenance. This will involve
selecting and/or producing the appropriate maintenance manuals and training
materials, delivering the training to all participating schools, and providing
multigrade schools with the basic tools for maintenance activities.



Annex 3, Table 1: Areas of Responsibility of Implementing Agencies
IMPLEMENTING AGENCY
Ministry of Education
Subcomponents                                Advisory    PIU     DEPP   DER   DTT         DR      DINFO       DE      D         RINFES &    UNDP
Council                                                                           OffNO  E DNF  eicesl  SENCICO
1. Curriculum Improvement                       I     M-P-S-C   T-S                                                              M-L                    A
2. Instructional Materials                      I     M-P-S-C            T-S                                                     M-L                    A
3. In-service Teacher Training                  I      M-P-C                     T-S                                             M-L                    A
4. School Furnishing                            I      M-P-C                                                           T-M       M-L        S-P-L       A
5. School Rehabilitation and Maintenance        I      M-P-C                                                           T-M       M-L        S-P-L       A
6. Strengthening MOE's Infrastructure Capacity  I      M-P-C                                                           T-S       M-L                    A
7. Modernization of MOE's Mgt. Capacity         I     M-P-S-C                            T-S                                     M-L                    A
8. Decentralization                             I      M-P-C                             T-S                                     M-L                    A
9. Management Information System                I      M-P-C                                       T-S                           M-L                    A
10. Student Assessment                          I      M-P-C                                                T-S-M                M-L                    A
PIU   = Ministry of Education: Project Implementation Unit
DEPP  = Ministry of Education: Division of Educational Plans and
Programs                                                                                                                                                             o
DER   = Ministry of Education: Division of Educational Resources
DTT   = Ministry of Education: Division of Teacher Training
DR    = Ministry of Education: Division of Rationalization
DINFO = Ministry of Education: Division of Information
DE      Ministry of Education: Division of Evaluation
DINFE = Ministry of Education: Division of Infrastructure
INFES = National Institute for Education and Health Infrastructure
SENCICO= National Service for Training the Construction Industry
UNDP = United Nations Development Program
I = Inter-institutional Coordination & Policy Advice
C = General Coordination
T = Definition and production of Technical Specifications, Standards and Guidelines
S = Selection of Good and Services
A = Administration of Financial Resources
P = Procurement                                                                                                                                                           -o
L = Logistical Support                                                                                                                                                    X
M = Monitor - Control - Evaluation                                                                                                                                        co
CD >
-o :3
o  CD
X
0



61                                                Annex 3
Page 5 of 10
Annex 3, Table 2: Peru Primary Education Quality Project
Matrix of Monitoring Indicators
Components                 | Subcomponents  [    Indicators    [    Q            1994  [ 1995  | 1996  | 1997 J  1998
Improving Educational        Curriculum         Curriculums            10                 40%      60%
Quality                      Improvement        improved
Pilot curriculums       2        50%      50%
evaluated
Final curriculums      12                  8%      16%      67%       9%
evaluated                                                 I
Institutional           4                 25%      50%      25%
Strengthening
Activities
Developed                                                      _
In-service        Directors             17742                100%
Teacher           Informed
Training
Directors and        126331               20%      27%      31%       22%
Teachers Trained
Teachers with         16690                                  2%       98%
Vouchers
Promotion               6        17%      33%      17%      17%       17%
Seminars
Seminars for           20                 50%      25%      25%
Implementing
Entities
Training               384                25%      25 %     25 %      25%
Seminars (by
implementing
entities)
DTT's critical         53        95%      85%      60%      40%       20%
activities
requiring
consultant
involvement (as
% of total per
year)_____                 __
Instructional     Textbooks            5109924               17%      27%      26%      30%
Materials         Distributed
Workbooks           12951550               6%      20%      34%       40%
Distributed
Pedagogical          247051               10%      24%      38%       28%
guides
Distributed
Texts/Workbooks      288508                                 78%       22%
Unidocental
Schools



62                                                Annex 3
Page 6 of 10
Components                   Subcomponents         Indicators          Q         1994    1995    1996    1997         1998
Non-printed          122128               20%      29%      36%       15%
Materials
Modules
Distributed
Library Materials    122128               20%      29%      36%       15%
Modules
Distributed
Developmentof           3        33%      42%       9%       8%       8%
Support
Instruments
Activities to be       12         8%      10%      45%      81%      100%
adopted by DER
(cumulative)
Modernization of             Modemization       Studies                12                 67%       8%       8%       17%
Educational Administration   of Management    Completed
MOE Central            300                20%      30%      25%        25
Level Training
Implemented
MOE Regional          2400                         40%      30%       30%
Level Training
Implemented
Pilot Plan for    Autonomous            38,287                1%      12%      33%      55%
Public School     Schools
Autonomy
School Autonomy         1        70%      30%
Plan (cumulative)
Data Collection         3        10%      60%      30%
Events
Training of          38,287                1%       12%     33%       55%
Principals
Training of          38,287                1%       12%     33%       55%
School Councils
Training of          38,287                1%       12%     33%       55%
School
Administrators
Training of            230                 1%       12%     33%       55%
Supervisors                                      .
Impact Study           4                  25%      25%      25%       25%
Repons
MIS               Systems in              20        10%      50%      30%                10%
Operation
Nodes installed at     60        20%       80%
central level
Nodes installed at     344                 8%      45%      47%
decentralized
levels



63                                                 Annex 3
Page 7 of 10
Components                   Subcomponents          Indicators           Q         1994     199"5    16       1997      1998
# of staff             650                 23%      46%      23 %      8 %
receiving training
at central level
of staff              5558                 16%      28%      28%       28%
receiving training
at decentralized
levels
National Student   Promotion               12        10%      10%      35%       10%      35%
Assessment         Activities
System
Pilot                   3                  33%               33%       33%
administrations
Final                   2                           50%                50%
administrations
Dissemination           3                           100%
Activities
Individuals             2                                              100%
receiving
scholarships join
MOE
Personnel of            2                                             100%
technical team
promoted                                                                      l
Research Grants         4                                    50%       50%
Evaluation Study        1                                    50%       50%
Infrastructure Improvement    School            Urban                  2259        22%      24%      26%      20%       8%
rehabilitation     Classrooms
and maintenance    Replaced
Rural Classrooms       1941       8%       25%      32 %     26%       9%
Replaced
Studies for             4         25%      25 %     25%      25%
identification of
potential
classrooms
Identification of      1750       39%      31%      23 %      7 %
eligible
classrooms
Urban technical        377        22%      24%      26%      20%       8%
dossier bided on
Rural technical        1373       2%       25%      34%      29%       10%
dossier bided on                                               _



64                                                 Annex 3
Page 8 of 10
Components                   Subcomponents          Indicators           Q         1994     1995     199 | 1997         1998
School             Rural New              1941       8%       25%      32%      26%        9%
Fumishing          classrooms
equipped
Urban new             2259        22%      24%      26%      20%       8%
Classrooms
Equipped
Classrooms with       98260                25%      25%      25%       25%
Bookshelves
Strengthening      Cadastre:               25                 25%      25%      25%       25%
MOE's              Departments
infrastructure    legally sanitized
planning
capacity           Structure               2                  50%               50%
Inventory:
Completed
Census
Norms and              460                 25%      25 %     25%       25%
Training:
National Training
Events



65                           Annex 3
Page 9 of 10
Annex 3, Table 3: Peru Primary Education Quality Project
List of Departments
1.   CAJAMARCA
2.   HUANCAVELICA
3.   LORETO
4.   PUNO
5.   CUZCO
6.   ANCASH
7.  JUNIN
8.   LIMA
9.   SAN MARTIN
10.  APURIMAC
11.  HUANUCO
12.  LA LIBERTAD
13.  AMAZONAS



66                                                           Annex 3
Page 10 of 10
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT (PIU)
ARTICULATION WITHIN THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
Ministro        - - - - - - - - -- Consejo Consultiv|
I~~~~~~~
|Programs Especial |
MECEP
tPIU)
* Oficina de
Oficins General                            ~~~~~~~Desarrollo TecniCO  7
Of icina General                                     .                                     Di
de Administracion                                       . . . . .  .r.. .  ..
Diraccion de 
'~~~~~~~ ~~~                              - - -- -: -Informatica         - 
.        .~~~~.    . ..  ....                               
Direccion NacionalI         Direccion Nacional         Direccion Necional         0recc on Nac onal
Promocion, Particip.         S        on y Eva-        de Tecnolog i              Investigc ion Educ.
y Desarrollo Educ.          Luacion Educativa          Educativa                   Capacitacion
Docente
4  Direccion de    |        4    Dir. Planes
-l -    Evaluacion        -       y Programes                cion Docenta j
Project's Consultants                                                           -   Educativos 



67
Annex 4
Page 1 of 3
ANNEX 4: BANK SUPERVISION REQUIREMENTSnn
1.   Due to the MOE's weak institutional capacity and the need to ensure timely
implementation of the project instructional materials and teacher training
components, the Bank will need to provide intensive supervision to the project. To
reduce the costs of supervision the Bank would coordinate its supervision missions
with KfW who would be providing parallel financing to the teacher training sub-
component.
2.   Supervision Tasks. Supervision activities would include the following tasks:
(a)   Supervision Missions: To adequately supervise the project, the Bank
would need approximately two supervision missions of about two
weeks each per year. The missions team will be comprised by the
Task Manager, an architect and one or two consultants specializing in
aspects relevant to the project (i.e. project finances and control,
student assessment, management information systems, textbooks and
instructional materials, teacher training). Each mission would include
visits to provinces where rehabilitation is taking place and would be
planned so at to complement the supervision missions of both IDB and
KfW.
(b)   Annual Reviews: During the first quarter of each calendar year the
Bank will conduct joint annual project implementation reviews with
the GOP to assess progress on the implementation of the project's
quality components (textbooks, teacher training) and the bilingual
education plan, and to revise the school rehabilitation targets for that
year.
(c)   Procurement Reviews: Procurement reviews will be carried out in the
field during the annual review meetings, requiring about one staff
week.
(d)   ADwroval of terms of reference and candidates for technical
assistance: It is estimated that this task should take about two staff
weeks per year, with much of the complementary review function
taking place in the field during supervision.



68
Annex 4
Page 2 of 3
(e)  lmoact Evaluation - Decentralization Experiment: The supervision of
this activity will be supported by PRDPH and LATAD, requiring
approximately a total of eight staff weeks annually during the first
four years of the project.
(f)   Mid-Term review: The Mid-Term Review, scheduled for the first
quarter of the calendar year 1997, would require three weeks.
(g)   Routine sugervision and internal administration: It is expected that an
additional eight to nine staff weeks per year would be needed at
Headquarters for the various activities of internal reporting,
coordination with IDB and KfW, mission preparation, and routine
correspondence.
3.   Supervision Plan. Based on the above supervision requirements, the
following supervision calendar is proposed for the project:
FY1 995:
Project Launch
Task Manager
Procurement Specialist
Finance specialist
Architect
Supervision Mission
Task Manager
Architect
Impact Evaluation Specialist
FY1996 - FY1999:
Supervision Missions. Two per year comprised of a combination of the following
staff:
Task Manager
Finance specialist
Architect
Impact Evaluation Specialist
Public Sector Management specialist



69
Annex 4
Page 3 of 3
FY1997
Mid-Term Review
Task Manager
Finance specialist
Architect
Impact Evaluation specialist
Public Sector Management specialist
FY1999
Project Completion Report Preparation Mission
Task Manager
Finance specialist
4.   Resource Requirements. Based on the supervision tasks and calendar
outlined above, the total estimated staff weeks (including consultants) per year for
the project are: FY1995 35; FT1996 32; FY1997 40; FY1998 32; FY1999 30.



70                                         Annex 5
Page 1 of 2
ANNEX 5: PROPOSED NATIONAL ASSESSMENT SYSTEM
GENERAL           Program Mgt.     The Ministry of Education will be responsible for the general management,
INFORMATION                        logistical support and promotion, dissemination and utilization of the system.
An autonomous institution will be contracted to be in charge of processes
related to coordinating and managing test development and administration, and
data processing and analysis.
General system    Provide periodic, valid and reliable information on the progress towards national
objective        achievement goals in order to inform educational decisions for primary
education.
Yr. administered   1995: Pilot Language and Math (L&M) for 4th grade; 1996: National
administration L&M for 4th grade; 1 997: Pilot administration L&M and Natural
and Social Sciences (N&SS) for 6th grade; 1 998: National administration L&M
and N&SS for 6th grade and pilot L&M and N&SS for 4th grade. A psycho-
social development assessment for 4th and 6th grade would be also be piloted
in 1997 and administered in 1998.
DETAILS OF        Grades           4th and 6th grade.
DESIGN            Subjects         Initially only Language and Math. Natural and Social Sciences would be added
in Yr. 4.
N                To be determined after collecting information and carrying out detailed analysis
of sample design. Cost tables were based on the following estimates for both
grades: 3,000 students for pilot administration and 50,000 students for
national administrations. Tests would be also be administered to an additional
maximum of 600 schools involved in the impact evaluation of the
decentralization process.
Behavioral       Knowledge and those others that are contemplated in the present curricular
objective        program for each subject at the particular grade. In Language, both literacy and
reading comprehension.
Item type        Multiple-choice and an essay section for language.
# of items and   0 Versions: 2 for Language and Math and 4 for Natural and Social Sciences.
versions         * Items for 4th grade: Language (40); Math (40); Social sciences - history and
geography - (30); Natural Sciences (30).
* Items for 6th grade: Language (50); Math (50); Social sciences - history and
geography - (30); Natural Sciences (30).
Standardization    Content, Administration and Scoring
Reference        Criterion-referenced.
Equating         Efforts would be made to equate tests to those used in the decentralization
impact evaluation study.
Supplementary    With each test administration, surveys for school directors, teachers and
information      parents would be carried out. Information would be collected on: (a) school-
related variables: e.g. teacher characteristics, textbook availability, hours of
instruction, etc.; and (b) external variables: e.g. socio-economic, parent's
expectations, parental support in school task, parental schooling, etc.



71                                         Annex 5
Page 2 of 2
DETAILS ON        Test piloted     Yes (see above in Yr. administered).
ADMINISTRATION  Reliability and    Yes.
AND ANALYSIS    validity analysis  l
Analysis and    l  A study would be carried out to test the feasibility of using bubble answer
further research   sheets in order to speed data processing with optical scanners.
* Thorough psychometric analysis of tests and statistical analysis of results.
* Data would be made available to those interested in carrying out further
analyses and incentives, such as ME-sponsored competitions, would be
provided to stimulate related research. Attention would be given to stimulating
evaluations and research on different testing methodologies (e.g.
experimentation with different item types).
DETAILS ON        Promoting test    Activities will be carried out that will sensitize the education community and the
PROMOTION,                         public in general of the meaning and importance of the national assessment
DISSEMINATION,                     (e.g. a nation-wide competition among school children would be carried out for
AND                                the design of a logo and/or poster).
INFORMATION       To whom dissem. Central and regional authorities, parents, teachers and general public.
USE
How and when of Different reports will be prepared for different audiences and other forms of
dissemination    dissemination (e.g. seminars) will also be used. Dissemination process will be
carried out approximately 4 months after national administration but a data
center will be maintained year round in order to respond to ad hoc demands for
information.
Evaluation of    An evaluation will be carried out in 1997.
information use



72
Annex 6
page 1 of 2
ANNEX 6: TEACHER TRAINING SUBCOMPONENT
The teacher training subcomponent includes three main activities : (i) carrying out specific
in-service teacher training programs; (ii) providing training for directors; and (iii)
institutionalizing a teacher training voucher system. The purpose, main characteristics, and
general implementation strategy of these activities are described in the following table:
Annex 6, Table 1: Summary Description of Teacher Training Component
Iin-service teacher training          JTraining for directors        | Voucher System
Purpose and   * Provide a short term solution to some  * Strengthen the capacity of    * Develop a permanent
brief        of the weaknesses of the present teaching directors in pedagogical   capacity for in-service teacher
description   force.                                supervision and support       training by building on local
* Strengthen local decentralized      methods.                      in-service teacher training
institutional capacity for delivering  * Training would inform      capacity fostered by the
appropriate and quality in-service    directors of the content being    project.
training.                             taught in project- sponsored in-  * Each school would receive
* Training would promote the use of    service teacher training and  vouchers for training teachers
student-centered teaching methods by  would ensure that they        selected by the schools.
training teachers on how to effectively    understand their role in the
use instructional time and the        quality improvement initiatives.
instructional materials provided by the
project, and on how to stimulate active
learning habits.
To whom      * Training schedule would coincide with  1995: 15635 directors       1988: Voucher system
and when     distribution of textbooks and teaching  1998: 15635 directors        introduced for all public
materials.                                                          schools.
1995:   22360 Grade I teachers
1996:   35832 Grade 2 & 3 teachers
1997:   33986 Grade 4 & 5 teachers;
10132 multigrade school
teachers.
How (mgt.   * Organization and delivery of training   * Same as for "in-service   * Training would be offered
strategy)    would be contracted out in each       teacher training."             by private and public
department to teacher training institutes                           universities and teacher
and universities.                                                   training institutes
* MOE would develop training                                        * MOE's role would: (i)
guidelines to be used by the training                               provide vouchers to schools
institutions for designing the necessary                            and (ii) pre-approve and
training materials and teaching                                     certify the list of courses and
methodologies.                                                      seminars that would be
* Teachers would receive certificate                                offered by the implementing
based on their learning achievement.                                entities.
* Information system would be                                       * Schools would select
introduced to monitor training received                             teachers to participate in
by teachers and their performance in the                            training courses and finance
various training sessions.                                          their participation with the
vouchers.



73
Annex 6
page 2 of 2
The in-service teacher training that would be provided during the project's life and the
proposed voucher system attempt to correct many of the weaknesses of the present in-service
teacher training that is provide. The following table highlights the differences in approach:
Annex 6, Table 2: Comparing Present and Proposed In-service Teacher Training System
Present In-Service Teacher Training          |    Proposed In-Service Teacher Training System
Centralized system: MOE is responsible for defining     Decentralized system: MOE would: (i) develop training
training policies and strategies and for planning and   guidelines that would be used by the contracted training
implementing the training programs.                     institutions for designing the necessary training materials
and teaching methodologies; and (ii) approve and certifyl
courses offered by private and public institutions.
MOE's approach to planning is top-down, with no school    Schools would be responsible in the short and long term
involvement in the process.                             for defining their needs, structuring their programs,
identifying appropriate finance and technical assistance,
and organizing the training of their personnel.
Attendance is certified.                                 Learning is certified.
One-shot approach.                                       Continuous, permanent system established.
Training linked to informing on new educational policies.    Training directed towards improving teaching process in
the classroom.
Lecture style, theoretical classes.                      Workshop style, practical classes.
Mass training of 100 teachers at one time.              Size of group to be trained: maximum of 30 teachers per
class.
Training not adapted to different needs of Peru's        Training would be diversified, particularly providing
heterogeneous schooling environments.                    special training for teachers in multigrade classrooms.
Training not taken into consideration for promotions.   Performance in training taken into consideration for
promotions.
Monitoring is weak and difficult.                       A permanent Evaluation and Monitoring System of
trained teachers would be maintained by implementing
institutions.



74
Annex 7
Page 1 of 4
ANNEX 7: INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALS MODULES
Annex 7, Table 1: CLASSROOM LIBRARY
I. Modules for Multigrade School
GRADE
Type           1      2        3         4        5         6         Total
Fiction       5       4        4         3        2         2         20
Non-Fiction    2      3        4         3        3         2         17
Reference     -       I         -        -        1         1         3
Total         7       8         8        6        6         5         40
II. Modules for Non-Multigrade Schools
GRADE
Type           1      2         3        4        5         6         Total
Fiction       18      18        17       15       15        15        98
Non-Fiction    10     10       11        11       11        11        64
Reference     2       2        2         4        4         4         18
Total         30      30        30       30       30        30        180



75
Annex 7
Page 2 of 4
Annex 7, Table 2: NON-PRINTED DIDACTIC MATERIALS
1. Module for First and Second Grade
Relationship   Activity
Area               Content         Puzzles   Bingo        Cards       Cards    Total
Communication       Alphabet                5         1                                 7
Concepts                5         1            1           -        7
Follow Instructions     -         -            I           1        2
Forms & Colors          3         1            -           1        5
Critical Thinking       2         -            1           -        3
Logic/Math         Numbering                5         -            -           1        6
Knowledge               -         I            1           1        3
Application
Total                                       20        4           4            5        33
II. Module for Third and Fourth Grade
Relationship   Activity    Posters/
Area                          Content           Bingo       Cards        Cards       Maps        Total
Communication           Concept                   2            2            -          2           6
Critical Thinking        -            1            1          1           3
Socialization            -            -            1          2           3
Self-esteem              -            -            1          2           3
Logic/Math              Knowledge                 2            1            1          -           4
Time                     I            I            -          -           2
Science/Ecology         Ecology                   -            I            I          1           3
Health                   1            -            1          2           4
Total                                             6            6            6          10         28



76
Annex 7
Page 3 of 4
III. Module For Fifth and Sixth Grade
Relationship    Activity     Posters/
Area              Content             Bingo        Cards         Cards       3D Models    Total
Communication    Concepts               1             -             -            2           3
Habits/Studies        -             -             I            1           2
Socialization         -             -            I             1           2
Geography             I             I             1            3           6
Logic/Math        Knowledge             I             -             1             -          2
Application
Time                  -             1            -                         I
Geometry              -             I             -            1           2
Science/Ecology    Ecology              -             I             -             1          2
Human Body            -             -            1             3           4
Total                                   3             4             5            11          24



77
Annex 7
Page 4 of 4
IV. Module for Multigrade Schools
Relationship Cards   Activity     Posters/
Area                 Content                        Puzzles      Bingo                          Cards         Maps          TOtal
Communication        Alphabet                          I           -               I              I             -            3
Concepts                          I           1               2              -             2            6
II                   [. 111                      11,111
Instructions                      -           -               -              I             -
Forms/Colors                      I           -               -              -             -
Critical Thinking                 -           -               I              -             -             1
II
Habits/Studies                   -            -               -              I
111
Socialization                                                 I              -             -
III
Self-esteem                       -           -               -              -             I
II
Geography                         -           -               I              -             1            2
Logic/Math           Numbering                         -           -                                                          I -  -
Knowledge Application            -            2               2              1             -            5
Time                              -           -               2              -             -            2
11
III
Geometry                         -            -                              -             -I
III
Science/Ecology      Ecology                           -           -               I              I             1            3
Health                                                        I              I             1            3
Human Body                        -           -               -              -                           I 1
Total                                                 3            3               13             7             7            33
*1 =    Taken from proposed module for first and second grades;
11 = Taken from proposed module for third and fourth grades;
111= Taken from proposed module for fifth and sixth grades.



78                           Annex 8
Page 1 of 9
ANNEX 8: PILOT PROJECT ON DECENTRALIZATION
A. Historical Context
Peru's experience with decentralization of education decisionmaking dates from
1 963 with the creation of regional offices of the Ministry of Education. In 1 970,
subregional offices were created, and in 1 985 these were reorganized and renamed
educational service units, or Unidades de Servicios Educativos (USEs). More
importantly, in 1 985, regional governments were created and directly financed by
the Ministry of Economy and Finance, resulting in diminished control by the
Ministry of Education over its regional offices and USEs. Other intermediary
organizations, Areas de Desarollo Educativo (ADEs), were recently created by the
Ministry of Education to replace USEs, but this effort is only incompletely
implemented. In regions where ADEs exist, they are meant to provide the service
function of the USEs, but their supervisory and administrative responsibilities over
the schools, or Centros Educativos (CEs) reside with the regional education
directorates. USEs, ADEs and the regional education directorates are also
collectively known as Organismos Intermedios (Ols).
By the time the Fujimori Administration took office in 1990, it was obvious that
the 1 985 reform had seriously reduced accountability in Peru's educational system,
resulting in, among other things, large increases in the educational bureaucracy
without corresponding improvements in educational quality. Recognizing this, the
Ministry of Education has, since 1 992, developed a series of proposals for
restoring accountability and improving quality in education. Proposals to contract
the management of primary-secondary schools to private and non-profit
organizations encountered significant political opposition and resulted in their
defeat.
B. Changing Public School Management
The continuing need to increase accountability and improve quality in public
schools has led the Ministry of Education to develop a new proposal for improving
public school management by strengthening schools' autonomy and authority.
Because of uncertainty concerning local capacity for implementation and possible
effects on school quality, the government is conducting the experiment on a pilot
basis.



79                           Annex 8
Page 2 of 9
Local school management is defined by which decisions are made and who makes
the decision. Variations in these two elements define the alternative management
models which will be evaluated in terms of their effects on school performance.
Budget and Administration
For the purposes of this research, school management comprises decisions about:
(a) the budget; (b) the employment, assignment, compensation, and release of
personnel; (c) teaching and pedagogy; and (d) the internal administration of the
school (or centro educativo).
The basic hypothesis to be tested is that a system which transfers more decision-
making authority over points a-d from the 01 level to the school level will result in
improvements in schooling outcomes, as measured by student performance,
teaching practices and the efficiency of school management as measured by unit
costs and other indicators. The underlying premise is that schools and parents
have more information and can react more nimbly to changing needs than large
bureaucratized Ols.
(a)   The Budget. At present, the school director has almost no control
over the size of the school's budget or its allocation. Teaching and
administrative personnel are appointed and paid by the 01. Goods and
services and textbooks are directly provided by the 01. Furthermore,
revenues generated by the school are in principle returned to the
Ministry of Economy and Finance. In the experiment, schools would
be given a budgetary transfer in lieu of goods and services such as
desks and the direct payment of their utility bills (the latter equal to
5% of salary outlays); increased authority to raise own-source
revenues; and the authority to budget and spend all revenues. In
addition, the school will have the authority to reallocate monies from
non-tenured teaching or administrative personnel to non-personnel
expenditures. However, the national pay scale would remain in effect
and tenured teachers will not be able to be removed from their
positions.
In essence, school will get a cash budget and will have discretion over
how it is spent with the following limitation: they will have to pay the
salaries of tenured and titled teachers first out of this cash budget.
The rest of the budget is discretionary, to be spent on other teachers,
salary benefits, or goods and services.



80                          Annex 8
Page 3 of 9
(b)   Personnel Management. At present, the school director is unable to
select teachers, evaluate and reward them, authorize training, issue
sanctions for failure to comply with rules, or to remove teachers from
the school for poor performance. Under the experiment, school
managers in all the experimental schools would have the authority to
request the re-assignment of tenured non-titled teachers and directly
receive the funds equivalent to the re-assigned teacher's salary;
performance and reward high performance with salary bonuses
financed out of the school's discretionary budget; determine which
teachers should receive training; and issue sanctions.
(c)   Pedagogy. Currently, the school curriculum is determined in detail by
the Ministry of Education, and the contents of the weekly 35 hours of
instruction are almost completely specified. Similarly, the dates of the
school year and the hours of the school day are determined centrally.
Textbooks are also specified by the Ministry. Under the experiment,
the school manager would have the autonomy and authority to
determine the contents of the school curriculum beyond a minimum
core curriculum (of approximately 30 hours); choose an alternative set
of school year dates when justified by special circumstances; and set
the hours of the school day.
(d)  Internal Administration. Currently, internal administration is defined
by national regulations, and the selection of administrative personnel
is determined by the 01. Under the experiment, school managers
could determine their own internal administration, including defining
administrative posts and specifying information systems; and select
their own administrative personnel, including changing existing
administrative staff.
School Governance: Decisionmakers
School governance concerns who makes resource allocation and other decisions.
Currently, almost no decisions reside at the level of the school; most commonly,
the decisionmaker is at the 01 level. The only exceptions are decisions by the
parents' association (the APAFA) concerning the expenditure of monies contributed
by parents.
The experiment would assess the effects of changes in school governance. The
most important change is a transfer of authority from the 01 to the level of the
school. The experiment will apply two models of governance that will vary



81                          Annex 3
Page 4 of 9
according to the balance of authority between the director and a school council
(Consejo), a new organization being created to assist in decision-making and
provide a measure of oversight, especially as regards budgetary decisions. The
Consejo will be comprised of, at a minimum, 2 representatives from
parents'groups, one representative from the intermediary organization and the
school
director.
C. The Models and Implementation of the Experiment
The changes above will be grouped into models of school management that will be
applied to several hundred schools in about 8 districts in the Lima and Cuzco
departments. There will be a control group studied to follow the status quo.
These models (M) are as follows:
MO: The existing system (i.e., the control group).
Ml: Assign the school director decision-making authority for internal
administration, pedagogy and budgetary authority as defined above.
Consejo acts as an advisory board for these decisions. Consejo votes
on the allocation of non-APAFA own-source funds and on all capital
investment decisions.
Applied in Lima and Cuzco.
M2: Assign the school director decision-making authority for internal
administration, pedagogy and budgetary authority as defined above.
Consejo votes on the allocation of non-APAFA own-source funds, all
capital investment decisions, the annual plan including a budget and
medium term institutional development plans.
Applied in Lima and Cuzco.
M3:   In addition to the authority granted to the school in M2, introduce
incentives such as prizes to encourage improvements in efficiency or
another target as established by the school in their annual plan.
Applied only in Lima.
D. Evaluation and Methodology



82                          Annex 8
Page 5 of 9
The objective of the evaluation is to assess the impact of the decentralization
proposals on:
*    the quality of basic education
*    the internal efficiency of the education system
The methodology for the evaluation includes defining the sample, the evaluation
design, the focus of the evaluation as defined by issues and indicators of interest
and the instruments to be applied.
1) Sample
The schools chosen for the sample should be representative with respect to
geographic and cultural diversity, primary and secondary levels of schooling and
school size. The initial proposal is to construct a universe of eligible schools
consisting of rural and urban primary and secondary "polidocente" (with more than
one teacher) schools in the Lima and Cuzco regions. These two regions include
some of the largest urban areas and extensive rural areas representative of both
the sierra and the coastal areas of the country.
2) Evaluation Design
The evaluation will follow the experimental design model, whereby treatments are
randomly assigned to a subset of schools within the universe of eligible public
polidocente schools. The random assignment assures both equity in the allocation
process and equivalency in the treatment and control groups. The treatment
models described above will be applied to a randomly-selected group of about 300
public schools. A preliminary sampling plan is presented below. The final number
will depend on more information about the expected validity of school-level
indicators. Each treatment model will be applied to approximately an equal number
of schools within each region. To keep costs low and study the value-added of
incentives, the incentive model will be limited to schools within a few districts, all
of which will be eligible to compete for the prizes. The control group of
approximately 120 schools will be randomly drawn from the schools that were not
selected for treatment. A group of private schools will be studied for the purposes
of comparison.



83                           Annex 8
Page 6 of 9
Annex 8, Table 1: Distribution of Number of Schools by Model
MO         Ml         M2         M3        Total
Lima                    30          30         30         30        120
Urban/Periph
Lima Rural              30          30         30         30        120
Cuzco/Urban              30         30         30                    90
Cuzco/Rural              30         30         30                    90
Total                   120        120        120         60        420
3) Issues and Indicators
It is useful to consider three levels of analysis: student, school and community.
At the student level, one key issue is to what extent the decentralization models
affect the quality of education as measured by standardized mathematics and
language achievement tests. In order to make this attribution, it is important to
control for the students' socioeconomic characteristics. These will be obtained
through a short parents' questionnaire applied during the student matriculation
process at the beginning of the school year. In addition, a short questionnaire will
assess students' time allocation, motivation and self-perception. These exams Will
be applied to third grade students at the beginning and end of the 1995 academic
year. The cohort of third graders in both the treatment and control schools will be
followed in 1 996 and 1998 under the project's national assessment system
thereby allowing for a longitudinal study of the impact of decentralization (See
Annex 4)
At the school level, a key issue is to what extent the decentralization models affect
the internal efficiency of the schools. One set of indicators concerns students'
attrition, repetition and matriculation rates. Another set concerns the
administrative and management practices of the school directors such as costs and
financing, the use of textbooks and equipment and the personnel mix of the
school. A third set of indicators concerns teaching practices at the classroom level.
At the community level, the key issue is how the experiment affects the
relationship between the school and outside institutions such as parents'
associations and Ols. Indicators include parents' perception of the schools and
their participation in parents' associations (APAFAs). The services provided to the
schools by the Ols will be monitored. Table 1 summarizes the issues, indicators
and instruments for the study.



84                           Annex 8
Page 7 of 9
4) Instruments
As noted in Table 1, several types of instruments will be developed and used to
assess the relevant issues and collect the corresponding indicators. These include:
i) standardized tests; ii) student, teacher, parent, APAFA, USE and director
questionnaires; iii) observation guides to study pedagogical practices at the
classroom level and administrative practices at the school level; iv) administrative
records from the school and the USE.
Standardized tests for the decentralization component will be developed and
applied to third grade students in treatment and control schools at the beginning of
school year during which the experiment is being implemented (April 1 995) and at
the end of that year (November 1995). After that, efforts would be made to
administer comparable tests to these schools during the first two national
applications (1 996 and 1 998) of the national testing system, so that longer-term
effects of the experiment can be assessed.
For the baseline, the teacher, director, APAFA and USE questionnaire as well as
the collection of data from administrative records will be applied in October 1995
prior to the staff training. The standardized tests and the student and parent
questionnaires will be applied in April 1995 at the beginning of the academic year.
Observation guides will be used for selective case studies on a smaller number of
schools and classrooms and for general monitoring during the course of 1 995.
E. Evaluation Products, Timetable and Budget
The evaluation will produce three types of products:
1) Reports
These will include descriptive reports based on the baseline information,
intermediate monitoring reports during the implementation of the experiment, and
most importantly, a report after one year of the experiment based on the
comparison of ex-ante and ex-post data. These results will provide important
information to the Ministry as inputs in the decisionmaking process regarding
educational reform.
The baseline report will be written May-June 1995. The first evaluation report will
be prepared January-February 1 996. After that, two more evaluation reports will
be prepared upon completion of the 1 996 and 1 998 tests.



85                          Annex 8
Page 8 of 9
2) Data
The data will be documented and maintained in the Ministry of Education's Policy
Planning Unit and the World Bank in order to serve as the basis of longer-term
evaluations that may be conducted in the future. In addition, public use data tapes
will be made widely available for research in Peru and elsewhere.
3) Capacity Building
Through participation in the experiment and its evaluation, analytical capacity will
be built up in the Ministry of Education which will serve as a basis for improving
the policy planning process.
F. Staffing and Institutional Arrangements
1) Ministry of Education
The Ministry of Education will be responsible for providing advice on the project,
implementing the experiment, and analyzing the results in order to inform
policymaking.
An advisory committee will be formed to provide general guidance for the
experiment and ensure its effective implementation. This committee will consist of
senior management from the Ministry of Education (MOE), the general contractor
for the evaluation and World Bank staff.
The overall coordinator for the experiment and evaluation will be a key advisor of
the Minister of Education. The implementation of the experiment itself will be the
task of the Office of Technical Development (OTD) of the MOE, assisted by
external consultants.
2) General Contractor
A general contractor will be responsible for preparing the evaluation design,
collecting and analyzing the data. In carrying out their responsibilities they will
engage a core full-time staff of 3-4 researchers trained in evaluation methodology
and educational analysis. In addition, they will hire short-term consultants for
specialized tasks as necessary.



86                                                   Annex 8
Page 9 of 9
3) World Bank
Operational staff will participate in the advisory committee, as outlined above. In
addition, because this evaluation is a case study in the research project funded by
RSB, "Impact Evaluation of Education Projects," staff associated with the research
project will provide operational support and technical assistance to the evaluation.
Annex 8, Table 2: Indicators and Instruments
Level of Analysis        Indicators                                        Instruments
Student                  Academic Achievement                               Math and Language tests
*    Mathematics
*    Language
Non-Academic Achievement                           Student Questionnaire
*    Self-perception
*    Time Allocation
School                   Internal Efficiency                                Administrative Records
*    Dropout                                      *    USE
*    Repetition                                    *    Schools
*    Enrollment Rates                             Observation guide
*    Attendance (students, teachers, directors)   Teacher questionnaire
Director questionnaire
Physical inputs
*    Texts
*    Equipment
*    Infrastructure
Cost and Financing
*    Costs
*    Resource Mobilization
Director behavior & Character
*    Management Process
*    Relation w/APAFAS
*    Relation with teachers
*    Qualifications
Teacher behavior & Character
*    Pedagogical practices
*    Administrative Responsibilities
*    Relation w/APAFAS & directors
*    Sociecon. Characters
*    Time Allocation
*    Self-perception
Community                Parents                                            Qualitative guides
*    Perception of school                         Parent's questionnaire
*    Relation w/student                           USE questionnaire
*    Socieconomic characs.                        APAFA questionnaire
APAFAS
*    Contribution/projects USEs



87                                  Annex 9
Page 1 of 2
ANNEX 9: SCHOOL INFRASTRUCTURE COMPONENT
1.    The identification of the targeted Departments for school rehabilitation was done using
a set of indicators which received a different weigh according to its contribution the
dimensions of poverty, access to education and infrastructure deficit. The following were the
indicators used to select the Departments with their respective weight: (i) unsalvageable
classrooms as a proportion of total enrollment (.35); (ii) proportion schools functioning on
Annex 9, Table 1: Index for Targeting Departments for School Rehabilitation
Unsalvageable    Rented  Primary Gross Poverty Map   Classroom
Classrooms     Space    Enr. Ratio     Rank      Crowdedness   TOTAL
Departments      Index       Index       Index       Index         Index       Score
Cajamarca        7.70         4.60       2.10         4.20         1.40        20.00
Huancavelica     5.60        4.20        3.60         4.80         1.10        19.30
Cuzco            6.65         2.40       2.70         4.40         1.80        17.95
Puno             8.05         2.20       2.40         4.00         0.90        17.55
Junin            7.35         4.00       1.65         2.80         1.60        17.40
Loreto           8.40         2.80       2.85         2.00         1.30        17.35
Ancash           7.00         4.40       1.95         3.40         0.40        17.15
Lima             8.75         5.00       0.45         0.20         2.50        16.90
Apurimac         3.85         3.00       3.75         5.00         1.00        16.60
San Martin       5.25         3.20       3.00         3.60         1.50        16.55
La Libertad      6.30         3.60       1.20         2.40         1.90        15.40
Huanuco          5.95         0.80       3.15         3.00         2.40        15.30
Amazonas         3.50         3.40       2.55         3.20         0.50        13.15
Piura            4.90         1.40       1.35         2.60         2.10        12.35
Arequipa         4.20         4.80       0.75         1.00         1.20        11.95
Ica              2.80         3.80       1.80         1.60         1.70        11.70
Ayacucho         4.55         2.00       0.30         4.60         0.20        11.65
Ucayali          2.45         1.00       3.30         1.40         2.30        10.45
Pasco            3.15         1.80       0.60         3.80         0.80        10.15
Lambayeque       1.40         2.60       0.90         1.80         2.00        8.70
Madre de         1.05         0.60       3.45         2.20         0.30        7.60
Dios
Tacna            1.75         0.20       1.05         1.20         2.20        6.40
Callao           2.10         1.20       1.50         0.40         0.70        5.90
Tumbes           0.35         0.40       2.25         0.80         0.60        4.40
Moquegua         0.70         1.60       0.15         0.60         0.10        3.15



88                              Annex 9
Page 2 of 2
rented buildings (.20); (iii) place of the Department on the poverty map (.20); (iv)
primary gross enrollment ratio (.15); and (v) average classroom size (.10). Each
Department was given a grade on a scale from one to twenty three on the above
indicators, with the worse off Departments receiving the highest grade on each of
the indicators. The score of each Department on a single indicator resulted from
multiplying the weigh of the indicator times the grade of the Department on that
indicator. The final score of a Department resulted from adding up the
Department's score on each indicator. All the Department receiving a score above
the national mean were selected to be beneficiaries of the project.
Annex 9, Table 2: Distribution of School Rehabilitation by Area and Year
Area          1994      1995     1996    1997       1998        Total
Urban         497       542       587     452        181        2259
Rural          150      479       618     514        180        1941
Total          647      1021     1205    966         361        4200
Annex 9, Table 3: Distribution of Bokshelves by Area and Year
Area           1994     1995      1996       1997        1998         Total
Urban                   11051     14306      11429       11832       48617
Rual                    9760      15070      12991       11832       49653
Total           0      20811      29376     24420        23663       98270



89                           Annex 10
Page 1 of 2
PERU: PRIMARY EDUCATION QUALITY PROJECT
ANNEX 10: DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILES
1.   Plan Nacional de Capacitacion Docente. Proyecto Mejoramiento de la
Calidad de la Educaci6n Primaria, prepared by the Ministry of Education,
Lima, Peru, July 1994.
2.   Componente: Fortalecimiento Institucional, Proyecto Mejoramiento de la
Calidad de la Educaci6n Primaria, prepared by the Ministry of Education, July
1994.
3.   Subcomponent: Modernizaci6n del Sistema de Gestion, Proyecto
Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educaci6n Primaria, prepared by the
Ministry of Education, Lima, Peru July 1994.
4.   ComDonente: Sistemas de Informaci6n, Proyecto Mejoramiento de la
Calidad de la Educaci6n Primaria, prepared by the Ministry of Education.
5.   Ano de la Modernizaci6n Educativa del DeDorte: CRECER, Crecer con Calidad
v Equidad en el Rendimiento, Proyecto de Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la
Educaci6n Primaria (Decima Versi6n), Prepared by the Ministry of Education,
Lima, Peru, July 1 994.
6.   Ficha T6cnica 1 Modelo CEDEA: Centros Educativos Estatales Aut6nomos,
Prepared by the Ministry of Education, Decentralizaci6n Administrativa de la
Educaci6n.
7.   Plan de Desarrollo de la Educaci6n a Largo Plazo 1 995-2010. Proyecto de
Mejoramiento de la Educaci6n Primaria, Lima, Peru, October 1994.
8.   Lineas de Desarrollo Para un Plan de Largo Plazo de Educaci6n Bilingue
Intercultural, Proyecto de Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la Educaci6n
Primaria, Prepared by the Ministry of Education, Lima, Peru, October, 1995.
9.   ComDonente l: Infraestructura Educativa, prepared by the Ministry of
Education Direccion de Infraestructura Educativa-DINFE, September, 1994.



90                            Annex 4
Page 2 of 2
10.  Subcomgonent II: Reforzamiento de la DINFE, Prepared by the Ministry of
Education Direcci6n de Infraestructura Educativa - DINFE, Lima, Peru,
September, 1 994.
11.  Componente de Materiales Educativos, Proyecto Mejoramiento de la Calidad
de la Educaci6n Primaria, Lima, Peru, October 1994.
12.  Consolidaci6n Curricular, Proyecto Mejoramiento de la Calidad de la
Educaci6n Primaria,
13.  Censo Escolar, 1 993, Informe Ejecutivo, Prepared by INANDEP, Lima, Peru,
September 1984



