Page  1
March 29, 1999
His Excellency  
Mr. Victor Joy Way  
Minister of Economy and Finance 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Lima, Perú 
Re:
Peru Loan No. 3826-PE (Primary Education Quality Project)- 
Amendment
Dear Minister:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement (Primary Education Quality Project) between 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and Republic of Peru 
(the Borrower) dated December 7, 1995, as amended (the Loan Agreement).  Whenever used 
in this letter, the several terms defined in the Loan Agreement have the respective 
meanings set forth therein.
Pursuant to your request in letter dated November 11, 1998, and as a result of 
the discussions between staff of the Borrower and the Bank, the Bank hereby agrees to 
amend the Loan Agreement as follows:
1.
The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement is amended to read 
as set forth in the Annex hereto.
2.
A new paragraph 5 is added to Part A of Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, to 
read as follows:
“5.
Development and carrying out of a secondary tele-education pilot 
program in 
rural areas, including its monitoring and initial and final evaluation.”
3.
Paragraph 1 (c) of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement is amended to read as 
follows:
“(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$14,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the Special 
Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.”
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing by signing the two originals of 
this letter and returning one fully signed original to us.  Upon receipt by the Bank 
of such fully signed original, the amendments set forth in this letter will become 
effective as of the date of this letter.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Isabel Guerrero 
Director 
Country Managing Unit for Bolivia, 
   Paraguay, Peru 
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF PERU
Page  2
By /s/ Victor Joy Way
Minister of Economy and Finance
Date:
May 7, 1999
