Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3826-PE
                              Loan Agreement
                    (Primary Education Quality Project)
                                  between
                             REPUBLIC OF PERU
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                          Dated December 7, 1995
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3826-PE
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated December 7, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF
PERU (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Page  2
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
      under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would
      be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III,
      Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)   "Advisory Council" means the council to be
established by the Borrower pursuant to Section 6.01 (e) of
this Agreement;
      (b)   "Bilingual Education Plan" means a plan, to be
developed by the Borrower, through MOE, for purposes of
improving bilingual intercultural education in Peru;
      (c)   "Pilot Plan for Modernization of School Management"
means the pilot program designed to improve the management of
public schools through the transfer of functions and authority
in the areas of budget, personnel management, teaching and
pedagogy, and internal administration of the schools and to be
carried out substantially in accordance with the program
defined and described in the Borrower's document entitled Ficha
Tecnica Uno, Modulo Centros Educativos Estatales Autonomos
(CEDEA) and dated November 7, 1994, as may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower, through MOE, and the
Bank;
      (d)   "Education Development Plan" means the plan prepared
by the Borrower, through MOE, setting forth the objectives,
policies, investments and financing for the Borrower's
education sector during the period 1995 to 2010; as such plan
is set forth in the Borrower document entitled "Plan de
Desarrollo de la Educacion a Largo Plazo", 1995-2010 and dated
October 1994;
      (e)   "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year
commencing on January 1 and ending on December 31;
      (f)   "FONCODES Agreement" means the agreement, dated
January 5, 1994 entered into among the Borrower, through MOE,
the Borrower's Fondo Nacional de Compensacion de Desarrollo
Social (FONCODES) and the Infrastructure Manager (as
hereinafter defined) for purposes of coordinating the execution
of investments in the education sector;
      (g)   "INFES" means the Borrower's National Institute of
Educational and Health Infrastructure, Instituto Nacional de
Infraestructura Educativa y de Salud, established by the
Borrower's Decreto Ley No. 25556 dated June 11, 1992;
      (h)   The "Infrastructure Manager Charter" means in the
case of INFES, the Borrower's Decreto Supremo No. 004-93-PRES
and published in the Borrower's Official Gazette dated February
15, 1993 and, as the case may be, the legal document
establishing any other Infrastructure Manager;
      (i)   "Infrastructure Management Agreement" means the
agreement to be entered into between the Borrower, through MOE,
and the Infrastructure Manager pursuant to Section 3.01 (b)(i)
of this Agreement;
      (j)   "Infrastructure Manager" means INFES or such other
Page  3
entity, agency or firm as the Bank shall agree for purposes of
execution of Parts C.1 and C.3 of the Project;
      (k)   "MOE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education;
      (l)   "Monitoring Indicators" means the indicators,
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank, for purposes of
measuring progress in the implementation of the Project as such
indicators are included in the letter from the Borrower to the
Bank of even date herewith;
      (m)   "Operational Manual" means the operational manual,
satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth the rules and
procedures for the implementation of the Project, including
procedures for the use of the Special Account (as hereinafter
defined), to be approved by MOE pursuant to Section 6.01 (a) of
this Agreement, as such operational manual may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower, through MOE,
and the Bank;
      (n)   "Participating Agreements" means the Infrastructure
Management Agreement and the SENCICO Subsidiary Agreement and
"Participating Agreement" means any of such agreements;
      (o)   "Participating Entity" means any of the
Infrastructure Manager or SENCICO and "Participating Entities"
means both the Infrastructure Manager and SENCICO;
      (p)   "PCU" means the unit established within MOE pursuant
to the Borrower's Decreto de Urgencia dated November 11, 1994
and published in the Borrower's Official Gazette dated November
15, 1994;
      (q)   "SENCICO" means the Borrower's National Training
Service of the Construction Industry, Servicio Nacional de
Capacitacion para la Industria de la Construccion, established
by the Borrower's Decreto Legislativo No. 147 dated June 12,
1981 and published in the Borrower's Official Gazette dated
June 15, 1991;
      (r)   "SENCICO Charter" means the Borrower's Decreto
Supremo No. 036-93-TCC dated December 30, 1993 and published in
the Borrower's Official Gazzette dated February 15, 1994;
      (s)   "SENCICO Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower, through MOE, and SENCICO
pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement;
      (t)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
      (u)   "Targeted Schools" means all public schools which
offer primary education and are located in the departments
(departamentos) listed in the letter of even date herewith from
the Borrower to the Bank and any other department as may be
agreed from time to time between the Borrower and the Bank, and
"Targeted School" means any of such schools.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of One hundred and forty six
million four hundred thousand dollars ($146,400,000), being the
sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Page  4
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure
or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowing determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowing determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)   For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                  ending on the date immediately preceding each
                  date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                  Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                  in which this Agreement is signed.
            (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowing" means the cost,
                  as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                  expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                  outstanding borrowing of the Bank drawn down
                  after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowing
                  or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B)
                  loans which may be made by the Bank after July
                  1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
                  otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                  this Section.
           (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or
                  the second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
            outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
            Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowing
            determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
            one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
            dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
Page  5
            the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
            principal amount outstanding during the preceding
            Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
            during such Interest Period."
                  "(b)   As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowing determined in
            respect of such Quarter."
                  "(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October
            1 in a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end:
            (i)   shall carry out Parts A, B and C.4 of the
                  Project through MOE with due diligence and
                  efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
                  administrative, technical, environmental,
                  financial and educational practices, and shall
                  provide promptly as needed the funds,
                  facilities, services and other resources
                  required for such Parts of the Project;
            (ii)  shall cause the Infrastructure Manager to carry
                  out Parts C.1 and C.3 of the Project and
                  SENCICO to carry out Part C.2 of the Project
                  with due diligence and efficiency and in
                  conformity with appropriate administrative,
                  technical, environmental, financial and
                  educational practices, shall take or cause to
                  be taken all actions, including the provisions
                  of funds, facilities, services and other
                  resources necessary or appropriate to enable
                  the Infrastructure Manager and SENCICO to carry
                  out their respective Parts of the Project and
                  shall not take or permit to be taken any action
                  which would prevent or interfere with the
                  carrying out by the Infrastructure Manager and
                  SENCICO of their respective Parts of the
                  Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower, through MOE,
shall: (i) enter into an agreement with the Infrastructure
Manager providing for the participation of the latter in the
implementation of Parts C.1 and C.3 of the Project under terms
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank
including those set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement; (ii)
enter into an agreement with SENCICO providing for the
participation of SENCICO in the implementation of Part C.2 of
the Project under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Bank including those set forth in Schedule 6 to
this Agreement; and (iii) duly perform all of its obligations
under the Infrastructure Management Agreement, the SENCICO
Subsidiary Agreement and the FONCODES Agreement and, except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, not amend, assign, abrogate,
terminate, waive or fail to enforce the Infrastructure
Page  6
Management Agreement or the SENCICO Subsidiary Agreement or the
FONCODES Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, for purposes of the
execution and coordination of the Project: (a) maintain in MOE
an adequate structure, functions and staffing for the efficient
implementation and supervision of the Project; and (b) without
limitation to paragraph (a) above: (i) cause MOE to implement
each relevant Project component through its directorates and
other units as specified in the Operational Manual; (ii) cause
MOE to operate and maintain, during the execution of the
Project, the PCU with an internal structure, functions and
staffing satisfactory to the Bank; and (iii) cause MOE to
operate and maintain, during the execution of the Project, the
Advisory Council.
      Section 3.04. Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 9.01 (a) and 9.07 (a) (iii) and (c) of the General
Conditions, the Borrower, through MOE, shall furnish to the
Bank:
      (a)   not later than December 31 of each year of Project
execution, starting in 1996, progress reports on the Project,
of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request,
including, inter alia: (i) information on the progress achieved
in the implementation and in the achievement of the objectives
of the Project based, inter alia, on the Monitoring Indicators;
(ii) an assessment of the problems and issues derived from the
implementation of the Project; and (iii) information on the
compliance by the Participating Entities of their obligations
under the respective Participation Agreement and, if the case
may be, a plan of action detailing the adjustments and remedial
action to be taken for their compliance with such obligations;
      (b)   not later than December 31 of each year of Project
execution, starting in 1997, reports on the progress in the
achievement of the goals of the Education Development Plan as
it relates to the Project;
      (c)   for its review and approval, not later than
December 31 of each year of Project execution, a proposed
annual investment program providing for the activities,
implementation schedule and proposed budget in respect of each
Part of the Project during the upcoming year; and
      (d)   not later than December 31, 1995, a copy of the
Bilingual Education Plan.
      Section 3.05. Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 9.01 (a) (i) of the General Conditions, the Borrower,
through MOE, shall:
      (a)   not later than January 31 of each year during the
execution of the Project, starting in 1996, hold annual reviews
with the Bank, such reviews to be based on the reports referred
to in Section 3.04 (a), (b) and (c) of this Agreement and to
focus, inter alia, on: (i) the evaluation of the progress in
the execution and in the achievement of the objectives of the
Project based on, among other factors, the Monitoring
Indicators; (ii) on the proposed annual investment program for
the Project in the upcoming year including the specific level
of school classrooms to be constructed, rehabilitated and
equipped under Part C.1 of the Project; (iii) any changes in
the Project design and implementation that may be necessary;
and (iv) performance of the FONCODES Agreement;
Page  7
      (b)   thirty months after the Effective Date, the Borrower,
through MOE, shall review with the Bank (mid-term review), in
addition to the items referred to in (a) above, the impact of
the Project and its implementation, and the progress in the
achievement of the goals of the Bilingual Education Plan;
      (c)   if, as a result of any of the above reviews, the Bank
shall have reasonably determined that the progress in the
execution of the Project or in the attainment of the objectives
of the Project is not satisfactory, promptly take or cause to
be taken, without limitation or restriction to any of the
Bank's rights under this Agreement, all such remedial action,
satisfactory to the Bank, as shall be necessary for the
efficient execution of the Project or for the attainment of its
objectives.
      Section 3.06. The Borrower, through MOE, shall carry out
the Bilingual Education Plan in accordance with its terms.
      Section 3.07. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower, through
MOE, shall:
      (a)   prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six
(6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a
plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project;
      (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan; and
      (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices,
taking into account the Bank's comments thereon.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through MOE, shall: (i)
maintain a consolidated set of records and separate accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures in respect
of the Project; and (ii) cause each Participating Entity to
maintain records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project activities
carried out by the respective Participating Entity.
      (b)   The Borrower, through MOE, shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                  for the Special Account for each Fiscal Year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
            (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                  in any case not later than six months after the
                  end of each such year, the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                  detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and
                  the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
                  time to time reasonably request.
Page  8
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower, through MOE, shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                  accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                  records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;
            (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank
                  has received the audit report for the Fiscal
                  Year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
                  Account or payment out of the Special Account
                  was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
           (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
            (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                  report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such
                  Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and
                  internal controls involved in their
                  preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   The Infrastructure Manager shall have failed to
perform any of its obligations under the Infrastructure
Management Agreement. In such case, the Bank may suspend the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
only for expenditures incurred with respect to Parts C.1 and
C.3 of the Project.
      (b)   SENCICO shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the SENCICO Subsidiary Agreement. In such
case, the Bank may suspend the right of the Borrower to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account only for expenditures
incurred with respect to Part C.2 of the Project.
      (c)   As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall
have arisen which shall make it improbable that the
Infrastructure Manager or SENCICO will be able to perform their
respective obligations under the Infrastructure Management
Agreement and the SENCICO Subsidiary Agreement.
      (d)   The Infrastructure Manager Charter or the SENCICO
Charter shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
or waived so as to materially and adversely affect, in the
opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Infrastructure Manager
or SENCICO to perform any of their respective obligations under
the Infrastructure Management Agreement and the SENCICO
Subsidiary Agreement.
      (e)   The Borrower or any authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of the Infrastructure Manager or SENCICO or
for the suspension of any of their operations related to the
Project.
Page  9
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified,
namely that any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) or (d)
or (e) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall
continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
      (a)   The Borrower, through MOE, shall have formally
approved the Operational Manual;
      (b)   The Borrower, through MOE, shall have employed or
appointed a planning specialist, a procurement specialist and
three educational specialists, all with functions,
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank, to
serve on the PCU;
      (c)   The Infrastructure Management Agreement and the
SENCICO Subsidiary Agreement shall have been executed;
      (d)   The FONCODES Agreement shall have been amended, in
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth a
coordination mechanism between MOE and FONCODES with regard to
the financing of investments in the Targeted Schools; and
      (e)   The Borrower, through MOE, has established the
Advisory Council on the basis of terms of reference acceptable
to the Bank.
      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
      (a)   The Operational Manual shall have been duly approved; and
      (b)   The Infrastructure Management Agreement, the SENCICO
Subsidiary Agreement and the amendment referred to in Section
6.01 (d) of the Loan Agreement have been duly authorized or
ratified by the respective parties thereto, and are legally
binding upon said parties in accordance with their respective
terms.
      Section 6.03. The date March 7, 1996 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy and Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Economy and Finance
Page  10
            Jiron Junin 319
            Lima 1
            Peru
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
              Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the  city
of Lima, Peru, as of the day and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF PERU
                  By /s/ Jorge Camet Dickmann
                                                Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                    RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                  By /s/ Paul Isenman
                                           Acting Regional Vice President
                                          Latin America and the Caribbean
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                             Loan Allocated                 % of
                             (Expressed in             Expenditures
Category                    Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
(1) Civil Works               90,700,000              85% of local
                                                      expenditures
(2) Furniture                 19,500,000              85% of local
                                                      expenditures
(3) Equipment and              6,800,000              100% of foreign
    Vehicles                                          expenditures
                                                      and 53% of local
                                                      expenditures
(4) Consultants'                                      100% of foreign
    services:                                         expenditures and
Page  11
                                                      70% of local
    (a)  for Parts A           4,600,000              expenditures
         and C of
         the Project
    (b)  for Part B           14,700,000
         of the
         Project
         (other than
         Part B.2(a)
         of the Project
(5) Unallocated               10,100,000
                             ___________
    TOTAL                    146,400,000
                             ===========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount
not to exceed $14,640,000, may be made in respect of Categories
(1) through (4) on account of payments made for expenditures
before that date but after December 7, 1994;
      (b)   payments made for expenditures under Categories (1)
and (2) for Parts C.1 and C.3 (a) and (b) of the Project unless
such expenditures are related to a Targeted School included in
an annual plan approved by the Bank pursuant to Section 3.04
(c) of this Agreement; and
      (c)   payments made for consultants' services under
Category (4) (b) in connection with Part B.1 (b) and Part B.2
(b) of the Project, unless the Borrower and the Bank have
agreed on the respective program specified therein.
4.    The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
expenditures under contracts for works not exceeding $350,000
equivalent, contracts for goods not exceeding $200,000 and
contracts for consultants services not exceeding $100,000
equivalent in the case of consulting firms and $50,000
equivalent in the case of individuals, under such terms and
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
      The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in
increasing the quality of its public primary education to
improve student achievement and to reduce the incidence of
repetition and dropout.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Page  12
Part A:     Educational Quality Improvement
1.    Design of an adjusted curriculum, for single teacher
schools and for third grade through sixth grade in other public
primary schools, with improved content linkages between and
within grades and more flexible, diversified and responsive to
the cultural and social diversity of Peru.
2.    A program:  (a) to provide textbooks, workbooks and
related didactic guides for first through sixth grades in all
public primary schools;  (b) to provide a collection of
supplementary reading materials and non-printed didactic
materials, including learning games, puzzles, alphabet blocks
and posters, to all public primary schools; and (c) to design
and implement a strategy to achieve excellence in the delivery
of primary education, including, inter alia, the establishment
of model educational centers.
3.    A training program for: (a) primary school teachers to
strengthen their competencies in student-centered instructional
methods and classroom management; and (b) primary school
principals in pedagogical supervision methods.
4.    Design and operation of a voucher system to finance in-
service training for primary school teachers.
Part B:     Modernization of Educational Administration
1.    (a)   A management audit study to evaluate the necessary
structural and procedural changes and capacity-building actions
required to improve the management of the educational system;
and (b) a program to improve the management by MOE of the
educational system.
2.    (a)   The Pilot Plan for Modernization of School
Management, including its monitoring and initial and final
evaluation; and (b) a program of gradual decentralization for
the education sector.
3.    The establishment and operation of: (a) a management
information system to assist MOE in its planning, monitoring
and decision-making functions; and (b) an information system to
facilitate the exchange of information and learning experiences
of schools.
4.    (a)   The establishment and operation of a student
assessment system; (b) the strengthening of the capabilities of
MOE in student assessment through workshops, short-term
visiting courses and training for MOE§s technical committee on
student assessment; and (c) a program to strengthen the
capacity and information on student assessment at the national
level through promotional activities and the provision of
research grants and graduate training on a competitive basis.
Part C:     Infrastructure Improvement
1.    (a)   The construction of approximately 3,200 primary
school classrooms in the Targeted Schools; (b) the
rehabilitation of approximately 960 primary school classrooms
in the Targeted Schools; and (c) the improvement of sanitation
services and reconditioning of primary school classrooms and
office space in the Targeted Schools.
2.    A program for school maintenance consisting of: (a) a
computerized information system including, inter alia, a data
base, training and other procedures for school rehabilitation
and maintenance; (b) the updating and publication of
approximately 3,000 manuals with technical specifications for
school buildings and classroom furniture; and (c) the design,
production and distribution of approximately 25,000 school
maintenance manuals.
Page  13
3.    (a)   Furnishing of all primary school classrooms
constructed under the Project and approximately 380 primary
school classrooms rehabilitated under the Project; (b) the
provision of office furniture to approximately 490 Targeted
Schools with primary school classrooms constructed under the
Project; (c) the provision of bookshelves to all primary school
classrooms for storage of the textbooks, non-printed didactic
materials and supplementary reading materials distributed under
the Project; and (d) the provision of teaching equipment for
the model educational centers to be established under Part A
2(c) of the Project.
4.    (a)   The establishment and operation of a computerized
monitoring system for school mapping and infrastructure; and
(b) the update and computerization of the national cadastre of
educational infrastructure.
                                 *   *   *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
      Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*
      On each February 15
            beginning August 15, 2000          6,100,000
            through August 15, 2011
            and on February 15, 2012           6,100,000
_____________________________
*     The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
      determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
      General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
      Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions,
the premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of
the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for
the applicable time of prepayment below:
      Time of Prepayment                        Premium
                                    The interest rate (expressed as
                                    a percentage per annum)
Page  14
                                    applicable to the Loan on the
                                    day of prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                       0.18
      before maturity
More than three years but                       0.35
      not more than six years
      before maturity
More than six years but                         0.65
      not more than 11 years
      before maturity
More than 11 years but not                      0.88
      more than 15 years
      before maturity
More than 15 years before                       1.00
      maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.        Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.    When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to
and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the
Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and
award the contract. The bid validity period may be extended a
second time only if the bidding documents or the request for
extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid
price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract
over the period of extension. Such an increase in the bid price
shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation. With
respect to each contract made subject to the Bank's prior
review in accordance with the provisions of Part D.1 (a) of
this Schedule, the Bank's prior approval will be required for:
(i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the period
of extension exceeds sixty (60) days; and (ii) any subsequent
extension of the bid validity period.
3.    In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with
this Part A and Part C.1 of this Schedule, the Borrower shall
use, or cause the Participating Entities to use, the relevant
standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such
modifications thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be
necessary for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant
standard bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the
Borrower shall use, or cause the Participating Entities to use,
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized
standard forms agreed with the Bank.
4.    To the extent practicable, contracts for civil works and
contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid packages
estimated to cost the equivalent of more than $3,000,000 for
civil works and $250,000 for goods.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
Page  15
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in
Peru may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of
the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Informatic equipment (computers, peripheral equipment and
computer software) and vehicles estimated to cost the
equivalent of more than $50,000 per contract or bid package, up
to an aggregate amount equivalent to $9,700,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded through limited international
bidding procedures on the basis of evaluation and comparison of
bids obtained from at least three qualified suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines and in accordance with procedures set
forth in Sections I and II of the Guidelines (excluding
paragraphs 2.8, 2.9, 2.55, 2.56 thereof).
2.    Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $3,000,000
or less per contract or bid package, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $76,200,000, and goods (other than informatic
equipment and vehicles) estimated to cost the equivalent of
$250,000 or less per contract or bid package, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $21,700,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory
to the Bank.
3.    Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $90,000 or
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$29,300,000, and goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount
equivalent to $3,900,000 ($2,400,000 in respect of furniture
and $1,500,000 in respect of other goods), may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Bank; provided, however, that, whenever it is not
practicable to obtain more than one price quotation, civil
works in remote areas, estimated to cost not more than the
equivalent of $75,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amountequivalent to 
$11,700,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded directly in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Bank on the basis of standard regionalized unit prices
agreed from time to time between the Borrower and the Bank.
Starting on June 30, 1995, and every six months thereafter, the
Borrower shall review the said prices then in effect, and to
revise said prices if, in the opinion of the Bank, the review
shows that the revision is justified.
4.    In the procurement of works and goods in accordance with
Part C.2 hereof, the Borrower use shall, or cause to be used,
standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank.
Part D:     Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
      (a)   With respect to: (i) each contract for civil works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $350,000 or more; (ii) each
contract for goods, procured under the procedures referred to
in Part C.1 of this Schedule; (iii) each contract for goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more; and (iv)
the first two contracts for each of civil works and goods
procured under the procedures in Part C.2 of this Schedule, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to
be made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be
modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the
Page  16
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to
said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5
to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b)
shall not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals
are to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower and the Participating
Entities in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall
employ, or cause the Participating Entities to employ,
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published
by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For
complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ, or
cause the Participating Entities to employ, such consultants
under contracts using the standard form of contract for
consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with
the Bank.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to: (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; and (b) contracts for
the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $10,000,000. However, this exception to prior Bank review
shall not apply to the terms of reference for such contracts,
to single source selection of firms, to assignments of a
critical nature as reasonably determined by the Bank or to
amendments of contracts raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above, in the case of consulting firms, or to
$50,000 equivalent or above in the case of individuals.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
Page  17
of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $7,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that, unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to $4,000,000 until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals (from the Loan Account plus the
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered by
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions)
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $40,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                  Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                  deposits into the Special Account at such
                  intervals as the Bank shall specify.
            (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                  the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the
                  documents and other evidence required pursuant
                  to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment
                  or payments in respect of which replenishment
                  is requested. On the basis of each such
                  request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
                  Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and
                  deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                  the Borrower shall have requested and as shall
                  have been shown by said documents and other
                  evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                  Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively
for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
Page  18
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund
to the Bank such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
                                SCHEDULE 6
           Terms and Conditions of the Participating Agreements
1.    Obligations of the Participating Entity:
      (a)   carry out its part of the Project, under the
direction and coordination of MOE, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate educational,
financial, technical, administrative and environmental
standards, the Operational Manual and the annual plans approved
by the Bank pursuant to Section 3.04 (c) of this Agreement;
      (b)   provide, or cause to be provided, in a timely manner,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required to
carry out the respective parts of the Project;
      (c)   have the provisions of Schedule 4 to the Loan
Agreement apply to any procurement of civil works, goods or
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan for
purposes of the parts of the Project to be carried out by the
Participating Entity in question;
      (d)   maintain, or cause to be maintained, records and
separate accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with
Page  19
consistently maintained sound accounting practices, the
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the parts
of the Project to be carried out by the Participating Entity in
question and provide to the Borrower access to all such records
and accounts necessary to enable the Borrower to comply with
its obligations under Section 4.01 and Schedule 5 of this
Agreement;
      (e)   carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04,
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions with
regard to the parts of the Project to be carried out by the
Participating Entity in question;
      (f)   promptly inform the Bank and the Borrower, of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Loan, or the performance by the Participating Entity in
question of its obligations under the relevant Participating
Agreement; and
      (g)   in the case of the Infrastructure Manager, refrain
from carrying out any investment or activities, other than
those financed under the Project, in the primary school
classrooms in Targeted Schools included in an annual plan
approved by the Bank pursuant to Section 3.04 (c) of this
Agreement.
2.    Other provisions
      Each Participating Agreement shall also include the
following provisions:
      (a)   the right of each Participating Entity to the use of
the funds provided under the respective Participating
Agreement, including the proceeds of the Loan, shall be subject
to suspension or termination upon failure by such Participating
Entity to perform its obligations under the respective
Participating Agreement; and
      (b)   all the provisions of the Participating Agreement
shall continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any
cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions or
suspension or termination referred to in subparagraph (a)
above.
