Documient of                                                 I
The World Bank!
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
6CI-/E  Zi S7 - G7 
Report No.8331-GH
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
URBAN II PROJECT
MAY 9, 1990
Infrastructure Operations Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and ma} be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed w  World



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   a   Cedis ¢
US$1S0       330 Cedis
1.0 Cedi       USS .003
FISCAL YEAR
JANUARY 01 - DECEMBER 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
METRIC SYSTEM
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACC     Accra City Council
ADRP    Accra District Rehabilitation Project
AMA     Accra Metropolitan Authority
AHMA    Ahanta-East Metropolitan Authnrity
BHC     Bank for Housing and Construction
BOG     Bank of Ghana
DRU     District Road Unit
DUR     Department of Urban Roads
EPC     Environmental Protection Council
ERP     Economic Recovery Program
FINSAC Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
GOG     Government of Ghana
HFC     Home Finance Company
HFIC    Housing Finance and Institutional Reform Committee
HSR     Housing Sector Reform
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
1MC     Interministerial Committee
KMA     Kumasi Metropolitan Authority
LASC    Land Administration Steering Committee
LCB     Local Competitive Bidding
LGPSU   Local Government Project Support Unit
LGSR    Local Government Sector Rehabilitation
LVB     Land Valuation Board
MBG     Merchant Bank (Ghana) Ltd.
M/DSC   Metropolitan/District Steering Committees units
MFEP    Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MLG     Minsitry of Local Government
MLNR    Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources
MRH     Ministry of Roads and Highways
KWH     Ministry of Works and Housing
OSI     Originating and Servicing Institutions
PAMSCAD Program of Action to Mitigate the Social Cost of Adjustment
PCC     Project Coordinating Committee
PPF     Project Preparation Facility
PWP     Priority Works Project
SA      Special Account
SHC     State Housing Corporation
SOE     Statement of Expense
SSA     Sub Sahara Africa
SSNIT   Social Security and National Investment Trust
TADA    Tamale District Authority
TDC     Tema Development Corporation
TEDA    Tema District Authority
TSC     Technical Services Center



GHANA                                                   _
URBAN 11 PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ..                                          1
I. SECTO0RL CONTEXT .1
A.   Background  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
B.   Sector Strategy   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
C.   Rationale for IDA Involvement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
II.  THE PROJECT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
A.   Project Objectives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
B.   Project Description (Sum-ary)   . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
C.   Project Cost and Financing Plan   . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
A.   Institutional Framework   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
B.   Project Management Capacity Building  . . . . . . .  . . 28
C.   Action Plans  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
D.   Procurement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29
E.   Disbursement  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
F.   Accounting and Auditing   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
G.   Contractual Services, Technical Assistance
and Training  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
IV.  JUSTIFICATION, RISKS AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT  . . . . . . . . 33
A.   General Benefits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
B.   Economic Evaluation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
C.   Poverty Impact  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
D.   Project Risks   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
E.   Environmental Impact  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  37
V.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
A.  Agreements  . . . . . . .    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
B.   Recommendation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission (January/
February 1990) consisting of Messrs. K. Robotham (Mission Leader), J. Bahal
(Financial Analyst), H. .ieno (Economist), and Ms. A. Artaza (Operations
Assistant); and Messrs. C. Banes, D. Diamond, B. Kurtz, and R. Stephens
(Consultants).  The Mission was assisted by Mr. R. Buckley (Economist), Mr.
G. Gattoni (Urban Planner), and Messrs. F. Fisher and E. Wi:liamson
(Consultants). The report was typed by Ms. M. Miller. Mmes. T.C. Tran, E.
Novatny, ana J. Silvera also assisted in the preparation of the r.:port.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



AINEXES
Background
1.   Urban Sector Profile, Policies and Strategy
2.   Housing Sector Profile, Policies and Strategy
3.   Financial Sector Profile
Detailed Description. Local Government Sector Rehabilitation Components
4.   Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Environmental System Improvements
5.   Property Revaluation and Municipal Revenue Mobilization
6.   Land Administration Component
7.   Ministry of Local Government Support Component
8.   Institutional Support to DUR, DRUs and City Technical Departments
9.   Support to the Environmental Protection Council
Detailed Description. Housing Sector Components
10. Urban Upgrading Component
11. Housing Consolidation Studies
12. Institutional Reform - Housing Parastatals, AESC and TSC
13.  Pilot Housing Finance Component
13A. Pilot Housing Finance Component - Review of Merchant Bank (Ghana)
Ltd.
14.  Institutional Support to TSC and MWH
General Summaries, Schedules. Ecotamic Analysis, and Q0G's Policy Statement
15.  Institutional Arrangements - LGSR Component
16. Summary Project Costs
17. Project Financing
18. Contractual Services, Technical Assistance and Training
19. IDA Credit Disbursement
20. Economic Evaluation & Poverty Impact
21. GOG's Housing Policy Statement
22. Selected Documents on Project File
Maps: IBRD Nos. 22333, 22334, 22335
AF4IW
MAY 9, 1990



REPUBLIC OF GHANA
URBAN II PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowert                 Republic of Ghana
Beneficiariess            Ministries of Works and Housing (MWH), Roads and
Highways (MHRE), Local Government (MLG), the five
largest cities (Accra, Kumasi, Sekondi-Takoradi,
Tamale and Tema -- the "Project Cities') and the
Home Finance Company Ltd. (HFC).
Credit fmount:            SDR 53.7 (US$70.0 million equivalent)
Termes                    Standard with 40 years maturity
On-Lending Terms:         A share amounting to US$8.0 million equivalent
would be onlent from the proceeds of the IDA
credit by the Government of Ghana (GOG) to the
Home Finance Company (a secondary mortgage fitance
institution that would be established under the
project) to finance the purchase of mortgages
issued to qualified borrowers approved by
Originating and Servicing Institutions (OSIs).
GOG would purchase mortgage-backed bonds issued by
HFC. The term of the bond would be 30 years, the
real interest rate would be 1Z per annum. HFC
would purchase mortgages from approved OSIs. The
real interest rate payable on these mortgages
would be 1.52, the term would be 30 years maximum.
Approved OSIs would issue indexed mortgages to
qualified borrowers. These mortgages would carry
a 2.5-3.5X per annum real interest rate. The
outstanding principal on all bonds and mortgages
would be fully indexed to inflation. They would,
however, carry a nominal 20 year term. Borrowers
would pay 25Z of their salaries (including all
cash benefits) in mortgage payments. HFC would
bear 902 of the credit risk and OSIs would bear
10Z. GOG would bear the foreign exchange risk. A
share of the credit amounting to US$1.3 million
equivalent would be provided on a grant basis for
technical assistance to HFC and OSIs.
Project Descriptions      The project would support a 5 year program of
works and institutional development and reform as
follows: Part A - Local Government Sector
Rehabilitation (LGSR): Infrastructure and
Environmental Systems Rehabilitation and
Maintenance Works -- roads, drains, sewerage,
markets, and environmental sanitation;
Municipal Revenue Mobilization -- financial
management, property revaluation and tax reform;
Land Administration -- mapping and a Pilot Land



- ii -
Adjudication subproject; MLG Support and Project
Management (technical assistance, equipment,
materials, and training). Part B - Housing Sector
Refo -n (HSR): Urban Upgrading Works and Housing
Consolidation Studies (completion/divestmezLt
studies for uncompleted GOG-owned units);
institutional reform (commercialization/
privatization) of housing parastatals; a line of
credit for a Pilot Housing Finance Subproject
(secondary mortgage finance for about 2,000 new
sales units and conversion of 1,000 parastatal -
owned rental units to sales); and technical
assistance, training, vehicles, equipment and
operational support for sector reform and project
management. The foreclosure laws would also be
reviewed and strengthened under the project, and
one of the studies to be financed through
technical assistance would focus on developing
techniques to more meaningfully increase women's
participation in housing construction.
Project Benefits
and Risks:        By strengthening the local government and housing
sectors, and by improving vital urban
infrastructure and services, the project will
support the ERP, strengthen the urban economy and
the financial system, improve the efficiency of
land and housing markets, improve the living
conditions of the urban poor, improve access by
moderate households to affordable housing, create
employment and relieve poverty. The most general
risk is that the project may overtax GOG's
implementation capacity leading to delays.
Significant risks are also attached to the Pilot
Housing Finance Component. These relate to the
acceptability of the proposed modest housing
standards, political manipulation of the proposed
indexation system, and legal and political
difficulties with foreclosure. The general risk
would be addressed undet the project throagh
technical assistance and training. The other
risks would be addressed through specific housing
policy commitments from GOG, continuous country
dialogue, the careful calibration and scheduling
of reforms, and the structuring of the project as
a pilot thus allowing continuous review and
incremental adjustment. Also the risks would be
minimized by requiring that the pilot be managed
by a competent existing banking institution, the
Merchant Bank (Ghana) Ltd. (MBG). In addition,
during the first two years of the project GOG and
the Bank would review the foreclosure laws and
agree on measures to strengthen the laws.



iii -
Estimated Project Costs:              Local       Foreign      Tota; a!
------(US$ milllions)------
Local Government Sector
Rehabilitation (Five Cities)
- Infrastructure & Environ.
Syst. Rehab.                     14.4          28.7        43.1
- Municipal Revenue
Mobilization                       0.5          0.9         1.4
-  Property Revaluation               0.5          0.9         1.5
-  Land Administration                0.4          1.3         1.7
- MLG Support                         0.7          1.9         2.5
Housing Sector Reform                  10.8         14.6        25.4
Total Bapg Cost                        27.2         48.3        75.5
Physical Contingencies                  3.2          5.4         8.6
Price Contingencies                     6.5          9.8        16.3
Total Project Cost                     36.9 b/      63.5       100.4
Percent
Financing Plan:                        Local       Foreign      Total a/ of Total
---------US$ millions-------
Govt. of Ghana
- Budget                              4.5         ---          4.5          4
- SSNIT                              11.8          4.4        16.2         16
IDA                                    19.8         50.1        70.0         70
Cofinancing                             0.8          9.0         9.8         10
TOTAL                             36.9          63.5       100.4       100
==az   ____===
Estimated Disbursements:   FY91       PY92     FY93      FY94     FY95      FY96
----------------(USa millions)-------------------
Annual                      4.2       14.0     23.0      19.7      7.7       1.4
Cummulatlve                 4.2       18.2     41.2      60.9     68.6      70.0
Economic Rate of Return:   442 (weighted average)
Maps:                       IBRD Nos. 22333, 22334, 22335
a/ Totals may not add because of rounding.
b/ Includes approximately US$5.0 million equivalent in taxes.
AE4IN
MAY 9, 1990



REPUBLIC OF GHA-NA
URBAN IT PROJECT
I. SECTORAL CONTEXT
A. Background
Introduction
1.01      Over the past 20 years the urban sector in Ghana has been
characterized by disintegrating infrastructure, inefficient services,
neglected revenue bases and weak administrative institutions. Housing is
scarce, dilapidated, detariorating and, by international standards,
extremely expensive. Also, the housing market is one of tle most distorted
in the world.
1.02      Conservative estimates indicate that over the next 5 years about
US$300 million equivalent would be required just to rehabilitate essential
infrastructure and services in the five largest towns 1/, to say nothing of
the cost of addressing development needs, housing rehabilitation,
institutional reform or human resource development.
1.03      Conditions in these cities will have to be reversed if they are
to maximize their contribution to economic recovery. They account for more
than 30Z of the population; contribute about 50S of GDP; are the key
centers of economic activity, political decision making, adninistration and
learning; are centers for the transmission of technology to the rural
areas; and they also provide vital markets for rural production. Thus,
even an agriculture-based development strategy cannot afford to neglect the
urban areas--particularly now that the biases in the urban rural terms of
trade are being removed through structural adjustment programs. Poor
infrastructure and services, and weak local government institutions impose
heavy costs on economic activity and drain national resources. Poor and
expensive housing, and weak housing institutions create serious indirect
problems for domestic resource mobilization and the efficiency of
government expenditure.
1.04      The Government of Ghana (GOG) clearly recognizes these problems
and, as part of the Economic Recovery Program (ERP)2/, began taking
measures to reverse urban decline, encourage greater local government
autonomy, and reduce local government's reliance on the national budget.
IDA supported these efforts through a US$25 million credit for the Accra
1/   Accra, Kumasi, Tema, Sekondi-Takoradi and Tamale.
2/   The first phase of ERP began in 1983 and was supported by several IDA
credits.  The second phase began in 1989 and is ccatinuing.



- 2 -
District Rehabilitation Project (ADRP)3/ and a US$10.6 million credit for
the Priority Works Project (PWP)41. The latter also focussed on
alleviating unemployment and poverty as part of the Program of Action to
Mitigate the Social Cost of Adjustment (PAMSCAD). But GOG'a potentially
most far reaching move to date has been the implementation oi its
decentralization program, creating 45 new local governments (bringing the
total to 11n), and granting wide powers to local authorities 5/.
1.05      SAR Structure:  The main text of this SAR presents the essential
outlines of the project. To the extent possible, details are presented in
Anuexes. Section I provides a brief overview of the sector and outlines
the policy framework and Bank sector strategy. Sections II, III, IV and V
respectively outline the project, implementation plan, project
justification, benefits and risks, and agreements, conditions and
recommendations. Profiles of the urban, housing and financial sectors are
presented in Annexes 1-3, while detailed project descriptions, cost
estimates, schedules, etc. are presented in Annexes 4-19. A summary of the
economic analysis is presented in Annex 20. The GOG's statement of housing
policy is presented in Annex 21. Detailed project analysis, consulting
reports, and other relevant project data have been placed in the project
files (see Annex 22).
Population and Urbanization
1.06      Thirty-one percent of Ghana's 14 million people 6/ live in some                  U
185 urban areas. The two large cities, Accra (the capital) and Kumasi (the
second city and capital of the Ashanti region), 7/ dominate, accounting for
35Z of the urban population; and together the five largest towns account
for 50? of the urban population. The Accra region, with 852 of its
population living in towns of more than 5,000, is by far the most highly
urbanized of Ghana's 10 administrative regions.
1.07      Urban population growth rates declined from 4.8Z p.a. during the
1960-70 period to 3.2Z during 1970-84. While still highe: than rural rates
(2.3Z in 1970-84), they signal a significant shift in favor of the rural
area, no doubt as a result of t'-e economic dislocation that occurred in the
1970's and continued up to the early 1980's. Assuming that the 1970-84
pattern of growth continues between 1990-2000, the urban population would
increabe by about 1.6 million persons (35Z) with about one-half of this
growth occurring in the Accra region. As the economy continues to improve
under ERP, urbanization can be expected to accelerate, placing even greater
strees on already overburdened systems. Signs of this are already evident
3/   Credit 1564-GH, FY85.
4/   Credit 1874-GH, FY88
5/   Called districts in Ghana.
6/   Estimated at 12.3 million, in 1984 census; 1970-84 rate of growth
(3.22 p.a.) assumed to continue.
7/   Population in 1990 about 1.2 million and 0.6 million respectively.



in the major traffic jams now occurring in Accra. Still, Ghana has one of
the lowest rates of urbanization in Africa, and the rare opportunity now
exists to manage this growth in a socially and economically efficient way
(see Annex 1, for details).
Loval Government Institutions and Institutional Reform
1.08      Until very recently, Ghana h&ad a three tier governmental
structures Central, Regional and District. Regional administrations
functioned largely as coordinating centers for central government and were
generally very weak. District administrations were generally responsible
for managing local services, except water and power which are managed by
national parastatals. This highly centralized system is beginning to be
decentralized, and many existing central government functions are to be
devolved to the local level. District S/ Assemblies were elected in
December 1988 and February 1989. These new democratic ograssroots'
institutions have begun meeting and deliberating; and, although many
problems exist, an air of optimism prevails.
I.09      Giving more responsibility to the local government could make
government more responsive to local needs. However, many serious issues
need to be addressed. Among the most urgent are: the authority of, and
the division of responsibility between central, local and regional agencies
and levels of government; revenue mobilization and sharing; and building
local technical, financial and managerial capacity. Also, the
sustainability of the system is not entirely self-evident 9/.
.10       Training for the staff of the newly created districts and
strengthening the Ministry of Local Government (MLG) are among the nost
inmmediate priorities. NLG is currently surveying local administrative
capacity and supervising the design of training programs to be carried out
by local institutions, and they have identified the creation of a cadre of
planning and budgeting officers as the top training priority. It is
anticipated that this cadre will introduce more effective planning and
financial management systems to local government (see Annex 1 for details).
Urban Infrastructure and Pizance
1.11      Local government systems in Ghana were once the most highly
developed in Africa. However, years of neglect led to the deterioration of
urban institutions and infrastructure to such an extent that local
governments could not effectively deliver even the most basic services.
Also, they had become almost wholly dapendent on central government for
financi.ng. With economic collapse rnd the consequent decline in revenues
8/   *lDistrictN and 'Local Government' is used interchangeably in the
report. Accra, Kumasi, Sekondi=Takoradi (recently renamed Ahanta
East) have been granted metropolitan status under the
decentralization program.
9/   GOG and the Bank has just completed a prelluminary review of the
problems of revenue sharing and budgeting. See Ghana, Fiscal
Decentralization, Report No. 8221-GH, December 1989.



- 4 -
at the center during the 1970's came the virtual cessation of urban
investment, neglect of maintenance, and the consequent disintegration of
systems and services. This is evidenced by potholed streets, traffic
congestion, and excessive travel time and cost; drains overflowing with
human wastes (23Z of households have no toilets, and Accra has more than
20,000 bucket latrines while Kumasi has over 4,000); mouxL.ng pi.i.s of
garbage (in 1980 Accra City Council could cope with only -kx of total
output); inadequate and irregular water supplies (while 9s.. o£ .he urban
population have access to some water supply, few houses have .ndoor
plumbing).
1.12      Neglect of the revenue basi resulted in a situatior where
councils, which in 1960 could cover their recurrent expenses and make a
small contribution to capital investment, by the late 1970's had become
almost wholly dependent on central government subventions. With central
government paying 1002 of salaries, local government had no incentive to
utilize staff efficiently. For example, by 1985 the Accra City Council's
salaries represented 75Z of revenues compared to 532 in 1975. Exacerbating
the financial problem was the fact that property taxes, while adjusted from
time to time, had not been revalued since the 1960's; budgeting and
financial management systems were archaic; fees and tariffs bore little
relationship to cost; billing collection systems were inefficient evenl
where they were not also corrupt; and most qualified local government staff
had long departed (see Annex 1 for details).
Housing
1.13      Housing conditions in Ghana are worse than those in sub-saharan
comparators for which we have data. Most importantly, the ratio of house
price to annual income for new housing units (+12:1) is extremely high--
more than twice the already high ratios that characterize Japan and India,
and of almost four times those of Western Europe and the US. The high cost
of housing stems from a multiplicity of economic, financial and
institutionai factors which will take a long period of time to address.
However, in the short-run these create serious direct and indirect problems
for domestic resource mobilization and the efficiency of government
expenditures.  For example, it is estimated that inefficient and bankrupt
housing parastatals are sittiag on valuable assets worth in excess of 22 of
GDP, and that some fortunate civil servants are enjoying government housing
benefits valued at several times their gross emoluments.                                   -
1.14      The housing problem is exacerbated by the almost complete                        -
absence of long term mortgage financing; inefficient housing and land
markets; rent restrictions which reduce incentives for the construction of
private rental housing; high interest rates (26-302); and inefficient,
high-cost, foreign exchange-intensive construction technologies (+502
foreign exchange content). In sum, the Ghanaian housing market is among
the world's most distorted and inefficient. The problem is both urgent and
complex, and will be extremely difficult to solve. However, the success of
ERP, the proposed measures to restructure the financial sector (see paras.
1.39 - 1.42 and Annex 3) and the urging of GOG, make it appropriate to
begin addressing some of the more critical issues in this sector. This
can, and should be done in a manner which will complement and deepen the
recovery process (see Annex 2 for details).



-5-
Recent Pkoiect Experience
1.15      The Accra District Rehabilitation Project (ADRP) is aimed at
rehabilitating essential infrastructure and revaluing property, and at
strengthening revenue mobilization, financial management and road
maintenance in Accra. It became effective in September 185 and is due to
close in June 1991. In general it can be said that ADRP has been very
successful. It is one year ahead of schedule and within budget. Property
in Accra has been revalued for tax purposes (one of the few successful
bank-supported revaluation exercise.); revenue mobilization has been
srectacular with ACC revenues incr- 'sing from ¢40 Eaillion in 1984 to
¢5;0 million in 1988, an almost three-flJ increase in real terms; billing
and collection and financial management has been improvedt accounting and
budgeting is being computerized; a part of one of the worst slum areas
(Nima) has been successfully upgraded; the motorway bypass has been
completed; unfinished links in the urban motorway have been constructed and
other portions have been rehabilitated; a major program of road maintenance
has been executed; and an effective, though fragile, road maintenance unit
has been reestablished and equipped. In addition, two effective project
management units, Technical Services Center (TSC) and the Department of
Urban Roads (DUR) have been developed under the Ministries of Works and
Housing, and Roads and Highways, respectively. One telling measure of
ADRP's success is the fact that ACC has just published its first-ever five
year corporate plan, indicating that while ACC still has a long way yet to
go, an effective beginning has been made. The Priority Works Project (PWP)
which became effective in June 1988, is aimed at generating about 10,000
man years of productive employment to relieve the impact of lay-offs
programmed under the structural adjustment program. It got off to a slnv
start but has now gathered momentum. Delay was due largely to the fact
that the labor-intensive nature of the project required the preparation of
a multitude of small contracts and this effort overtaxed implementation
capacity. This problem has now been overcome and the project is being
implemented effectively. However, the initial delays will probably
increase the two year implementation period to three years.
1.16      Recent bilaterally-supported urban projects 10/ have also been
quite successful to date. About 60-80S of Accra's garbage is now being
collected regularly, cost recovery has improved significantly, bucket
latrine services have been largely privatized and a KRIP construction
program using displaced labor is now operational. The Kumasi Roads Project
has been similarly effective, making Kumasi8s roads the standard by which
other urban roads in C.hana are being judged.
10/ Accra Waste Management Project was supported by GTZ and KFW and
Kumasi Roads Project was supported by technical assistance from the
German Democratic Republic.



B. Sector Strategy
1.17      GOG and Bank sector strategy is discussed briefly below.
Details are presented in Annexes 1 and 2.
Local Government Sector Strategy
1.18      GOG and Bank strategy has evolved during the course of
implementing ADRP and PWP, undertaking urban and housing sector
reviews 11/, and extensive dialogue over the last five years.   Dialogue is
excellent and broad consensus has been reached that in this, the second
phase of ERP, the central issue remains the resabilitation of basic
infrastructure and services, and the strengthening of the technical
financial and managerial capacity of local government. As noted above in
para. 1.07, Ghana still has rare opportunity to order its urbanization in a
socially and economically efficient way if action is taken now.
1.19      Extending the Accra Strategy Under Urban II:  The Accra project
has successfully demonstrated - able approaches to building local
government capacity and provides a good model which can now be further
developed in Accra and adapted to the secondary cities. This is precisely
the strategy being adopted under Urban II which would focus on
consolidating the gains made in Accra and on extending these gains to
Kumasi, Sekondi-Takoradi, Tema and Tamale. The medium term strategy (FY93
onwards) would be to generalize the experience ga!ned in Accra and the four
secondary cities under Urban II to the local government system as a whole.
By 1993 it should be possible to formulate a Local Government Sector
Investment Project which would tackle some of the urgent system-wide
problems.
1.20      The key components of the strategy for the Local Government
Sector under Urban II are as follows:
(a) Rehabilitating Infrastructure and Environmental Systems:
Improve essential infrastructure, services and systems in the
four largest secondary cities, and consolidate in Accra. This
includes constructing some key missing links in the Accra road
network which have been identified in traffic studies undertaken
under ADRP.
(b) Strengthening Municipal Revenue Mobilization: Consolidate the
property revaluation exercise in Accra and Tema which were begun
under ADRP, and extend exercise to Kumwsi, Sekondi-Takoradi and
Tamale.  Also, strengthen financial management, resource
mobilization and cost recovery in the four secondary cities
while consolidating in Accra.
11/ Ghana: Urban Sector Review, Report No. 7384-GH, June 1989.
Ghana: Housing Sector Review, Report No. 8099-GH, December 1989.



- 7 -
(c) Strengthening Land Administration: Improve the efficiency of
land markets by improving conveyancing and titling procedures
and updating of raaps.
(d)  Strengthening MLG:  Improve the cap,acity of the Ministry of
Local Government (MLG, to monitor, manage, support and formulate
policy for the sector.
(e)  Strengthening City Technical Departments:  Improve the capacity
of city technical departments to manage and maintain urban
services and to plan and monitor urban development.
(f) Strengthening EPC: Improve the capacity of the Environmental
Protection Council (EPC) to effectively monitor and manage and
formulate policy for the urban sector.
(See Anrex 1 for a profile of the Local Government Sector).
Housing Sector Strategy
1.21      Since the housing sector is being examined for the first time,
the key issues will be outlined in some depth below (further details are
presented in Annex 2).
1.22      Within the last two years, housing has become a critical issue
in Ghana. Housing has always been a problem, but the fact that it has now
become one of GOG's priorities is perhaps a tribute to the success of ERP.
GOG clearly feels confident enough to begin tackling issues beyond mere
survival; and while housing does not head the list of priorities, it is
important enough socially, politically and economically for GOG to attach
special urgency to making a start on housing finance and institutional
reform under Urban II. The proposed pilot housing finance scheme provides
an alternative to more costly schemes that have been proposed. For
example, the Social Security and National Insurance Trust (SSNIT) is now
beirg encouraged to invest in relatively high standard and high cost
housing at highly subsidized interest rates--a policy which apart from
being ineffective will certainly decapitalize the Trust. In addition, IDA
is assisting GOG to restructure the financial system (see paras 1.39-1.42
below) and this presents the opportunity to simultaneously tackle some of
the more critical issues related to housing finance.
1.23      Policy Context:  Ghana is now in the sixth year of perhaps the
longest sustaia.ed period of continual growth in its history (5.52 over
1983-89). This performance is even more impressive since, prior to this
recovery, its performance was among the weakest. It is still a country at
a relatively low level of urbanization (31X) and per capita incGime (about
UJS$400). Ghana's level of financial development is one of the lowest in
the world: the share of GDP in broadly defined monetary assets in 1986 was
only 11Z. It also has one of the world's most persistently high rates of



inflation, averaging over 30Z per annum since 1965 (8th highest in the
world), and over 40Z per annum since 1980, (12th highest) 12/.
1.24      In these circumstances IDA's "traditional' approach to the
shelter sector in lower-income developing economies would comprise some
combination of new low-cost sites and service plots, improving land titles
and registration, encouraging slum upgrading, and improving the provision
of and cost recovery for urban infrastructure. In fact, these components
are included in ADRP, PWP and the proposed Urban II project. However, if
the sector is to function efficiently and not have disruptive spill over
effects on other sectors, more fundamental change is needed.
1.25      The traditional approach is insufficient for three reasons:
First, misguided public policies have led to patterns of housing ownership
and land utilization which tre inefficient and adversely affect the rest of
the economy as well as the sector; and that over the longer term, these
patterns need to be changed if housing is to pay its way in the
restructured economic environment. Second, reform of the housing
parastatals and the development of a sustainable supply of housing finance
is one prerequisite to these changes. Third, increased efficiency requires
that improvements in infrastructure, land, and regulatory policies are
further developed and strengthened in both the short and long term.
1.26      Land Market Distortions:  Traditional and state land holding
customs have combined to ensure that there is no effective market for land.
Furthermore, inadequate conveyancing and titling procedures have ensured
that the titling process is incomplete, inefficient and highly time
consuming. These issues, taken together, make access to free and clear
title a very difficult problem for most, and militate against the use of
land as collateral, significantly exacerbating the problem of financing                    -
housing development.
1.27      Housing Market Distortions:  Years of misguided public policy
have: (a) made housing costs relative to income among the highest in the                   ;
world, even though housing quality is low and deteriorating; (b) paralyzed
the two housing sector parastatals, the State Housing Corporation (SHC),
and Tema Development Corporation (TDC), which, as noted in para 1.13 above,
control assets equal to more than 2Z of GDP; (c) bankrupted domestic input
producers, and contritaed to the insolvency of the Bank for Housing and
Construction (BHC), so that the sector continues to rely heavily on
imports; (d) resulted in many employers relying on very large and
inefficient in-kind salary compensation in the form of housing; (e) left
the government with over 15,000 housing units that yield rents
significantly less than the cost of maintenance; and finally,
(f) contributed to a very inefficient low density land use pattern in which
large colonial era bungalows are located in the central city on one acre
plots occupied by 'corporate social clubs' and senior civil servants, while
other middle income families live nearby in some of the most congested
conditions in Sub Sahara Africa (SSA).
121 Under ERP inflation has been declining steadily and this trend is
expected to continue. Estimates for 1989 range between 252 (official
estimate) and 302.



- 9 -
1.28      Financial Market Distortions:  High inflation, averaging almost
50Z per annum over 1980-87, low and unindexed nominal interest rates, and
extensive direction of credit to unsuccessful parastatals have resulted in
a financial system that provides little or no incentive to save, and which
correspondingly has little depth or buoyancy; a bankrupt banking system,
unable to mobilize resources; and a small, unsustainable supply of mortgage
credit that carr'es with it large implicit inflation taxes on suppliers.
1.29      Such financial policies make inflation hedges, such as land,
more attractive to savers and, as a result, more expensive for those who
need shelter. Ghana is one of a number of eLonomies in the world that has
had such a persistently high inflation rate and did not provide savers with
some protection against the erosion in the value of their savings through
some form of indexation. Also, serious weaknesses in the existing
foreclosure laws militate against long-term investments in the housing
sector. Consequently, Ghana's financial policies have seriously distorted
savings decisions and the allocation of resources.
1.30      Addressing Distortions:  Slum upgrading, sites and service
plots, and other elements of IDA's traditional shelter strategy can
contribute to the development of the sector. However, by themselves they
will not eliminate any of the litany of problems listed above. Tnis is
particularly true in an economy like Ghana's, which is the least rapidly
urbanizing economy in SSA. Unlike most lower-income developing countries,
Ghana does not have to struggle just to keep up with rapid growth in urban
population. It is not necessarily just more urban housing that is needed.
More efficient and equitable utilization of the existing housing stock is
needed as well.
1.31      For this kind of adjustment to proceed, families, builders, and
suppliers of resources must be able to respond to the incentives provided
by changes in the costs of land, changes in the costs of the variety of
inputs used in producing housing, and changes in the real, inflation-
corrected costs of finance. At present, these responses do not occur.
Housing is so expensive, finance is so unavailable, and the government
controls so much of the sector's resources without regard to changes in
their value that changes in incentives have little effect on behavior.
Some large employers respond on behalf of a fortunate few, and existing
institutions are being encouraged to give unsustainable subsidies to a few
others. In sum, distortions increase prices, and the higher prices
contribute significantly to the pressure for indirect subsidies to offset
the higher prices. These indirect subsidies, in turn, are in effect
additional distortions to offset the effects of the first set of
distortions. The result is a chain of inefficiencies.
1.32      A Housing Sector Adiustment Strategy for the 1990's:  It is
possible to make housing policy a key part of sustaining and broadening the
economic recovery program.  Because of the nature of the limitations on the               U
shelter sector most of the gains can be made without additional government
resources. For example, if finance is provided on a large-scale,
unsubsidized basis, several goals can be attained simultaneously. Not only
could the social problems created by the housing shortage be reduced, a
larger scale of housing construction could make the various import-



- 10 -
substituting building material schemes proposed or already functioning
viable. The dom.estic material production industry could then expanLd. Over
the long-term, the financial system itself would become more sophisticated,
including the mobillzation of large scale household financial assets for
the first time. Finally, real estate assets could be used much more
efficiently then they are at present.
1.33      Realizing these opportunities requlres a long-term strategy for
the sector and its integration with the economy. The components of what
has been termed a broader long-term shelter sector strategy are six:
First, assets in the sector must be transferred to those who
place the greatest value on them, with due provision made for
protecting the interests and opportunities of the poor. This
involves a concerted action to develop the real estate assets of
the government in ways that minimize government costs and
encourage the development of a much more focused, narrow
government role in the sector.
Second, a sustainable system of mortgage finance must be
developed to finance this change in utilization. This system
should lower the cash-flow constraints of mortgage finance under
high inflation while simultaneously protecting the interests of
savers from changes in the inflation rate.
Third, any subsidies distributed in the sector should be made as
transparent and tightly-focused as possible. In practice, what
this means is that subsidies should not be given through
interest rate reductions that make the supply of finance
unsustainable. Nor should they be glven without significant
effort on the part of beneficiaries. The Ghanian housing
problem is too great to provide anything like current subsidies,
which often equal a multiple of annual income levels, to many
families. Smaller individual subsidies must be distributed to
more households who leverage thelr subsidies either by their own
saving or by increased reliance on the provision of market-rate
finance.
Fourth, the building and land use codes and standards must be
changed so that they are simpler, more realistic and affordable
and more encouraging of the private production of domestic
inputs.
Fifth, the problems of obtaining clear title to land should be
resolved in order to improve the efficiency of land markets and
make land a suitable form of collateral for lending.
Sixth, the foreclosure laws should be reformed to ensure that
legitimate financial lnstitutions can adequately secure their
lending to the housing sector.
1.34      Hence, an approprlate short-term strategy for IDA would entail
the continuatLon of the current urban policy dialogue with its emphasis on
lowering standards, improving the sustainability of infrastructure,



- 11 -
regulatory reform, and strengthening the Ministry of Housing. However, it
should also include the development of pilot programs and action plans to
coordinate and test new approaches to housing finance. This kind of
approach would be both pragmatic and risk-minimizing. It would also allow
some of the very basic changes in government policy--e.g., privatization
and indexation--to be better une-rstood by the Ghanaian population before
they are implemented; and it would ailow new approaches to be tried out on
a smaller scale basis so that the appropriateness of the approach could be
more fully assessed before committing a great deal of resources.
1.35      Depending upon the success of the technical assistance programs
in finance and land, the pilot program in finance, the policy decisions
taken with respect to government parastatals, and the receptiveness to
lower housing standards, a sectoral investment program would be considered
the goal of Urban III (FY93S). Such an investment program could draw upon
recent Bank experience in other countries. For example, Bank loans in
Mexico, Morocco, and India have financed a slice of the market-rate
mortgage lending undertaken by specific financial institutions. A similar
program may be appropriate for Ghana. On the other hand, however, any such
Bank lending should be structured so that its central objective is to
catalyze rather than replace domestic investments. It is impossible to
determine how quickly private investors will respond to the opportunities
for higher real returns offered by indexed financial instruments. Hence,
action on this front must be carefully coordinated with the broader
financial sector adjustments that are now in process.
1.36      The Urban III program would be developed through extensive
dialogue with GOG, would build on the initiatives being taken in Urban II,
and would lay the foundation for a much longer term (8-10 years)
restructuring of the housing sector.
Urban II Housing Strategy
1.37      The housing objectives of Urban II are quite limited.  The
strategic objective is to begin to lay the foundation for a more
comprehensive approach in Urban III which would be a fully fledged housing
project. However, in keeping with the complex nature of the housing
problem, the foundation would be broadly laid. An integrated approach will
be taken in the related areas of parastatal reform, land administration
reform, urban upgrading and housing consolidation, housing finance, private
sector development and regulatory reform.
1.38      The Housing Finance Pilot:  The housing finance component would
be a 3-year pilot designed to test the feasibility of establishing an
indexed housing finance system which, while affordable to a significant
number of households, would also yield reasonable returns to investors. It
would also test new instruments designed to mobilize long-term funding for
the housing sector, the acceptability of modest housing standards and the
capacity of the private sector. The pilot would not immediately benefit
the very poorest households as this cannot be done at this time without
major subsidies (which are not available) or without risking the pilot's
viability. However, if the pilot workA it could be expanded under Urban
III to cover a wider group of households. Present indications are that
groups at or above the 40th percentile in household income could



- 12 -
participate in the pilot (see Annex 13 for details).  While not the
poorest, in the Ghanaian context households at the 40th percentile are
indeed quite poor, and to reach this group without subsidy would be a
considerable achievement. Under Urban 1I the lowest tncome groups would be
assisted through the continuation of the existing urban upgrading programs.
The Urban II initiative would be targeted as followss
Income Group                     Policy Response
* Urban Poor                   - Urban Upgrading
(0-20th percentile)
* Low Income                   - Urban Upgrading
(20th - 40th percentile)      Parastatal Reform
Housing Consolidation
Land Administration Reform
* Middle Income                - Housing Finance
(40th - 80th percentile)      Parastatal Reform
Land Administration Reform
Housing Consolidation
e Upper Income                 - Land Administration Reform
(80th - 100th percentile)
Housing demand is not known with any certainty. However, the need for the
1990-2000 period is estimated at 70,000 units per year just to serve new
household formation. About 1,000 units per year are now being produced by
the formal sector. The pilot would aim to add another 1,000 per year over
the 3 year period, 1991-93.
Housing Finance Strategy and the Financial Sector Reform Pro8ram
1.39      Any proposed program of housing finance must be consistent with
GOG's Bank-assisted program to reform the financial sector -- FINSAC 13/.
A summary on the structure and regulatory framework of the financial sector
is presented in Annex 3.
1.40      The formal financial system is dominated by three primary
commercial banks, seven secondary banks and over 100 small cooperative
banks. Of the secondary banks, three, the Bank for Housing and
Construction (BHC), the Agricultural Development Bank (ADB), and the
National Investment Bank (NIB) are development finance institutions. The
three large commercial banks control about 57Z of the total assets of the
banking system. The money and capital markets are rudimentary, and the
rest of the non-banking system is limited principally to eleven insurance
companies and the Social Security and National Investment Trust (SSNIT), a
wholly government-owned institution charged with providing social security
payments to workers upon their retirement from service.
13/ Financial Sector Adjustment Credit - Cr. 1911-GH (FY88, US$100
million).



- 13 -
1.41      Like the reat cf the economy, the banking system in Ghana has
suffered adversely from the generally low-level of productive activities
during the period of economic decline, although a few institutions are
reportedly profitable and relatively efficient. Its current distressed
state has been caused, inter alia, bys (i) high non-performing loan
portfolios; (ii) inadequate provisions for portfolio losses; (Mii) inflated
profits; (iv) high operational costs; (v) potential/actual foreign exchange
exposure; (vi) insolvency; (vii) capital inadequacy; and (viii) inadequate
accounting systems, management information and internal controls.
Comprehensive external diagnostic audits by international auditors have
been undertaken for the nine main banks to obtain an in-depta and accurate
assessment of the operating and financial condition of each of these banks,
and provide a basis for determining their restructuring prospects and
requirements.
1.42      Among the other important problems of the financial system are
the following:
(a) the financial sector has not proved to be an effective vehicle
for mobilizing domestic resources due partially to negative real
interest rates on savings and deposits;
(b) term transformation has been limited by the inability of banks
to compensate for risk and maturity by varying their interest
rates, and large holders of long-term fund were compelled to
invest in low yielding government security (a practice now
discontinued); and
*c) distortions caused by credit ceilings have led to a situation of
excess liquidity leading some banks to turn away deposits, even
at times when there have been shortages of liquidity in parts of
the manufacturing sector.
1.43      FINSAC is designed to correct the most important distortions in
the financial sector. Its major objectives are as follows:
(a) enhance the soundness of banking institutions through: (i) a
review of the legal framework; (ii) improved modalities for bank
supervision; (iii) strengthening the training of bankers; (iv)
strengthening the accounting and auditing professions; (v)
support to the financial restructuring of the corporate sector.
(b) restructure financially distressed banks on the basis of full
external audits, followed by a thorough review of each bank's
prospects for future viability within a liberalized and
competitive system (with much reduced reliance on GOG funding
and other financial privileges), and restructuring needs
thereafter. The decision on a future course of action for each
bank (recapitalization/restructuring, merger, liquidation), on
the basis of this review, would lead to the preparation of a
sr,ecific restructuring plan, the implementation of which would
be monitored by a performance contract.



- 14 -
(c) improve resource mobilization and allocation through: (i)
measures aimed at further restoring public confidence in banks;
(ii) liberalization of interest rates, bank charges and
commissions and sectoral credit ceilings; (iii) development of
money and capital markets through the rationalization and
strengthening of the CDH and the introduction of policies and
institutional vehicles for capital market development.
FINSAC is progressing well and within the last year measures have been
taken to revise the banking law and strengthen the regulatory framework.
In addition, interest rates have been liberalized and the bank
restructuring process has begun.
1.44      The housing finance component of Urban 1I will be designed to be
consistent with FINSAC's objectives. The major goal of the pilot is to
initiate the establishment of a system of financing and repayment and a
mortgage instrument that will resolve the major barrier to housing finance,
high and volatile inflation rates (and related volatility in real incomes).
It introduces a financial instrument capable of withstanding real and
monetary shocks to the economy while not impairing the banking system or
household disposable income. The pilot will also be consistent with policy
goals in the financial sector.  The recapitalized banks may also find
originating and servicing the loans to be a profitable business. In any
case, the equity base of the existing financial institutions will not be
threatened by repayment problems under the program. The provision of long-
term credit in Ghana with a positive real rate of return is a unique
accomplishment which could lead to strengthening the portfolios of long-
term lenders such as pension funds and insurance companies, as well as
SSNIT. The development of the financial expertise to administer the
project will itself inject into the financial community an increased level                U
of sophistication. Finally, the proposed strengthening of the Foreclosure
Law would benefit the entire financial sector.
Land Administration
1.45      Bottle-necks associated with access to land, mapping, land
management, titling, conveyancing, and deed registration have been
identified through sector work 14/ as major impediments to the efficient
functioning of land and housing markets, and to development planning on the
whole. Because of the pivotal importance of land, it was agreed with GOG
that a modest start would be made in improving mapping canability and
addressing land titling land administration problems in Urban II. This is
a very difficult problem which requires a long term horizon. The objective
under Urban II would be to develop a strategy which could be implemented
under Urban III and a possible Urban IV (not yet in lending program).
The Environment
1.46      Explicit concern for the urban environment is a relatively new
phenomenon in Ghana even though it has been an integral component of ADRP
14/ See Ghana, Urban Sector Review, Report No. 7384-GH, June 1989, and
Ghana, Housing Sector Review, Report No. 8099-GH, December 1989.



- 15 -
and PWP. The Environmental Protection Council (EPC) formed in 1974 and
presently under the MLG, is still in the process of developing guidelines
for the subsector and Bank strategy focuses on supporting these efforts, on
further embedding environmental planning, control and action into our
project and sector lending, as well as to provide direct assistance to the
environmental assessment and monitoring of key components of the project.
In 1988 GOG undertook preparation of an Environmental Action Plan (EAP)
with Bank assistance. One of the major topics addressed under this plan
was human settlements. EPC is still in the process of finalizing the EAP
and anticipates that the Ofinal' plan will be completed during early 1990.
The Government has advised specific ministries and agencies of the need for
them to obtain ensi-Lonmental impact certificates. At present this policy
is only being applied for industrial and agricultural development projects.
However, EPC is anxious that human settlements projects should be assessed
environmentally and subsequently monitored during implementation, albeit
that the institutional capacity at EPC is currently stretched. The
objective of Urban II would be to begin to support EPC in its efforts.
C. Rationale for IDA Involvement
1.47      The project as a whole seeks to lay the basis for a potentially
profound restructuring of the local government and housing sectors in
G*hana. This restructuring is a long-term (10-15 year) process. Under
ADRP, IDA has had considerable success in assisting GOG to rehabilitate
urban infrastructure and build local government technical and financial
capacity under ADRP and after a slow start, PWP, is beginning to bear
fruit. In both these projects IDA played a pivotal role and broke new
ground. However, the urban and housing problems are complex, and continued
Bank support would be critical for consolidating the gains made so far, and
for tackling the hitherto neglected problems which retard the efficient
development of the urban sector. Support for Urban II would also further
demonstrate IDA's commitment to address the social, as well as the economic
dimensions of adjustment, in Ghana as well as in other countries. Finally,
other agencies and donors have indicated a willingness to assist GOG in
these efforts, given Bank leadership.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
2.01      The project has two quite distinct and separable components,
Local Government Sector Rehabilitation and Housing Sector Reform. The
primary objectives of the Local Government Rehabilitation component are to
help to rehabilitate and improve essential infrastructure, services and
environmental systems; and to strengthen the technical, financial and
managerial capacity of local government. Efforts will focus on Accra,
Kumasi, Tema, Sekondi-Takoradi and Tamale (the project cities), as well as
on MLG.



- 16 -
2.02      The primary objectives of the Housing Sector Reform component
are to help to initiate the development of a sustainable housing finance
system; reform the housing parastatals; begin to relieve the acute shortage
of affordable houses; improve the environmental conditions and provide
essential infrastructure and service for the urban poor; and strengthen
HWH.
2.03      The Environment:  A secondary but Important oDjective is to help
improve environmental management and tonitoring through support to EPC.
B.  Proiect Description (Summary)
2.04      The project includes the following componentst
(a) Local Government Sector Rehabilitation (LGSR)s
(i)     Infrastructure and Environmental Systems
Rehabilitation and Maintenance Works--roads, drains,
sewerage (including sewerage system rehabilitation at
Tema), markets, solid waste management and
environmental sanitation in the five project cities
(see Annex 4 for details);
(ii)     Municipal Revenue Mobilization -- financial management
improvements, property revaluation and tax reform and
revenue mobilization in the five project cities (see
Annex 5 for details);
(iii)     Land Administration -- mapping, pilot land
adjudication sub-project, improvements to registration
and conveyancing systems (see para 2.06 and Annex 6
for details);
(iv)     Institutional Support to MLG:  Training Program
Development -- works (development and rehabilitation
of Accra and Tamale training centers); curriculum and
teaching materials development and training trainers;
and Project Management Support -- development of
policy formation and project management capacity (see
pare 2.07 and Annex 7 for details); and
(v)     Institutional Support to the Department of Urban Roads
(DUR), District Road Units (DRUs), City Technical
Departments and EPC: technical assistance, equipment,
materials, training for sector and project studies,
and for operational management and support for project
agencies and for EPC (see para 2.08 and Annexes 8 and
9 for details).
(b) Housing Sector Reform (HSR):



-  1I -
(1)     Urban Upgrading Works in Tema and Kumasi -- roads,
drains, water supply, domestic sanitation, including
the training of 100 women in construction techniques
with the assistance of local NGOs; and Housing
Consolidation Studies -- completion/divestment studies
for uncompleted GOG-owned units (see Annexes 10 and 11
for details);
(ii)      Institutional Reform (con-ercializationlprivatization)
of Housing Parastatals, AESC and TSC 15/ (see para
2.09 and Annex 12 for details);
(iii)     A line of credit to establish a Pilot Housing Finance
Sub-project -- institutional development and indexed
mortgage finance for about 2,000 new sales units and
conversion of 1,000 existing parastatal owned rental
units to sales (see Annex 13 and 13-A for details);
and
(iv)     Institutional Support to Technisal Services Center
(TSC): technical assistance, training, vehicles.
equipment and operational support for sector reform,
project management and project studies, including
studies aimed at meaningfully increasing the
participation of women in the housing construction
sector (see Annex 14 for details).
2.05      The infrastructure and environmental systems, municipal revenue
mobilization, urban upgrading and housing consolidation components are the
extensions of initiatives begun under ADRP and PWP. Thus, details are not
discussed here but are presented in the relevant annexes. However, the
proposed land administration, local government sector, EPC support, the
institutional reform of housing parastatals, and the housing finance
componeixtq are significant new initiatives, and are briefly outlined below.
2.06      Land Administrations  This component will initiate efforts to
rationalize the land titling and conveyancing systems in Ghana. It will
also support the production of essential maps, and provide support for
institutional development and capacity building in the Survey Department,
the Lands Commission, the Lands T.Itles Office and the Deeds Registry. In
addition, through the implementation of a pilot land adjudication project
in Accra and Kumasi an attempt will be made to develop a feasible method of
resolving conflicting claims to land and expediting the delivery of clear
titles. The method developed should be one which can be widely applied in
the future. These activities will lay the foundation for the design of
more comprehensive programs to rationalize land management in Ghana (see
Annex 6 for details).
2.07      Institutional Support to the MLG:  This component will initiate
efforts to strengthen the MLG and to improve training capacity within the
local government sector. Essentially, the project will support the
15/ The Architectural and Engineering Setvices Corporation.



- 18 -
establishment of a local government training development program, including
the development of curricula and training materials; the training of
trainers; the develcoment of rehabilitation of key local government
training facilities in Accra and Tema; and the establishment of a project
support unit (LGPSU) unit within MLG. This unit will provide technical
support for revenue mobilization and institutional development efforts in
the sub-project cities, help formulate policy and monitor progress (see
Annex 7 for details).
2.08      Institutional Support to the EPC:  This component will support
the strengthening of EPC to enhance its capacity t. carry out environmental
monitoring of projects. Training and basic vehicle and equipment needs
will be supported. More specifically the component will: establish public
awareness programs in the Korle and Odaw drainage catchments in Accra which
have long been the source of concern from health and environmental
viewpoints; provide assistance to ensure that those components in Urban II
which are particularly sensitive environmentally, are closely reviewed and
monitored; following prior assessment by EPC, and to provide assistance to
draft appropriate environmental legislation (see Annex 9 for details).
2.09      Institutional Reform - Housing Parastatals, AESC and TSC:  This
component would support the restructuring of the State Housing Corporation
(SHC), Tema Development Corporr-tion (TDC), and the Architectural and
Engineering Services Corporation (AESC). SHC and TDC are the major housing
parastatals. AESC is a corporation which provides architectural and
engineering services to GOG. All the corporations are experiencing major
managerial and financial difficulties.  Restructuring would involve
redirection of goals, commercialization or privatization, rationalization
of organization and staffing, and divestment of non-performing assets. In
additiorn to the above, the component would support the rationalization and
strengthening of TSC, the main Urban II project management unit (see Annex
12 for details).  Execution by MWH of agreements with consultants to                      U
undertake studies to restructure SHC, TDC, AESC and TSC would be a
condition of effectiveness.
2.10      Pilot Housing .inance Sub-Project:  This 3-year pilot will
initiate the establishment of an indexed housing finance system, the first
in Africa. Under this system, about 2,000 new, modest, private sector-
built, one, two, and three room housing units will be financed. Houses
would be mainly designed, marketed and built by private developers
operating on the basis of commercial criteria. The component will also
help finance the sale of about 1,000 existing government-owned housing
units to the private sector -- part of a long-term effort to rationalize
and restructure the housing parastatals. However, IDA fund: would be used
to provide mortgages for the new units only.
2.11      To support this initiative GOG will assist the Merchant Bank
(Ghana) Ltd. (MBG), an existing, successful, partially (702) government-
owned Investment Bank, to establish a housing finance company: 9Home
Finance Company, Ltd. (HFC). HPC will be an affiliate of MBG and will be
managed by MBG on the basis of commercial criteria, but within a policy
framework established by GOG and agreed with the Association. HFC will be
jointly owned in equal shares by GOG, SSNIT, and MBG. However, shares
would be reserved for other potential financial institutions that may wish



- 19 -
to participate at a later time, includlng the Bank for Housing and
Construction (BHC) and other mortgage finance institutions (OSIs) 16/.
HFC's operations will be financed by issuing mortgage backed housing bonds
(about US$24.2 million equivalent (08.4 billion) initially). These bonds
would be purchased by SSNIT (US$16.2 million equivalent (05.3 billion)) and
by GOG (US$8.0 million equivalent (03.1 billion)) 17/.
2.12      The HFC bonds will be issued as and when needed to finance
mortgages on a timely basis. In the case of bond purchases by GOG (which
will be IDA financed), this will only be done when HFC is ready to purchase
mortgages from OSIs, and these mortgages will serve as the basis for IDA
disbursement. To facilitate this process an IDA Special Account,
equivalent to three months purchases of mortgages, would be established for
HFC. This account which will be opened in a commercial bank will be
replinished periodically by IDA (see paras 3.18 and 3.19 below). Proceeds
o' bonds purchased by SSNIT that are not being used immediately for
purchasing mortgages will be placed in high quality short-term securities.
The terms of both the SSNIT and IDA bonds will be 30 years with a real
interest rate of 1Z per annum and with the principal fully indexed to
inflation. This will ensure a real rate of return of 12. Project
effectiveness will be conditional on the following: (a) Execution of a
Financing Agreement by GOG and HFC; (b) Execution of a Management Agreement
by HFC and MBG; and (c) Submission to IDA by GOG of the detailed financial
projections and operational guidelines for HFC.
2.13      In essence, HFC will be a non-bank secondary housing finance
institution, purchasing indexed mortgages originated and serviced by other
approved mortgage finance institutions (OSIs). The latter potentially will
include BHC (being reorganized under FINSAC), building societies,
commercial banks and other financial institutions willing to meet HFC's
criteria for participation. HFC's role will be to initiate the development
of an indexed mortgage finance system (including all arrangements for the
issuance of bonds and preparation of financial and operational plans and
projections, the establishment of appropriate computer systems, and the
purchase of approved mortgages from OSIs); select and monitor OSIs (and
disqualify them when necessary); provide liquidity for the sector; monitor
and guide sector performance and development; to explore the possibility of
developing other appropriate sources of long-term finance for the sector.
Because of the experimental nature of this component and the fragility of
the banking system, in this pilot phase HFC has been deliberately designed
with a very limited capital base, and only a small share (10X) of the
credit risk will be borne by the OSIs. In essence this means that most of
the risk, particularly until the foreclosure laws are strengthened, would
eventually be passed on to GOG. However, in the medium term (i.e., at
about the end of year 3) this situation will be reviewed jointly by HFIC,
16/ Originating and Servicing Institutions.
17/  At the end of year one of the project (i.e., in January 1992), or as
soon as the viability of HFC is established, boud issues will be
opened up to interested long-term investors other than SSNIT --
particularly the large parastatali. with surplus funds, in.surance
companies and pension funds.



20
HFC and IDA. By this time the banking system should be in a better
position to take on a greater share of the risk. Also, the capital base of
HFC may then need to be strengthened to enable it to take on a greater
share of the risk itself and reduce its ultimate dependence on GOG.
2.14      It should be noted that HFC will not finance house construction
directly. However, where necessary, HFC acting through OSIs will provide
eligible beneficiaries and developers with guarantees of a mortgage
takeout. This would enr')le them to secure short-term construction
financing from commercial banks and other sources.
2.15      Initially, only subscribers to SSNIT and other recognized
pension schemes will be eligible for mortgage financing, and mortgage
repayments will be made through payroll deduction only. Thus, only
households in the formal sector will be eligible. However, tha long-term
objective is to open up the system to all households who need and can
afford to purchase modest housing units.  This development requires that
the existing weak foreclosure laws be str.agthened to protect the
investment of legitimate financial institutions and investors. GOG, in
consultation with IDA, will review the foreclosure laws during the first
two years of the project and make the amendments necessary to adequately
strengthen the laws.
2.16      Beneficiaries' initial mortgage payment will be set at 25? of
their salaries, including all cash benefits. As salaries and cash benefits
increase over time payments will also increase, but the percentage of
salaries and cash benefits paid in mortgage will remain the same, i.e.,
25Z. In addition, interest will be charged at the rate of 2.5-3.5Z per
annum and the outstanding balance on the mortgage would be indexed to
inflation. Minimum deposits of 20? will be required. The term on the
mortgage would nominally be 20 years, but could vary between 15 and 25
years.
2.17      The houses that will qualify for financing will be modest
bedsitters to two bedroom units ranging in size from 25m2 to 50m2 and
costing between 02.0 million (US$6,000) and p3.0 million (US$9,100) at
January 1990 prices. Most of the units would be expandable bungalows,
semi-detached units and townhouses, though a maximum of 30? of the units
could be flats in apartment buildings. Given the cost of construction,
incomes, inflation rates and the need to keep the system viable and free of
unsustainable subsidies, it is likely that only income groups above the
40th percentile will be able to participate.  In order to qualify for HFC
mortgage financing, houses built in schemes of 10 or more units and in
schemes where densities exceed 50 habitable rooms per hectare should have
obtained EPC approval as part of the normal planning approvals process (see
details in Annexes 13 and 13-A).



- 21 -
C. Proiect Cost and Financing Plan
Proiect Costs
2.IC      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$100.4 million
equivalent, and the foreign exchange component at US$63.5 million
equivalent, 63X of the total. Summary costs estimates are presented below
(see details in Annex 16). Base costs have been estimated in Cedis as of
January 1990, and converted into US dollars at US$1 - ¢330. Physical
contingencies have been calculated at 151 for works and 102 for other
components. Price contingency calculations are based on foreign cost
escalation projections of 7.21 for 1990, and 4.42 for 1992-96; and on local
cost escalation projections of 151 for 19909 101 for 1991 and 52 for 1992-
96. In addition, adjustments were made for anticipated exchange rate
movements 181. The above represent the region's best estimates of expected
price increases and exchange adjustments during the implementation period.
The project would be implemented over a five-year period beginning January
1, 1991 and ending December 31, 1995, and the closing date will be June 30,
1996.
Financing Plan
2.19      An IDA credit of US$70.0 million equivalent will finance 701 of
total project cost (742 net of taxes). This credit will be extended on
standard IDA terms for 40 years with 10 years of grace. A share of the IDA
credit amounting to US$9.3 million equivalent (191 of the credit) will be               WI
provided as a line of credit to GOG to support the Pilot Housing Finance
component. Of this amount US$8.0 million equivalent will be used by GOG to
purchase mortgages from HFC via the mechanism of mortgage-backed housing
bond issued by HFC and purchased by GOG over a 3-year period. The proceeds
from these GOG-purchased bonds will only be used to finance a 401 share of
the mortgages for approved new units built under the project on a pari pasu
basis with the proceeds of the SSNIT-purchased bonds. The balance (US$1.3
million equivalent) will be provided as a technical assistance and
institutional support grant to HFC to support the development of HFC and
the OSIs.
2.20      GOG will directly finance US$4.5 million equivalent, or 42 of
the total project costs, and SSNIT will support the Pilot Housing Finance
Component through the purchase over a 3-year period of US$16.2 million
equivalent in mortgage-backed housing bonds which will be issued by HFC
(see paras 2.09 - 2.17 above, and Annex 13). Cofinancing totalling US$9.8
million is being sought and, although no difficulties are envisaged, this
amount is unlikely to be firmly committed before Board presentation (see
Annex 17 for financing plan).
181     Year   1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996
US$1-Cedi  330    372    374    376    378    380    382



-   2
REP8C WP 4M
L~ U PRZAC
SAwMM PRW 00si
Palcot, of
11o   Foretip        tal1         Leal  Foreign    TotaI   Base Cost
onI '000)                       (Cdi el III on)         ()
LOSAL GT.  MAB!ATrI  MD R l
Fiv.  Cities
Flo wmw. Eawiel Systm Ra.
- Road a T.awt Syotan                 8,624    14,204    3,03            2,8       4,68     7,53        s0
- Enwie'astol Sytm                   4,142      3,12     12,27          1,36      2,68     4,049        i6
- Inst. &mpo    to MR an 0RL          l,0        4,730     5.081           362    1,53      1,915        6
- Int. £wPort to City Tech. Dept...     52       1,473     2,010           176       463      Ga6        3
-WECSu"wMt                               69        11        170             s        37       so        o
SUATAL                          14,424    38,657    48,081          4,760    9,457    14,217       67
. Mhiclpml RvwwaIiMblliation             468       o1l      1,380          1i        301       465        2
. PrOmy kV  sslustlon                     640       31O      1,450           173      S0        479        2
. Lan AI lanjstion                        B52      1,33      1,673          1i       438       664        2
so-TOTAL (CIX)                    1,381     8,147     4,5100          449    1,03       1,488        6
Minliry of L11a Govt. S&wt
.Traing Canter Rshabt I tation            3o 6               1,033           1s       21n       339        1
Training Progm Cowlo*                     as       754        SW             82      249       281        1
MA PrL6AP  eot; up unit               12         472       654            60       156     2no
&G-TOTA. (A SM98T)                   66       1,e4      2,50            220      6a        S3          3
SJ-TOrNL (La MM  am"                  ,451    83,63    8,11             5,423    11,111   16,531 6
HOLMI SEiCllS aG 
. Urban I   Pgadng                      1,8       2,357      3,740           468      778    1,234         6
H owing Cnmmllati.. StuWle                 20        s0        10              7       26        33        0
. IuitueAIl  Rdn                          480     1,722      2,1C2           142      Su        710        3
H oilng F1an_                           8,        9,654    28,i00          2,80     3,255    6,106        24
.  IH SPPot                               294       61a          2            97      204       301        1
U.5-TUTL "we WER No"                   20,768    14,641  i5,406           3,Su      4,082    8,38         34
TOrAL       COST                         27,214    46,810    75,524          8,88     15,942   24,02       100
fPIClL                                  8,182      6,l       8,578         1,00      1,779    2,829
ERICE                                   6,45   9,80         18,38          3,808    6,05      9,399
TOTL FRECM1                              38,831    68,541   100,432         13,808   28,817   37,65



- 23 -
2.21      On-lending Terms:  As noted in para 2.19, a share of the IDA
credit (US$8.0 million equivalent) will be provided as a line of credit to
finance mortgages to be purchased by HFC operating through OSIs. HFC will
purchase eligible mortgages from approved OSIs and will not itself be
originating or servicing mortgages. Also as noted in para 2.19 above,
instead of the normal onlending arrangement this portion of the IDA
proceeds would be used by GOG to purchase approved mortgages via the
purchase of mortgage-backed bonds issued by HFC. The terms on the bonds
purchased by GOG and SSNIT would be identical, i.e., 30 years at a real
interest rate of 1? per annum, and with the principal fully indexed to
inflation. HFC would purchase mortgages from approved OSIs at a real
interest rate not exceeding 1.5? p.a. and for a maximum of 30 years. The
outstanding principal would be fully indexed to inflation. OSIs, in turn,
would finance mortgages to qualified borrowers who would be obliged to
repay these loans via payroll deductions equivalent to 25Z of their
salaries, including all cash benefits, over a nominal 20 year period.  The
mortgages would attract a real interest rate of 2.5-3.52 per annum and the
outstanding principal would also be fully indexed to inflation. The
outstanding principal on all bonds and mortgages would be adjusted monthly
on the basis of changes in the Consumer Price Index (CPI) by applying the
average increase/decrease during the last three months for which data are
available.   MBG would charge a fee not exceeding 0.5Y outstanding
mortgages for managing HFC, and OSIs would be permitted a one-time up-
front processing fee of 1-2? and an annual servicing fee of 1-22 of
outstanding balances 19/. In the case of OSI non-performance the OSI would
be liable to forfeit amounts up to its total servicing fees. Also, ninety
percent (90) of the credit risk would be borne by HFC and 10? by the OSIs.
The foreign exchange risk would be borne by GOG. The latter is proposed
because, given the status of the households targeted under the project
(40th-80th percentile income group), GOG is in the best position to bear
the foreign exchange risk (see paras 2.10-2.17 above and Annex 13, paras
1.01-1.59 for details).
Cost Recovery
2.22      The investment in infrastructure and services in the project
cities will be recovered by the local governments through the property tax,
and through appropriate market, business, solid waste and sanitation fees
and charges. The cost of the land administration component will be
partially recovered by appropriate conveyancing fees and charges. However,
the cost of MLG support will be recovered only through general taxation.
Urban upgrading costs will be recovered through the property tax and
appropriate user-charges for water, solid waste, and domestic sanitation
costs. Housing consolidation costs will be fully recovered through sales
of housing units, institutional reform through divestment of assets
(including sales of existing rental housing): and the pilot housing finance
19/ Studies will be undertaken under the project to accurately determine
the cost of originating and servicing mortgages, and these costs be
reviewed from time to time by HFC in consultation with HFIC and IDA.



- 24 -
costs through sales of houses (deposits charges and fees, and subsequent
mortgage repayments).
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Institutional Framework
3.01      The project is complex, thus careful attention will be paid to
coordination and to strengthening implementation capacity. However, it is
not that much more complex than ADRP and, with the exception of the housing
finance pilot, the components are quite familiar to project agencies and
units. Also, given the capacity that has been developed under ADRP and PWP
and the capacity that will be further developed under the project, the
project should be quite manageable.  The two existing ADRPIPVP project
management units, TSC 201 and DUR 21/, will play pivotal roles and would
both be strengthened under the project. TSC, in addition to specific
implementation responsibilities for some housing components, will play an
overall coordinating and support role.  DUR will coordinate the important
road and transport system rehabilitation component. HFC with the
assistance of the Merchant Bank of Ghana (a strong institution, see Annex
13-A) will implement the pilot housing finance component. The EPC will act
in an advisory and monitoring role for all significant project components
and will assist project units in drafting appropriate environmental clauses
for inclusion in consultant and works contracts. As part of the normal
planning approval process, EPC will also review and approve all the works
components before construction contracts are begun.
3.02      The overall structure of the project is summarized in the
diagram and text below, and in greater detail in Annex 15. The
institutional arrangements for each project component is further explained
in Annexes 4 to 14.
Local Government Sector Rehabilitation Components
3.03      Policy Guidance:  Policy guidance will be pLovided by an
Interministerial Committee (IHC), comprising the PNDC Secretaries and
responsible directors of the key ministries involved in the project (MWH,
MLG and MRH, TCPD, EPC). This committee will meet bi-annually to review
the project during the first two years and annually thereafter.
3.04      Operational Coordination:  Responsibility for overall
operational coordination will reside with a Project Coordinating Committee
(PCC), comprised of the heads of the project units which are responsible
for implementation. This committee will meet quarterly during the first
two years of the project to review progress and resolve operational
0/  Technical Services Center - a division of the Ministry of Works and
Housing.
211 Department of Urban Roads - a Division of the Ministry of Roads and
Highways.



- 25 -
problems. It will meet bi-annually thereafter. TSC will act as the
Secretariat for both IKC and PCC.
3.05      TSC, as noted in para 3.01, will also be the overall
coordinating unit for Urban II. It will be responsible for overall project
monitoring, consolidation, accounting, audit, disbursement and procurement
and reporting functions, as well as support to project agencies. DUR will
be relatively autonomous, and will be responsible for coordinating all
project functions and activities relating to road and transport management.
However, it will be required to provide TSC with the necessary inputs for
project consolidation and overall reporting.
3.06      Implemertation:  The large project sub-components would be
implemented by three main project units: TSC, DUR gnd the Local Government
Project Support Unit (LGPSU) -- a new unit which will be established under
the project to coordinate and monitor the local government components in
the Project Cities. The Local Government Training Program Development
Component would be coordinated by a Training Support Unit (TSC), also to be
established under the project. These units will be established by February
1, 1991. The smaller Land Administration and Property Revaluation
components will be managed respectively by a Land Administration Steering
Committee (LASC) which will be established under the project, and the
existing Land Valuation Board (LVB). LASC and LVB will each meet monthly
to review their respective components.
3.07      The activities in each project city will be coordinated by
Ketropolitan/District Steering Committees (M/DSCs). Each committee will be
comprised of the heads of the key operating divisions of the metropolitan
area or district, under the chairmanship of the District Secretary. These
committees will meet monthly to review the project and take necessary
corrective action. At the district level, the operational divisions
(Treasurer, Chief Accountant, Chief Engineer, Legal etc.) will be directly
responsible for implementing specific components. These divisions in each
project city will be assisted by a municipal finance and a municipal
engineering advisor, both of whom would be locally recruited and supported
under the project. DUR and LGPUs will provide technical direction and
guidance to the M/DSCs, and monitor the project activities in the cities.
3.08      The institutional responsibilities for this component are
summarized below; and the role and responsibilities of key units and
agencies are briefly outlined thereafter.



OHAI^
URBAN IiPoirJECT
LOCAL COVERNMENT SECTOR REHABILITATION                   HOUSING SECTOR REFORM                                   POLICY
GUIDANCE
-PCC   | ---T/EPC                                                                      PROJECT
NBC .  |  W    1COORDINATION
----- LGPSU |- ---     --          --------- TSC-HFC    J
} S I -| 2 >                             CENTRAL _       
I                  I l        DOUR                                                                                PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION
41= _   ~~IMPIN.                                              
.~~ .-   UNITSI  
iSTEERING    _      ACENCIESJ                                                     _
KEY:     IUC:  Interministerlal Cooittes; HFIC:  Housing Finance and Inatution Committee; PCC:  Project Coordination Committee;
TSC: Technical Services Center; OUR: Department of Urban Roads; MBC: Merchant Bank Ghana; HFC: Home Finance Company Ltd.;
OPFIs: Other Participating Financial Institutions; LGPSU: Local Government Project Support Unit; TCPD: Town and Country
Planning Dept;     OSIS:  Originating and Servicing Institutions; EPC:  Environmental Protection Council
C: \bPSt0\4CNT -SAR. SAR
E1_               U 



- 27 -
Projeet
Projct             Monitoring
Policy         Implementation       and Reporting
Coeponent              Guldence         Recoonsibility      llrconalblltit
Overall Policy           INC                                     TSC
Cuidance            (m, MA, YR
TCPD, EPC)
Overall Project
Coordination            PCC/TSC                                  TSC
Intrastructure
and Environmental
Sys. Rehab.
- Roads and Transport
Systems               URN, EPC            DUR               TSC, EPC
- EnviroRmantel Systoem  ULO, UM4, EPC    TSC, H/DSC         TSC, EPC
Municipal Roevnue
Mobilization             MLG             LQPSU, M/DSCo      LGPSU, TSC
Property Revalustion     UFEP               LVB                  TSC
Land Administration    MLNR/EPC             LASC                 TSC
Ministry of Local
Covernment Support       tLC                LWPSU                TSC
Housing Sector Reform
3.09      Policy G-.idance:  Policy and Coordination Guidance for the Urban
Upgrading and Housing Consolidation Studies would be provided by MWH.
However, guidance for the Housing Finance and Institutional Reform
components would be provided by a Housing Finance and Institutional Reform
Committee (HFIC). This committee has already been established by MFEP and
MWH under the chairmanship of a deputy governor of the BOG. Its membership
comprises M''H, MFEP, BOG, SSNIT and the Town and Country Planning
Department. Members will also be coopted from other appropriate agencies
and institutions, including EPC and the private sector. HFIC will meet
monthly until project effectiveness and quarterly during the first two
years of the project -- or until such time as HFC has been established and
is operating effectively. The responsibility of HFIC will be to ensure
that MBG establishes and operates HFC on a sound basis. HFIC will also
develop policy guidelines for HFC, and monitor their implementation. BOG
will be required to provide financial monitoring of HFC on behalf of HFIC.
This will require BOG to undertake annual reviews of HFC's financial and
operational performance. These reviews would be forwarded to HFIC, MFEP
and to IDA for information and action.
3.10      Implementation:  In addition to its overall support and
coordinating role (see para 3.05 above), TSC would be responsible for
directly implementing the Urban Upgrading sub-component, coordinating the
Housing Completion Studies, and for assisting MHW to implement the
Institutional Reform sub-components. TSC's role in regard to the latter
sub-components is confined to coordinating the activities of consultants
who would be employed to develop and implement divestment and restructuring
programs. Consultants have already been identified and evaluated for these



- 28 -
tasks, and implementation is Initially being financed under PWP. Further
technical assistance funding would be financed under Urban II. Consultants
are expected to begin work by June 1990.
3.11      The Merchant Bank, with GOG and IDA assistance would esiablish
and manage EFC, and HFC in turn would establish and operate the pilot
indexed Housing Finance System utilizing approved OSIs (see paras 2.09 -
2.17 above and Annex 13, paras 1.01-1.59 for details).
3.12      Institutional responsibilities for this component are sumuarized
below.
POLICY         PROJECT           PROJECT
SUIDKAE      DLENTATION         MONrTORVNO
RESPONSIBILT    RESPONSIBILI      SONSIBILITY
Ovorall Pollcy              HIC                          WIC, TSC
Ouldance              (Ms, lW, BG
SSNIT, TCPO)
Overal I Projec
Coordination                             HFIC, TSC        HWC, TSC
Urbar (Ipgrading         Ml, EPC             T8C          TSC, EPC
Housing Consolidation     M3, EPC            TSC          TEC, PC
Studies
Institutional Reore      VI4, orP            MI           TSCIUW
Pilot Housing Finance    4I, lW, NIC   WPC, U, Osl0        Uo
BOO, iC
B.  Prolect Management Capacity Building                                K5
3.13      In an effort to strengthen project preparation and management
capacity, technical assistance would be provided to develop project
management manuals and to conduct annual project management workshops for
the key project units. The manuals will establish planning, monitoring and
reporting systems for all key project units and activities. The workshops
will take t_y operating project officers through the important aspects of
the project using case mater'al drawn from actual ADRP and PWP experience.
Technical Assistance will be provided to develop the case material.
3.14      Two workshops will be held prior to project effectiveness (in
July and December 1990). It should be noted that these workshops will be
quite different from the usual project launch workshops (scheduled for
January 1991) which usually will aim at familiarizing project officials
with key project components. The management workshops will aim directly at
building sustainable capacity and will be repeated annually over the life
of the project. These workshops will be supplemented by short overseas
training courses and study tours.



- 29 -
C. Action Plans
3.15      To guide project implementation and monitoring, action plans will
be developed for all project components. These action plans will be
developed and revised periodically by the key project units and agencies in
consultation with IDA. The development, review and revision of the action
plans will be a key activity of the project management workshops. Two-
year rolling plans will be prepared and updated at least quarterly. The
first year of each action plan will be developed In detail, the second in
outline only.
D. Procurement
3.16      A summary of the procurement arrangements is presented in the
table below. About 50Z of the project and 611 of the IDA supported
component will be procured through ICB. About 2S of the project will be
procured through LCB and 12 through local shopping. Contractual services
and technical assistance representing 13Z of project costs will be procured
on the basis of Bank guidelines for the use of consultants. The Pilot
Housing Finance component will be partially financed though a US$9.3
million equivalent IDA line of credit to GOG.  Of this amount US$8.0                     k'
million will be used by GOG to finance the purchase of approved mortgages
through the purchase by GOG of mortgage-backed bonds issued by HFC. Only
new units built to approved standards and criteria under the project would
qualify for financing from the proceeds of the IDA line of credit, and only
a 402 share of mortgages would be financed, pari pasu with SSNIT financing
(see para 2.19). Also, the remaining share of the proceeds of the IDA line
of credit (US$1.3 million equivalent) will be provided as a grant to HFC
for technical assistance and institutional support to the Pilot Housing
Finance Component. Bank guidelines for the use of consultants and the
procurement of goods and services would be utilized for these expenditures.
3.17      For contracts subject to ICB procedures, a domestic preference of
15Z or duties (whichever is less) will apply for the procurement of goods.
A preference of 7.5Z will apply for civil works contracts. The procurement
of civil works for workshops and training centers having an aggregate value
of US$2.2 million equivalent will be done using LCB procedures in view of
the relatively small value of individual contracts. LCB procedures were
reviewed and are considered acceptable, provided these contracts are
advertised in local newspapers, opened in public, and the bidding documents
incorporate clear evaluation criteria, with award given to the lowest
evaluated bidder. Also, any foreign bidders who wish to participate in LCB
will not be forbidden from doing so. The first LCB document will be
reviewed by IDA. Items of relatively small value aggregating to US$1.0
million equivalent will be procured through local shopping (LS), with a
minimum of three quotations from reputable suppliers. Minor works,
aggregating to US$100,000 equivalent, will be done by force account since
no contractors are expected to be interested in such works. Ex ante review
will be required for all contracts exceeding US$250,000 equivalent.



- 30 -
mFAX  M
T*lI
________~~~~__    -   ..Ib.  _S _U _f                                       . ... .
tim n Raw~*~dti.
Ai l  m     IU
I*drschj, I Swru
-mbO ad 9IN               S        am              V.A                     0.1             D.0
-4 1M) (() T) 1- 8
-          Illen (T_b )     I1                                               0.8
-t_ 1P 1k*                 I           R            4.4          O.S                        4.7
(4.4                                   (4.4)
_ Cl '  *, o *;i)           1                       (4.2. 2.4                               (.4
-mft " qp m I flo3                  INC            Le*                                     a.9
(qbuie, Ti, Sadm-Tooef)                            (1.8                                   0
- ~~~~6                       OR                      1.1                             1.1
.Tve1g C; U rlih I           2        1lC                     1.2                             1.2
.4D
4" bvfla fAhismau        a         Tic             4.7                                     4.?
hiechm Wm" a $Wm                                        (4.0                                   (42)
Esm.Pkot,W. a u$,,             2        as                                      4.8             4.
thiebo ad ae                   I        Tic.8                           0.2                     t.
OFti SW-, & .W; A             _M i*y                    IAD            (0 1.9
_ 1tota &v,  Toicl AntL
Pro. SwV1Ieie, Tvemn4iu, obd
crdi   In                   $D=y    14R                                        0.7             6.7
P.?)           p.?7)
T0vu1eI  4                   Sail    iO.D                                       4.s             4.6
(4.7)          (4.7)
Tminlq                       &uiy                                               1.              1.5
(16)           n1.5)
P~~~~~~^   W _   Fy ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2.1                                  2.1
(1.0)          (1.0)
Sb|l                                               **M    28.       0*       A.8           1.0
(Q2    CIA)   ODA    (14.t            .107)
$ir Li Urd of it
*    -                     S"                                                24.2            20.2
* Tadk.   A                Sv*y      WM                               0.2     1.1             1.8
* 02 O-    L a-)          n1.3
0.2    8A             25.5
-    _      ag~~~0-)    (0-1       (93)
Toi P1o_%a* vi                                     **       2.3     1.0   40*              .4
(Q2A    CZ.:b   (1.M    MAq            CO-.¢
Vw Pwig    mly



- 31 -
E. Disbursement
3.18      In order to facilitate project implementation, three Special
Accounts (SAs) will be established in a commercial bAnk on terrs and
conditions satisfactory to IDA. They will be operated respectively by TSC,
DUR and HFC to support the components for which they have responsibility.
The SAs will be used to withdraw eligible expenditures approved under Urban
II. In the case of TSC and DUR the initial advance of US$1.5 million
equivalent each will be authorized, while HFC will initially operate with
the advance of US$750,000 equivalent. These advances cover four months
eligible expenditures.
3.19      The size of the advance for HFC which is used to finance
mortgages will be reviewed at the end of each year of the project and
revised upward if deemed necessary. However, the upper limit will not
exceed US$1.5 million equivalent. Replenisiwient request will be submitted
monthly by each unit. Each request will be fully documented except for
contracts of less than US$50,000 equivalent where disbursements would be
against Statements of vxpenditure (SOEs). Disbursements by TSC and DUR for
project components would normally be on the basis of architects and
engineers certificates against approved contracts, or, where appropriate,
against SOEs. All mortgage purchases by HFC are made on the basis of SOEs.
Detailed mortgage contracts, invoices, payment advices, etc., will be
retained by TSC, DUR and HFC and made available for inspection by periodic
Bank supervision missions. The amounts to be disbursed by IDA under the
Project are indicated in Annex 19.
F. Accounting and Auditing
3.20      TSC will maintain consolidated accounts for the entire project
and detailed accounts for all components with the exception of
infrastructure rehabilitation and transport systems management, and the
Housing Finance components. Detailed accounting and auditing for the road
rehabilitatlon and transport systems management components will be DUR's
responsibility while HFC will be responsible for detailed accounting and
auditing for the housing finance components. TSC and DUR have already
established appropriate project accounting systems and auditing
arrangementst  TSC under ADRP, and DUR under PWP.  Hewever, DUR will be
required to ensure that each District Roads Unit establishes appropriate
accounting systems. Appropriate accounting systems and auditing
arrangements will be established by HFC and participating OSIs, and HFC's
accounts will be reviewed annually by BOG and HFIC. HFC, in turn, will
review the accounts of participating OSIs on an annual basis and ensure
that appropriate accounting and auditing systems have been established.
These reviews will be completed and submitted to IDA for further review
within six months of the close of each financial year. On the basis of
these reviews, GOG and IDA would meet annually to agree on actions that may
be necessary to ensure that HFC and participating OSIs are operated on a
sound financial basis.



- 32 -
3.21      Technical assistance and consulting services will be provided
under the project to TSC, DUR and HFC to help strengthen or establish
project accounting capabilities. Short-term assistance will also be made
available at the end of each financial year to ensure that project accounts
are in orders that finencial statements suitable for auditing are drawn up;
and that the project is audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA.
Audited financial statements acceptable to IDA will be submitted to IDA
within six months of the close of each financial year. Special Accounts
and Statements of Expenditure (SOE's) will be included in the audit and
specifically addressed in the Audit Report.
Reporting
3.22      In addition to their annual accounwtng and audit reporting
responsibilities, TSC. DUR and UPC will be required to prepare annual and
quarterly budgets for each component, update these budgets quarterly and
provide IDA with quarterly reports on actual and projected expenditure and
employment for each project component, sub-component and disbursement
category.  TSC will consolidate these reports which will be due for
submission one month after the close of each quarter, and form part of
TSC's and DUR's and HFC's quarterly project reporting responsibilities to
IDA. Within two months of the end of each year of the project, TSC
assisted by DUR and HFC will furnish IDA with a consolidated annual report
on the technical and financial performance of the project. Both the
quarterly and annual reports should review operations and recommend
remedial actions, as well as present action plans and financial projections
for the upcoming quarter or year in the case of the annual report.
G. Contractual Services, Technical Assistance and Training
3.23      Apart from the training that would be supported under the Local
Government Training Program Component (see Annex 7), assistance will be
provided under each of the project components to strengthen the capacity of
implementing agencies to prepare and execute the project.  About 360 man
months of contractual services for detailed engineering design contract
documentation and supervision of works will be supported, and about 30? of
this wiil be provided by local firms and individuals. Technical assistance
will also be provided to assist TSC, DUR and other project agencies to
undertake project related studies, strengthen project management, and to
strengthen the accounting, financial management. municipal engineering and
other systems of the cities. A total of about 1100 man months of technical
assistance will be provided for these activities.  About 460 man months of
training would be supported under the project. This training will include
short (1-3 week) locally-run project management courses aimed at improvxmg
project implementation, as well as short and medium-term overseas training,
and study tours. The details of contractual services, technical assistance
and training are outlined in Annexes 4 to 14, and summarized in Annex 18.



- 33 -
IV.  JUSTIFICATION. RISIKS AND IVROUNNTAL IMACT
A. General Benefits
4.01      By strengthening the local government and housing sectors, and by
improving vital urban infrastructure and services, the project will
help ensure the success of the ERP, strengthen the urban economy and the
financial system, improve the efficiency of la.d and housing markets,
improve the living conditions of the urban poor, improve access b! moderate
households to affordable housing. create employment and relieve poverty.
Local Government Sector Rehabilitation ComDonent
4.02      The project will have a significant physical, economlc and social
impact on the project cities and their surrounding rural areas. Properly
planned improvements of infrastructure and environmental systems (access,
drainage, water supply, sanitation markets, etc.) will improve the enabling
environment and enhance the growth of productive activities and, hence, the
revenue base. The maintenance of existing assets will be supported under
the project.  This will prolong their useful life, and avoid costly repair
and reconstruction.  Rehabilitation, general improvement, and modernization
of the urban fabric will induce cost savings and greater reliability in the
operations of public services and private enterprise.
4.03      The project support for improved mobilization of local financial
resources, improved cost recovery for specific services, and improved
financial management will provide more reliable revenue for the maintenance
and improvement of local infrastructure and services, help reduce the
reliance on the central budget and establish the basis for multi-year
planning and programming. Better planning and programing will help to
ensure that scarce resources will be applied to priority, high-yielding
projects which will directly benefit the productive base and overall
efficiency of the urban areas.
Housing Sector Reform ComDonent
4.04      Support for the urban upgrading component will significantly
improve housing and environmental conditions of the urban poor, while
support for housing consolidi".ion and institutional reform will improve
resource utilization and decrease the drag on the central budget. The
reorganization of the parastatals will also contribute significantly to
capacity building in the housing sector.
4.05      Support for the pilot housing finance component will improve the
access of moderate and middle income families to affordable housing, help
improve resource utilization by realizing the potential tied up in non-
productive assets, promote long-term savings and investment, support the
development of the financial system through the development of more
appropriate long-temn investment instruments for holders of long-term
funds, and assist in. making it possible for input markets to operate more
efficiently. This should eventually lower the co,;t and increase the output
of housing, create productive employment, help improve the functioning of



- 34 -
land and housing markets, and generally deepen ERP and the financial
system.
B. Economic Evaluation
4.06      Only those components with quantifiable benefits (about 442 of
project costs) are evaluated. Those components are: (a) road
rehabilitation and traffic systems management in Accra, Kumasi, Sekondi-
Takoradi and Tamale; (b) Tamale Ward E Upgrading; (c) Tema Sewerage
rehabilitation; (d) Central Market rehabilitation in Kumasi; te) land
administration for the Local Government Sector Reform; and (f) Ashaiman
Phase II urban upgrading. Among the expected benefits only the
quantifiable benefits are measured. It was decided to exclude the Pilot
Housing Finance component (252 of project costs) from the analysis since
this component is a line of credit.
4.07      Annex 20 summarizes the findings of the economic evaluation.
Cost streams include civil works, equipment and machines, demolition and
resettlement, engineering design, physical contingencies and provision for
operation and maintenance cost. Financial costs and benefits are expressed
in US dollars at January 1, 1990 prices. Economic costs and benefits are
expressed in international border prices (in US dollars at January 1, 1990
prices) at the shadow exchange rate of 0350 to US$1.00, and adjusted by the
general conversion factor for Ghana, 0.93. An overview of the economic
evaluation is given below.
4.08      Road Rehabilitation and Traffic Systems Management, Accra:
Benefit streams were measured in Vehicle Operating Cost savings, arising
from increased speed and better surface and passenger time savings. ERRs
are quite high as can be expected for rehabilitation and traffic management
projects in high traffic volume cities. ERRs are 105? for Accra, 33? for
Kumasi, 345? for Sekondi-Takoradi stage 1, and 1262 for Sekondi-Takoradi
stage 2. These are also robust against cost increases and traffic
reduction.
4.09      Environmental Systems Rehabilitation and Improvements:  Benefits
for Tamale Rodds Rehabilitation were also measured in term of VOC savings
and passenger time savings. The ERR for this component is estimated at
about 55?. Benefits for T"-ile Ward E Upgrading were measured in terms of
incremental property value increase with the project, producing ERR of 24?.
Benefits for Tema Sewerage Rehabilitation were measured in terms of
property value increase- with the project resulting in a high ERR, greater
than 200?. Benefits for central market rehabilitation, Kumasi, were
quantified in terms of incremental property value increase for shops/stalls
in the Market with the project. The ERR is quite high at about 107Z.
4.10      Land Administration:  Significant benefits will arise from the
Land Adjudication and Titling Project in the long-run. With clear titles,
land can be more easily put to economic use. This potential would be
reflected in incremental increases in land value. This is a pilot sub-
project with relatively large initial investment and with a small amount of
actual title clearing to test effectiveness of various approaches on an



- 35 -
experimental basis. Thus, the short-run ERU is low at about 22. However,
the long-term ERR should be much higher.
4.11      Ashaiman Phase II Urban Upgrading. Tema:  Benefits were
quantified in terms of property value Increase. Based on a sample survey
in the target and comparable communities, property values would increase by
701 with the project, resulting in an ERR of about 372.
4.12      Overall Rate of Return on Total Proiect:  The overall weighted
average ERR of this project is very conservatively estimated at 44X. This
is so even when the ERR on non-quantifiable components (including the Pilot
Housing Finance Component) is assumed to be zero percent (see Annex 20 for
details).
C. Poverty Impact
4.13      Table 6 in Annex 20 presents several indicators of poverty level
in urban Ghana in 1988. They range from 035,000 to ¢53,688 per yearlper
person, the average being 045,326. Based on these estimates, project
benefits to the poor under the Urban Upgrading component will be
substantial. Assuming a poverty threshold of 045,326, about 501 of the
total population (27,263) in Ashaiman community is living below the poverty
line. Since this component serves the entire population in Ashaiman, it is
expected that about 502 of the costs (US$3.3 million equivalent base cost)
will directly benefit the poor.
4.14      Using the same poverty threshold, about 30X of urban population
in Ghana is living below the poverty line. The Road Rehabilitation,
Traffic Systems Management and the Environmental Systems Rehabilitation
components will serve the entire population in the five target
municipalities. Hence, about 30Z of the total costs for these components
(US$30 million equivalent) will directly benefit tne poor.
D. Project Risks
4.15      There are several significant sets of risks involved in this
project. The most general and pervasive is the risk that project size and
complexity may overtax GOG's implementation capacity and abil'ty to provide
counterpart funds on a timely basis. More specific risks are summarized
below.
The Local Government Sector Reform Component
4.16      In evaluating this risk we can use the Accra project as a
yardstick. This project, while confined to Accra, contained most of the
elements which are proposed under Urban II -- Land Administration and MLG
Support being the significant exceptions. ADRP has been successfully
implemented on budget and one year ahead of schedule. This is not to say
that implementation has been easy. There have been many problems, but they
have been generally overcome. The key to success has been the building of



- 36 -
good interpersonal and inter-agency relations which facilitated the
discussion of resolution of problems, and allowing sufficient time for
problem solving within a bureaucratic framework. Significant experience
and capacity has been built up which can now be utilized to support sub-
projects in the secondary cities. Indeed, these cities are fortunate to be
able to draw on the experience and capacity built up under ADRP and PWP.
Also, further capacity will be built up under the project (particularly in
MLG) through technical assistance and training. Thus, the risks facing
this component, while still considerable, can be effectively managed.                     -
4.17      The risks involved with this component include failures to                      a
implement revenue mobilization components effectively, resulting in revenue               -
shortfalls, and failure to effectively establish new project units, with
consequent failures in project management and control. Thus, specific
commitments on the actions to implement the property revaluation and
revenue mobilization component and to strengthen MLG and city technical
departments were obtained from GOG at negotiations. Annual joint reviews
of progress were also agreed.
The Housing Sector Reform Component
4.18      This component, while subject to the general risk outlined above,
generates a separate set of risks. In regard to the parastatal and
institutional reform component, the risk exists that GOG will not pursue a
firm course in respect of reorganization, commercialization and divestment.
This risk, while serious, would not be fatal to the project, and has been
addressed through specific commitments on housing policy (see Annex 21)
which obtained from GOG prior to negotiations. Also, details of the
parastatal reform program and annual joint reviews of progress were agreed
at negotiations.
4.19      However, the Pilot Housing Finance component presents some
significant risks. First, and foremost, is the risk that GOG will not find
the proposed modest housing stardards acceptable. This risk exists because
expectations are high and GOG may pay a political penalty for introducing
lower, even though more realistic, standards. Second, if the proposed
indexation system is not carefully managed, it can be politically
manipulated to provide large implicit subsidies rather than a sustainable
source of finance. Third, legal and political difficulties with
foreclosures could result in major financial losses to the system. Fourth,
the private sector may not respond either by providing houses or by
generating the long-term saving and investments necessary to sustain the
system. Fifth, the economy could degenerate sending incomes into a long
decline thus bankrupting the housing finance system.
4.20      The seriousness of the risks explains why, apart from problems of
project complexity, the housing finance component is being developed on a
pilot basis, and why the private sector has such an important role to play
in the development of this system. The pilot nature of the program permits
risks to be assessed incrementally and corrective action taken before
launching a full scale project. This is a prudent course of action in the
face of uncertainty. The second risk-management measure is the
establishment of HFC under the Merchant Bank, a financial organization with
considerable managerial skills and one of the best banking track-records in



- 37 -
Ghana. Furthermore, the Merchant Bank is backed-up by the financial and
technical support of Grindlay's--a major lnternational bank with
considerable financial and managerial skills.
4.21      Political support for lower standards, freedom from political
manipulation, and improved foreclosure mechanisms are complez issues that
will not be resolved in the short-run. In addition, they appear to be
endemic problems that characterize much of the financial system. Progress
will require in depth dialogue with the GON over a long period of time in a
number of areas -- in particular, the financial sector. The dialogue will
begin in earnest under Urban SI and the financial sector adjustment program
now underway, and be pursued in depth under Urban ITI.
4.22      The risk that ERP will slow down significantly and that incomes
will suffer a sustained period of decline cannot, of course, be ruled out.
However, while no project can ensure against such catastrophic risks, Urban
II is designed to explicitly deal with thli kind of problem. It builds on
IDA's experience in other countries in which repayment problems have
created serious losses for mortgage lenders and provides for automatic
rescheduling of repayments if real incomes falter. Short period income
declines could be managed by the HFC, particularly given the soft terms of
the IDA loan and the fact that SSNIT itself has the capacity to absorb
repayment delays. This consideration will be part of the design of the
pilot.
4.23      To sum up, the risks attached to the Local Government components
are manageable, as are those relating to the Urban Upgrading sub-component.
The Institutional Refonm component presents risks of non-compliance by GOG,
but no major financial risks--since reorganization would not absorb a large
share of the investment. Finally, the risks attached to the Pilot Housing
Finance component are significant. They will be partially offset through
the pilot strategy and through management support by the Herchant Bank.
However, political risk and major macro-economic problems are beyond the
ability of any single project to manage effectively. An attempt will be
made to manage the former through extended dialogue, and specific
comuitments from GOG. The latter would be very difficult to manage.
However, it is possible to manage it better by explicitly allowing for it,
and attempting to allocate this risk to those who have an advantage in
bearing it.
E. Environmental Impact
4.24      Due to its focus on rehabilitating and lmproving essential
infrastructure and services, the project will have a very positive
environmental impact. These includes (a) improved health and sanitation
conditions; (b) reduced flooding and consequently reduced damage to life
and property; and (c) reduced congestion and air pollution. None of the
project components, with the possible exception of the proposed Kanda
Highway, have inherently negative environmental Impacts, and even in this
case there are offsetting benefLts elsewhere. To the extent that potential
negative impacts can be anticipated, these will be avoided or aLtigated
through appropriate project design, environmental reviews, certification



- 38 -
and monitoring. Consultants will be required to include environmental
impact analyses and action plans in their proposals, and bidding and
construction contract documents will include requirements to seek
appropriate environmental approvals from EPC and to adopt environmentally
sound construction practices. Also, environmental considerations will be
included in the criteria for granting mortgages under the pilot housing
finance component (see para 2.17 and Annex 13, Appendiz 3). All project
units will be required to coordinate closely with EPC, and EPC will be
strengthened under the project to: (a) improve its monitoring capability;
(b) monitor project components; (c) study critical environmental problems
(e.g., Korle Lagoon); (d) formulate urban environmental policy; and (e)
draft appropriate environmental legislation (see paras. 2.08, 3.01, 3.03
and 5.03 (e)). Further details on environimental impacts and institutional
support to EPC are presented in Annex 9.
V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements
5.01      During negotiations agreements were reached on the following:
(a)  Actions to implement the property revaluation and revenue
mobilization component, and to strengthen MLG and city technical
departments including:
(i)     The steps necessary to meet the revenue and expenditure
targets in each of the years 1991-96. (para 2.04
*a)(ii)) and para 4.17; and
(ii)     Annual joint reviews by MLG, each project city, and IDA
of progress made and steps required to meet revenue and
expenditure targets, and to strengthen municipal
financial and engineering management (paras 2.04
(a)(Ii)(iv) and para 4.17).
(iii)     Establishment of LGPSU and TSU by February 1, 1991 (see
para 3.06).
(b) The details of the pilot housing finance component including:
(i)     The terms and conditions of the Merchant Bank's
management agreement with HFC (paras 2.11, 3.09-3.11
and 4.23);
(ii)     The types of units to be built (paras 2.10 and 2.17);
(iii)     The terms and conditions for financing HFC, including
bond issues and purchases (paras 2.12 and 2.22);
(iv)     The terms and conditions of OSI participation (paras
2.11-2.13);



- 39 -
(v)     The terms and conditions of HFC and OSI mortgage
financing (paras 2.16 and 2.22);                                     !
(vi)     The terms and conditions for procurement and
disbursement and the operation of the HFC special
account (paras 3.16 - 3.19);
(vii)     The tenms and conditions of BOG financial supervision
of HFC (paras 3.09 - 3.12, and 3.20);
(viii)     Annual joint reviews by GOG (HFIC) and IDA of HFC's and
OSI's performance (paras 2.13, 3.20 and 3.22).
(c) Details of the parastatal reform component including annual joint
reviews by GOG (HFIC) and IDA of the progress of the parastatal
reform program (para 4.18).
(d) Actions to review and strengthen the foreclosure laws during the
first two years of the project in order to make it feasible for
legally constituted financial institutions to expeditiously
recover on bad debts (paras 1.29, 1.33, 1.44, 2.15, and 4.21).
Effectiveness
5.02      Project effectiveness would be conditional on the following:
(a) Execution of a Financing Agreement by GOG and HFC (para 2.12);
(b) Execution of the HFC management agreement with MBG (para 2.12);
(c) The submission to IDA by GOG of the detailed financial
projections, and operational guidelines for HFC (para 2.12);
(d) Execution by MWH of agreements with consultants to undertake
studies to restructure SHC, TDC, AESC and TSC (para 2.09);
B. Recommendation
5.03      On the basis of the above actions and agreements, the proposed
project would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$70.0 million equivalent
on standard terms.
AF4IN
KAY 9. 199



- 40 -
Annex 1
Page 1 of 7
GHANA
URBAN II PROJECT
URBAN SECTOR PROFILE. POLICIES AND STRATEGY
A. The Urban Sector
Population and Urbanization
1.01      Thirty-one percent of Ghana's 14 million people 1/ live in some
189 urban areas. The two large cities Accra (the national capital) and
Kumasi (the capital of Ashanti Region dominate, accounting for 35Z of the
urban population; and together the 5 largest towns 2/ account for 502 of
the urban population. Urban population growth rates have been declining
--from 4.8? in 1960-70 to 3.22 in 1970-84. While still higher than rural
rates (2.3? in 1970-84), they signal a significant shift in favor of the
rural area, no doubt as a result of the economic dislocation that occurred
in the 1970's and continued up to the early 1980's. As the economy
continues to improve under ERP, urbanization can be expected to accelerate,
placing even greater stress on already overburdened urban systems. Signs
of this are already evident in the recent traffic Jams in Accra. It is
estimated that about 1.6 million persons will be added to the urban
population between 199. and the year .000, an increase of 35Z.
1.02      Profile of the Cities:  the following is a brief profile of
Accra and the four secondary cities:
(a) Accra: The capital city and main administrative and commercial
center, Accra's population was estimated at 1.0 million in
1984. 3/ If the 1970-84 growth rate of 3.2a per annum persists,
Accra's population would be about 1.2 million in 1990, and would
grow to about 1.6 million by the year 2,000. This represents a
33? increase over the next 10 years, a situation that will place
great stress on already overburdened infrastructure, services
and housing facilities. Accra's road network is fairly
extensive, covering about 950 km., of which about 550 km are
paved. However, due to inadequate maintenance in recent years
the paved roads suffer from varying degrees of pavement
distress, with much of the trunk and arterial roads showing
signs of severe distress. This deterioration of the network
plus a number of network gaps has contributed to extensive
delays in the movement of people and goods, as well as damage to
vehicles and equipment, very high vehic'e operating costs, and
11   12.3 mlllion, 1984 census.
21   Accra, Kumasi, Tamale, Sekondi-Takoradi and Tamale.
3/   Population within the city council area, 1984 census.



- 41 -
Annex 1
Page 2 of 7
loss of life in accidents. Other infrastructure and services
leave much less than to be desired. For example, only about 400
properties are linked to sewerage. The sewage treatment
facilities are in a state of complete disrepair, raw sewage is
being dumped into the ocean, and ~t is estimated that there are
still more than 20,000 bucket 1 :ines in the city. Solid waste
management has shown considerabl improvement over the last 3-4
years due largely to West German technical assistance to AMA.
It is now estimated that about 60-702 of the solid waste is now
being collected, as compared to about 20? just 5 years ago.
Although a fairly extensive program of road maintenance has been
undertaken under ADRP, it has become clear that major road
reconstruction is now necessary due to the age of much of the
road network and the significant increase in traffic. Modest
drainage, sanitation and urban upgrading improvements are being
done under PWP. These need to be continued. Key items for the
future (beyond Urban II) include sewerage, major drainage plan
review, and environmental improvements3 in the Korle Lagoon area.
Also, efforts need to be made to enc urage much better use of
existing land resources and to curtril urban spread.  In
particular, densities need to be c Ssiderably increased in the
inner city, i.e., inside the ring oad.
(b) Kumasi: Kumasi, with a population of about 400,000 in 1984, is
Ghana's second largest city, the capital of the Ashanti Region.
and the center of the most productive agricultural region of the
country. The average rate of population growth during the
intercensal period 1970-84 was 2.2?. Assuming that this rate of
growth persists, Kumasi's population would be about 450,000 in
1990, and would grow to about 570,000 by the year 2,000, i.e.,
by about 25Z over the next 10 years. Despite its critical role
in the national economy. Kumasi's infrastructure and services
have been severely neglected. In 1986 it was estimated that as
little as 20? of the road network was in a serviceable
condition. GOG, with assistance from the German Democratic
Republic has recently embarked upon a program to rehabilitate
approximately 100 km. (50?) of primary and secondary roads.
This program has been very successfully implemented but much
remains to be done, particularly improvements to drainage,
streetlighting, traffic management and sanitation. There are
still 4,000 bucket latrines in the city and it is estimated that
only 40? of solid waste is being collected. The 8,000 stall
Kumasi Central Market, one of the largest in Africa and the hub
of the regional agricultural (food) economy, is overcrowded,
subject to flooding and without adequate sanitary facilities.
The city's thousands of micro-enterprises occupy marginal,
flood-prone land with poor access to infrastructure and
services, and many residential areas are very poorly serviced.
Modest drainage and sanitation improvements are being done under
NWP.



- 42 -
Annes 1
Page 3 of 7
(c) Tema: Ghana's main port and industrial center, Tema had a
population of about 180,000 in 1984. Built as a new town in the
1960's, Tema's fortunes have ebbed and flowed with Ghana's
changing political and economic circumstances. Despite this,
Tema experienced the second highest population growth in the
intercensal period (4.6Z p.a.) and is fast becoming a suburb of
Accra just 27 kilometers away. Assuming that this rate of
growth persists, Tema's population would be about 250,000 in
1990, and would grow to about 390,000 by the year 2,000, i.e..
by more than 50 over the next 10 years. Although
infrastructure provision has been generally of a high standard,
maintenance has been neglected. Roads are potholed. significant
sections of the sewer pipelines have collapsed creating a public
health hazard, and the main pumping stations to the sea outfall
have long ago ceased to function. In addition to the above
problems, significant informal settlements have developed within
the city limits without the benefit of some basic services.
Repair of sewer lines and modest drainage, sanitation and urban
upgrading improvements are being done under PWP. However, much
needs to be done to rehabilitate the sewage pumping stations and
treatment plants. There is no shortage of developable land. On
the contrary, land is very underutilized.
Cd) Sekondi-Takoradi: 4/ The capital of the Western Region,
Sekondi-Takoradi with an urban population of about 116,000 in
1984, is Ghana's second largest port. Although the population
is growing very slowly (0.3? p.a.), there is a significant
potential for industry, commerce and possibly tourism. However,
poor infrastructure retards development. Only about 23? of the
primary roads are surfaced, and even these are badly in need of
repair. Al. , the water system meets only 50 of the estimated
demand, solid waste collection is inadequate, and sanitation is
a serious problem. The port, which is the center of the local
economy, is badly deteriorated and is being rehabilitated with
Bank assistance (Credit 1674-GH). Modest road, drainage and
sanitation improvements are being done under PWP. Assuming that
Sekondi-Takoradi's slow growth rate persists, its population in
1990 would be about 182,000 and would grow to about 194,000 by
the year 2000.
(e) Tamale: The capital of the Northern Region with a population of
about 160,000 in 1984, Tamale, was the fastest growing urban
area during the intercensal period (4.92 p.a.). Tamale's
infrastructure is in very poor shape. Because of unreliable
electricity supply for pumping, water supply is inadequate and
irregular. Also, domestic sanitation is very bad, with over
2,400 bucket latrines in operation and open defecation in many
areas of the town. Only 27? of the roads are paved, though
4/   Sekondi-Takoradi is now part of the newly created Ahanta East
District.



- 43 -
Annex 1
Page 4 of 7
these are in fairly good condition. Like most other cities and
towns, refuse collection systems are inadequate. Tamale was
excluded from PWP largely because of Its far northerly location
and the difficulty that this posed for project management.
Assuming that the 1970-84 growth rate continues, Tamale's
population in 1990 would be about 210,000 and would increase to
340,000 by the year 2,000, i.e., a 602 increase over the next 10
years. This growth will severely strain Tamale's capacities.
Decentralization
1.03      Ghana has embarked upon perhaps the most ambitious program of
decentralization In Africa. The new Local Government Law (PNDCL 207),
promulgated In 1988, gave authority for the establishment of 45 new
districts (local governments), increasing the number of districts from 65
to 110 (a 701 increase). Elections were held in December 1988 and February
1989, and the new district assemblies held their inaugural meetings in
April 1989.
1.04      The new law provides for the extensive decentrAiization of the
now highly centralized functions (including many now exercised by powerful
ministries and parastatals) to the district level, and establishes the
district as the most basic level of economic and political decision making,
planning and administration in the Country. The assembly is the highest
decision making body in the district and is comprised of two-thirds elected
and one-third nominated members. Elections are scheduled to be held every
three years and assemblies are required to meet at least four times per
year. Most of the work of the assemblies will be executed through an
executive committee which, in turn, is subdivided into fLve maLi
subcommitteess economic development; social services; technical
infrastructure; justice and security; and finance and administration.
1.05      While the political components of decentralization are far
advanced, the administrative and financial ones are not, and many thorny
issues remain to be addressed. The more salient are: district finance,
revenue mobilization and revenue sharing; S/ the division of authority and
functions between local and central government; administrative capacity;
staffing; equipment and vehicles; and the financial and implementation
capacity of central government itself, particularly MFEP and MLG, to
support and sustain the decentralization process. These are not, to say
the least, small problems, but optimism prevails; and, if the first
assembly meetings are anything to go by, decentralization is being embraced
with some enthusiasm by a fairly wide cross-section of Ghanaian society.
1.06      Decentralization can be expected to facilitate greater local
autonomy. However, this will take time and the administrative system
remains highly centralized.
5I   The revenue sharing problem is being actively reviewed by GOG with
Bank assistance. See Ghana: Fiscal Decentralization, Report No.
8221-GD, December 1989.



- 44 -
Annez I
Page S of 7
Municipal Finance and Revenue Mobilization
1.07      There is a potential to improve municipal revenues by as much as
five or six times (or about twice in real terms) over the next five years.
The areas showing the highest potential for increase are property tax,
market fees and business fees. In additioL to increasing revenues, there
is the need to significantly improve accounting and financial management
systems and to strengthen staff capabilities through technical assistance.
The financial and mAnagement needs of the project cities have been reviewed
in detail and a summary of the Accra experience and that of the other
cities is included in the project files. Data from these reviews are
presented in the tables in Appendix 1. Among the salient points to note
ares Ci) most cities have been increasing revenues significantly in real
terms since 1984, largely in response to increasing costs and cutbacks in
GOG salary subventions (Table 2); (ii) Kumasi's high dependence on market
fees, due largely to the regional significance of the Kejetia market (Table
3); (iii) the high percentage of expenditures on staff, particularly in
Sekondi-Takoradi (Ahanta-East) and Tamale (Table 6); and (iv) the low
expenditure (except Tema and Kumasi) on repairs and maintenance (Table 6).
B. Recent GOG Policies and Actions
2.01      GOG's initiatives over the last few years include a number of
multilateral and bilateral-assisted urban projects, incentives to private
developers for house construction, and, potentially the most far reaching
measure of all, a massive program of decentralization.
Projects:  The more important projects are sumuarized belowt
(a)  Bank-assisted:  (i) Accra District Rehabilitation Project
(ADRP), FY 85; $26.3M project, $22.OM IDA credit; includes
resource mobilization, property revaluation, improved financial
ranagement, road rehabilitation, completion of the outer
motorway, traffic studies, urban upgrading, vehicles, equipment
training, and technical assistance; and (11) Priority Works
Project (PWP), FY88; S22.8M project, $l0.6M IDA Credit; labor
intensive infrastructure rehabilitation and urban upgrading to
create 10,000 jobs over a two year period in four cities (Accra,
Kumasi, Sekondi-Takoradi and Tema) in support of PAMSCAD; also
includes a small pilot housing component and technical
assistance.
(b) Bilateral Assisted projects: (i) Accra Waste Management Project
(A WP); GTZIKFW assisted; FY 85/86; project cost not assessed;
includes reorganizing solid and liquid waste collection and
disposal, KVIP construction, drain cleaning, improving financial
management and cost recovery, vehicles, equipment and training;
(Li) Kumasi Roads Project (KRP); German Democratic Republic
assisted (barter deal for cocoa), FY 86/87; cost not assessed;
reconstruction of main roads and side drains by direct contract;
includes vehicles and equipment.



- 45 -
Annex 1
Page 6 of 7
(c) UNDP Assisted Projectss Ci) Accra Structure Plan (ASP); FY
88/89; preparation of development plan for Accra; (ii) Kumasi
Domestic Sanitation Project (KDSP); FY 88/89; Pilot KVIP
construction and bucket latrine emptying project; (iii) Mobile
Training of Project (MTP); FY 87/88; training of trainers for
key local government functionaries required for new districts
created under decentralization program.
2.02      Project/Studies in Preparation:  The most important is the
following:
(a) UNDP assisted: Shelter Sector Project; FY 90!91; about eight
studies on various aspects of housing, and the establishment of
a policy unit in MWH. This project is being closely coordinated
with Urban II and should greatly strengthen and assist HKWH to
prepare Urban III.
(N.B. UNDP are also financing a number of other related
studies, including studies on public sector administrative
reform.)
C.  Implementation Capacity
3.01      Project implementation in Ghana is increasingly running up
against the capacity limits of existing agencies in preparing and executing
projects on an efficient and timely basis. The delay in implementing PWP
provides a good example of this (a nine month start up delay in a two year
emergency program). But the problem is not limited to PWP. Similar, if
not as dramatic delays have been occurring with other projects; and since
these projects are mainly foreign funded, funding is not the critical
issue. (The timeliness of counterpart funding has however been a recurring
problem). The main problem seems to lie in one or a combination of
factors: (i) high-level manpower shortages; (ii) inefficient
administrative systems, including tedious contract evaluation award
procedures; (iii) lack of training in project preparation, evaluation and
management in the civil service; (iv) inefficient institutional structures
and practices in the civil service and the parastatals that do not reward
initiative; (v) low salaries that provide little incentive to work; (vi)
inefficient utilization of existing manpower, and failure to adequately tap
the resources of private sector consultants; (vii) lack of experience and
depth in private sector consulting firms; and (viii) GOG reluctance to
utilize foreign consultants. Only a very bold person would categorically
state which of the above wa; the most binding constraint. However, it is
clear that unless urgent action is taken, then many good project and
project-funding opportunities could be missed because of the lack of local
implementation capacity.
3.02      Recent responses on PWP demonstrate that latent capacity exists
within the civil service and the private sector and can be effectively
mobilized. Also, capacity can be extended over time through the



- 46 -
Annex 1
Page 7 of 7
implementation process itself if attention is given to management training
within projects. The normal exhortation to design only simple projects
simply will not suiffice when faced with complex problems as often occur in
the urban area.
3.03       In the medium term (3-5 yrs), there is no substitute for
restructuring civil service organizations, restructuring parastatals and
training qualified staff, "commercializing and privatizing', restructuring
salaries and incentives and developing special post-graduate programs to
train both public and private sector managers. Such programs do not exist
in Ghana at present, and their importance has been lost in the recent focus
on primary education. The problem will become much worse if action is not
taken now.
OM\: 8UANM-l .SAR
FM



- 47 -
Annex 1
Appendix 1
Page 1 of 3
Tablo 1
19881 Non-.overnmnt 9roperty Raes excluding
Arrnrs as a Percents, of Total Internal Revenue. 1984 and 1999
(Millions of Current Cedla)
1984         s"                                1984                   16es
Total       Total   1984       1988       Rates Revenue as        Rates Revenue a8
Internal Internal Rates        Rot"       a Perc:ntng* of         a Psreantr,  of
Reveu       Revenuo  Revenue   Roveu    Intern I Revenue          Internsl Revenue
Accra N.A.         81.8       86.0    9.0          78.2           26.6                  20.0
K     Iumasl MA.   26.4       8u.7      8.1        46.8           11.7                  18.0
Ahai';s Eas t   A.   11.4      68.0    0.0 816.                    7.0                  20.6
Trns D.A.          17.1       174.5   11.0        106.7           64.8                  61.1
Tamle O.A.          6.5        21.5    0.8          1.5            4.0                   7.0
Table 2
Sumary of Internal Revenues
Actual (Millions of Current Cedle)
-  increase   S Increase
1984 10S 186 M          j   198          94-88         84-88
Aecra N.A.       88.0  78.1  216.1 810.7  866.0          S.4          9S656
1-3si N.A.       26.4  99.0    18.9 240.6  886.7          616.8        1176.4
Ahant East M.A. 11.4  16.0   46.4  66.6  98.6             807.0         678.9
Tom O.A.          17.1  88.9   82.4  126.5  174.6         881.9         920.5
Tamole            6.5   0.9   15.4  19.7  21.5            188.9         280.8
Summary of Internal Revenues
Adual (Millions of 1984 Cedle)
S Increase   % Increase
841  19l8  L199       7                e 84-88       84-88B
Accr. l.A.       88.6  05.1  146.4  140.1  182.1          839.1         290.8
Ifuael N.A.      28.4  88.0  130.3  115.6  121.2          898.6         869.1
Ahant Eet N.A. 11.4  14.2   82.0  82.0  82.0              160.7         180.7
Tme D.A.         17.1  80.2   56.9  61.7  62.0            282.7         267.8
Tamale  .A.       6.5   6.6   10.6   0.5   7.7             68.0          18.5



- 48 -
Annex .
Aonendix 1
Page 2 of 3
Table 8
1984, 108 and 1989 Comparison of Contribution of Each
Source of Revenue to TotOl Rewiue - Pgrcent!&
other
Basic  Property   Market  Other Blusine   Lorry  Local
Year  Rate   Rate         Foes   Fees  Fee        Parks Rev.  Total
Acra M.A.            1908    6.8   21.4        8.4   12.9   5.8         1.0  40.2W  100
194    8.8   26.6         0      46 8s/ 13.6       0      0       1OO
1086    8.4   28.0        18.9    8.5    0.0        1.4  30.0   100
Kmlsi M.A.          1i8    6.7   19.1         40.4     4.0  16.9        9.1    4.0   100
1984    7.2   19.8       48.9   10.0    0          4.6    0       100
1986   11.8   10.1       48.0   26.6    0          90.    0      100
Ahanta East l.A.    1l9    6.2   24.6         81.1   11.6  16.0         2.0   8.8    100
1984    8.5   11.4        85.1     7.0   9.6        1.8  1.6   100
1986   10.8   24.6       85.8     7.5  12.9        2.0   6.9   100
Tm D.A.             1988    8.0   68.6        12.1     9.0   7.6        2.4   1.7   100
1984    1.2   64.8       21.6     5.8   7.6        0      0      100
1986    6.8   56.7       19.7     9.2   4.1         8.5   0.5   100
Tamale D.A.         1988   14.9     7.0       29.8   29.7  14.9         0.6   8.7    100
1984   10.8    4.8        8.8     7.7   4.6        0     88.5   100
1986   16.2     2.6      48.2   18.6  15.6         0      5.8   100
Market Fee and other local revenues appear to be classified under Other Fee.
Registration of Traders (552.) unspecified roceipte ($26.) are classified under othor local
revenu.
Table 4
Comprion of O0 Salaries Grant ae a
Pronortion of Total Roecurrent Revenue. 19 and 1908
(Fercentapeal
e00
IX'wernal         Salaries
YeaP        Rovenue           Crant                Total
Accra, M.A.       1988            76.8              85.8                 1Oo
i9S4           82.2              17 .8(/)             100
19s8           75.0              25.0                 100
Kuasi, V.A.       1986            77.2              22.8                 100
1984           26.2              78.8                 100
1986           69.9              80.1                 100
Ahanta Eat, M.A. 108M             68.0              47.0                 100
1984           19.2              80.8                 100
198s           88.9              61.1                 100
Tm, D.A.           19s           77.2              22.6                 1oo
1984           40.6              59.4                 t00
1986           78.8              20.2                 1oo
Tmale, D.A.       1988            86.0              62.0                 100
19"            24.5              75.5                 100
1906           44.6              56.6                 100
(t/)  It appears that the total 1964 eslaries grant Is not brought lnto fInal accounts as In 10ON te
salarie grant representd 70.06  of Total Recurrent Revenue.



- 49 -
Annex 1
Appendix 1
Page 3 of 3
Table 5
Internal Revenue
Collection Performance 1984-88 (f MiliIons of Current Cedis)
Estimated Amount             Actual           Percentage
Collectible               Collection*         Collected
Accra M.A.                      1696.1 *                 1141.E              87.8
Kumasi M.A.                     1481.5                    892.6              60.2
AhantQ East M.A.                 449.7                    229.4              51.0
Teci D.A.                        489.0                    488.4              89.2
Temale D.A.                      149.1                     78.0              49.0
*Estimated amount adjusted for non-introduction in 1987 and 1988 of proposed new rating
eyste. based on rovalued proporties.
Table 6
Proportions of Expenditures on Staff. Repairs,
Maintenanc2/Capital Works. Transportation and 0Otherg 1988
(Percentages)
Staff       Transport       Rep./Main       Other           Total
Accra M.A.               70.4            8.2            11.9           9.6            100
Kuasol M.A.             65.0            10.9            88.7           8.2            100
Ahenta East M.A.         86.9            3.0             7.8           8.8            100
Twoa D.A.                45.9            2.8            48.5           3.8            100
Temale D.A.              86.8            8.8             8.4           2.6            100
Source:  Financial Stotconts of cities provided to missions.



- 50 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 7
GHANA
URBAN II PROJECT
HOUSING SECTOR PROFILE, POLICIES AND STRATEGY
A. Housing Need
1.01      Given the weakness of available data, it is not possible to
estimate housing demand with any degree of precision. Crude estimates of
need must thus suffice. Assuming that 1970-84 growth patterns for both
population and housing persist, about 420,000 persons per year would be
added to the population between 1990-2000. Assuming further that
households average 6-7 persons, then 60-70,000 houses per year would be
required to meet the need arising from new household formation. If the
more conservative assumption of 10 persons per household is used (about the
1984 census estimate), then only some 40,000 new houses per year would be
required. If an allowance of say 1? per year is made for stock
replacement, another 14,000 units per year would be required, bringing the
total annual requirement to 54,000 units. This would imply only a very
modest decrease in overcrowding over the 1900-2000 period.
1.02      If existing growth patterns persist, about 27,000 new units per
year would be added to the housing stock between 1990-2000, largely through
the efforts of the private informal sector. Thus an additional 27,000
(54,000-27,000) units would be required. This rate of house construction
would require the rate of growth of the housing stock to almost double from
the estimated 1.8Z per annum over the 1970-84 period to 3.42 per annum, not
a feasible proposition either in physical or financial terms. I/ Given
present capacity, the formal sector probably could not expect to contribute
more than 1-2,000 unit per year (i.e., less than 10? of required output).
A realistic target would probably be to increase this formal sector output
to some 3-4,000 units per year, or 30,-40,000 over the 1990-2000 period.
Such a program, assuming that households could afford it (see paras 1.04-               -
1.06), would cost about 0l0-12 billion or US$33-40 million equivalent per
year. This is equivalent to about 602 of the net annual inflow to SSNIT,
about the upper unit of what could be financed assuming that 302 of SSNIT's
net inflows are devoted to housing investments and that the balance of the
funds could be mobilized through the capital market and from household
savings, by no means a certain proposition.
1/   At a very conservative estimate of CD2.5 m/units (a one room unit at
1990 prices), this program would require an additional investment in
the housing sector of about 068 billion (27,OOOXCD2.5m) or about
US$200 million equivalent per year, the equivalent to about 4 times
the net inflow into the Social Security Fund.



- 51 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 7
1.03      Since the urban areas acount for about one-third of the
population, an urban housing program for the 1990-2000 period would involve
about 1-2,000 units per year on average, costing about 03-6 billion
(US$9-18 million) per year, or a little less than one-half of the cost of a
national program. Accra, Kumasi and Tema would probably account for two-
thirds of an urban housing program. Of course, if higher standards and
hence higher costs are adopted, say a conventional 2 bedroom unit at about
06 million per unit, then either program targets would have to be cut by
more than one-half or far more money would have to be found. Furthermore.
as will be shown below, even fewer households wvould be able to afford to
purchase or to rent the new houses. This points to the urgent need to
adopt more realistic housing standards.
Affordability
1.04      Income distribution data are sketchy and, at best, unreliable.
We have thus had to rely on recent GLSS household expenditure data while
realizing that income and expenditure patterns, while related, are not
identical and can vary considerably.
1.05      If adjustments are made for the fact that inflation siLce
1987-88 has exceeded 501 that urban expenditures are about 40S above the
mean for the country, and assuming this is evenly distributed across urban
households (a somewhat heroic assumption), then the urban household
expenditure in 1990 would be approximately as follows
Estimated
Mean Annual               Estimated
Annual              Urban                Mean Monthly
Household           Household            Urban Household
Ghana            Expenditure              Expenditure
1987-88 2/           1990                      1990
Quintile         (Cedis)            (Cedis)                   (Cedis)
1st          141,830              297,850                  24,800
2nd          235,473              494,500                  41,200
3rd          303,684              635,650                  53,000
4th          345,074              724,650                  63,400
5th          402.231              844,700                  70,400
Total          285,872              600,350                  50,000
What is clear from these admittedly crude data is that household
expenditures are considerably above reported cash income of heads of
households--sometimes by as much as 2 to 3 times. This Indicates that
households survive on earnings in the informal sector and from poolLng
family and extended family resources--an important factor for estimating
affordability and for formulating housing policy.
2/   Source:  First six months data GLSS.



- 52 -
Annex 2
Page 3 of 7
1.06      Equally important for policy is the fact that even at the 3rd
decile a basic one room unit costing about ¢2.5 million would exhaust the
entire household expenditure at the current 261 interest rates assuming a
25 year mortgage. This clearly indicates the severity of the affordabllity
problem and explains why conventional approaches to housing finance are not
feasible in Ghana.
B. Institutional Framework
2.01      In Ghana primary mortgage lending is undertaken by commercial
banks, the Bank for Housing and Construction (BHC) and First Ghana Building
Society (FGBS). The housing finance system caters mainly to a restricted
population of a few households belonging for the most part to upper income
groups. This lending is characterized bys
(i)     being resource absorbing, i.e. it depends on
government funding and does not generate funds from
the financial sector;
(ii)     not responding to changes in the financial sector (no
linkage between savings and housing finance);
(iii)     high intermediation costs; and
(iv)     a poor regulatory and administrative environment.
.
The housing delivery system has been weak due tot
*i)     high foreign exchange content of housing and the lack
of domestically produced construction materials;
(ii)     lack clear land titles and weak conveyancing
mechanisms;
(iii)     incompetent and technically insolvent public
enterprises in housing estate development; and
(iv)     absence of a vibrant private sector.
Housing Finance
2.01      The Bank for HousinR and Construction.  BBC was founded in 1972
primarily to foster the development of the housing and construction
industries but vith wide latitude to engage in other forms of development
and commercial banking. Its ownership is entirely in the public sector
with 502 held directly by the Government of Ghana and shares of I02 each
held by Bank of Ghana, SSNIT, SIC, Natlonal Investment Bank, and Ghana
Commercial Bank, respectively. Due in part to the non-availability of long
term funds in a highly inflationary environment, aS BBC evolved it devoted
less than 2Z of its portfolio to mortgage lending (about 450 mortgages)
while moving broadly to serve the construction industry (about 802 of



- 53 -
Annex 2
Page 4 of 7
portfolio) with various forms of industrial, development and commercial
banking. The balance of lending was to other sectors of the economy,
including trade financing. Within recent years, BHC like most of the
banking system in Ghana has experienced serious financial problems due
partly to difficulties with foreign debt and a significantly non-performing
portfolio.
2.02      As part of the GOG's Bank-supported Financial Sector Adjustment
Credit (FINSAC), BHC was one of the nine out of ten primary and secondary
banks to undergo a thorough diagnostic review in 1988. It was subsequently
examined by the BOG's newly strengthened Banking Supervision Department in
1989. In both cases, it was determined that a substantial restructuring
and recapitalization of BHC was required in order for it to return to its
originally intended housing and urban development functions. The GOG has
appointed a former BOG Director of Research as BHC's new Managing Director
and recovery plans are under active development at this stage. Progress
will continue to be monitored as a FINSAC condition. To assist BHC with
technical assistance during its reorganization over the next two or three
years, the GOG is considering the establishment of a formal twinning
relationship with the Housing Development Finance Corporation Limited
(HDFC) of India. The HDFC would be in a good position to second staff and
provide other appropriate expertise and support during the recovery
process.
2.03      Despite its past financial difficulties, BHC, with about 10
branches in the major urban areas, is well positioned to act as an
originating and servicing institution (OSI) for the Urban II pilot housing
finance scheme. Urban II will continue to coordinate closely with FINSAC
to ensure that the technical assistance required to strengthen BHC in its
role in the pilot project is consistent with the overall BHC restructuring
program.
2.04      First Ghana Building Society.  FGBS was formed in 1958 following
a U.N. mission's study of the Ghanaian housing finance system. However,
that study raised serious doubts as to whether a building society was
appropriate to Ghanaian circumstances. FGBS has been quite dormant, and
negative real interest rates ensure that deposits are not a significant
proportion of the sources of funds. Government provides the bulk of its
capital (recently about 0217 million). A total of only 779 loans are
presently outstanding, valued at 0l43 million. While detailed records were
not readily available, it appears that as few as four loans have been made
in some past years, and by any measure only a few loans are currently being
made.
2.05      Other Commercial Banks.  The role of the commercial banks in
housing finance has been minimal, with less than 5% of their total loan
poLtfolios invested in housing. Generally the banks, like BHC, are
reluctant to finance housing projects since their deposits are short term.
Unless there is access to long term funds they will not lend long term.
The Central Bank sets credit ceilings for banks and these are absolute in
Cedi terms and not related as a percentage of deposits.  These limits are



- 54 -
Annex 2
Page 5 of 7
reviewed quarterly and at present banks are highly liquid and there is no
incentive for them to increase cioposits.
2.06      Social Security and National Insurance Trust:  (See discussion
in Annex 3. para. 1.06).
Housing Parastatals
2.07      State Housing Corporation (SHC).  SHC consists of eleven
relatively autonomous regional operations (including two in the Accra area)
and a headquarters management staff. Most, but not all, of these regional
operations are in disarray and the central management in Accra is
ineffective. This judgment is based on experiences in securing information
at SHC headquarters, from observation on job sites, and reports from those
inside and outside of the company. The primary reasons that SHC as a whole
manages to produce housing at all are: (1) deferral of payments to SSNIT
and the Internal Revenue Service, and (2) its possession of key developable
land for which it pays no carrying charges and fot which it need not
include full market value in its product price.
2.08      Nevertheless, SHC remains one of the largest producers of
housing in Ghana, constructing on the order of 200 units in 1989. In
addition, it is the country's second largest landlord (after TDC) with
ownership of over 4800 rental units. Thus, the future of SHC is closely
entertwined with the evolution of the housing delivery system. The future
deployment of SHC's resources merits extensive rttention.
2.09      The most recent audited consolidated balance sheet for SHC is
for 31 December, 1986. At that time, the net asset position of SHC was a
negative 0212 million. Most of this negative position derived from the
fact that 0402 million had been taken as deposits, but the work in progress
and cash was substantially less. Essentially, a portion of the deposits
were funding the operating deficit (053 million in 1986). In addition, the
corporation was building a liability to SSNIT (034 million through 1986)
and other creditors, mostly the government.
2.10      This negative balance position has only worsened since 1986, as
SHC has continued to ezperience losses. However, the balance sheet for
accounting purposes does not include the most significant assets of SHC,
nor its most significant liability. These other assets and liabilities
need to be evaluated both in order to proceed with a sound restructuring of
SEC, and to encourage private sector participation in the development of
housing finance.
2.11      Tema Development Corporation.  Tema Development Corporation was
set up in 1965 to plan and develop the entire Tema area. The new town of
Tema itself was initially established in 1952 to accompany the development
of a port and industrial area associated with the Volta River dam and
hydroelectric project. The city of Tema consists of 63 square miles of
land, all of which is leased by the government to TDC and most, but not
all, of which is under the development control of TDC.



- 55 -
Annex 2
Page 6 of 7
2.12      Today, TDC is probably the largest single direct owner of urban
land in Ghana and the largest single landlord. Its assets exceed Cl7
billion. Only 20Z of the initial 63 square miles has been developed in
some manner, leaving TDC with vast holdings of potentially valuable vacant
land for development. TDC has built over 16,000 housing units, of which it
retains ownership of 7,520 as rental units. It continues to build housing
in Temr, but only at a pace of less than 50 units per year. In fact, TDC
has shifted towards a policy of leasing land for development by private
developers and institutions.
2.13      TDC experienced the same boom-bust cycles as SIC, with
production averaging over 800 units a year in the mid-1960's and peaking
again at 867 in 1974. Production in the 1980's has averaged only 37 units
per year, a pace which has been exceeded in recent years by formal sector
development on Tema lands under stool control. TDC has reduced its
workforce by over 40Z, but feels it is still overstaffed in the maintenance
and management area of its rental housing stock.
2.14      TDC's management seems to have better information and financial
controls thbn SIC's, at least partially because of the geographic
compactness of the operation. Much as the Kumasi office of SIC has done.
TDC is attempting to revitalize itself, through expansion of its revenues
from rented accommodations, ground rents, and development fees. Moreover,
the management does not seem to envision itself as becoming a large scale
developer of housing in Tema again, rather preferring to shed its rental
properties and focus on planning, developing, and servicing land for
private development in Tera.
Ministry of Works and Housing (Mill)
2.15      The functions of the Ministry of Works and lousing (MHl) are to
coordinate the development of houseng policy, develop strategies, programs
and action plans for implementing housing policy as well as monitor and
coordinate the activities of public and prlvate institutions involved in
the implementation of housing policies and programs.
2.16      In order to undertake these functions, the Ministry is
structured with a lousing Director reporting to the PNDC Secretary for
Works and Housing. Under this Dlrector are two major operational units
that work in the housing sector:
(a) the Technical Services Centre; and
(b) the Architectural and Engineering Services Corporation.3/
The major problems facing the Ministry of Workes and ouasing are:
(a) Generally, the Ministry lacks the depth of personnel from a
technical and managerial point of view to develop policies as
31   These units are described in Appendix IV.



- 56 -
Annez Z
Page 7 of 7
well as monitor and coordinate the implementation of housing
programs.
(b) The physical work environment, office facilities and equipment
could be signLficantly improved and modernized to increase
efficiency.
(c) The measurement of performance of each of the imple7antation
sections vithLn the MinLstry and statutory corporations has been
particularly weak to date. Reports relating actual performance
to budgets and specific targets need to be structured, more
closely monltored and regularly reviewed. For ezample, the
documentation of monthly meetings reviewing performance for
instance is seldom undertaken by the organLzatLons reporting to
the Ministry.
(d) The coordinatLon of policies, plans and programs between housing
development and Infrastructure Agencies as well as the service
arms of Government is also an area of weakness. In many cases
delays in the implementation of housing projects were directly
related to the processing by government departments of titles,
surveys, or town planning approval. In other cases, the
untimely provision of infrastructural services such as roads,
water, electrlcity and garbage disposal hampered the completion
of projects.



- 57 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 4
GHANA
URBAN 1I PROJECT
FINANCIAL SECTOR PROFILE
A. The Structure of the Financial Sector 1/
1.01      The formal financial system is dominated by three primary
commercial banks: the Ghana Conmercial BSank (GCB), the Standard Chartered
Bank of Ghana (Standard), and the Barclays Bank of Ghana (Barclays); seven
secondary bankst the Social Security Bank (SSB), the Bank of Housing and
Construction (BHC), the Agricultural Development Bank (ADS), the National
Savings and Credit Bank (NSCB), the National Investment Bank (NIB), the
Merchant Bank of Ghana (lMG), and the BSank of Credit and Commerce; a small
cooperative bank, Ghana Cooperative Bank (Coop Bsank); and over one hundred
rural banks. Of the total assets of the banking system of around ¢156
billion (about 25? of GDP), some 572 are in the three primary banks,
althougl the secondary and rural banks have been growing faster.  A'1 the
primary and secondary banks accept deposits from the public and, with the
exception of the Sank of Credit and Commerce, are either partly or wholly
owned by the Government.
1.02      The three government-owned development finance institutions
(BBC, ADS and NIB) have increased their level of comercial banking
activity in recent years, and at the end of 1986, one-quarter of their
outstanding liabilities was accounted for by demand, savings, and time                   H
deposits.  Nevertheless, they face serious financial difficulties arising                -
from a huge foreign exchange exposure and/or loss, a substantial non-
performing portfolio, and a complete erosion of net worth.
1.03      The rural banks are owned and managed by their respective local
comunnities. They are private unit banks established to mobilize resources
in rural areas and extend credit locally. The Bank of Ghana has usually
contributed to the initial capital of each rural bank with the intention of
divesting its holdings to the private owners at a later stage. Despite the
large number of rural banks, the rural banking sector accounts for under 32
of the total deposits mobilized by the banking system as a whole. A large
number of rural benks are in financial difficulties, but their units
nature has contained the effect of this problem on the banking system.
The Money Market
1.04      The money market is composed of the recently opened Consolidated
Discount House Ltd. Opened in 1987, Discount House, is charged with the
task of acting as an inter-bank intermediary for short-term assets to
1/ Source: SAR Financial Sector Adjustment Project, May 9, 1988. Report No.
P-4781-GH.



- 58 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 4
enable banks to better manage their liquidity position. Discount gouse is
permitted to deal in treasury bills, short-dated government securities,
bankers' acceptances, cocoa bills, negotiable short term certificates of
deposit, and commercial paper.
The Capital Market
1.05      Ghana possesses a very rudimentary capital market that has been
unable to make a substantial contribution to the mobilization of long term
resources. The few transactions that occur are usually in long-dated
government stock, and shares of private companies change hands
occasionally. The National Trust Holding company quotes shares of eighteen
companies on a monthly basis, but its insufficient capital base and the
limited number of tradeable shares in the system have prevented it from
playing a more active part in capital market transactions.
The Social Security and National Investment Trust (SSNIT)
1.06      The remaining non-banking sector is limited principally to the
Social Security and National Insurance trust (SSNIT). eleven insurance
companies and a number of privately operated pension funds. SSNIT is a
government-owned institution charged with providing social security
payments to workers upon their retirement from service. All enterprises
with five or more employees must become members of SSNIT and contributions
amount to 17.52 of the wage bill, 5S of which are contributed by workers
and 12.52 by employers. Out of a membership of 1.5 million, however, only
about 6?0,000 pay their monthly dues. Until late 1986, SSNIT was compelled
to invest its funds in government stock specially created for it. yielding
5.52 to 62, but it now has the freedom to invest its funds in assets of its
own choosing. However. it is still a major purchaser of treasury bills and
long-dated government securities.
1.07      SSNIT is a provident fund which is currently in the process of
converting to a pension scheme. Begun in 1965, the Trust's status as a
provident fund was always meant as a temporary expedient, but conversion
was delayed by political issues. However, given the fixed defined benefits
and high recent inflation, the value of provident fund distributions has
dwindled to the point where a consensus was reached on the need for reform.
As SSNIT converts to an acturially-based pension fund, it requires long
term investment vehicles which can preserve the real value of its
participants capital.



- 59 -
Annex 3
Page 3 of 4
1.08      Recently data on increases ln SSNIT's assets and returns on
SSNIT's investments 21 are shown belo-trt
1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988
Increases in Assets
(billions of Cedis)            0.47   0.73   1.17   4.69   6.40  11.02
-percent increase(Z)                     55     60    300      47     62
Real Return on Investment (Z)      -52.9  -21.7  -12.2  -26.6  -22.4  -14.6
As can be seen assets have been growing rapidly in nominal terms, but the
rate of returns on SSNIT investments remains negative in real terms. Thus
there is a confluence of interest between SSNIT's need for long term assets
and the need to mobilize more long term funds for housing finance. It is
estimated that SSNITs net flow for 1989 was about 9l7-18 billion.
B. The Financial Sector AdJustment Program
2.01      In 1987. the Government introduced a financial sector adjustment
program designed to improve the efficiency of financial intermediation in
Ghana and to enable the . nking system to assist in the process of
structural change in the economy. A series of policy refomse was
introduced. These included the liberalization of all interest rates and
the elimination of all sectoral credit ceilings (except a 20Z 'floor' for
lending to agriculture). In addition, the Government introduced prudential
regulations to cover capital adequacy rates, reserve requirements,
provision for loan loss reserves, limits on loans and penalties, and
reporting requirements to the Bank of Ghana. At the same time, uniform
accounting and auditing standards for banks are being introduced and the
supervision area of the Bank of Ghana is being strengthened substantially.
2.02      To accompany these policy and administrative measures, the
Government is implementing an ambitious plan to resolve the financial
problems of the distressed banks. Progress is being made on the
preparation of turnaround plans to restructure the finances, management,
and organization of these banks. As an interim measure, non-performing
loans to public enterprises guaranteed by the Government were replaced with
Bank of Ghana promissory notes in December 1989 which will be r(edeemed with
Bank of Ghana bonds by end of April 1990, after the coWpletior of a
validation process. The non-performing loans to the private sector will be
replaced by interest-bearing non-rediscountable bonds at varying discounts
and will ue acquired by the newly established Non-Performing Assets
Recovery Trust (NPART) which will be responsible for their recovery.
2/ Source: 'Ghana: Revitalizing the Private Sector Through Capital Income
Tax Refom', IMP, Fiscal Affairs Department, February 8, 1990, Tables 2 and
3,



- 60 -
Annex 3
Page 4 of 4
C. Liguidity Management
3.01      Negative real deposit and leading sales have been a feature of
Ghana's formal financial sector for over a decade. Contrary to
expectations, the nominal interest rate structure dld not rise after the
removal of interest rate controls in 1987, although real lending rates
turned barely positive in 1989 vLth the decline in inflation. One possible
explanation for the inertia in interest rates could be the substantial
overhang of liquidity in the banking and non-banking sectors generated by
the large monetized public sector deficits of the late 19708 and the early
19809. This, together with Bank of Ghana's choice of bank-specific credit
ceilings as the primary instrument of monetary control, has depressed
deposit rates and discouraged financial savings. Despite recent mover by
the Bank of Ghana to raise reserve requirements, banks continue to possess
excess reserves and have reportedly been turning depositors away. Yet, the
demand for credit in several sectors, including housing, has grown sharply
as the Government's economic recovery program has matured and investment
opportunities have grown.
3.02      Cognizant of the need for the banking system to perform its role
of financial intermediation efficiently, the Government, with technical
assistance from the Fund, has prepared a program to reduce excess liquidity
in the banking system and to move to a system of managing monetary growth
indirectly using market-based instruments.



- 61 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 16
GHANA
URBAN II PROJECT
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
INFRASTRUCTURE REHABILITATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS
I. SUMMARY
A.  Roads and Transport System Management (TSM)                          ;
Objectives: To enhance traffic movement, reduce congestion, accidents and
vehicle operating costs, and provide overall improvements to the efficient
functioning of the cities of Accra, Kumasi and Sekondi-Takoradi.
Description: Development und rehabilitation of arterial roads and
attendant drainage, improvement of intersections and signalization and
other transport system management measures in Accra, Kumasi and Sekondi-
Takoradi.
Location: Accra - mainly outside the Ring Road; Kumasi - in the CBD and
central market area; Sekondi-Takoradi - around the market circle area.
Estimated Cost: Total US$22.8 millior. equivalent (C 7.5 billion) base cost
of which:
Accra US$17.0 million equivalent (05.6 billion);
Kumasi US$2.7 million equivalent (00.8 billion);
Sekondi-Takoradi US$1.4 million equivalent (00.4 billion);
(See Annex 16-A for details)
Financing:
IDA (X)            GOG (Z)          Cofinancing (X)
Local   Foreign    Local   Foreign      Local   Foreign
Accra               90        100        10        0          --
Kumasi              --        ---        60      ---          40      100
Sekondi-Takoradi    90        100        10      ---          --      ---
Economic Rates of Return:  Accra:  165?, Kumasi:  33?, Sekondi-Takoradi:
345?
Implementation Responsibility: DtR



- 62 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 16
Commencement of Works: March 1991
B. Infrastructure Improvement - Tamale
Objectives: To relieve the most critical infrastructure deficiencies and
environmental problems affecting the efficient functioning of the town and
the health and welfare of its residents as the priority phase of a longer
term infrastructure investment program.
Description: Repair of important town center roads, rehabilitation and
improvement of primary drainage, and provision of sanitation facilLties
focused on the Ward E area.
Location: Tamale central area and Ward S.
Estimated Costs: Total US$2.9 million equivalent (¢0.96 billion) base
cost. (See Annex 16-A for details).
Financing:
IDA (Z)              GOG (Z)          Cofinancing (Z)
Local     Foreign   Local      Foreign   Local      Foreign
90         100       10         ---
Economic Rates of Returns Roads: 552, Ward E: 242
Implementation Responsibility: MLG, TSC and DUR
Commencement of Works: December 1991
C. Sewage System Rehabilitation - Tema
Objectives: To assist in arresting the deteriorating environmental
conditions in Tema caused by discharge of raw sewage into drainage and
irLigation channels, and to prevent total collapse of the system.
Description: Rehabilitation of three no. sewage pumping stations including
provision of new pumps; repair to the main sewer outfalls including the
submarine section; new sewage treatment/disposal facility; provision of
maintenance tools and equipment; and strengthening of the institutional
capacity to effectively operate and maintain the system in the future.
Location: Tema
Estimated Costs: Total US$3.6 million (C 1.2 billion) base cost. (See
Annex 16-A for details).



- 63 -
Annex 4
Page 3 of 16
Financing a
IDA (Z)             cOG (Z)          Cofinancing (2)
Local     Foreisn   Local      Foreign   Local     Foreign
85         100      15          00
Economic Rates of Returns 226S
Implementation Responsibilityt Overall MLG/TSC; Tema District Authority -
Tema Development Corporation and GWSC advisory.
Commencement of Works: - March 1991
D. Central Market Improvements Kumasi
Objectivess To provide priority infrastructural improvements as a first
phase of a longer term development plan for the central market to improve
its efficient and sanitary operation, and thus further stimulate economic
activity in the city.
Description: Rehabilitation and provision of paving, drainage water supply
and sanitation facilities.
Locations KnmauL Central Market
Estimated Costs: Total US$1.8 million equivalent (00.6 billion) base cost.
(See Annex 16-A for details).
Financing:
IDA (Z)             GOO (2)           Cofinancing (C)
Local     Foreign   Local      Foreian   Local     Foreign
--         ---      80          ---       20        100
Economic Rate of Returns 1072
Implementation Responsibility: TSC and Kumasi Metropolitan Authority
(moA).
Commencement of Works: Jun. 1991



- 64 -
Annex 4
Page 4 of 16
E. Waste Management Systems Development Sekondl-Takoradl,
Tema and Tamale
Objectives: To begLn to establish planned waste management systems ln the
three citles by supporting the first phase of programs to improve
collection and dlsposal of wastes as well as optimisation and maintenance
of vehLcles, thereby eliminating accumulations of garbage (nLghtsoil and
septage) ln the citles, reducing blockage of open dralns, and to generally
improve health and envlronmental condLtions in the citles, thereby
asslsting ln thelr more efflcient functLonLng.
Descri2tion: Provision of vehLcles and equlpment to address the most
inmediate shortcomings of current sy3tems of collection, dlsposal and
maintenance as prlorlty measures of planned waste management systems to be
developed for each of the citles.
Location: Sekondi-TakoradL, Tema, Tamale
Estimate Costs: Total US$3.00 million equLvalent (C1.0 bllion) base cost:
Sekondi-TakoradL US$1.00 million (00.3 bllion)
Tema US$ 1.00 million (00.3 billion)
Tamale US$ 1.00 milllon (00.3 billlon)
FinancLng:
IDA S2)            GOG (2)         CofLnanclng (2)
Local   Forelgn    Local   ForeLin      Local   Foreign
90       100        10      ---
Economlc Rates of Return: Not calculated
Imalementation Responslbility: Overall MLGIMWH (TSC), Dlstrict
AuthorLtLee. (The Tamale SWU component would be a discrete subcomponent
complementary to the Infrastructure Improvements component for Tamale.
Conmmencement of Works    October 1992
II. DETAILED DESCRIPTION
A. Road and Transport System Management (TSM)
Background and Project FormulatLon
1.01      The kccra Distrlct RehabLlitatLon Project (ADRP), nov
substantLally implemented, has as a key objective the removal of trafflc
bottlenecks ia Accra. ConstructLon of parts of the Accra-Tema Motorway and



- 65 -
Annex 4
Page 5 of 16
parts of the outer Ring Road, as well as a program of routine and periodic
maintenance were also supported under ADRP. The growth in traffic (32,340
vehicles in 1987, 41,590 in 1989, a 292 increase in 2 years), together with
the lack of development of new road links and network deterioration is
creating ever increasing levels of congestion in the city. The ADRP also
supported a traffic study. The District Traffic Management and Improvement
Study (ADTMIS), which surveyed existing conditions and sought ways to
improve traffic in the area of the city inside the Ring Road. A five year
improvement program was identified within which a series of "urgent
measures, was highlighted.
1.02      Prior to completion in 1988 of the study, it was felt important
that traffic conditions in the whole of Accra should be looked at. The
initial study was thus extended to include areas outside of the Ring Road
and as far as the motorway. In addition, the consultants were required to
examine traffic improvement needs and opportunities in Kumasi, Sekondi-
Takoradi, and Tema. As a result of the extended study, further five year
improvement programs were identified. Once again urgent measures were
highlighted.
1.03      In Accra, the program identified from the ADTMIS was estimated
at approximately US$10.6 million equivalent (base cost 1988), of which the
urgent measures alone were estimated to cost approximately US$4.1 million.
The extended study identified a further program estimated to cost US$91.2
million equivalent (September 1989). The urgent measures identified in
this program were estimated at US$42.8 million. In view of the level of
investment required to rehabilitate and develop Accra's roads and to
efficiently manage its traffic, the GOG have sought erternal financing
support from various sources. As a result, the Bulgarian Government has
been asked to support the rehabilitation of selected roads in the central
business district of the city, a large part of the program tdentified by
the original ADTMIS. A program utilizing proceeds from a past barter
agreement between GOG and the Government of Bulgarian, totalling up to US$
50 million equivalent to be phased over a 3 year period (1990-93) is
proposed. However, agreements have not yet been finalized. In addition to
this major new project, GOG, through its kMR (GRA and DUR), is carrying out
improvements to certain key arterials, utilizing its own resources.
Japanese Government funding is also being sought for major highway
structures (flyovers) at major junctions on the city's main road.
2.04      In Accra, Urban II would provide funds to complete essential
iinks in the arterial system as well as urgent support measures to improve
overall transport system management in the outer ring. This support would
be complementary to on-going measures and the GOGlBulgarian and
GOB/Japanese proposals referred to above.
1.05      In Kumasi, over 100 Km of major arterial and collector road are
being rehabilitated with East German assistance under a similar arrangement
to that now proposed with Bulgarian assistance for Accra. Urban II support
in Kumasi would thus have, as its thrust, the optimization "E these major
improvements through essential least cost traffic managemen.. measures in
the city center.



- 66 -
Annex 4
Page 6 of 16
1.06      The central market area in Sekondi-Takoradi also suffers from
congestion within and around it. Thus Urban II would support essential
least cost traffic management measures to improve ingress and egress to the
market, as well as movement around it.
Description
1.07      Accra:  The component would include completion of key missing
links with high rates of return (+ 50Z ERR) in the Framework Arterial Road
Plan developed under the ADTMIS, rehabilitation of other important arterial
and collector roads, intersection improvements and signalization of certain
intersections. The measures to be included are essentially those
identified as 'urgent", and are predominantly located between the Ring Road
and Motorway (the outer ring of Accra).   The sub-projects are summarized
below. Together the roads total 17.4 km in length and are shown in order
of priority:
(a) Kanda Highway Construction -- 6.2 km of dual carriageway (4x3.75
m lanes);
(b)  Newton Road Upgrading -- 4.1 km of single carriageway - (8 m);
Cc) Darkuman Road Reconstruction -- 3.3 km of single carriageway -
(8 m);
'd) Kwashieman Road Reconstruction -- 1.4 km of single carriageway -
(8 m); and
(e) Dansoman/Sakaman Reconstruction -- 2.4 km of single
carriageway - (8 m).
1.08      Kumasi:  The component would include a series of priority
actions for traffic management improvement in the CBD area. These have
been identified from an overall Traffic Management Plan. Signalization of
important intersections, introduction of additional one-way streets,
improvements to transport terminals, and road markings and signing would be
carried out. In addition, a key bottleneck in the central area road system
will be addressed by construction of a further 240 m of carriageway,
including widening the bridge over the railway between Asafo market Circle
and UTC Circle.
1.09      Sekondi-Takoradi:  The component would include a series of
priority traffic management improvements in the market circle area of
Sekondi-Takoradi. Measures would be simple and involve road rehabilitation
works, road markings, construction of pedestrian crossings, bus/trotro
stops, and the enactment of a one-way street plan.
1.10      Temat  Thea Traffic Management Assessment report on Tema revealed
that no critical actions are required. The Tema program would therefore
not include any discrete sub-projects, although support to the TDRU for



- 67 -
Annex 4
Page 7 of 16
periodic maintenance and minor works would be provided (See section 'B
below).
Costs and Financing
1.11      The total base cost of the component in all four cities is
estimated at US$22.8 million (07.5 billion), of which the foreign exchange
component is estimated at US$14.2 million (62Z).  These figures exclude
contractual services for design and supervision.
1.12      Estimated base costs of the respective city capital projects are
as follows:
Accra               US$17.0 million (¢5.6 billion)
Kumasi              US$ 2.7 million (00.8 billion)
Sekondi-Takoradi    US$ 1.4 million (00.4 billion)
Financing would be as follows:
IDA (Z)            GOG (Z)         Cofinancing (2)
Local   Foreig8    Local   Foreign     Local   Foreign
Accra               90       100         10      ---         --       ---
Kumasi              --       ---         60      ---         40      100
Sekondi-Takoradi    90       100         10      ---         --      ---
1.13      Details of this component are shown in the cost tables in Annex
16-A.
Institutional Arrangements
1.14      The Department of Urban Roads (DUR) would have the
responsibility for overall planning and management of the component. In
Accra the major capital works would be managed and supervised directly by
DUR with supervision and management assistance through a project mAnagement
unit (MU), already established under the IDA supported Priority Works
Project (PWP). In addition, routine and periodic maintenance in Accra
funded from GOGs own resources would be carried out by the ADRU. Day to
day responsibility for fnxaging and supervising the transport system
management measures in Kumasi, Sekondi-Takoradi and Tema would rest with
DUR's in each city with support from DUR as appropriate. Local consultants
would assist DUR with detailed design (where not already completed), bid
document preparation and subsequent supervision of the works. The H/DSC's
and Infrastructure Committees established under the new District Assemblies
in each city would ensure that proposed works are coordinated with other
city activities, monitor progress and maintain close lLaison with the main
implementing agency (DUR) and with the project support unit (LGPSU) in MLG.
The EPC will be required to review and approve the detailed engineering
proposals prior to contract award.



- 68 -
Annex 4
Page 8 of 16
Status of Protect Preparation
1.15      The component was identified through detailed feasibility study
(ADTMIS) in Accra and Traffic Management Assessment Studies carried out
through an extension of ADTMIS in Kumasi, Sekoandi-Takoradi and Tema. For
most of the roads where major extension, widening and/or rehabilitation is
proposed detailed engineering has already been completed or is well
advanced. For the remaining, detailed design is to be carried out by
consultants prior to project effectiveness.
B. Infrastructure Improvements - Tamale
Background and Prolect Formulation
2.01      The Bank's Preliminary Urban Sector Report of 1987 identified a
number of critical infrastructure deficiencies and environmental problems
in Tamale. Generally, the infrastructure of the town is in poor condition,
a position made worse by the flooding of parts of the town as a result of
heavy rains during 1989. Until recently, unreliable electricity supply
which exacerbates the inadequate water supply situation by affecting
pumping arrangements, together with very hazardous sanitation arrangements
(bucket latrines are in widespread use) were considered to be particularly
critical issues. A MLG Task Force was established in 1989 to identify
major infrastructure and institutional deficiencies in Tamale and to
prepare a preliminary project document. This report which identified some
US$28 million equivalent investments which were further prioritized by the
Task Force has formed the basis for the project.
2.02      With connection of Tamale to the National Grid and with
rehabilitation and limited expansion of Tamale's Water Supply system
proposed under the Banks Water Sector Rehabilitation Project
(Credit 2039-GH), the electricLty and water supply position should improve
in the near to medium term. However, increased water supply is likely to
exacerbate already inadequete drainage and sanitation facilities in the
town. The Urban II component would thus support a series of urgent
measures to improve drainage and sanitation and, where necessary, repair
important road links to protect existing investments and to improve the
efficient functioning of the town.
2.03      These measures would be the Opriority* phase of a rolling 5 year
Infrastructure Investment Program to be identified as part of a Development
Planning and Infrastructure Programuing Study, shortly to be commenced by
consultants In the town. This study is being funded from the Bank
supported Priority Works Project (Credit 1874-GB).
Detailed Description
2.04      The component would rehabilitate and extend key roads and drains
serving the town center. In addition repairs to t'own center roads would be
carried out to halt further deterioratLon and protect road foundations.



- 69 -
Annex 4
Page 9 of 16
2.05      A parallel urban sanitation program would be established using
appropriate technology to provide least cost solution to upgrade sanitation
practices and facilities in the town (see para 5.01-5.10 below). The
program would inter alia draw on the experience of the public and domestic
KVIP program carried out in East Maamobi in Accra under the Bank's Accra
District Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1564-Gl) and also ongoing UNDP/RMA-
Kumasi Sanitation Project being supported by the Bank in Kumasi.
Costs and Financing
2.06      The total base cost of the priority phase of the Tamale
Infrastructure Development Program is estimated at US$2.9 million (¢0.96
billion). This sum excludes support to the District Authority to enable it
to implement the program. These costs and the costs of technical
assistance for supervision and project management support and training are
summarized in Annex 16-A.
2.07      Estimated costs of the subsector programs are as follows:
-    Drainage US$1.0 million (00.3 bill)
-    Road repairs US$1.2 million (00.4 bill)
-    Ward E upgrading US$0.7 million (00.2 bill)
2.08      Financing would be as follows:
IDA (Z)              GOG (Z)        Cofinancing (Z)                           _
Local     Foreign   Local      Foreign   Local      Foreign
90         100       10         ---       -- ---
Institutional Arrangements
2.09      Whereas the MLG would have overall responsibility for the
strengthening of the District Authority, MWH through its Technical Services
Center (TSC) would provide technical support. For both detailed project
design and subsequent supervision and management of the component, the
assistance of consultants will be sought. A "Tamale Project Unit, will be
established in the town. The Unit would consist of consultants for
detailed design, procurement and supervision, plus counterpart staff from
the District Authority and sectoral agencies as necessary. Overall
guidance and coordination of the Unit and the component would be affected
through the Infrastructure Committee of the District Assembly of the town.
The Infrastructure Committee consists of the District Secretary,
representatives of the District Authority and sectoral agencies (VRA, GWS,
GHA etc.). In the case of major road rehabilitation, DUR would explore the
possibility of establishing a DRU in Timale which would assist, and work
closely with the project unit in implementing road rehabilitation works.
2.10      Tender documents for civil works (excluding major roads which
would be DUR's responsibility), vehicles and equipment would be prepared by
the Project Unit.



- 70 -
Annex 4
Page 10 of 16
Status of Project Component Preparation
2.11      The component has been identified as a result of the Banks Urban
Sector Mission to Tamale in 1986 and submissions prepared by a multi-
sectoral technical committee established in the town at that time, and more
recently by an MLG Task Force. A Structure Planning and Infrastructure
Development Study is (to commence), shortly following procedures (TOR,
etc.) approved by the Bank. The priorities identified as a result of the
efforts referred to above will form the first phase of the Infrastructure
Development Program.
C. Sewerage System Rehabilitation - Tema
Background and Proiect Formulation
3.01      Tema (Ghana's 'Planned New Town') is the only city in the
country that has a comprehensive municipal waterborne sewerage system. A
system is in place in Accra, but this serves less than 400 properties in
the central business district. In 1986, because of the partial collapse of
the system due to poor management and maintenance exacerbated by funding
constraints and the resulting pollution of watercourses with raw sewage
caused by the by-passing of defunct pumping stations, the Tema District
Council and the Tema Development Corporation commissioned a study to review
the primary sewage and drainage systems.
3.02      Two study status reports were produced during the course of the
study, and a detailed design report was produced in August 1989. These
reports, site visits by IDA missions and discussions with relevant
government officials, were the basis for formulation of the component.
3.03      The consultants propose a series of measures for sewerage
including fundamental changes in pumping arrangements, as well as the
construction of a sewage treatment/disposal facility in addition to the
repair of the damaged submarine outfall. Also, improvements to 3 primary
drainage channels and a detention basin are proposed. The total cost of
the consultants proposals is about US$8 million equivalent. These
comprehensive preposals were prioritized and the urgent measures to be
supported under Urban II would rehabilitate the pumping stations and
outfalls in order to halt the continued pollution of the watercourses in
the city. In addition, changes in the overall system operation would be
carried out to reduce loads on existing outfalls and to reduce pumping
costs. Sewage treatment facilities (ponds which could subsequently be
upgraded to aerated lagoons) to further improve environmental conditions in
the city and to cope with increased flows in the future, would also be
implemented.
i



- 71 -
Annex 4
Page 11 of 16
Detailed Description
3.04      The component would rehabilitate three sewage pumping stations
which collect sewage from the various residential cormunities and
industrial area and lift the effluent to the mabi outfall sewers and then
to the final submarine outfall in the industrial area.  The remainder of
the effluent would be piped to a new sewage treatu.ent facility located on
the south western edge of the town. The existing 375 mm dia steel
submarine outfall is fractured and would be rehabilltated. Maintenance
tools and equipment would be prorided for the maintenance organization
which is to be strengthened through technical assistance and training.
3.05      A total of 6 new pumps ranging In size from 100 to 300
litres/sec would be provided at the three pumping stations together with
attendant civil works, repairs and refurbishment. Maintenance tools and
equipment would include sewer rodding and flushing equipment, a mobile
pump, radio comminication equipment, mobile air compressor, mobile
generator, a pickup truck with a towing facility, and small tools for
pumping station and equipment maintenance.
3.06      The new sewage treatment facility would consist of oxidation
ponds which would be capable of being upgraded in the future to aerated
lagoons. The facility would connect to an existing main drain which would
discharge treated effluent to the sea.
3.07      The land required for the facility and for its future expansion
is not the ownership of the Tema District Authority. Although the
acquisition process has begun.
Costs and Financing
3.08      The total base cost of the urgent measures to rehabilitate and
subsequently maintain the sewerage system is USS3.6 million equivalent
(Cd 1.2 billion). This sum excludes the technical assistance for the
Sewerage and Drainage Division to be restructured in the Tema District
Authority from the existing organization established in the Tema
Development Corporation. The foreign exchange component is estimated as
93Z of the total cost.
3.09      Details of the costs of the component are presented in Annex
16-A.
3.10      Financing would be as followst
IDA (Z)             oo  (Z?           Cofinancing (S)
Local     Foreign   Local      Forein   Local      Foreign
85         100        15        ---
IDA would not finance the land acquisition cost. This would be done by
COG.



- 72 -
Annex 4
Page 12 of 16
3.11      Sewerage tariffs currently collected by the TDC, which presently
operates the system, do not cover system ninning costs during the project
period. TVA would increase tariffs such that the annual full system
operation and maintenance costs would be recovered from the beneficiaries.
Details of required tariffs have been calculated and the TDA has agreed to
institute the tariff structure as proposed. This would entail a monthly
charge of ¢385 per household in 1993 when proposed system improvements are
operational, rising as necessary in line with increases in the cost of
operations and maintenance. (Tariff proposals are on the project file.)
Institutional Arrangements
3.12      Whereas the MLG has overall responsibility for the Tema Ditrict
Authority, the MWH has responsibility for Tema Development Corporation and
the Ghana Water and Sewerage Corporation, which has not been involved in
the construction or operation and maintenance of the system. The TDA would
now be given the day to day responsibility for operation and maintenance of
the sewerage and drainage systems in Tema through a Sewerage and Drainage
Division of the Authority's Engineers Department. GWSC has indicated that
it has no objection to this arrangement and in fact welcomes the
initiative.
3.13      Consultants would be engaged to establish maintenance
procedures, train staff and ensure that appropriate operation and
maintenance procedures are established. They would work with counterpart
staff of the TDA. Throughout the conetruction phase and for subsequent
operation and maintenance of the facilities and development of subsequent
phases the GWSC and Tema Development Corporation and the MLG support unit
would act in an advisory capacity to TDA as necessary. The M/DSC and the
Infrastructure Committee of the District Assembly would ansure coordination
with other city activities and the HLG Project Support Unit (PSU). The EPC
will be required to review and approve all depositors engineering designs
before contract award and continuously monitor the operation of this
component.
Status of Project Preparation
3.14      A detailed design report on the rehabilitation proposals has
been prepared by consultants, as have draft tender documents and detailed
engineering drawings for the whole of the works originally identified.
This has been packaged into three teit4er packages. Based on the reduced
scope of works to cover only the most urgent measures, the revised
proposals will be repackaged. The final revised docvmients would be
reviewed, and be ready to bl' prior to Project EffectIveness.
D. Central Market Improvements-Kumasi
Background and Project Formulation



- 73 -
Annex 4
Page 13 of 16
4.01      The Bank's work in Ghana in 1986 on Urban-Rural Linkages,
outlined in the Preliminary Urban Sector Report of 1987, identified the
Kumasi Central Market (over 8000 stalls) as a market of high regional and
national economic importance and which required detailed study to fully
understand its operation prior to developing proposals for its upgrading
and expansion. A consulting group consisting mainly of staff from the
University of Science and Technology in Kumasi was subsequently engaged to
study the market's economic activities including source, movement and
disposal of commodities) as well as the overall operation of the market.
This included a study of the physical constraints affecting the efficiency
of the market and an assessment of the potential for development.
4.02      The consultants work was coordinated with that of GHA, the
agency responsible for the major Rumasi Road Rehabilitation Program; DUR,
the unit responsible for overseeing consultants carrying out traffic
management studies in the central area of Kumasi; and TSC the unit
responsible overall for emergency drainage works being carried out in the
market under the Priority Works Project.
4.03      The market consultants have produced their draft report
including a physical development plan for the market. Priority measures
proposed involve paving, erosion control, drainage and sanitation
improvements as a prerequisite for further development and expansion of the
market. The Urban 1I component would support these priority measures.
Detailed Description
4.04      The component would rehabilitate and expand drainage within the
market, pave key areas of the market where activity is high and topography
presents serious drainage and erosion problems, and provide sanitation
blocks (KVIP) and water supply.
4.05      Approximately 2 hm of secondary and tertiary concrete drainage                  -
channels 9,000 sq. meters of asphalt paving, water supply points, a
sanitation block, lighting and telecommunication facilities would be
constructed or installed.  These measures are in addition to road, bridge,                a
and traffic management measures, including the lorry park and other parking
improvements identified in the road and traffic management component (see
para 1.08 above).
Costs and Financing
4.06      The total base cost of the priority measures is estimated at
US$1.8 million (00.64 00 billion). Estimated costs of the respective
components are as follows:
-    Paving US$1.4 mill (00.5 billion)
-    Drainage US$0.15 mill (00.1 bill!on)
-    Water and Sanitary Facilities US$0.04 mill (00.01 billion)
-    Electricity supply and telecommunication US$0.18 mill (00.06
billion)



- 74 -
Annex 4
Page 14 of 16
Details of the cost of the component are presented in Annex 16-A.
Financing would be as follows:
IDA (X)             GOG (Z)           Cofinancing (2)
Local     Foreipn   Local      Foreign   Local     Foreian
--     8---          0o                   20        100
The market presents an attractive proposition for cofinancing which would
be sought accordingly.
Institutional Arrangements
4.07      The TSC would have responsibility for coordination of the
component and would provide technical support to the RMA. TSC would engage
consultants for detailed engineering design of the first phase of the
development plan works, preparation of bid documents and subsequent
construction supervision. The M/DSC and the Infrastructure Committee of
the new District Assembly in Kumasi would provide overall guidance and
ensure coordination of the works with other ongoing and proposed activities
(eg. traffic management measures to the road network outside the market and
the Kumasi Road Rehabilitation Project). The EPC would be required to
review all detailed engineering designs prior to the award of contracts.
Status of Project Preparation
4.08      A draft final report of the consultants carrying out the Kumasi
Market Study has been prepared. This includes a longer term development
plan for the market, appropriately phased. Detailed engineering design and
preparation of bid documents for the priority phase would be completed
prior to Project Effectiveness. In view of the complexity of working in
the market while daily trading is taking place, one contract would be
awarded for all works in order to ensure coordination of construction
activities.
E. Waste Management System Development-Sekondi-Takoradi,
Tema and Tamale
Background and Project Formulation
5.01      One of the most critical municipal service deficiencies and
environmental concerns in each of the three cities is the lack of
efficiently planned and operated systems for the collection and disposal of
solid and liquid waste. Inadequate funding, management skills and
operational practices were identified as factors contributing to the poor
environment, and to the poor functioning of the already inadequate drainage
system to which much of the waste found its way. The Banks' Preliminary
Urban Sector Report of 1987 highlighted a number of these problems.



- 75 -
Annex 4
Page 15 of 16
5.02      Because of the problems (technical, financial and institutional)
confronting waste management and the lack of experience in operating
departments to prepare waste management plans, GOG decided that consultants
would be engaged to assist the three cities in preparing such plans. From
these plans a project will be for each city. The Bank agreed to support
the funding of the required studies from ongoing project funds. The
studies are expected to comnence early in 1990. The measures to be
supported under Urban II would be the most urgent measures to address the
current critical needs or the Opriority phusel of the longer term plans to
be prepared for each city.
Description
5.03      The component in each city would commence planned initiatives to
improve and expand storage and collection of solid and liquid wastes by the
provision of appropriate vehicles and equipment (and technical assistance)
for the establishment of proper operational arrangements and practices. It
would also support the first steps in improving maintenance levels for
system vehicles by maintenance either by the public or private sector. In
addition, the component would support improved disposal practices by
providing necessary plant and technical assistance to introduce proper
sanitary landfill and liquid waste disposal practices.
Cost and Financing
5.04      The total base cost of the priority phase of the Waste
Management Component in the three cities is eetimated at US$3.00 million
(i.e. US$1.00 million in each city). This suz excludes technical
assistance required to establish and operate improved management systems.
Costs are summarized in Annex 16-A.
5.05      1     ing would be as followst
IDA (l)            GOG  C1)        Cofinancing (2)
Local   Foreign    Local   Foreign     Local   Foreign
90       100        10      - -
Institutional Arrangements
5.06      The HLG has overall responsibility for the strengthening of the
District Authorities and would accomplish this through the Local Government
Project Support Unit to be established under the Urban II Project, and by
the engagement of consultants to provide the necessary expertise for
detailed project design and subsequent supervision and management of the
component.  It would also draw upon TSC for support.  (TSC has been
responsible to date for drafting TOR, preparing a shortlist of consultants,
issuing requests for proposals and coordinating the evaluation of
consultants proposals for project desig).



- 76 -
Annex 4
Page 16 of 16
5.07      In Tamale a Project Unit is to be established to ensure adequate
and timely implementation of the Project. Overall guidance and
coordination will be affected through the Infrastructure Committees in each
town. The EPC would be required to review and approve all technical
proposals before contracts for works and the acquisition of waste
management equipment are awarded.
Status of Project Preparation
5.08      Waste Management studies in each of the three cities are to
commence shortly following procedures approved by the Bank. Draft final
reports are expected to be completed prior to project effectiveness.



- 77 -
Annex 5
Page 1 of 9
GHANA
URBAN II PROJECT
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
PROPERTY REVALUATION AND MUNICIPAL REVENUE MOBILIZATION
I.  SUMKARY
Objectives: To improve revenue mobilization, budgeting and financial
management in the project cities, and to make the cities less dependent on
central government for funding.
Description: Technical assistance, vehicles, equipment, training and
operationail support for property revaluation in Kumasi, Sekondi-Takoradi 1/
and Tamale, and for strengthening accounting and financial management in
all cities.
Location: Accra, Tema, Kumasi, Sekondi-Takoradi and Tamale.
Estimated Costs: Total Base cost US$2.9 million (¢1.0 billion). (See
Annex 16-B).
Financing:         ------IDA (Z)----           ----GOG (Z)------
Local     Foreign           Local      Foreign
90         100              90          100
Economic Rate of Return: Not Assessed
Implementation Responsibility: LVB, MLG and M/DSCs in project cities.
Commencement: January 1991
II. DETAILED DESCRIPTION
A. Property Revaluation
Description
1.01      Under the previous Bank financed Project (ADRP), the Land
Valuation board (LVB) successfully undertook the revaluation of properties
in Accra with technical assistance from the UK Valuation Office. LVB has
also undertaken to revalue Tema under ADRP without further assistance from
1/   The name of the district has recently been changed to Ahanta East
Metropolitan Authority.



- 78 -
Annex 5
Page 2 of 9
UKVO. This assignment is expected to be completed by June 30, 1990. LVB
now has the in-house capacity to underLake the revaluation of the remaining
three secondary cities within two and one half years, commencing in 1991.
They will, however, need support in the form of vehicles, equipment,
training and incentives for revaluation staff. This support would be
provided under the project. In order to streamline its organization, LVB
has begun to critically review its organizational structure so that it will
be able to undertake these major new assignments more effectively. It is
now in the process of documenting job descriptions for each member of its
existing staff; and when this is completed, LVB will make an assessment of
additional staff requirements and invite a team of consultants to review
its organizational structure and systems, and to advise on the
computerization and updating of its records. These studies and
reorganization activities will also be supported under the project.
1.02       Under this com.ponent of the project the LVB will undertake the
revaluation of properties in Tamale, Kumasi and Ahanta East2/. The targets
for property revaluation are summarized below and in greater detail in
Appendices 1-5. These targets are based on reviews of Accra's experience,
and on detailed discussions with LVI and city officials.
Property Revaluation TarggIt
Target
Current Valuation List   Targot ne Valuation Llat      Start and
No. of     Va ue      No. of     Value -    Value      Completion
Procartin l1960 base)  Properties  1960     9Dates
Accra .A.        45,400     164.1     69,560      -        182,000.0 !/ 03/86-10/8N /
Tema D.A.       19,000      149.4     40,000      200.6    59,900.0    11/59-06/00 E/
Kuseae M.A.      24,460     178.6     40,000      260.2    54,700.0    01/90-0/91
Ahante East M.A.   22,000   96.9      80,000      186.5    27,600.0    01/90-06/91
Taole D.A.       6,800       9.0      17,000      110.0     2,200.0    01/90-06/91
^/1981N price base.
il completed or on-going under ADRP.
Financing and Cost Recovery
1.03      The total estimated base cost of this component is US$1.4
equivalent ($0.5 billion) of which 66Z would be in foreign exchange.
Financing would be as follows:
IDA (X)            GOG (2)       Cofinancing (Z)
Local  Foreign    Local   Foreign   Local  Foreign
90      100        10
21   Formerly Sekondi-Takoradi



- 79 -
Annex 5
Page 3 of 9
Costs would be indirectly recovered through the property tax and general
revenues.
Institutional Arrangements
1.04      LVB will be solely responsible for the implementation of this
component. They will, however, liaise very closely with the cities in:
(i) agreeing on the existing properties roll and valuation base; (ii)
agreeing on a common property identification/numbering system; (iii)
sxecuting the revaluation exercise; Civ) preparing the new property roll:
tv) documenting properties (including mapping and computerization); (vi)
establishing effective systems for updating the valuation roll and for
bringing new properties onto the roll; and (vLi) establishing effective
systems for periodic updating of the property base.
1.05      LVB will liaise closely with the Survey Department (SD), Lands
Commission (LC), Land Titles Registry (LTR) and Deeds Registry (DR) in
ensuring that the revaluation exercise is coordinated with the
implementation of the Land Administration Component. In particular LVB
will, to the extent possible, utilize the new maps being produced under the
project by the Survey Department as the basis of property documentation.
Finally, LVB will assist and facilitate the implementation of the pilot
land adjudication sub-project by ensuring that any necessary
identifications and valuations are undertaken on a timely basis.
1.06      TSC will provide logistic, procurement and disbursement support
to LVB, and monitor the implementation of this component. LVB in turn will
liaise with TSC in ensuring that TSC is provided with accurate and timely
data on progress and expenditure. This will assist TSC in preparing
project reports, and in undertaking project consolidation and audits.
Status of Prolect Preparation
1.07      Preparation is well advanced, and consultants will shortly be
appointed to begin studies aimed at strengthening LVB. Consultations have
already begun between LVB and the cities on establishing the program for
revaluation. In preparing this component a review was undertaken of ADRP
experience as well as the experience of other project cities over the last
five years. A smmary of this review is in the project file.
B. Revenue Mobilization
Description
2.01      The project will support revenue mobilization and strengthen
financial management and budgeting and planning in the five project cities
Accra, Kumasi. Sekondi-Takoradi, Tema a Tamale. In the case of Accra, the
project will support consolidation of initiatives already begun under ADRP.
2.02      Metropolitan/District Treasurers' and Secretaries' departments
will be strengthened through a program of assistance focussing on



- 80 -
Annex 5
Page 4 of 9
accounting and control systems; budgeting; collection controls and
enforcement; direct labor programming; and contract management. Technical
assistance would be provided through the recruitment of a local municipal
finance and information systems expert for each district/authority (24
staff months each).
2.03      Training will be supporte4 through the development of in-house
programs for key accounting, finance and collections staff as well as short
study visits abroad for district/metropolitan secretaries and treasurers.
Support will also be provided to each district/authority for the
acquisition of appropriate in-house computing and data processing
facilities; short local and overseas training courses for key data
processing staff: and vehicles, equipment and materials for revenue
mobilization and public enlightenment campaigns.
2.04      On the basis of a review of Accra's experience and the recovery
experience of the other project cities, revenue mobilization and experiment
targets have been developed for each city. These targets are summarized
below, and in greater detail in Appendices 1-5 of this Annex.
Internal Revenue Targets
2.05      Revenue targets are based on the assumption that a Levalued
property tax system will be put in place by the end of 1992.  It is
proposed that property, business, market and other taxes and fees be
increased by 5-15Z per annum in real terms to keep pace with inflation and
to fully recover the costs of services.  It is also proposed that efforts
be made to improve collection performance from the present 30-80Z levels to
80-90Z levels by 1996. Finally, it is assumed that, GOG grants will be
reduced by 1OZ per annum. This is in keeping wlth current GOG policy of
gradually relieving the central budget of the responsibility for fundlng
local salarles and employment. The revenue targets for each city are
outlined below.
2.06      Property Tax Revenue Targets:  The targets for property tax
revenue are summarized below:
Pro atY Tex Revenue Tatnr
Cedi WIlltons)
tX    " ^1 eo"*}          ~~R"l
Actual         Prol                          Percentage
IU    inu1990  19  1W4   193           Increase 1998-1996
(X)
Acera N.A.            7.2  847.6  897.1 447.2  570.1               691.1
Ksml M.A.             45.9  46.0   76.6 172.7  241.5                426.1
Abohu Eaet N.A.       18.8  22.9   89.7  90.2  149.3                718.6
Tum D.A.             106.7  110.0  165.5 290.8  8.7                 272.7
TmIe D.A.              1.5   2.0    8.0  10.1  1s.8                 920.0
N.B. Further dell- .re preseted In Appenicee 1-5.
These targets assume thats
(L)     revaluatLon will identLfy almost all currently unllsted
propertles;
(LL)     supplementary tabulatLons will update lists promptly;



- 81 -
Annex 5
Page 5 of 9
(iii)     collection efficiency can be increased to 60S - 901 of
assessments by 1996; and
(iv)     real rate impost increases will average 121 per annum.
2.07       Internal Revenue Targets:  The overall targets for internal
revenues are summarized below:
Internal Revenue Tarame
(1988 Cedi m1llions)
Real
Actual            Prolected                  Percentage
1988    1990    1992    1994   199f       Increase 1988-1996
(I)
Accra M.A.     866.9  704.1   771.7  891.0  1,048.2             185.7
Kumasi M.A.    818.0   822.6   388.2  539.9   660.4             107.7
Ahanta East V.A.  86.8    91.5    116.7  187.6    264.0         198.6
Toma D.A.      170.1   178.6   282.7  87s.9   482.7             168.8
Tamale D.A.     21.5    23.9    29.0   42.2    56.8             161.9
H.S. Further details and assumptions for each city are presented in Appendices 1-5.
2.08       If these targets are achieved, all Authorities should- be able to
generate sufficient resources to meet their projected recurrent
expenditures. This conclusion is based on the further assumption that
expenditures on staff and general office administrative expenditures will
be subjected to strict controls and that G.O.G. grants would decline
slowly. After allocating substantial increases to operational transport,
and to repairs and maintenance of infrastructure, Authorities should still
be left with modest resources for financing capital development and/or for
debt servicing.
2.09       Structure of Revenues:  The projected contribution of business
and market fees and property rates in 1996 is shown below. The combined
contribution of these sources of revenue to the total internal revenue
ranges from 68.a1 in Tamale to 93.6? in Tema. In Kumasi and Tamale the
revenue fro-a market and business fees will continue to be in excess of the
property rate revenues in the foreseeable future. This is explained by the
fact that Kumasi has one of the largest markets in West Africa with over
6000 covered and open stalls, and that Tamale, being an agricultural area,
has a significant number of small markets and a poor property base.
Protected Structure of internal Rovenue in 1996
Business   Property
Fee        Rates
Total    Business             U of Total  S of
Internal Market     Property  Internal    Total IntOl  Combined
Revenue  Fee         Rates    Revenue    Revenue      P-rc ntn
(Curront mmIliliIons)          Nr                     (,)
Accra M.A.      200656   498.6      1141.2      28.2      56.2         79.1
Kumeal U.A.     1801.8   84.6       476.9       49.5      86.6         66.1
Abanto Erat M.A.   601.0   146.5    295.2       29.0      s8.6         87.6
Tm D.A.          951.2   106.6      761.6       11.4      82.2         98.6
Tamle D.A.       110.9   46.1        80.2       41.6      27.2         60.6
N.B. Further dealls and assumptions for each city are presented In Appendices 1-5.



- 82 -
Annex 5
Page 6 of 9
Expenditure Targets
2.10       Recurrent Expenditure Targets - Wages and Salariest Wages and
salaries dominate recurrent expenditure, particularly in Tamale and where
they accounted for about 85Z of the total in 1988 and in Accra where they
accounted for about 702 of the 1988 total. Careful attention should be
paid in all cities to rationalizing and reducing staffing levels in order
to reduce costs and improve resource utilization. In particular, Tamale,
Ahanta East and Accra should urgently undertake detailed reviews of
staffing levels and begin taking measures to redeploy surplus staff. The
targets for staff emoluments are shown below and in Appendix ;-5.
Targets for Wages and
(1988 Cedi: Millions)
Real
Actual            Prolected                   Percentage
Increase (Decrease)
1066    1000    1002   1t04    106          1088 - 1996
Acera M.A.       08.7   876.7   876.09  '97.1   416.5          4.4
Kumal M.A.      220.7   207.0   209.7      '9.6  210.4         4.4
Ahanta East M.A. 141.0   110.4   106.2   1 .2   106.2        (-24.7)
Tem D.A.         9.8    900.8    91.0    95.4   100.0          4.4
Tamale D.A.      48.8    84.7    81.8    81.8    81.8        (-85.2)
N.S. Those target asum 2.56 per annum real Increas  In emolument In Accra, Tem and
Kuals, and no real Increase In Toole and Abanta East.
2.11       Recurrent Expenditure Targets - Maintenances  Neglect of
maintenance has led to the present state of infrastructure deterioration
thus these expenditures must be increased. The targets are shown below:
Target Expendtlurs on Operational
TrYnsgOrt, Rpl rt and Maintenance
(Millions orf 1988 Ceds)
Real
Actual        ProIected             POrCent Inrese
1980  1990   1m      1094   1990        1088 - 1996
Accra M.A.        96.6  146.6  192.5   262.9  869.9          271.6
Kumasi M.A.       91.4  105.9  188.0   178.6  226.8          148.1
Ahanta East M.A.   18.4   16.6   19.5    26.4   88.8         160.8
Ten D.A.          82.9   41.1   51.6    67.4   66.0          167.5
Tamale D.A.       7.4    0.2   909    12.6   16.0            116.2
M.S.  In gnral, maintenance expenditue are targeted to Increa" at about 201 per nnUm
under the project (ase Appendlces 1-6 fOr further detl Is).
2.12       Capital Expenditure and Debt Service:  At present Capital
expenditure is either financed by GOC grants or by surpluses generated on
current accounts and, as such, the Authorities do not carry any debt
service burden. Under the project the debt service burden will continue to
be the responsibility of GOG and not of individual local AuthorLties.
However, the possibility of local Authorities borrowing funds in the local
market or establishing local capital funds as the basis for financing the
development of future capacity will be explored during projeLt
implementation. Similarly, the establishment of maintenance, repairs and



- 83 -
Annez 5
Page 7 of 9
renewal funds to ensure future availability of resources for repairs and
maintenance of infrastructure and replacement of vehicles, plant and
equipment will be explored during the implementation period. These funds
should be established as soon as sufficient financial and managerial
capacity have been developed in each Authority.
2.13      The targeted surpluses for the finance of capital works and debt
serrice are shown in the table below and in Appendices 1-5.
Terted Reowrce Available for
Finance of Camtal Works and Loan 0.bt Service
(1986 Codi: Milons)
Actuel1         Froloate0l           Percent Increase
lgb'5   1300  19e           l906       1986 - 1996
Accra M.A       17.8   282.5  271.6  260.7  804.2       1658.4
Kumsel M.A.     05.2    78.9  95.4  165.7  288.7         146.5
Ahanta East l.A.   4.8    19.4  81.4   96.6  140.7      8192.1
To" D.A.        78.1    59.B  100.9  216.7  295.6       804.4
Tamale D.A.    (0.8)     6.1   7.3   14.0  21.4           MA
4.B. The dramatic Incrasem In particular year* roeflct the projected impact of revenusr
froe property taxe.
Financial Hanagement
2.14      Improving financial management is a key objective of the
project.  The specific actions and targets proposed are outlined below.
2.15      Fees and Chargess  Fees and charges were raised by all
Authorities in 1989 but the property rate levies have been held at the same
level since 1987. All authorities have increased property rate levies and
other charges in 1990. AMA, however, has not increased property rates in
1990 as the revised system based on revalued properties will onul  be fully
operational in 1990. Fee and rate levels will be reviewed annually and
revised as required to sustain income required for provision of basic
services and maintenance of infrastructure. Targets from 1990 to 1996 are
shown in Appendices 1-5.
2.16      Collection Targets:  The Authorities' internal revenue
collection performance for the period 1984-88 varied considerably. Tem
D.A. collected 89.2? of estimated amount collectable while Tamale D.A. only
collected 49S of its estimated revenue for the same period. Accra, Kumasi
and Ahanta East M.A. collected 67.3t. 60.2S and 512 respectively of amounts
collectable. All Authorities should aim at Improving collection
performance by setting collection targets steadily increasing to 802-90? of
collection of revenues due. Targets should be reviewed annually and
adjusted where necessary.
2.17      The actions that should be taken to improve collection
performance include:
(a) establishing collection targets and monitoring performnce;



- 84 -
Annex 5
Page 1j of 9
(b) dismisslng those col'ectors whose collection record is very bad;
(c) rationalizing the staffing situation by creating a proper
balance between the number of collectors and supervisors;
(d) paying bonuses to collectors who exceed their collection
targets;
(e) engaging collectors on a commission basis;
(f) providing transport to collectors; and
(C) instituting proper internal control procedures.
2.18      Enforcement:  To improve enforcement, the staffing situation in
the Solicitors Departments will be reviewed to ensure that the volume of
work can be effectively handled. Where necessary, additional qualified
staff will be recruited and trained. Also, the arrears of revenue should
be realistically estimated so that enforcement programs can be rationally
developed.
2.19      Planning and Budgeting:  With the assistance of the Financial
Advisors, who would be recruited for each city, and the proposed Local
Government Project Support Unit (LGPSU), each Authority will develop
guidelines for converting to a service-orientated accounting and budgeting
system from the present *wish lists approach. Each Authority would also
embark on the preparation of three-year rolling financial plans in which
the prLoritLes are clearly defined and the resources required to achieve
the stated objectives clearly identifled. The rolling plan should also
provide the framework for preparing realistic annual budgets.
2.20      Accounting Systeme and Controls  Computerized accounting and
management information systems will be introduced or further developed in
the project clties. AuthoritLes should also establish repalr and renewal
funds to ensure priority allocation for Infrastructure maintenance and
replacement of plant equipment and vehiclees
2.21      Desian of Forms and Procedures for Control:  The forms in use
are standard and serviceable but will be improved to maximize
accountabilLty and minimLse fraud, A review should be carried out with a
view to instituting improvements where possible.
2.22      Audit: A review of existing Internal. and external audit
arrangements will be carried out wLth a view to rationalizing the situation
in order to minimize unnecessary duplication of effort by internal and
external sectLons,
2.23      Public Awareness Campaign:t Each Authority will develop a
program to inform the public of its actlvities and plans. Also, the
Authoritles' programing will ensure that the timing of increases in taxes
and fees is coordinated with Infrastructure and other Improvements, and
that the public is fully aware of proposed and on-going improvements.



- 85 -
Annex 5
Page 9 of 9
Financing and Cost Recovery
2.24      The estimated base cost of this component is US$2.9 million
equivalent (00.5 billion). The foreign exchange conteiit is estimated at
63Z. (See Annex 16-B for cost summary). Financing would be as follows:
-----IDA () -----      ------GOG (Z)-----
Local     Foreign      Local      Foreign
90        100          10          --
Costs would be indirectly recovered through taxes, fees and charges levied
by each city.
Institutional Arrangements
2.25      Each project city would be responsible for implementing its own
revenue mobilization and financial management measures. To this end, each
city will establish a Metropolitan/District Steering Committee (M/DSC)
which will provide guidance to and coordination of project activities.
M/DSC's should be patterned on the Management Committee established by AMA
to prepare its Corporate Plan, and should be comprised of all the key heads
of departments. They should be chaired by the respective
metropolitanldistrict secretaries, and should meet monthly to review
progress and, when necessary, recommend corrective action. The Treasurers
Department and the M/DSC in each project city will be assisted by a locally
recruited Municipal Finance Advisor who would be supported under the
project through technical assistance. The Advisor would be responsible for
ensuring that adequate budget, accounting and financial mauagement systems
are developed and installed. To the extent possible the work of the
M/DSC's should be integrated into that of the Economic DeveloF ant
Committees of each assembly. Direct responsibility for implementation will
be with the Metropolitan/District secretaries and treasurers.
2.26      The project support unit in MLG (LGPSU) will provide policy and
technical guidance and support to the Treasurer's Department in each city,
az.d TSC will provide support for procurement and disbursement. In
addition, TSC will monitor this component, ensure that project audits are
executed and provide the Bank with timely reports on progress. Thus cities
will liaise closely with TSC and LGPSU in the execution of the project.
Status of Project Preparation
2.27      Cities have bee-n fully briefed on the project, agreed to the
project targets, and have already begun to make arrangements for
implementation. In fact it should be possible to begin implementing some
of the above proposals in advance of project effectiveness.
C:\US~S@W~.SUR



- 86 -                                     Appendix  1
Page 1 of 3
REPLBLIC OF GHANA
URBAN II PROJECT
ACCRA METROFOLITAN ASSEAILY
Table 1.1: PROJECTED NOIDIAL VALUE OF GENERAL RATES EXCLUDING ARREARS
ACTUAL  -RJECTEOJEDT
FY88     FY89      FY90      FY91      FY92      FY93      FY94      FY96      FY96
RATEABLE BASE                                                                                      -
VALUE (CEDI MILLION)             131,9S1  131,961   134,590   137,282  140,028   142,828  146,685  148,699   161,571
% INCREASE OER PREVIOUS YEAR          ex        0%        2%        2%        2%        ZZ        2%       2Z        2%
DNDEX OF VALUE ('88=100)          100.0    1W0.0    102.0    104.0    106.1    109.2    110.4    112.6    114.9
AVERAGE RATE IlPOST
VALUE (RATE IN  CEDI)              0.01      0.01      0.01      0.01      0.01      0.01      0.01      0.01     0.01
% INCREASE OVER PREVIOUS YEAR         ON        0%        Z6       10%       10%       10%       10%       10%       10%
DNEX OF VALUE ('88=100)           100.0    100.0    100.0    110.0    121.0    133.1    148.4    161.1    177.2
AMOUNT BILLED
VALUE (CEDI MILLION)              659.8    659.8    873.0    755.1    847.2    950.5   1088.5   1198.8   1342.6
X INCREASE OVER PREVIOUS YEAR       0.0       0.0         28       128       12%       128       12%       1Z%      128
IDNEX OF VALLUE (19683=10Q        I.0    100.0    102.0    114.4    128.4    144.1    161.6    181.4    203.6
,^  COLLECTED
PERCENT OF BILLS CCLLECTED         11.1      70.0      72.0      74.0      76.0      78.0      80.9      82.0      85.0
COLLECTION  (CEDI miLLXG4S)        73.2    481.8    484.6    S68.7    643.8    741.4    853.2    981.2   1141.2
SINCREASE OVER PREVIOUS YEAR         1S%      531%        S%       15%       16%       15%       1E%       15%       16%
INDEX OF VALUE(1988=IOO)          106.0    630.9    681.9    763.3    879.6   1012.9   1165.6   1340.5   1569.0
PLUROASING POWER OF AMOIJ1TS CGLLECTED IN 1988 CEDIS
ANNUAL DNFLATION RATE %               21.0      16.2       9.1       6.6       6.0       6.0       6.0       6.0       6.0
PRICE IDEX (1988=100)                100.0    121.0    139.4    162.1    162.1    170.2    178.7    187.7    197.1
COVERSION FACTOR TO 1988 CEDIS         1.0       0.8       0.7       0.7       0.6       0.6       0.6       0.6       0.5
VALUE OF COLLECTI04S IN 198 CEDIS    73.2    381.7    347.8    367.4    397.2    436.8    477.4    622.8    679.1
Asswptions
1. The rate impost in 1990 wi l l remain at the same level as In 1989 to al low for the revalued property rating system
to be fully operational in 190.
2 The rate impost fram 1991 wil l be increaed by W0I p.m.
3. The rateable bae is asaumd to grow by 21 p.m.
4. The number of rateable properties has increaed from 45,400, excluding Govt.
properties, to 69,660 after revaluation exerise In 1988.



5
Appendix 1
- 87 -                                      Page 2 of 3
RFOUC OF aW
UR9AN II PROT
ACCA ETRWOLTAN ASSEMBLY
T.ble 1.2: PROJECTE RENU AMO E0YTlR£S: S938-1908 (millions of current Cedis)
ACUAL 
REVENUES                    1S88   1989       1m90      1991     1992      1903      1994     1095      1998
Basic Rate                   18.2   29.0      27.8      33.0    38.6       45.2      62.8     61.8      72.3
Property Rate                73.2  481.8    484.6    558.?    643.8    741.4    865.2    981.2  1,141.2
Market Fees                  45.9   53.8      59.8      64.9     69.4      74.3      79.6     86.1      91.0
Other Fees                   44.2   50.9      55.6      69.2     62.2      65.3     68.0      72.0      7S.8
Business Fees                20.0  120.0    145.9    173.8   234.2    239.9    291.9    336.9    402.6
Lorry Parks                   3.2    3.7       4.0       4.8      4.5       4.7      6.0       6.2      5.5
Other Local Revnues         137.4  15.3    172.7    184.1       m3.8    203.0    213.1    223.8    234.9
Subtotal Local Revenues     342.1  87.5    960.3  1,078.0  1,216.1  1,373.8  1,564.1  1,768.0  2,023.2
CGO Crants Salaries         224.8  236.5    234.4    225.4    216.1    2a4.3    194.1    184.4    176.2
Total Revenues              668.9 1,108.0  1,184.7  1,304.4  1,431.1  1,S78.1  1,748.2  1,960.4  2,198.3
EXPOWTURES
Staff Emalumnto             398.7  489.3    523.7    571.4    614.2        80.3    709.6    763.0    80.3
Travel I ing/Transport       46.6   60.7      9S.      117.4    140.9    189.0    2m.8    243.4    292.1
Other Recurrent Expenditures  54.1   62.3     68.0      72.5     76.1      79.9     83.9      8B.1      92.5
Subtotal                    499.4  592.3    688.2    761.2    831.2    909.2    906.6  1,064.6  1,204.9
RepaIs/Ma intenanoe          sa.2   67.9    108.0    136.7    170.9    213.6    267.0    333.8    417.2
Subtotal                    649.6  660.1    798.2    897.9  1.62.1  1,122.8  1,263.5  1,428.3  1,622.0
Surplus Avallable for        17.3  447.8    388.4    40S.5    429.1    455.3    484.6    622.1    576.3
capital Expenditures
Total Expenditures          568.9 1,10.0  1,184.7  1,304.4  1,431.1  1,578.1  1,748.2  1,960.4  2,198.3
Asseptions
1. Busines Fees: As a rsult of inbredtwon of nes Business RegistratIon F1es in 189, the 89
revenue is estimated at 6 tiw the 168 figunre. Thrsefter, the bass is a;med to
grow by 2X, tariffs by 7.S aWd cellection efficincy to reach b b1y98.
2. Market Fees: Aind to grow by  ral tariff Tness of 28 p.s.
3. Basic Rate: The bas Io assuo to gre. by OX, p.s. triffs by S p.s. an cel letion
eff icieny to reah  by 1906.
4. Other Fees: ASawmCd to grew by local rates of Inflation.
S. G.O.C. Grant: Assuvtd to dscr6m by 1S p.s.
EXniture
1. Staff Emoluwnts: ASum d to grow by a real rate of 2.5 p.s.
2. Transport Costs by 1SX p.am. repairsnd maintemnac b 2 O p.a. end other expenditures
by SX p.a.



A      5
- 88 -                                 Appendix 1
-  -                          ~~~~~~~Page 3 of 3
REPWUC OF OWAM
UIBAN SI PRDJECT
ACCtA IE1ROPlUTAN ASSELY
Table 1.3: PROJECTED REVEE AN0 EXOIlUB: 19681998 (millions df 1988 Cedis)
ACTUAL                           -   OECTED-
REVYBJES                   1988   1969     19         91    1992    19to      1994    1995    1998
Basic Rate                 18.2   19.0      I.a    21.7    23.8    28.5    29.8    32.9    38.7
Property Rate              73.2  381.7   847.6   367.4   397.2   435.6   477.4    622.8   679.1
Market F_r                 45.9   44.6    42.9    42.7    42.8    43.7    44.5    46.3    48.2
Other Fe                   44.2   42.1    39.9    38.9    38.4    38.4    38.4    38.4    38.4
Busine  Fe                 29.0   99.2   254.7   114.3   128.0   141.0   157.7   179.6   204.3
Lorry Parks                 3.2    3.0      2.9      2.6      2.8     2.8      2.8      2.8      2.8
Other Local Rweuee        137.4  130.8   123.9   121.0   119.2   119.2   119.2   119.2   119.2
Subtotal Local Revenues   342.1  720.2   681.7   798.9   750.1   387.1   869.5   941.0  1,028.7
COG Grants Salaries       224.8  195.4   188.1   148.9   132.7    120.0   108.8    98.3    88.9
Total Revenu              568.9  915.7   849.9   857.7   882.8   927.1   978.1  1,039.3  1,116.6
PENDITUES
Staff Enosum.nte          398.7  387.8   375.7   375.7   378.9   387.9   397.1   468.8   416.3
TravelII n/Trenspoib       46.6   60.1    69.3    77.2    88.9    99.3   113.5    129.7   148.2
Other Recurrent Expendtum   64.1   61.6    48.8    47.7    46.9    46.9    48.9    48.9    46.9
Subtotal                  499.4  489.6   493.7    sm.6   512.7   534.1  657.6   583.2   611.4
Repair/Umintnanem          66.2   68.1    77.5    89.9   10.4   126.5   149.4   177.8   211.7
Subtotal                  549.8  545.6   571.2   690.4   618.1    89.6   707.0   761.1   823.2
Surplus Available for      17.3  37D.1   278.7  237.3  234.7   2B7.5    2n.2   278.2   292.6
Capital Expditure
Total Expwxdituree        568.9  916.7   849.9   857.7   682.8   927.1   978.1  1,039.3  1,116.6



A       5
_ 89 -                                           Appendix 2
Page 1 of 3
REPL.U3C OF CHUNA
UR8AN II PROJECT
KUIUSI METROPOLITAN ASSEMBLY
Tab!* 2.1: PROJECTED NMIAL VALUE OF C2ENAL RATES EXC;JIN ARREARS
ACTUAL               --             --PRJECTED
FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92       FY93      FY94      FY95     FY96
RATEA5LE BASE
VAULE (CEDI MILLICY4)             178.8   178.8   196.7   216.3   238.0  64731.5  55278.8  5S831.6  65389.9
X INCREASE OVER PrtEVIOUS YEAR       0o       0%      10n      is5     103   229005        1%        1%       1X
IDEX OF VALIWE 1"88=10)           18.0   100.0   110.0   121.0   133.1  30813.0  30919.1  31228.3  31540.6
AVERAGE RATE IPOST
VALUE (RATE IN CEDI)               0.34    0.34    0.42    0.63    0.66        0.01     0.01      0.01     0.01
% INCREASE OVER PREVIOUS YEAR        0o       05      25%      25:     26!      -99%      205       20A      20S
INDEX OF VAWE ('88=1W             150.0   150.0   125.0   158.3   196.3         1.7      2.0       2.4      2.9
N'0.4T BILLED
VALLE (CEDI MILLION)               60.5    60.5    83.1   114.3   167.2    314.5    381.1    461.9   659.9
% INCREASE OVER PREVIOUS YEAR       0.0     0.0       38X      385     38X      1ea       21%       21%      21%
NDEX OF VALIE (198e150            15.0   15.0   137.5   189.1   280.0    520.2    63.5    764.1    9.1
AI-U COLLECTED
PERCNf OF SLS COUAC1E              75.9    76.9    77.0    78.0    79.0  80.0           81.0      93.0     85.0
COULECTIONS (CEDI MILLIONS)        45.9      .5    64.0    89.1   124.2    251.6    308.7    383.4    475.9
SINCREASE OVER PREVIMG. YEAR        -135      1%      83X      s9o     393      103X      23%       24%      24X
DhEX OF VALJE(1988=IOO)           106.0   101.3   139.4   194.2   20.5    U48.    672.6    835.3   1036.8
PURCASDNG POWER OF AYOUMNS CMLLECTED IN 1988 CEDIS
ANNUAL INFLATION RATE %               21.0    16.2      9.1     6.6      5.0       5.0      6.0       5.0      6.0
PRICE DNEX (1M98=190)                10.0   121.0   139.4   162.1   162.1    170.2    178.7    187.7    197.1
COVERSION FACTOR TO 198B CEDIS         1.0     0.8      0.7     0.7      0.6      0.6       0.6       0.5      0.5
VALLE OF CoULECTIONS IN 1988 CEDIS    45.9    38.4    46.9    58.6    76.6    147.8    172.7    204.3    241.5
Assumptions:
1. The rats imposts for 1990, '91 and 892 are Increased by 265 annually so that the rate
impost in 1992 Is ov r two and one half times that of 1989.
2. Rate impost djusted in 1993 so that billings arao 0 over 1992. They wilI be adjusted
downward because of the huge junp in rateable bas, but the adjustment would
still leave billings IM  higher than in the previous yer.
3. Rate iffposta are adjust  upardo In 19  ad 195 by 0 p.s.
4. One quarter of the properties missing from rates are incorporated over 190-92 period.
S. A new valuation roll with a total rateable ba-. 230 times greater in value than the
1989 one goe into effect in 199S. The naur of ratesble properties
is expeted to incre#e from 24,460 to 40,01 after revaluation in 199.



A       5
90 -                                     Appendix  2
Page 2 of 3
REP.ULIC OF CH"
ISN 11 PROJECT                                                       Li
WWISI ETROPOLITAN ASSBhLY
Table 2.2: PROJECTED REVSI"NE AND EOEDEDUES: 1988-10IM  (millions of current Ced's)
AClUAL  -                                 'ROJED
REVENUES                       1988     1089      1990     1991     1982      1993     1994      1995     1996
Basic~~ Ra.    _                                           _ --                  -              -           (
Basic Rate                     22.7     28.0      33.3     38.8     44.7      61.4     59.1      67.9     78.1
Property Rate                  45.9     46.5      64.0     89.1    124.2    251.6    308.7    383.4    475.9
Warket Fees                   135.9    163.4    194.6    226.8    260.9    300.0    346.0    388.4    425.0
Other Fees                     13.5     15.6      17.0     18.1     19.0      19.9     20.9      22.0     23.1
Business Fees                  63.4     67.7      82.3     98.0    116.1    135.3    159.0    188.8    219.5
Lorry Parks                    30.6     36.3      38.6     41.0     43.0      45.2     47.6      49.8     62.3
Other Local Revenues           18.0     18.4      20.1     21.4     22.5      23.6     24.8      28.1     27.4
Subtotal Local Revenues       318.0    374.7    449.7    533.3    629.4    827.0    985.0  1,122.4  1,301.3
GOO Grants Salaries            99.6    104.7    103.7    188.2      96.2      90.4     85.9      81.6     77.6
Total Revenues                417.5    479.4    553.4    633.6    724.6    917.4  1,060.9  1,204.0  1,378.8
EXPENTUES
Staff Enoluments              220.7    269.8    289.9    316.3    348.0    365.6    392.9    422.4    464.1
Trave Iling/Transport          45.9     69.8      74.2     90.2    108.2    129.9    165.8    187.0    224.4
Other Recurrent Expenditures    10.2    11.8      12.8     13.7     14.3      15.1     15.8      16.6     17.4
Subtotal                      276.8    331.3    376.S    420.1    462.8    510.4    564.8    628.0    696.9
Repairs/Maintenance            45.5     69.2      73.6     89.4    167.3    128.7    164.5    186.4    222.6
Subtotal                      322.3    390.5    4b.4    6D9.5    69.8    639.2    719.0    8U1.4    918.4
Surplus Available for          96.2     88.8    108.0    124.0    154.7    278.3    331.8    392.6    480.6
Capital Expenditures
Total Expenditure             417.6    479.4    558.4    633.6    724.6    917.4  1,030.9  1,204.0  1,378.8
Assumptions:
Revenu
1. Business Fees: The bs is asumed to grow by 4X p.s. and a real tariff
increse of 7.S% is maintained throughout the 1990-95 period. The collecticn
efficiency is assumed to improve from 73% to 8QX over the SeD period.
2. 0t--ket Fme: Assumed to grow by a reel annual rote of 6% and the collection
eff;icency from 63X to 90% p.a. by 1996.
3. Basic Rate: Revenue base is assumed to grov by 3X p.a., tariff by SX p... nd collection
performance from 78% to 90% by 1996.
4. Other Fee: Assumed to grow by locas inflation rate.
5. G.O.G. Grant: Assumed to decrease by 105 p.s.
6. The property rates arrears for 198 are not Included In rate revenue.
Expenditure
1. Staff emoluments are assumed to grow by a real rate of 2.5% p.s.
2. Transport and Repaire and Maintenance Costs re assumed to grow by a real rate of 15X p.a.
3. Other expenditure is doubled In 1990 cospared to 1989 and then assumed to grow by SX p.a.



Annex 5
- 91 -                                  Appendix 2
Page 3 of 3
REILSC OF GINA
UWAR4 n PROJECT
IKUMASI MEIROPUITAN ASSMBY
Table 2.3: PROJEC7E REV84U AN 0P011U. : 188-198 (m IlIln d 1086 Cedis)
ACTUAL -        --
REVENJES                      1998     1960      1911     1991     1992     1998      1954     1996     1996
Basic Rate                    22.7     23.1      23.9     26.6     27.6     30.2      33.o     38.2     39.6
Property Rate                 46.9     38.4      46.9     58.6     76.6    147.8    172.7    204.3    241.6
Market Fees                  136.9    135.0    139.6    149.2    100.9    176.2    198.0    265.9    216.7
Other Fees                    13.6     12.9      12.2     11.9     11.7     11.7      11.7     11.7     11.7
Business Fees                 63.4    S6.9       69.0     64.4     n.6      79.5      88.9     99.5    111.4
Lorry Parks                   30.6     29.1      27.8     27.0     26.6     26.6      26.6     26.6     28.6
Other Local Revenues          18.0      15.2     14.4     14.1     13.9      13.9     18.9     18.9     13.9
Subtotal Local Revenues      318.0    309.7    322.8    3560.7    388.2    485.8    539.9    696.1    68.4
000 Grants Salaries           99.6     86.6      74.4     S6.9    5S.7      63.1      48.1     43.5     39.3
Total Revenues               417.6    896.2    397.0    416.6    446.9    639.0    588.0    641.0    699.7
EXPENDTUES
Staff Emolunents             226.7    214.7    208.0    208.0    209.7    214.7    219.8    225.1    230.4         1
Travel lin/Transport          45.9     49.4      63.2     59.3    S6.8      76.3      87.2     99.6    113.9
Other Recurrent Expenditures    10.2    9.7       9.2      9.0      8.9      8.9       8.9      8.9      8.9
Subtotal                     276.8    273.8    270.4    276.3    285.3    299.9    315.9    333.6    363.2
Repairs/Maintenance           46.5     49.0      62.7     S8.8     W8.2      75.6     86.4     96.8    112.9
Subtotal                     322.3    s22.7    32.1    335.0    851.5    375.5    402.5    432.3    466.1
Surplus Available for         95.2     73.4      73.9     81.6    95.4    163.5    186.7   239.2    253.7
Capital Expenditures
Total Expenditure            417.6    396.2    397.0    418.6    448.9    539.0    6.0    641.6    699.7
a



Annex 5
- 92 -                                      Appendix 3
Page 1 of 3
REPU9LZC OF CH"
U9M 1I PROJECT
AkWTA MEIROPLITAN ASSBLY
Table 3.1: PRO.ECTED NMNUL VALUE OF OCBEIUL RATES EYCLUDDING AUEAR
ACTUAL   -°-
FY98    FYe9    FYSO    FY91    FY92      FY93     FY94      rV96    FY96
RATEABLE BASE
VALUE (CEDI MILLION)                 98.9    98.8   108.7   119.6   131.5  27615.6  27891.7  28170.7 28462.4
% INCREASE OVER PREVIOS YEAR          0.0     0.0    10.0    10.0    10.0  20900.0        1.0      1.0     1.0
INDEX OF VAWE (1968=100)
AVERAGE RATE IIPOST
VALUE (RATE IN  CEDI)                 0.4     0.4     0.6      0.6     0.7      0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0
% INCREASE OVER PREVIU.S YEAR         0.0     0.0    26.0    26.0    26.0    -99.0       20.0     20.0    20.0
INDEX OF VALUE -1988=100)
AMOI 6ILLED
VALUE (CEDI UILLION)                 37.6    37.6    61.8    70.9    97.S    196.1    238.4    288.6   347.3
% INCREASE OVER PREVIOUS YEAR
INDEX OF VALUE (1989=193)
AMOUT COLCrED
PERCENT OF BILLS COLLECTED            0.5    60.0    62.0    84.0    66.0      70.0      76.0     SO.0    86.0
COLLECTION  (CEDI MILIOJ)           18.3    22.6    32.0    45.4    84.4    136.6    177.3    229.2   296.2
IINCREASE OVER PREVIAJS YEAR
IDEX OF VALUE(1988=IO)
PUROiASIN POWER OF AMOLMNTS COLLECTED IN 1988 CEDIS
ANAL INFLATION RATE X                  21.0    15.2      9.1     6.6      6.0      5.0      6.0      6.0      6.0
PRICE DNEX (1988=M1                    10.0   121.0   139.4   162.1   162.1    170.2    178.7    187.7   197.1
COVERSION FACTOR TO 1988 CEDIS          1.0      0.8     0.7     0.7      0.8      0.8      0.8      0.5      O.5
VALUE OF COLLECTIONS IN 1988 CEDIS      18.3    18.6    22.9    29.9    39.7   80.2        99.2    122.2   149.8
ASSUWTIOS:
1. The rte imposts for 1990, '91 nd '92 are ince d by 251 annu II y so that the
rate impost In 1992 is over two and on. half tim  tha; in 198.
2. Rate impost adjustd in 1993 so that bilI i   *ns are IM over 1992. They wi lI be
adjusted downward because of the huge jwr in the ratnabl. bas, but the adjusbient
would stIl leave bi ll ings lIW  higw than in the preious year.
3. Rate impost, are adjusted uprd In 1994 ad 199 by 21X p.s.
4. One quarter of the propertles mising frm rol Is are incorporated over 1990-92 period.
S. A no valuation rol I with a total ratbl- bass 210 timl greatr in value than the
1988 one goes into efect ilo 1999. The nomver of rateable ppertis
is estimatad to Increase from 22,010 to 30,000 afte  velwtton.



Annex 5
- 93 -                                      AppenLdix 3
Page 2 of 3
R2PWLIC OF GCWA
URfLN II PROJECT
AUNHTA METROPOl.ITAN ASSEMBILY
Table 3.2: PROJECTED REVM6JE AND EPENDITUlRES:1988-1996 (mill ions of current Cedis)
ACUAL  ---PROJECTED
REVENUES                          1988    1989      1990     1991     1992     1993      1994      199S       1998
8asic Rate                         6.6      7.1      8.7    10.6    12.6    14.9         17.8      22.0       27.3
Property Rate                     18.3    22.5      32.0    4S.4    64.4   136.6    177.3    229.2    295.2
Market Fees                       27.8    35.1    42.5    60.4        69.0    89.0       8D.8      94.6    110.5
Other Fees                        10.6    12.1    13.2    14.1    14.8    15.6           15.8      17.1       18.0
Business Fees                     14.2    17.1    19.6    21.7    23.9    26.3           28.9       31.8      36.0
Lorry Parka                        1.8      2.1      2.3      2.4      2.6      z.7       2.8       2.9       3.1
Commercial Ventures                1.6      1.8      2.0      2.1      2.3      2.4       2.5       2.8       2.7
Other Loeal Revenues               6.8      8.7      7.3      7.8      8.2      8.8       9.0       9.4       9.9
Subtotal Local Revenues           85.3   104.6   127.6   164.6   187.5   275.9    335.3           409.7    501.8
COG Grants Salaries               78.8    82.9    82.2    79.4        76.4    71.8       68.0      84.6       61.4
Total Revenues                   184.1   187.4   209.8   233.9   282.9   347.5    403.4    474.3    563.2
EXP'ENDITES
Staff Emoluentwfs                141.0   141.0   153.8   164.0   172.2   180.8    189.8    199.3    209.3
Travel lIng/Transport              4.9      6.4      7.9      9.8     11.8     13.9      18.8      20.0       24.0
Other Recurrent Expenditures       5.4      6.4      7.1      7.7      8.3      8.9       9.6       10.3      11.1
Subtotal                         151.3    153.7    168.8   181.3    192.1   203.6    218.1        229.8     244.4
Repairs/Maintenance                8.5     11.1     13.7     16.7     20.0    24.0       28.9       34.6      41.6
Subtotal                         169.8    164.8    182.8    198.1   212.1    227.6      244.9     204.3    286.9
Surplus Available for              4.3    22.6    27.1    35.8    60.8   119.9    158.4    210.1    277.3
Capital Expenditures
Total Expenditure                164.1    187.4   209.8    233.9    262.9    347.5      403.4     474.       563.2
Assumptions
Revenue
1. Business Fees: It assumed that the tariff will grow by a real increa_   of 5% p.a. and collection
efficiency will reach 803 by 1996.
2. Market Fees: Assumed to grow by 1lZ p.m.
3. Basic Rate: Base is assumed to grow by IS, tariff by OS and collection efficiency to
reach 80 by 1998.
4. Other Fees: Assumed to grow by local rates of Inflation.
5. C.o.G. Grant: Assumed to decrease by 10% p.a. In real terms.
6. The rates arrears are not Included In rate income and the
capital expenditure is pert of the surplus available for capital expenditure.
7. The rates arrears for 1988 are not included in rate revenue.
Expenditure
L- Staff Emoluments: Held at 1988 level In 19S0 and then assumed to grow by local inflation rates.
LTransport and Repairs and Maintenance to grow by 16% p.a. and other expenditure.



- 94 -                                       Appendix 3
Page 3 of 3
REPUBLC OF HAN4A
UEN iI PROJECT
AHANTA ME1WMPOLXTAN ASSEMBLY
Table 3.3: PROJECTED REVENU AM EXPEND9TURES:1988-1998 (mi I lIons of 1988 Cedis)
ACPJAL
REVENUES                       1.8    1989       1990    11     92    1993       1994     199S      199
Basic Rate                      5.5     6.9      8.3     6.9     7.7      8.8      9.9     11.7      13.9
Property Rate                  18.3    18.6    22.9    29.9    39.7    80.2       99.2    122.2    149.8
Market Few                     27.8    29.0    30.6    33.2    36.4    40.6       45.2     60.3      56.1
Other Fees                     10.5    10.0      9.5     9.3     9.1      9.1      9.1      9.1      9.1
Business Fees                  14.2    14.1    14.0    14.3    14.7    16.4       18.2     17.0      17.8
Lorry Parks                     1.8     1.7      1.6     1.8     1.8      1.6      1.6      1.8       1.8
Commercial Ventures             1.8     1.5      1.4     1.4     1.4      1.4      1.4      1.4       1.4
Other Local Revenues            6.8     5.6      6.2     6.1     5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0
Subtotal Locai Revanues       8s.3    88.4    91.6   101.8   116.7   182.1    187.8    218.3    2S4.8
GOG Grants Salaries            78.8    88.5    68.9   .52.2    48.5    42.1       38.1     34.4      31.2
Total Revenues                184.1   154.9   160.4   163.8   162.2   2Z4.2    225.7    252.7    285.8
Staff 6wlumnents              141.0   116.5   110.4   107.8   108.2   106.2    106.2    128.2    108.2
Travel ling/Transport           4.9     5.3      6.7     6.3     7.1      8.1      9.3     10.8      12.2
Other Recurrent Expenditures    5.4     6.3      6.1     6.1     5.1      6.3      5.4      5.5       5.8
Subtotal                      151.3   127.1   121.1   119.2   118.6   119.6    120.9    122.4    124.0
Repairs/Maintenance             8.6     9.1      9.9    11.0    12.4    14.1      16.1     18.5      21.1
Subtotal                      169.8   136.2   131.0   130.2   13O.8   133.7    137.6    140.8    146.1
Surplus Available for           4.3    18.7    19.4    23.6    31.4    70.4       88.8    111.9    140.7
Capital Expendlitures
Total Expenditure             164.1   154.9   1S0.4   153.8   182.2   204.2    226.7    262.7    285.8



5
- 95 -                                      Appendix 4
Page 1 of 3
RFEPLIC aF a"
WBAN II PROJECT
IBM DISTRICT ASSEU3LY
Table 4.1: PROJECTED NOMINAL VALUE OF ODGRAL RATES EXCLLDING AMREAS
ACTUAL  -                              J E 
FYS8    FY89    FY90    FY91       FY92     FY93     FY94     FY9S     FY96
RATrABLE BAMSE
VALLE (CEDI MILLI")              145.4   146.4   159.9    176.9    193.6  69993.5  8o593.4  61199.4  61811.4
% INCEASE OVER PREVIOUS YEAR        es       ex     1s        lox      us   30            11       1%       1X
INDEX OF VALUE (1988=109)        109.0   100.0   110.0    121.0    133.1  41281.0  41673.6  429.3  42611.2
AVERAGE RATE IWOST
VAUJE (RATE IN  CEDI)             0.37    0.37    0.46      0.89     0.72     0.00     0.01     0.01      0.01
X INCREASE OVER PREV.YEAR            01      ex     265      26X       25t     -99M      20%       28X      201
INDEX OF VAUJE (1988=10)         100.0   100.0   126.0    158.3    198.3       1.3      1.6      1.8       2.2
AMNOT BILLED
VAUWE (CEDI MILLION)              53.8    53.8    73.7    101.3    139.3    27A.8    .37.7    409.3    496.1
% INCREASE OVER PREV.YEAR                    ex     38x       371      38X     10R       21       21%       21X
IDEX OF VALUE (1988=100)         109.0   100.0   137.6    189.1    260.0    520.0    830.2    783.8    925.7
AMOUT ICrOLED
PERCENT OF BILLS COLLECTED       108.0   865.0    88.0      87.0     88.0     89.0        S      0.0 90.0  90.0
COUJECTIONS (CEDI MILL104S)       S.8    46.6    83.4       88.1    122.8    248.0    303.9    3e8.4    44e.6
VALCO RATES                       49.9    60.0    76.0      93.8    117.2    146.5    175.8    210.9    253.1
TOTAL COLLECTImbS                1.7   1*6.6   138.4    181.9    239.8    394.E    479.7    579.3    699.6
SINCREASE OVER PREVIO.JS YEAR                       31%      31X       325      68 1      22      21X       21%
INDEX OF VALULE (1988=l0"        2*6.0   109.0   131.1    172.3    227.2    373.7    464.6    548.8    682.8
PLRG4ASINO PlER OF AM T COLLECTED IN 198 CEDIS
ANMUAL INRATION RATE X               21.0    15.2     9.1      8.8       6.0      5.0      6.0      6.0       6.0
PRICE INDE)( (1988=109)             10.0   121.0   139.4    152.1    182.1    170.2    178.7    187.7    197.1
CMVERSION FACTUR TO 1988 CEDIS        1.0     0.8     0.7      0.7      0.6       0.6      0.8      0.5      0.6
VALLE OF COL.LECTIONS IN 1988 CEDIS  6S.8    37.6    46.5     68.0      76.6    146.7    170.1    198.3    228.6
VALCO RATES                          49.9    49.6    63.8     61.6      72.3     88.1     98.3    112.4    128.6
TOTAL RATES COLLECTED               108.7    87.2    99.8    119.6    147.9    231.7    288.4    308.7    366.0
Asswipti ons
1. The rate imposts for 1990, 91 and 92 are increased by 26% annually so that the rate impost is two and one half
time that of 1989.
2. Rat. I imot adjusted In 1998 so that billings are 1iX over 1992. They will be adjjsted downward because of
huge jimp in the rateable base but the adjustmnt would still leave billings lM higher than in the previous year.
3. Rat, impost. are adjust upwserds In 1994 and 1996 by 2t p.s.
4. On* quartrw  of propert;" aiming from rol i are Incorporated over 992 period.
5. A n- valuation rol I with a total ratable base 310 tim greater in value then the 1968 one goe into effect in 1993.
6. The total nuwbr of proprtl_m are estliatd to Increase fram 19,00 to 40,a6 after revaluation.
7. VALCO: Volta Alnmimun Co. Is charg  ras  at a fixed dollar amount which is revised evry five years.



I          4
- 96-                                    Page 2 of 3
RWEPUC OF GiANA
LWN U1 PROJECT
TM DISTRICT ASSEMBLY
Table 4.2: FROJECTED REVB4N AND EPNITURES: 1968-1996 (m; tI ions of current Cedis)
ACTUWL                                                                --
REVENU£S                    1968    19t9   1990    1991      1992     1998     1994     1995     1986
Basic Rote                   6.1     6.3     7.7     9.2    10.8      12.8     15.1     17.8     20.1
Property Rate              101.1   295.6   128.4   181.9    289.8    894.6    479.7    679.3   699.6
Market Fm                   21.2    26.6    29.3    38.0    36.7    40.7    4S.2        50.1     66.7
Othwe Fes                   16.8    19.4    21.1    22.6    23.6      24.8    28.1    27.4       28.7
Busines Fee                 18.2    16.7    25.3    24.1    28.2      38.0    38.8      46.2      62.9
Lorry Parks                  4.2     4.8     5.3     5.6      5.9      0.2      6.6      6.8      7.2
Coamnrcial Ventures          0.6     6.7     0.8     0.8      0.8      6.9      0.9      1.0      1.0
Other Local Revenue          2.3     2.6     2.9     3.1      3.2      3.4      3.8      3.7      3.9
Subtotal Local Revenue     170.1   181.5   225.8   280.2    349.1    S18.3    615.7    731.4   889.1
COG Grants Salaries         88.6    40.     40.2    38.9    36.9    38.1    33.3        31.7     3d.1
Total Revenues             20.?    =.1  2M5.0   p19.1    386.0    561.4    649.0    763.0    8S9.2
Staff Eaolunmnts            C6.8   112.8   225.8   137.8    141.8    168.7    170.6    183.3    197.1
Travelllng/Transport         4.0     9.6    11.9    14.6     17.4     20.9     26.0     30.0    38.0
Other Rewurrent rpendilturus   6.9    13.8    16.7    17.6    19.3    21.3    23.4      26.7    28.3
Subtotal                   197.5   136.2   158.5   169.3    184.3    2eo.8    219.0    239.1    261.4
Rtepl pus/Mtintwmnan        28.1    36.6    45.4   65.2    66.3       79.5     95.4    114.5    137.4
Sbtotl                     136.6   172.7   188.9   224.6    260.6   2w8.3    314.4    353.6    398.8
Surplus Available for       78.1    49.4    67.1    94.6    185.6    2n.1    334.8   409.4   500.4
Capital Expsnditurea
Total Expendlturs          248.7   222.1   286.0   819.1    386.0    551.4    649.0    763.0    8S9.2
RAvenue
1. Busaness Fews: Ba   s   _assud to ro  by I p..., reel tariff by OX p.s. wd col lection
effici*ey to read.    by 196.
2. Markeb Fees: Aavinsd to increase by S p.s. nd eel lection ffi ciency to rech
in by 1996.
3. ealc Rtte: Sae is t e. d to gew by OX p.a., tariff by O p.a. and collection
efficiency to reach . by 199.
4. Other fee: Asswied to grow by local rates of inflation.
5. 0.0.0. Grant: Assamed to decre-se by 20 p.a. in eal tem.
6. the basic and proeprty rate arere are not Included In 188 revenue.
Eupwniture
1. Staff Eolwinis: Asuwad to grw by a real raft of 2.51 p.o.
2. Transport and Papalre sad  aintenance to grow by 15 p.s. and other *xpnditur.
by O p.a.



- 97 -                                         Appendix  4
Page 3 of 3
REPWLIC OF QiANA
URBAN II PROJECT
TEMA DISTRICT ASSQABLY
Table 4.3: PROJECTED REVENLE AND EXPEND11RES: 19S8-19SB (millions of 1988 Cd; s)
ACTUAL  -PECECT ED
REVe%VES                     1989    1989    1990    1991       1992      1993      1994     1996      1998
Basic Rate                    5.1      6.2     5.5      6.0      6.7       7.5      8.4       9.6      10.2
Property Rate               168.7    87.2    99.3   119.6    147.9    231.7    268.4    308.7    355.0
Market Fees                  21.2    21.1    21.0    21.7       22.6      23.9     25 3      28.7      28.2
Other Fees                   16.8    16.0    16.1    14.8       14.6      14.6     14.8      14.8      14.8
Business Fees                13.2    13.8    14.8    16.9       17.4      19.4      21.6     24.1      28.8
Lorry Parks                   4.2      4.0     3.8      3.7      3.6       3.6      3.8       3.0       3.8
Conmmrcial Venturo            0.6      0.6     0.5      0.6      0.6       0.6      0.6       0.5      0.5
Other Local Revenues          2.3      2.2     2.1      2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0       2.0      2.0
Subtotal Local Revenues     170.1   150.0   162.0   184.3    215.4    303.3    344.5    389.7    441.1
GOG Grants Salaries          38.6    33.6    28.9    25.6       22.8      20.6     18.8      18.9      15.3
Total Revenues              2e8.7   183.6   190.8   209.8    238.1    323.9    383.1    406.8    46B.3
Staff Emolummnts             95.8    93.2    90.3    90.3       91.0      93.2      95.4     97.7    100.0
Travelling/Transport          4.8      7.9     8.5      9.5     10.7      12.3      14.0     16.0      18.3
Other Recurrent Expenditures   6.9    11.4    11.3    11.6      11.9      12.5      13.1     13.7      14.4
Subtotal                    1N7.5   112.5   110.1   111.4    113.7    118.0    122.6    127.4    132.7
Repairs/Maintenanc           28.1    30.2    32.6    36.3       40.9      46.7      63.4     61.0      69.7
Subtotal                    136.6   142.8   142.7   147.7    154.8    164.7    175.9    188.4    202.4
Surplus Available for        73.1    40.8    48.1    62.2       83.6    169.2    187.2    218.2    263.9
Capital Expnditures
Total                       208.7   183.6   190.8   209.8    238.1    323.9    363.1    40S.6    46S.3



Annex 5
- 98 -                                          Avpendix 3
?age '  -f 3
REPWUC OF QaH
URBAN TT PROUECT
TAMALE OIRICT ASfA3LY
Table S.;: PRO.JECED NOMINAL VUAI OF CIUAL RATES EXJCUING ARARS
ACIUU        CTRE CTD-
FYS3    FY89    FY90    FY1    FY90        FYf3     FY94      FYM6     FY9e
RATEABLE BASE                                -   -   -   -   -   -   -
VAULE (CEDI M1U1I@1)              8.02    8.02    0.82    9.71   105.8  2242.23  2294.65  2267.30  2310.17
x INREASE -Et PREVOS YEAR           as       ex     206      la      10    2      -      is       11        11
DNEX OF VALUE (168.s10)         150.05  106.06  110.06  1221.0   133.10 27951.06 28230.S1 28512.82 28797.96
AVERAGE RATE DAPOST
VAUJE (RA1E IN CEDI)             0.51 U    .51    0.94    0.79    0.99       0.01     0.01     0.01      0.02
X  SINASE OVER PREVIOU YEAR         ex       a      265      268     268      -09       20a      20        2
DEX OF VALLIE (1988.106)        10.00  100.00  125.006  15.25  19.31        1.86     2.23     2.68      3.21
AiO.NT  .L ED
VALUE (CEDI MILLI"U               4.08    4.98    5.81    ?.71   10.60    21.20    25.69    31.14    37.74
X INCRESE Oa M  PREvMUS YEAR        ex       ex     38x      38X     381      101x      21X      21%
IND?E OF VALUE (1968=1106)      106.06  10.06  137.50  189.06  2596"  S19.71    29.89   783.43   92S.21
AbMONT COLLiECTE
PER- T OF SRm   CLECTU           35.70   4.01   SO.OO   55.06   0.0         65.0     79.10   75.0       80.0
rrJ*CTW    (CED        r IUIS    1.40      1.8    2.69    4.24    6.36       3.7     17.99    23.36    20.19
IDKRASE o        8 REvO  YEW        06      21511                             11 sx  7 lX  311   30        206
IOEX OF VAUIE(0891)            106.0   121.0    2.701.5  21.31  43.97   946.39   26.20   14.07  2073.74
MUOAUSND  POM OF AMWNTS CULEC1E  IN 198 CEDS
A?ML INFLATIN RATE S               21.06   1S.2J    9.10    6.80    5.0       5.ll      5.06     5.0a      5.06
PRIE INDEX (19068=10)             100.00  121.00  139.39  152.08  182.11   170.22   178.73   187.87   197.05
C"IERSN FACTOR TO 168 CEDIS        1.01    9.83    0.72    o.66    0.62       0.59      0.56     O.S3     0.51
VAUJE OF COU.SCTGaIS IN 19E8 CEDIS    1.46    1.52    2.01    2.79    3.02     8.10    15.00    12.45    15.32
Assumptions
1. The rate impost-for 10. 91 ad 02 ore Inerreagm  by 25X anual ly e that
the rate impost In 1092 ts over two and a half timm that of 1988.
2. Rato impot adjuse  In 198 so that billIn ls are 1M  over 192. Il.y wi ll
be adjusted dowward bea    of the hugs jum  In the atoble, b_e but the
adjustent would st!II leav billinp IM  hlge  than in the pra   yer.
3. Rate impo_ts are adjustd upwar  In 1094 wad 1095 by 25 p.a.
4. One quarte of the propwties mising fr. polls b mr Ineerporpted over 10-92 peiod.
S. A nm valuation roll *with a tete  Iateable bess 2US tIme greater In value tha
the 1898 oem ge lnto affect in 1. The    er 'o ratable pipetie  is atiAWd
to incr_ese frm 8,797 to 17,1111 ater ralution.



Annex 5
- 99 -                                         Appendix 5
Page 2 of 3
uwwuc  a
~DN U FJEa
TAMUE  STRICr AEIILY
Table 5.2: PRJCTUl  REN£S    0 M e1WU2 16B-1M  (at II lai  of current Cedis)
REVENUES                      196      196      1900    1so1f    1899       15      19604    19      10
Basic Rate                     8.2     4.6      6.9       7.2      0.1     11.8     14.1     17.7    22.1
Property Rats                  1.5      1.6      2.6     4.2       6.4     13.6     16.9    23.4    30.2
Market Few                    6.8      8.9    10.1       12.5    15.2      16.6    22.7      27.7    88.6
Other Fe"                     6.4      7.4       6.0     6.6       9.0      9.5      9.9     10.4    19.9
Business Soe                   8.2      4.5      5.8      6.1      7.1      8.1      9.3    I1.    12.8
Lorry Parks                   0.1      9.1      0.1      0.1       0.1      0.1      0.2      0.2     9.2
Carcial Ventures              0.8      9.315    9.3      0.40     0.42     0.44     0.47     0.49    0.51
athr  Locai Reene             0.5      0.6       9.6     0.7      0.7       9.7      0.9      0.6     9.9
Subtotal Local Revene         21.5     27.6    3a.3      39.9     46.0    62.6      75.5    01.3   115.9
GOM Grant Salaries            35.1     86.9     86.6    85.3    3J8.6       1.9    80.3      28.8    27.4
Total Revenues                68.6    64.4      C9.9    75.2      81.6     94.5    19.6    120.1   136.2
-m1
Staff Euol tawo.            4*.3       46.$     46.8     46.3    6a.7   65.3        55.9      6.7   61.6
Trve lling/Tratport          5.0      6.4      7.6       9.2     10.9     12.8    15.9    17.8   23.7
Other Recurrent Expenditure   1.4      1.6       1.8      2.0      2.2      2.3      2.5      2.?     2.9
Subtotal                      54.7     59.8    57.9    59.6       63.7     66.8     78.4    79.9    e6.2
Repars/Maintenanes            2.2      2.9      8.6       4.3      5.2      6.2      7.5      9.0 9  1.6
Subtotal                     tC9       69.2     61.5     68.9     66.0    74.6    60.9       66.0    66.0
Surplus Availble for         (O.8)    5.2       8.4     U.4      12.6     19.9     24.9    32.1    42.2
Capital Expenitur_
Total Expenditure            t6.6     64.4    69.9    75.2        61.6     94.6    191.6    12.1   138.2
Asumptitons
Revenue
1. Business Fes: The bee It aeumd to4 Sby4X p.*. ad a rnl tariff increas of SX to mintltnod
throughout the 195 peiod. The o el         fficiency is assumad to  tproe from 64S to 91 o
the sm  pwied.
2. iarket Fe: Assumd to go  by a ml annual rate of in p.a. and the col lbtlon
of lolncy from 65  to 0K by I6.
3. Beoic Rat: Revenu be to  sme to _row by it p.., tariff by O p.s. and oollttion
ef ficlny to 0K by I9.
4. Othe Fee and Chagot Aa.d to grw by loca rat of Inflation.
S. C.o.C. Grant is aw_md to decree by US p.s. in rml to.
Expwnditure
1. Staff  oluinta ar hold at 16 levl until 1091 an  r then of lo_d to r  at lecal
inflation r4e; Tranport by 12.51 p.n.; g.perr ad mintnmm by 155 p.c.
n other e     iture by 2.15 p.c.



- 100 -                                     Annex 5
Appendix S
Page 3 of 3
REPUZC OF waw
URN it PROJECT
TAMLE DISIRICT A3SLY
Table 6.3: PROECID REVUEE ANDIQ SNW   S: 29881996 (Ml I I leo ot 198 Cedi.)
ACTUAAL
REVE4JES                     1988    18       1996    2919w 199          19     19t4    199     1
Basic Rate                  3.20     3.f7    4.27      4.76    5.69     6.65     7.92     9.42   11.22
Property Rate               1.46     1.62     2.91     2.79    3.92     8.10    10.05    12.46   15.32
Market Fea                  6.30     0.62     7.25     8.21    9.49    10.92    12.69    14.74   17.13
Other Fee                   6.40     6.09     6.77     5.64    5.6    6     6.55  S.5     S.55    5.5S
Business Fee                3.2D     3.68     3.77     4.03    4.35     4.77     5.22     5.72    6.26
Lorry Parks                 O.S      0.19     0.09   09.9    9.09       0.09     0.09     0.09    009
C_rwela Venture             0.30     0.29     0.27     0.28    0.2S     0.26     0.2C     0.28    9.26
Other Local Revenue         0.S0     0.48     0.46     .44     0.43    0.43      0.43     6.43    0.43
Subtotal Local Revenue      21.6    22.7    23.9    26.2    29.6    36.0    42.2    48.7   56.3
GM Granft Solaric           36.10 8 3.52    26.26   23.24    2e.n    1S.?4    16.96    15.34   13.88
Total Revenue               66.6    68.3    60.1    40.5       U.       556.5    69.2      4.0   79.1
-Slt
Staff Emolumento           48.30   3a.92    34.65    31.76    31.26    31.28    31.26    31.28   31.26
TraIV l rnogTfraport,        3.9     5.29     5.57     6.99    6.79     7.60    0.39      9.39  1l.51
Othwe Recurrent Eapendlturas    1.40  1.35    1.32     1.32    1.33     1.36     1.39     1.43    1.46
Subtotl                     54.7    46.6    41.6    39.2    39.3    40.1    41.1    42.1   43.3
Repeirs/Maintoewan          2.20     2.37     2.55     2.84    8.29     3.69     4.18     4.78    6.46
Subtotal                    66.9    48.9    44.1    42.0    42.5    43.8    45.3    48.9   48.7
Surplus Available for        (O.3)    4.3      6.1      7.5     7.8    11.7    13.9    17.1   21.4
Capital Expwnditure
Total Expenditur            56.6    63.3    69.1    49.5    U1.S    55.5    59.2    64.0   79.1



- 101 -
Annex 6
Page 1 of 7
GHANA
URBAN II PROJECT
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
LAND ADMINISTRATION COMPONENT
I. SUMMARY
ObJectives: To improve mapping, titling, registration and conveyancing,
and to develop cost-effective methods of adjudicating lands and issuing
clear titles.
Descriptions  Production of new base maps for Accra and Kumasi, and
technical assistance, equipment, vehicles and training for key land and
land related agencies; and pilot land adjudication project to deliver
titles in Accra and Kumasi on a basis that can be replicated on a large
scale.
Location: Accra and Kumasi
Estimated Costs: Total base cost US$1.7 million (O.f 4billion). (See
Annex 16-C for details).
Financing:     ----IDA (2)----    ----GOG ()-------
Local   Foreign    Local       Foreign
90      100        10           --
Economic Rate of Returns Only 22 for pilot in short run. Payoff should be
much greater in long run.
Imilementation Responsibility: MLNR, LASC
Commencements January 1991
II. DETAILED DESCRIPTION
Background
1.01      The problems associated with the land delivery, land
administration processes and the lack of maps have been reorganized since
the earliest involvement of the Bank in the urban sector in Ghana. During
the Urban Sector Review mission in January-February 1988, these problems
were investigated and several studies were commissioned using iocal
consultants (Ghana Urban Sector Review, June, 1989, Draft, Report No. 7384-
GU). The review recognized that one of the more critical elements on the
agenda for future assistance to the urban sector was improving land
delivery systems by encouraging more efficient practices by traditional



- 102 -
Annex 6
Page 2 of 7
leaders and governmiont agencies, including the streamlining of the land
titling process.
1.02      Because of its complexity, it was decided to address the land
problem in two stages. The first stage, Urban II, will support a
systematic pilot land adjudication and titling project in Accra and Kumasi,
undertake critical institutAon building in the land administration
agencies, and provide critical support to education and training. These
initiatives were designed to commence a long-term process of intervention
in the land delivery and land administration systems and to provide a
better understanding of land issues and associated bottlenecks. The second
state will draw on the experiences of Urban II to design a major land
component for Urban III (FY 93S), but which could also be supported by
other donor agencies.
Description
1.03      Pilot Land Adjudication and Titling Subproject:  The pilot
project would initiate the systematic adjudication and issuance of titles
in selected areas in Accra and Kumasi. This should result in about 1,000
land titles being issued in Accra and Kumasi (recognizing there are about
70,000 ratable parcels in the City of Accra and about 40,000 parcels in
Kumasi). The project will begin in January 1991 and will run for three
years.
1.04      Work would initially begin in Accra -- in those areas gazetted
under the new Land Title Registration Law, 1986 (PNDCL. 152) -- and be
extended to Kumasi which would also be gazetted under the project. At
least one part of %ccra which has significant land available for
development for housing will be selected. Work will proceed systematically
through designated areas. First, all known land parcels will be plotted on
the cadastral overlay. Next, all court decisions with regard to ownership
and boundaries will be plotted. Then, a field adjudication of titles and
boundaries will be undertaken and disputes resolved by a Land Title
Adjudication Committee vhich will be established under the project.
Finallv, titles will be issued to all successfully adjudicated parcels.
1.05      A cadastral map will be prepared for the adjudicated areas.  In
preparing the cadastral maps it is essential that all land parcels are
numbered on the map, whether they are private, stool or government lands.
The long-tenm objective would be to prepare a complete cadastre of land.
Rectified aerial photomaps 1/ have been selected as the base map since this
provides the quickest and least expensive base map which can be also used
by most authorities for land valuation, vater, electricity and planning
purposes. The photmaps are ideally suited for field adjudication of
boundaries.
1.06      Large Scale Photomapaing Subprolectt  The project will support
the Survey Department in preparing photomaps for Accra and Kumasi. These
1/   To be produced by the Survey Department.



- 103 -
Annex 6
Page 3 of 7
will be produced to a scale of 1:2,500 21. There Is in existence 1986
aerial photography for much of Accra at a suitable scale for 1s2,500
photomapping. However, considering that the pilot project will be
undertaken during 1991.93 and recognizing the rapid expansion of Accra, It
is recommended that as much mapping as possible be based on new aerial
photography. At least 180 Rq.km. will be mapped in Accra and about 220
sq.km. in Kumasi.  This mapping would cover the main built up areas of each
city. Photography at a scale of 1t1O,000 will be used for the photomaps.
1.07      The photomapping exercise will be coordinated by the Srvey
Department and become an integral component of the GOG's mapping program.
The Survey Department should plan the acquisition and production of the
aerial photogr phy so that it will met its needs for other map products.
where possible the resources and equipment of the Survey Department should
be fully utilized.
1.08      The major time slot for obtaining aerial photography is
January/February/March and, to a lesser extent September/October/lovember
after the rainy season and before heat haze negates aerial photography.
Due to the necessity of having photomaps prepared prior to land
adjudication comiencing in July 1991, the photography should be fl:wn in
January-March 1991. This will require the specifications for the flying to
be prepared by mid-1990; contracts for photography prepared and approved by
the Bank by November 1990; and the contract awarded by December 1990. If
this schedule is not met, the component will be delayed one year.
1.09      Medium scale mapping from satellite imagery sub-projectt The
Survey Dep*rtment would also be supported to undertake this program.
Currently the mapping base for Accra and the major regional cities consists
of topographic maps at the scale of 1:50,000 and 1:2,500 which were
produced in the 1950'. and 1960's. This latter product is now completely
out-of-date and is of little use for land titling or other purposes. As a
consequence there is no contiguous large or medium scale planning base map
for Accra or the other cities in Urban II. As an urgent measure, SPOT
satellite imagery will be acquired and used to produce 1:25,000 digitally
rectified imagery map series of Accra and the other four cities of Sekondi-
Takoradi, Tema, Tamale and Kumasi (the l2,500 photomaps will not cover
greater Kumasi). These imagery maps will show roads and be used as an
interim data source for land use, environmental and infrastructure
2/   During (pre-appraisal), the Land Comaisnion Secretariat, the Land
Title Office, the Survey Department, the Land Valuation Board, the
Department of Town and Country Planning and the utility authorities,
had all requested base maps at a scale of 12,500. Investigations by
the Mission in Accra confirmed the need end use of this scale. While
the Survey Department recommended a scale of 12,500 for Kumasi (and
other cities) there my be a case for a larger scale such as ltl,250.
Evidently this scale is presently in use to some extent in Kumasi.
However, if the scale was increased it must be recognized there would
be a significant increase in the cost of producing photomaps.



- 104 -
Annex 6
Page 4 of 7
assessment and locational planning. The acquired SPOT data will be
processed to four false color (infra-red) negative lages.
1.10      Institutional Support to Land Administration Organizations:  The
support measures proposed for the cooperating agencies are designed to
provide essential items to support the operation of the pilot project and
to begin the long process of institutional strengthening which is essential
if the land delivery process is to be improved. In the case of the Survey
Department (SD) this will comprise the provision of aerial photography and
materials for photomapping, as well as several vehicles and miscellaneous
items.
1.11      The institutional support to the Land Cmmeission Secretariat
(LCS) will be primarily directed at the biprovement of the land records
management. This will include support for microfii'sing, micro-computers
for indexing purposes and support for the storage of records. Land records
management requires major attention in the long term and will certainly not
be fully addressed within this project. However, the project will support
the move to a more efficient indexing and storage of records. In this
regard it is proposed to seek UNDP support from a related project for the
provision of an internationally recruited adviser In title registration and
records management.
1.12      X the case of the Land Title Reitstry (LTR), support will be
for vehicles and some miscellaneous items. It must be recognized however
that the Land Title Registry is just becoming operational (as of the 20
October 1989, only 84 land titles had been issued in Accra) and that future
support will be necessary as activity increases.
1.13      Even though the Deeds Registry (DR) will be gradually phased out
as title registration is introduced, it will be many years before this will
be achieved. In the short term it is essential to improve the record
system in order that a conversion to title registratLon will be
facilitated. Support includes a vehicle, record storage facilities and
other miscellaneous items.
1.14      The Department of Town and Country Plannint (TCP) plays a key
role in the land delivery and land development process. Its land records
and maps are essential for the support of the adjudication process and for
preparing cadastral maps. The project will provide basic institutional
support in the form of vehicles, storage and management of records and
planning maps, and several miscellaneous items.
1.15      Education and Trainint Support: Education and training support
is targeted at technical, professional and ezecutive levels. At the
technical level, the operation of the Cartographic and Survey School,
sighted in Accra as part of the Survey Department, will be supported with
equipment and text books. At the professional level, essential items of
equipment and materials will be provided to the University of Science and
Technology, Kumasi. This support will be provided to the Department of
Geodetic Science for the education of surveyors and cartographers at
diploma and degree levels, to the Department of Land Econamy for education



- 105 -
Annex 6
Page 5 of 7
and land economist and land valuers at the diploma and degree levels, and
to the Land Administration Research Center to support land administration
research. At the executive level, overseas training 7ill be provided to
expose senior officers to World Bank land titling projects in other parts
of the world, and to also expose them to advances in land titling and
records management methods in developed countries. The training program
will be comprised of officers from the Ministry of Lands and Natural
Resources, Survey Department, Lands Commission Secretariat, Land Title
Registry. Deed Registry and Department of Town and Country Planning. It is
recommended that the officers visit the Thailand Land Titling Project
(World Bank), Australian land title and information organizations (to
review the newly introduced title registration legislation), and if
possible one of the European systems in such countries and Germany,
Holland, Italy or the United Kingdom.
1.16      Support for Studies:  Studies would be commissioned in these
areast
(a)  Land Adjudication and Titling: (i) determination of the number
of individual parcels of land subject to conveyancing each year
in Ghana, particularly in Accra, Kumasi and Tamale, including
the size of the parcels involved, and if possible, the transfer
prices; (ii) documentation of progress on the land idjudication
and titling project.
(b)  Survey Department:  study to reorganize and upgrade the
department to enable it to operate efficiently and provide
appropriate maps on a timely basis.
Costs, Financing and Cost Recovery
1.17      The estimated base cost of this component is US$1.7 million,
equivalent (00.6 billion) and the foreign exchange cost is estimated at
US$1.3 million equivalent, 76? of the total cost (see Annex 16-C).
Financing would be as follows:
--     IDA  G----    ------ OG (X) -
Local     Foreign     Local        Foreign
90        100        10             --
Costs wotuld only be partially recovered through conveyancing fees, sales of             F
maps, etc.
Institutional Arrangements
1.18      Overall policy and operational guidance will be provided by a
Land Administration Steering Committee (LASC). This is a new committee
that would be established under the project. It will be comprised of
senior officers of the Lands Commission, Survey Department, Titles Office
and Deeds Registry, and would meet monthly to review progress, resolve
problems and provide guidance to operations. The chairman of LASC should
be an experienced professional and would be appointed by the PNDC Secretary



- 106 -
An-ex 6
Page 6 of 7
for Lands and Natural Resources. (Key institutional relationships are
shown in Appendix 1).
1.19      Operational iluidance will be provided by a small 3-4 person Land
Administration Secretariat (LASEC) headed by an internationally recruited
expert on Land Administration and Information Systems. LASEC would be
housed in the offices of the Survey Department. The advisor will be
responsible for preparing and monitoring the progress of detailed
implementation plans and budgets and ensuring that project objectives are
achieved on a timely basis and within budget. (Be/She) will also provide
technical and operational advise to the (sub-project) agencies and assist
them, when necessary, with implementation. The advisor will report to
LASC.
1 20      Sub-project agencies will be directly responsible for
implementing their respective components as follows:
- Large Scale photo-mapping   -    SD
- Medium Scale mapping from   -    SD
satellite imagery
- Institutional support to    -    (SD, LCS, DR, TR, TCP
Land Administration              and LASEC)
Organizations                -
- Education and Training      -    LASEC
Support
- Support for Studies          -    LASEC
1.21      The Land Adjudication and Titling Sub-project would be manned by
a subcommittee of LASC, the Land Adjudication and Titling Subcommittee
(LATS). This committee would meet as necessary to implement the
adjudication and titling pilot sub-project. The committee would be
comprised of representatives from the key sub project agencies and chaired
by a knowledgeable and respected lawyer who would be appointed by the PNDC
secretary for Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources. Administrative
Support to LATS would be provided by LASEC. The .ey institutional
relationships and responsibilities are sumnarized in Appendix 2. It should
be noted that TSC will provide support to LASEC and monitor the progress of
the component.
1.22      Coordination with LVBs Outputs of the mapping program will be
critical inputs into the property revaluation sub-project being undertaken
by LVB. Thus, it is essential that SD and LASEC coordinate very closely
with LVB to ensure that appropriate maps are available on a timely basis.
1.23      Coordination with the United Nations Develo nent Program - UNCHS
(HABITAT): The land component in Urban II has some similar objectives to
the current UNDP Accra Planning and Development Project (UNDP GHAl87/005)
and the soon to be implemented UNDP Institutional Development, Training and
Operational Studies for the Shelter Sector in Ghana (UNDP GHA/87/023). The
steering committee should ensure that the respective projects are
coordinated and that any areas of overlap and duplication are eliminated.



- 107 -
Annex 6
Page 7 of 7
Status of Proiect Preparation
1.24      The land component of Urban II has been discussed In length and
an agreement has been reached with the key WO' agencies. The Steering
Committee has been established, and is ready to begin Implementing the
component.
C: \OW\UGW\DA- .SAR
NA



- 108 -
Annex 7
Page 1 of 5
GHANA
URBAN 1I PROJECT
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
MINISTRY OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT SUPPORT COMPONENT
I. SUMHARY
Objectives: To strengthen local government training, project
implementation and monitoring capacity.
Description: Construction of new training center in Accra: rehabilitation
of center in Tamale; training program development including training of
trainers; development of a Project Support Unit (PSU) in lLG to formulate
policy and advise and monitor performance of project cities.
Location:      Accra, Tamale and other project cities
Estimated Costs: Total base cost US$2.5 million (p0.8 billion)
Financing:
IDA (Z)         GOG (Z)       Cofinancing (Z)
Local Foreign   Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign
90     100       10     ---                 -
Economic Rate of Return: Not addressed
Implementation Responsibility: MLG, TSC
Commencement: January 1991
TT. DETAILED DESCRIPTION
Background and Project Formulation
1.01      There is a dearth of training capacity and opportunities in
local government in Ghana at the present time. The Local Government
Training School (LGTS) in Tamale has been closed for nearly two decades,
and the LGTS in Accra operates at a bare minimum of service and
performance. The facilities were built in 1939 to serve as low income
housing for earthquake victims and have not received any periodic
maintenance or renovation since. LGTS currently offers one low level 4-
week course for local revenue officers and operates its residential
facility in Accra with an annual budget of less than $3,000 a year. The



- 109 -
Annex 7
Page 2 of 5
full time managerial and teaching staff, is currently two local government
inspectors.
1.02      Other training facilities, such as GIMPA and MDPI, offer only
infrequent programs directed towards local government officials and
officers. They are neither inclined or equipped to respond to the enormous
training and development needs that have been created by the
decentralization program. Efforts by individual local governments to meet
their own training and development needs are no more optimistic. For
example, the Accra Metropolitan Assembly, with over 4000 full-time
employees has no systematic program or plans to meet institutional and
employee development needs.
1.03      While the overall context within which local governments are
supported in their human resource development needs is somber, it is not
hopeless. Two events have paralleled the identification and appraisal of
this important Urban II sub-component. The first is a UNDP-funded effort
to train ten four-person mobile planning teams to work out of the ten
regional headquarters. These teams, who have just completed their training
and taken up post in the various regions, will direct orientation courses
for District Assembly members and staff and assist in building a
development planning capacity within each of the districts. The second
event involved the creation of an internal study committee by MLG in
November 1988 to make proposals for a complete restructuring\re-
organization of the Local Government Training School to enable it to meet
personnel development needs under the district decentralization program.
1.04      The Appraisal Mission worked closely with the PNDC Secretary of
the Ministry of Local Government and his senior staff as well as senior
officials and officers of the five Urban II Assemblies, to create a program
that would meet both the shorter term training needs of Urban II as well as
the longer range requirement of MLG and all local governments, given the
recently mandated decentralization program. After extensive reviews (see
documents on project file), it was decided to develop an independent local
government training program with its own training facilities.
Description
1.05      The local government support component has three sub-components:
(a) Training Center Rehabilitation and Development; (b) Training Program
Development; and (c) establishment of a Project Support Unit (LGPSU).
These subcomponents are described below.
1.06      Training Center Rehabilitation and Development:  Under the
project the existing building and facilities in Tamale would be
rehabilitated, and new buildings and facilities constructed in Accra.
1.07      Training Program Development:  This sub-component would initiate
the establishment of a training support unit (TSU) for the Local Government
Sector. This unit would report to a director of manpower and training to
be appointed at MLG, but would be semi-autonomous and physically located
outside MLG at the proposed Accra Training Center. TSU would develop



- 110 -
Annex 7
Page 3 of 5
curriculum and training materials for the local government sector, and
develop and operate training programs for trainers at the Accra and TAmale
centers. Initially the training would focus on financial and engineering
management in support of Urban II and on general orientation and training
for Assembly's system-wide. iowever, the program would gradually be
expanded to serve the needs of all districts and metropolitan assemblies.
To a large extent, the program would focus on equipping trainers to
undertake effective on-the-job training at the district level.
1.08      Project Support Unit (LGPSU):  This sub-component would initiate
the development within MLG of the capacity to support and monitor the
financial and engineering planning managemen%t and development activities of             -
the districts. While this unit will initially support and monitor project
activities in the five cities, it is planned that over time it will develop
the capacity to formulate policy, and support and monitor programs and
projects system-wide.
Costs, Financing and Cost Recovery
1.09      The estimated base costs of this nomponent is US$2.5 million
equivalent (¢0.8 billion). The foreign exchange component is estimated at
US$ 1.9 million equivalent, 762 of the total (see Annex 16-D). Financing
would be as follaws:
IDA (2)         GOG (2)        Cofinancing (2)
Local Foreign   Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign
90     100       10      ---        --       --
Costs would only be partially recovered through training fees and expenses
that would be charged to individual districts for specific training
programs undertaken. The initial investment costs would be recovered
through general revenues.
Institutional Arrangements
1.10      Training Program Development:  MLG would be responsible for
implementing this component. An outline of the institutional arrangements
is presented in Appendix 1 and in Annex 15.
1.11      TSC would assist MLG in implementing the rehabilitation and
development works and provide disbursement, procurement and accounting
support to all sub-components. Howevir, MLG would be directly responsible
for implementing the training program development and the project support
unit subcomponents.
1.12      MLG would appoint the Director of Manpower Planning and Training
-- a new ministry post -- and internationally recruit the director of
training support, the director of LGPSU, the municipal finance/information



111
Annex 7
Page 4 of 5
systems advisor and the municipal engineering advisor -- all 2-3 year
contract posts. These key personnel, acting under the general guidance and
direction of the PNDC secretary and the chLef director administration and
finance, would initiate the process of developing TSU and LGPSU.
1.13      The Director of Hanpower and Training, based at the MLG
headquarters, will have overall responsibility for the training policy and
manpower development for the metropolitan/District Assemblies. The
Director of Training, based at the Accra Training Centre, will be
responsible for overall operation of the two local government training
centers, curriculum development and all training programs. The
responsibility for the day-to-day operation of the two training centers
will be vested in assistant directors, directors and contract officers.
The organizational structure is designed to ensure that the two training
centers can operate as independent entities under the overall guidance of
MLG.
1.14      The training centers located in Accra and Tamale will serve
respectively as the basis for operations in the southern and northern areas
of the country and to meet some residential training eeds. These two
centers will be staffed by a total of 14 professional taining and
curriculum development specialists, in addition to the directors,
administrative and support staff.
1.15      The five Urban II cities will recruit training officers and/or
appoint currently qualified and interested staff members. These officers
would be responsible for developing programs to meet their organizations'
training requirements. These local training officers would work closely
with the relevant training center in carrying out their roles and
responsibilities.
1.16      An initial eight week training (course) for trainers would be
launched as soon as possible after the two training centers have been
staffed and local Urban II training officers have been recruited or
reassigned to these duties. Immediately following the training course, the
training centers and the Urban II training officers would initiate actions
to meet Urban II human resource and organization development needs.
1.17      While a new facility will be required for Accra, it is expected
that the old LGTS in Tamale can be renovated. A residential training
facility for 40 officers will be constructed in Accra and the LGTS facility
in Tamale will be renovated and expanded to accommodate 20 officers for
residential training.
1.18      LGPSUs  The instititional arrangement for this sub-component is
shown in Appendix 1. The director and staff of LGPSU will focus on
reviewing and monitoring the project activities in each city, and on
advising the municipal finance and engineering experts recruited by each
city. This advice will focus on the development of appropriate systems,
standards, operating procedures and training programs for strengthening
financial and technical systems in the respective city. The LGPSU Director



Annex 7
Page 5 of 5
will also begin the process of developing financial and engineering
management systems and policies for the local government sector as a whole.
Status of Proiect PreDaration
1.19      MLG has agreed to the institutional framework.  Efforts will be
made to recruit the heads of TSU and LGPSU by December 1991. The civil
service post of Director of Manpower Development and Training will be
established by July 1991. The preliminary design work for the training
centers should be completed by September 1990. Works should begin by
January 1991.



113
Annex 7
Appendix 1
Page 1 of 1
GHANA
URBAN II
INSTITUTIONAL ARRANMENTS
LOCAL GOVENMENT SUPPORT COMPONENTS
PNDC
LO
I                                                                    N
ICEF DIRECTOR
FINANCE AND
ADMINISTRATION
DIRECTOR
MAWOWE PLANNING
AND TRAINING
|DIRECTOR PROJECT              TDIRDECTOR                           I
SUPPORT UNIT                                     TRAINING SUPPORT
(LQPSU)                                          UNIT (TSU)
_MCA                MCIPA               DEP    DIRETO                    AST. DIRECO
FINANCE ANDA           ENGIEE              ACCRA TRAININ                     TAMALE TRAININ0
INO. SYS. ADV.         AOVIS0                      I                              CENTV
CIRRICULUM             TRAINING            ADmiNISTRATION    TRAININ  DESIGN    ADMINISTRATION
DEVELOPMENT AND         DESIGN AND                AND                AND                AND
PUBLCATIONS             DELIVERY               FINANCE            DELIVERY        _



114
Annex 8
Page 1 of 6
GHANA
URBAN TI PROJECT
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT TO DEPARTMENT OF URBAN ROADS (OUR)
DISTRICT ROADS UNITS (DRUs) AND CJTY TECHNICAL DEPARTMENTS (CTDs)
I. SUMMARY
A. DURs and DRUs
Objectives: To strengthen DUR as a policy, advisory, and central support
unit for urban road systems, as well as to strengthen the District Roads
Units (including the Accra Metropolitan Roads Unit) in order to ensure that
the urban road system in the five cities will be properly maintained,
rehabilitated and further developed.
Description: Provision of road building and maintenance plant, equipment,
vehicles, and spare parts; workshop improvements for the DRU'a (inc. AMRU);
soils laboratory equipment for DUR; technical assistance, training, future
project preparation, and design and supervision support.
Location: Accra, Kumasi, Sekondi-Takoradi, Tema and Tamale. Tamale Roads
Unit is to be a department of the District Authority, Accra Roads Unit is
already a department of the Accra Metropolitan Authority.
Estimated Costs: Total US$5.8 million equivalent (01.9 billion) base cost
for the Department of Urban Roads and the five District Roads Units. This
excludes design and supervision costs for road components which is
estimated at US$1.7 million equivalent (00.6 billion). (See Annex 16-E for
details).
Financing:
IDA Cl)         GOG (X)        Cofinancing (2)
Local Foreign   Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign
Veh. & Equip. (Cities)    --       --       100     ---        _ _  100
Veh. & Equip. (DUR)        90     100        10     ---                ---
TA Training, etc.          90     100        10     ----
Economic Rate of Return:  Not calculated
Implementation Responsibiliq: DUR in consultation with DRUs
Commencement of Components: January 1991



Annex 8
Page 2 of 6
B. Institutional SupPort to City Technical Departments
Obiectives: To begin to strengthen the technical departments (Engineering
and Healthl(Waste Management Departments) of the respective city
departments in order that they are better able to maintain infrastructure
and provide improved municipal services.
Descriptions Provision of essential vehicles and equipment together with
technical assistance (municipal engineering) and training.
Location:  Accra, Kumasi, Sekondi-Takoradi, Tema, Tamale
Estimated Costs: Total US$2.0 million equivalent (00.7 billion) base cost.
(See Annex 16-E for details).
Financing:
IDA (Z)         GOG (Z)        Cofinancing (Z)
Local Foreign   Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign
Veh. & Equip. (Cities)    --        --      100     ---         --     100
TA Training, etc.          90     100        10     ---         --
Economic Rates of Return: Not calculated
Implementation Res1onsibilitys 1LG/LGPSU with support from MWH/TSC.
II. DETAILED DESCRIPTION
A. DUR and DRUs
Background and Project Formulation
1.01.     The Accra District Rehabilitation Project (ADRP) supported the
Accra District Roads Unit (ADRU) - now renamed the Accra Metropolitan Roads
Unit (AMRU). Under ADRP, ADRU was placed under the jurisdiction of the
Ghana Highway Authority (GSA), and later under DUR. It was envisaged that
the ADRU would be transferred back the Accra City Council (now Accra
Metropolitan Authority-AMA) once it was adequately strengthened and
operating successfully. This has recently occurred. There are DRU's in
three other project cities (Kumasi, Sekondi-Takoradi and Tema). However,
these are still embryonic and are being developed under the guidance of the
DUR. No DRU exists in Tamale. Here, because the District Authority has
little technical expertise with vehicles or equipment, the northern region
office of GSA assists the District Authority ou road maintenance work in
the city. DUR is now considering establishing a Tamale District Roads Unit
(TADRU) to support the works proposed under Urban II.
1.02.     DUR was formed in 1988 in order to provide support for the
management and development of the urban road sector. Prior to this, urban
roads in the main cities were managed by GHA through its regional offices.



- 116
Annex 8
Page 3 of 6
Given GHAs preoccupation with the national highway system, urban roads were
largely neglected. DUI 'has begun to remedy this situaticn and was
supported in this effort through the Bank asisjted Priority Works Project
(PWP).
1.03.     Vith regard to institutional strengthening in the urban roads
sector, the Urban II Project seeks to build upon the s:ccess of the DUR in
establishing an effective roads unit in Accra under the ADRP and PWP by
establishing similarly well equipped and competent units in other project
cities. For the foreseeable future, DUR would take re- onsibility for the
major capital roads programs in Accra aud the other project cities.
1.04.     Support would be given to DUR and the District Roads Units in
the project cities. In addition support would continue for AMRU.
1.05.     DUR is seen as developing into a policy, advisory, testing and
central support unit for urban roads nationally, while the District Roads
Units in the project cities (and other urban centers not being supported
under this project) are being strengthened with DUR assistance and
guidance. Thereafter, the district roads unit would be transferred to
District Authorities.
Detailed Description
1.06.     This component includes vehicles, equipment, plant, and workshop
improvements in four cities (excluding Accra), plus spare parts in all
project cities. This would support the proper establishment and effective
operation of the DRU's to enable them to carry out rolling periodic and
routine maintenance and minor works programs. Approximately 152 - 20? of
the annual maintenance and minor works programs are carried out directly by
the respective DRU's with the remainder being done by local contrActors.
The support for the proper equipment for the DRU's is based on the
understanding that funds for appropriate annual maintenance programs would
be made ava,lable by GOG.
1.07.     In orisr to enable DUR to provide support to the DRUs in road
materials testing, *he project will help support the procurement of
equipment for establibL.ng a so4 .  aboratory.
Costs and Financing
1.08.     The total basa cost of the DURIDRU institutional support
component is US$5.8 id.lion equivalent (EDl.9 billion). This cost is made
up of US$3.30 million for vehicles, equipment and spare parts for the
DRU's; US$0.85 million for DRU workshop improvements in all five cities;
and US$1.7 million for support to DUR, including technical assistance and
training for DUR and DRU staff, operational support (project management)
and funde for studies for future project preparation. In addition to the
above, US$1.7 million is separately budgeted for the detailed design,
engineering, and supervision of proposed infrastructure works (See Annex
16-B for details).
1.09.     Financing would be as follows|



- 117 -
Anne% 8
Page 4 of 6
IDA (2)         GOG (Z)        Cofinancing (2)
Local Foreign   Local  Foreigna   Local  Foreign
Veh. & Equip. (Cities)    --       --       1                          100
Veh. & Equip. (DUR)        90     100        10     ---
TA Training, etc.          90     100        10     ----
Cofinancing would be sought for the purchase of vehicles and equipment for
the cities.
Institutional Arrangements
1.10.     Although the MLG has overall responsibility for the District
Au..norities, in three of the five project cities (Kumasi, Sekondi-Takoradi
and. fema) the Department of Urban Roads has the responsibility for urban
roads. In Accra this was also the case until recently when the ADRU, now a
properly established and operating unit, was transferred back to the AMA.
In Tamale urban roads are presently a district responsibility. Because
TADA does not have the resources to cope with the task of road
rehabilitation and maintenance in the district, the Ghana Highways
Authority presently assists TADA in this task.
1.11.     As noted in para 1.01 above, DUR is consi4ering establishing a
DRU (TADRU) in Tamale to implement the road rehabilitation components.
This initiative uhould be coordinated with efforts by MLG to establish a
special project unit to help strengthen implementation capacity in the
district. Technical Assistance would be available under Urban II to assist
both DUR and TADA.
Status of Proiect Preparation
1.12.     The neids of the DRU's and DUR have been defined in detail and
cost. This was done in consultation with the DUR and DRUs concerned.
Detailed requirements for technical assistance and training programs, as
well tender documents for vehicles, equipment, plant and workshop needs are
to be drafted by DUR prior to project effectiveness.  DUR now has the
capacity to carry out these tasks in-house.
B. City Technical Departments
Background and Project Formulation
2.01.     The Technical Departments of the five District Authorities are
generally "ery weak.  They have few qualified and experienced
civillmunicipal engineers and little plant and equipment with which to
carry out their respective functions. A major thrust of the Local
Government Sector Reform Component of the project is to assist the District
Authorities to increase local revenues in order that the7 are better able
to maintain city infrastructure and operate services for which they are
responsible.  The strengthening of city tertinical departments (Engineers                 -
and Health Departments - responsible for Waste Management in most cities)



- 118 -
Annex 8
Page 5 of 6
is clearly required if citizens are to see tangible improvements in
infrastructure and services and thus be more willing to pay for such
services.
2.02.     Other than Accra  the cities are presently not charged with the
responsibility of maintain ng the existing urban road system.  However, the
city technical departments still have a number of functions such as
construction and maintenance of council buildings (e.g. schools, markets,
lorry parks). development control, building inspection and permit issue,
and the provision of roads and drains to new neighborhood areas. These are
in most cases the responsibility of Engineers or Works Departments.  Health
Departments are responsible for functions such as refuse collection and
disposal, conservancy, street sweeping and drain cleaning, cemeteries,
slaughterhouses, etc. In Accra, though, thpre is a separate Waste
Management Department.
2.03.     The institutional support sub-component would assist the
respective city Technical Department in the improvement of services offered
through provision of basic equipment and, as importantly, training and
technical assistance.
Detailed Description
2.04.     The component includes support for the acquistion of essential
plant, vehicle and equipment, as well as technical assistance and training
for all cities.
Costs and Financing
2.05.     The total base cost of the vehicles and equipment to be provided
all cities is US$1.4 million. Technical Assistance is estimated at US$0.36
million and training at US$0.25 million.
2.06.     Details of the costs of the component are shown in Annex 16-E.
IDA (X)         GOG t2)        Cofinancing (Z)
Local Foreign   Local  Foreign    Local  Foreign
Veh. & Equip. (Cities)    --       --       100     ---         __     100
TA Training, etc.          90     100        10     --- 
Cofinancing would be sought for the purchase of essential vehicles and
equipment for the cities.
Institutional Arrangements
2.07.     The MLG has overall responsibility for the strengthening of the
District Authorities. The strengthening of City Technical Departments will
be accomplished through the LGPSU, to be established under the project, the
engagement of a locally recruited Municipal Engineering Advisor for each
city and training. The Municipal Engineering Advisor will be responsible
for developing and installing appropriate engineering management systems,
including programing, budgeting, project management, and infrastructure and



- 119 -
Annex 8
Page 6 of 6
vehicle maintenance systems. The advisor will be supported under the
project through technical assistance. LGPSU would, however, rely upon the
support of TSC for advice on drafting TORs etc., for technical assistance
needs, and for the procurement of vehicles and equipment.
2.08.     The City Technical Departments would take delivery of vehicles
and equipment and be responsible for effective operation and maintenance.
Technical Assistance and training for key city technical staff would assist
in ensuring such effective operation. The provision of equipment and tools
would ensure that at least first line maintenance would be affected by the
respective mechanical engineering staff of the cities and supplemented by
private sector workshops for major maLntenance and repair work.
Status of Pro1ect Preparation
;.09.    Tve basic needs of the respectlve technical departments have
been identified, prioritized and coste41. Detailed requirements for
technical assistance e.g. Terms of Reference, Letters of Invitation etc.
are to be drafted by MLG vith TSC assistance.  Training program proposals
are to be finalized, and tender documents for vehlcles and equipment
packaged appropriately are to be finalized. Finallzation of this work is
to be carried out prior to project effectiveness.
OM:UtBNANMcS.R



- 120 -
Annex 9
Page 1 of 5
GHANA
URBAN II PROJECT
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
SUPPORT TO THE ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION COUNCIL
I. SUMMARY
Obiectives:  To support the EPC in the implementation of its Environmental
Action Plan and, more specifically, to assist in the strengthening of EPC
to enable appropriate assessment of the environmental impact of urban
projects and in the environmental monitoring of project components during
and after completion.
Description: Technical assistance and institutional support for improving
environmental monitoring and for drafting appropriate environmental
legislation, including vehicles, equipment and training.
Estimated Costs: Total US$170,000 equivalent (¢56.1 million) base coe#
(See Annex 16-F for Details).
Financing:
IDA (Z)                   GOG t2)
Local     Foreign         Local      Foreign
90         100            10          ---
Estimated Rate of Return: Not assessed
Implementation Responsibility: EPC
Commencement of Component:  January 1991
II. DETAILED DESCRIPTION
A. Environmental Imact Analvsls
Background and Proiect Formulaticn:
1.01.     The project includes:  Road Rehabilitation and Transport Systems
Management and improvements in Accra, Kumasi and Sekondi-Takoradi;
Environmental Systems Rehabilitation and improvements in Tamale, Kumasi,
Sekondi-Takoradi and Tema; urban Upgrading in Tema (Ashaiman) and Kumasi
(Suame Magazine); Land Administration improvements, including a pilot Land
Adjudication Project in Accra and Kumasi; Housing Consolidation Studies
aimed at developing a feasible and cost effective method of completing some
5,000 existing Government owned incomplete housing units; reform of housing



- 121 -                          Annex 9
Page 2 of 5
Parastatals and AESC; and a Pilot Housing Finance sub-project to provide
indexed mortgage financing for 2000 modest new units and 1000 existing
parastatal-owned units. Each of these components was reviewed in
consultation with EPC, and agreement was reached on a strategy to monitor
their environmental impacts. Also, efforts were made to ensure that the
design and implementation of the project are consistent with the objectives
of EPC.
1.02.     A brief description of the environmentally significant project
components and an identification of the positive and negative impacts of
each component is presented in Appendix 1 of this Annex. The detailed
descriptions of project components are presented in Annexes 4-14.
1.03.     on balance, the project should yield very significant
environmental benefits, particularly through the improvement of health and
sanitation due to the improvement of drainage; the improvement of sewage
collection, treatment and disposal; the improvement of domestic sanitation,
and the improvement of solid waste management practices. Also the damage
to life and property should be reduced and a reduction of the incidence of
flooding. In addition. improvements to urban roads will relieve
congestion, improve access, as well as reduce air pollution due to reduced
vehicle idling on congested city streets; and better traffic control should
speed traffic flow while reducing the occurrence of serious accidents and.
damage to vehicles, life and property.
1.04.     On the negative side, there would be temporary dislocation and
an increase in noise levels during construction periods, though the
developing of Kanda Highway will permanently increase noise levels in the
Kanda corridor. Against this must be set the reduced noise levels on
Liberation Road which would be relieved of traffic congestion with the
construction of Kanda Highway. Construction of Kanda Highway would also
involve the relocation of about 25 private dwellings, thus causing
inconvenience to owners and occupants. The cost of relocation and
compensation have been budgeted for in the project costs. Other
potentially significant negative impacts include noise, congestion, water
pollution, poor land use, environmental degradation due to the construction
of workshops and the local government training centers, and to the housing
finance and land titling components. Finally, the disposal of wastes could
create a health hazard if landfill sites are not well chosen and proper
disposal methods are not adopted.
1.05.     All of thes3 potentially negative impacts can be prevented or
managed through proper design, contracting, maintenance and monitoring.
The project would thus make provisions to ensure that negative impacts are
minimized or eliminated. Their measures include:
(a) requiring that environmental impact statements and action plans
be included in the preliminary and detailed design and
engineering of each significant project component;
(b) requiring EPC review and approval ',f significant project
component before contract award;



- 122 -
Annex 9
Page 3 of 5
(c) introducing appropriate clauses in bidding and construction
contract documencs, requiring contractors to adopt
environmentally sound practices during the construction of
project components;
(d) establishin3 environmental standards for houses and housing
schemes to be provided with mortgage financed under the pilot
housing finance component;
te) strengthening EPC to monitor projects, study key urban
environment issues (particularly Korle Lagoon in Accra),
formulate environmental policy, and to formulate appropriate
environmental legislation; and
Cf) including environmental impact analysis and sound environmental
planning and management practices in the training programs for
local government officers.
B. Institutional Support to EPC
Backaround and Project Formulation:
2.01.     There is at present no legal requirement for the projects line
ministries CMLG, MWH, and MRH) to seek environmental approval for projects.
To date, only the Ministry of Industries, Science and Technology, Ghana
Investment Centre; Ghana National Petroleum Company; and the Minerals
Commission have been circularized regarding the need to submit project
proposals in order for EPC to assess and issue an appropriate certificate
of clearance to indicate that no damaging environmental impact will result
from the implementation of the project. Nevertheless the focus of the
project is such that it is felt that the components should undergo
environmental assessment and subsequent monitoring.
2.02.     The EPC has intimated that it has the capacity and resources to
carry out the initial assessments, but that support is required in the
subsequent monitoring. The project would provide this support. Also the
project would assist the EPC in the drafting of appropriate environmental
legislation for Ghana. In addition, the project would provide support for
implementing a number of small but nevertheless important sub-projects,
this includes developing public awareness programs and reviewing past
studies and work on the Korle Lagoon. Odaw and Korle catchment areas.
Detailed Description
2.03.     The Project would support six EPC identified sub-projects.
These are:
(a) Monitoring of the sanitat:on situation in Tamale and Kumasi,
particularly as affected by the infrastructure and waste
management components of the project in Tamale and the central
market improvements in Kumasi (US$5,500 equivalent).



-123-                          Annex 9
Page 4 of 5
(b)  Monitoring of the sanitation situation in Sekondi-Takoradi and
Tema, particularly as affected by the waste management system
proposals to be framed for these cities (US$16,000 equivalent).
(c)  Monitoring of the sewage situation (and testing of effluent as
appropriate) in Tema during the implementation of the sewerage
rehabilitation component (US$18,000 equivalent).
(d)  Collectior., collation and review of studies conducted on the
Rorle Lagoon system and recommendations of possible mitigative
measures to improve the environmental status of the Korle Lagoon
catchment area (US$2,000 equivalent).
(e)  Creation of a public awareness program in the Odaw and Korle
catchment areas, including a socio-economic study with a view to
drawing up effective environmental education programs and to
educate people living in and around the catchment areas on
ecology of the river and lagoon and the effect of use of the
catchment as a waste disposal facility on the catchment
ecosystem (US$8,500 equivalent).
(f)  Strengthening of the EPC to enhance its capability and
capacitieu to meet environmental protection requirements
including training, the establishment of standards for air
quality, water quality as well as guidelines for impact
assessment for prospective developers. More specifically the
component would include training on short term courses, two
vehicles and pollution monitoring equipment (US$90,000
equivalent).
2.04.     In addition to the above, six man-months of technical assistance
would be provided to assist EPC to draft appropriate environmental
legislation.
Costs and Financing
2.05.     The total base cost of the component is US$170,000 equivalent
(056.1 million), of which the foreign exchange content is estimated at
US$111,000 equivalent (65Z7. Costs are summarized in Annex 16-F.
Financing would be as follows:
IDA (2)                   GOG (2)
Local     Foreign         Local      Fore ian
90        100            10          --



- 124 -
Annex 9
Page 5 of 5
I_stitutional Arrangements
2.06.     The EPC, at present is under the jurisdiction of MLG, will be
responsible for the implementation of the component under its Director of
Progra-mes. It will also assist the Project Coordinating Committee (PCC)
in formulating environmental policy and monitoring environmental impacts.
In addition, EPC would assist TSC, DUR, and MLG in drafting appropriate
clauses for inclusion in bidding and contract documents, and in reviewing
these documents prior to contract award. TSC would assist the EPC in
procurement matters and ensure that all detailed project proposals include
environmental impact statements and are fed to the EPC for assessment. TSC
would also keep EPC abreast of progress on project implementation by
regular formal and informal contact to ensure that EPC is able to establish
environmental monitoring programs for the projects components.
Status of Pro)ect Preparation
2.07.     A proposal for Environmental Impact Assessment for project
components and additional important sub-projects (eg. Korle Lagoon studies
collation and review) has been prepared by EPC (on project file) and is the
basis of project formulation. Detailed project proposals acceptable to the
Bank are to be prepared by EPC prior to disbursement on this component.
OM%usMMAMX-e.SAR
i



- 125 -                          A
GHANA
URBAN SI PROJECT
Environmental Impact Analysis
Positive                    Negative
Project Cio enmnt                             la _ cte                    Impacts
I Road Rehabilitation
and Transport System Mgmt.
aetter access and           Relocation of about
I)   Kanda Highway                                  reduced congestion;        e0 houses Including
reduced air pollution      about 26 privately
New 6.25 km, 4 lano rural carriage           due to vehicle              owned; temporary            r
way to roliete Liberation Road               idling; improved road       dislocation and
congestion.                                  safety due to better        increaso in noise           L
traffic management;         during construction
period; increased
vehicular noise
levels on completion.
II)     Other Roads                                  Better access and           Temporary dislocation
reduced congestion;        and increase In noise
Reconstruction and rehabilitation of         reduced air pollution       during construction
existing roads, 11.2 km.                     due to vehicle              period.
Idling; improved road
safety due to better
traffic management;
reduced flooding and
consequently improved
health conditions and
reduced damage to
buildings and
structuroes.
b) Kumasi Roads and Traffic Managment                  Better access and            Temporary dislocation
reduced congestion;        and Increase in noise
Signelizatlon, road marking, sinage; and            reduced air pollution       during construction
channelization; widening of road bridge             due to vehicle              period.
across the railway near ASAFO Market Circle;        idling; improved road
improvement to exist7ng market car park            safety due to better
access; pedestr1iniaiTW ton of Kesetia Circle.      traffic managemont;
reduced flooding and
consequently improved
health conditions and
reduced damage to
buildings and
structures.
c) Sokondi-Takoradl Roads and Traffic                  Better access and            Temporary dislocation
Management                                          reduced congestion;         and increase in noise
reduced air pollution      during construction
Road rehabilitation and signalization, road         duo to vehicle              period.
marking, sinage, channelization and road            Idling; improved road
drainage; improvement to market access;             safety due to better
(improvements confined to central area             traffic management;
aroend market and CBD; All roads existing;).        reduced flooding and
consequently Improved
health conditions and
reduced damage to
buildings and
structures.



- 126 -
Page 2of 4
GHANA
URBAN S! PROJECT
Environmental Impact Analysis
Positive                    Negative
Preolect Commonent                            Impacts          _aact
IT. Environmental Systems
a) Tamale Infrastructure                                Better access and           Temporary dielocation
roduced congestion;        and Increase in noise
Strategic road and drainage rehabilitation          reduced air pollution       during construction
in exitting heavily trafficked areas most           due to vehicle              period; relocation of
pron  tofooding; urban upgrading (rosdo,            Idling; reduced             10-16 houses  (out of
drains water supply and domestic sanitation)        flooding and                about 230).
in Ward OE.                                         conse4uent ly Improved
health conditiors and
reduced damage to
buildings and
structures; improved
sanitWtion and
consequent improved
health conditions.
b)  Tema Sewaae Rehabilitation                          Impro,ed helth and          Minor dislocation
sanitation due to           during construction;
Rehabilitation of pipes, pumps and se               elimination of              aerobic ponds take up
outfall; construction of new aerobic ponds          outflow of raw sewage       significant area
to take and troet a part of effluent flow;          Into roads and drains       (about foha) but
effluent treated to accepted international          and transport of            easier and cheaper to
norms before discharge to sea; provision for        effluent further out        maintain than
aeration of ponds at later stage to deal            to sea plus                 mechanical system (no
with increased load.                                Introduction of             shortage of land).
higher treatment
norms; protection of
beach from raw sewage
discharge.
c)  Kumasi Central Market Improvements                  Considerably improved       Dislocation and noise
health conditions due      during construction.
First stage includes paving, drainage, water        to improved paving,
supply, sanitation and lighting (NMB.               drainage and
(i) market subject tv severe floodEin  during      sanitation; nsiso
rainy seaon leaving vendors and shoppers            reduced damage to
operating In mud and garbage; water and             goods; and
sanitation now almost non-existent.                 structures.
(tl) Market access and parking being
improved under I(b)8 above.)
d)  Waste Mansgement SystmS Imrovement                  Improved health and         Potential worsening
3S,kondi-Takorad], Tema and Tamale)                sanitation; reduced         of environmental
blockage of drains by       conditions at
Studies and Implemcntatlon of proposals to          garbage leading to          disposal sites If
Improve moot critical aspects of collection         reduced flooding and        adequate disposal
and disposal systems Including provision of         consequent                  measures are not
meat oesential vehicles and equipment. as           Improvements to             adopted and If sites
well as training and technicel assistance.          health and reduction        badly located.
of damage to
structures.



- 127 -
Ann.,4
GHANA
URBAN II PROJECT
Environmental Impact Analysis
Poslve                      Negative
Project Comonent                               Imcts                       Z
III.  Workshops for City Enineer's Depts.
Modest buildings and shed for vehicle             None directly,              Minor, but could be a
repair and maintenanc- and the storage            however, improved           significant noise,
of tools and *psree.                              vehicl, maintenance         pollution and
should load to lses         congestion nuisance
air pollution.              if poorly located and
maintained.
IV. Local Government Training
Conters. Acra and Tamale
New building in Acara and rehab;litation           None directly,               Mirnor; but now
in Tamale.                                         however, improved           bui;ding could oo a
training should load        nuivonee if not well          U
to bettor L.G.              sited.
practices and
hopefully, to better
environmental
management.
V.   Lend Administration
Improved mapping and conveyancing and pilot        Improved mapping and        Improved access to
land adjudication project aimed at                 titling should lead         title could lead to
developing effective *%holesalao method for        to more informed             accelerated
resolving conflicting ownership claims and         planning and land           development and
improving land titl, delivery.                     development and             demand for land which
utilization also to         if not adequately
reduction of                managed could lead to
uncompleted                 misuse of land
structures; should          resources.
also lead to fewer
uncontrolled
settlements.
VI.  Urban Upgradina Tema! and Kumasi
Improvement of roads, drains, and domestic         Improved health and         Temporary dislocation
sanitetion and water supply; (Tea  site is         sanitation conditions       and lncrease in noise
existing unserviced, Informal housing              and reduction in            during construction
settlement; Kumasi site Is existing                damage to building           period; almost no
informal unservicd light industrial               and structures due to       relocation lnvolved
settlement).                                       better roads and             (3-6 minor
drains.                     structures).
VIZ. Housing Consolidation Studies
Possible health and         Temporary dislocation
Studies to develop economic and                    sanitation                   and increased noise
precticable method of ceompleting about            improvements due to         during eventual
5,06  jxioting uncompleted buildings               eventual completion         construction period.
n&tion-Td--- (no construction proposed             of building and
under project).                                    removal of potential
dumping sites; 1lso
should lead to
reduction of poests
and vermin.



- 128 -
URBAN 11 PROJECT
Environmental Impact Analysis
Positive                    Ngative
Prolect Com"onent                             Ieacte                       T DaCC
VII!. Parastatal Rotorm
Rationalization/Cowu.rctelization of             Indirect; but               None.
existing housing development and                 improvments should
infrastructur, consulting perastatals.           lead to better
environmental
planning and
mangement,
particularly in AFSC
_ perestotal
responsible for
design of governmont
building end major
drainage and
engineering works,
1X.    Housing Finance Pilot
Mortage finance for about 2,066 new              Improved land               Increased demand for
modeet expendabl, housing unIts and              resource use and            land and posetbl-
eonvereion of 1,'M   xistina parstatal          environment                 environmental
owned rental unite tmsiS-iN.O  ,                management If               degradatton it
project would not directly finance any          qualifying norms are        siting, draiage and
construction; th;s would be done                adequately enforced;         roads not adequately
Independently by private Individuals,           availability of             planned, constructed
developers and companies as well as             mortgage finance             and managed.
parastatels; however, minimum qualifying        should reduce
noras would be established for mortgage          incidence of
financing),                                     uncoupled/abandoned
structures harboring
pests and vermin as
well as garbage.



- 129 -
Annex 10
Page 1 of 3
GHANA
URBAN II PROJECT
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
URBAN UPGRADING COMPONENT
I. SUMMARY
Objectives: To improve the environmental, sanitary and functional
conditions in the underserviced and poorly operating low income areas of
the cities, thereby improving the health and quality of life of residents
and the conditions for business; and to train about 100 local women in
basic construction techniques.
F
Deciption:  Improvements to roads, water supply, primary secondary and
tertiary drainage; street lighting and public sanitation facilities; refuse
collection; in Ashaiman for about 24,000 residents and in Suame Magazine, a
light industrial/commercial area of Kumasi accomodating about 300 informal
sector small and micro enterprises.
Location: (a) Tema, Ashaim4n site, and (b) Kumasi, Suame Magazine.
Estimated Costs: (a) Ashaiman: US$3.0 million equivalent (¢1.0 billion)
(b) Suame: US$0.5 million equivalent (tO.2 billion)
(c) Design and Supervision:  US$0.3 million equivalent
(¢0.1 billion)
Financing:         IDA (%I             GOG (Z)
Local   Foreign    Local      ForeiRn
90      100         10         --
Economic Rate of Return: Ashiaman: 372; Suame: Not assessed.
Implementation Responsibility: HWH/TSC
Commencement of ComPonent: Ashaiman: April 1991
Suame:     March 1992
II. DETAILED DESCRIPTION
Background and Program Formulation
1.01.     The upgrading and rehabilitation of infrastructure and urban
services has been a basic strategy for addressing the problems confronting
Ghana's urban areas. Beginning in Accra with the Accra District
Rehabilitation project, and continuing in Accra, Tema and Kumasi under the



- 130 -
Annex 10
Page 2 of 3
Priority Works Project, urban upgrading has already been demonstrated to be
an effective and replicable mechanism for improving the living conditions
of the urban poor. This subcomponent continues this tested approach in
Tema and Kumasi. The Kumasi subcomponent is unique in that the upgrading
method would, for the first time, be used to begin the process of upgrading
Suame Magazine, a large informal sector commercial and light industrial
zone. Together with the Kumasi Central Market, Suame is critical not only
to the economy of the city but to that of the surrounding agricultural
region as well.
Description
1.02      This component would help to finance the extension of works                   «
already begun in Ashaiman -- a low income 'informal" suburb of Tema -- and              -
to initiate works in Suame Magazine -- a very important light ind4strial
and vehicle servicing area of Kuzasi with very strong linkages to the                    1
surrounding agricultural economy. In both cases the works involve
improvements to roads, drains, domestic sanitation, solid xwaste disposal
and streetlighting. To the extent possible, the community will be involved
in the process of executing simple works and in maintaining the community
after the completion of construction.
1.03      Training of Women in Construction:  The female community in
Ashiaman will be particularly involved in the construction of individual
and communal KVIPs. This subcomponent would be used as a vehicle for
training about 1000 local women in construction skills -- an innovation in
our urban program.
Costs. Financing and Cost Recovera
1.04      The estimated total base cost of this component is US$3.7
million equivalent (01.2 billion).  The foreign exchange component is
estimated at US$2.4 million equivalent, 65% of the total cost. (See Annex
16-G for a summary of project costs).  Financing would be as follows:
IDA (Z)              GOG (Z)
Local   Foreign      Local      Forei&n
90      100          10
1.05      The cost of civil works would be indirectly recovered through
the property tax revaluation exercises, now underway in Tema, and proposed
under the project in Kumasi. The cost of communal KVIPs will be partially
(50Z) recovered through user charges, but households would be required to
pay the full costs of individual KVIPs. Credit will be provided under the
project to facilitate this.
Institutional Arrangements
1.06      Responsibility for the implementation of this component will
reside with TSC's existing Upgrading Department (UD). Responsibilities
include: preparation of detailed designs, estimates and contract
documentation; obtaining permits and apprevals; estimating and settling



- 131 -
Annex 10
Page 3 of 3
compensation claims; contract awards; technical and financial supervision
of works; settlement of claims for work performed; contracting of
consultants; liaising with NGOs and community groups on the training
program for women; monitoring project performance; ensuring compliance with
project objectives and budget; and preparing quarterly reports on physical
and financial progress for submission to the Bank.
1.07      Training of women in Construction:  The domestic sanitation
component of the Ashaiman sub-project would be used as the basis for
training women in construction techniques, i.e., masonry, carpentry,
plumbing, estimating, etc. About 100 women selected from the community
would be trained under the supervision of local NGOs and TSC. Training
would take place prior to the start of construction and the trained women
would act as subcontractors for this component.
1.08      UD staffing would be strengthened to carry out these
implementation responsibilities. UD would not be expected to undertake
detailed supervision itself, but to employ local private consultants for
this purpose. UD would focus on project management, coordination and
monitoring.
1.09      EPC Review:  The EPC will be required to review and approve all
detailed engineering designs prior to the award of construction contracts.
TSC will liaise closely with EPC to ensure that all designs are
environmentally sound and that necessary approvals are obtained with
dispatch.
Status of Project Preparation
1.10      Ashaiman Phase II:  Design and engineering and tender documents
have been completed by local consultants under the PWP Project. Final cost
estimates were compiled by TSC at appraisal. Suame Magazine: Co'nsultants
to carry out the preliminary site design, engineering and costing have been
selected. Detailed engineering is expected to be completed by December
1990. It is expected that contracts for Ashaiman can be let by April 1991
and for Suame by March 1992.
OMR:tUANNWO.SWR



- 132 -
Annex 11
Page 1 of 2
GHANA
URBAN II PROJECT
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
HOUSING CONSOLIDATION STUDIES
I. SUMMARY
Objectives: To develop a feasible and cost effective strategy to
complete/divest the existing uncompleted government-owned housing units.
Description: Study to survey about 5,000 government-owned uncompleted
housing units, to assess completion costs and other requirements and to
develop a feasible and cost effective completion/divestment strategy.
Location: National, but probably concentrated in or near project cities.
Estimated Costs: Total Base Cost US$0.1 million equivalent (033 million)
Financing:             IDA(Z)              GOG (1)
Local  ForeiRn      Local   Foreign
90      100         10        ---
Economic Rate of Return: Not assessed
Implementation Responsibility:   TSC
Commencement: January 1991 (Would probably start in October 1990 with PWP
and PPF funding.)
IT DETAILED DESCRIPTION
Background
1.01      The Government of Ghana (GOG) estimates that there are upwards
of 5,000 uncompleted government-owned housing units in Ghana.  Under PWP
the Bank supported a pilot project to help complete about 200 of these
units and to test options for a larger completion program. The experience
to date indicates that the problem is complex and that a more detailed
analysis is required before a viable strategy can be developed. The
objective of this component is to undertake this analysis and develop an
appropriate strategy.          .                                                      ']



- 133 -                        Annex 11
Page 2 of 2
Description
1.02      The sub-component would help to support the execution of studies
of the uncompleted government-owned houses in Ghana.  The studies would
identify the existing units; establish their physical condition; evaluate
their contractualllegal status; develop estimates for completion; identify
the potential for private sector participation in the completion program;
identify the potential for sales of uncompleted and completed units to the
private sector; identify the potential for full cost recovery; evaluate
completion options and program costs; and recommend a preferred program for
GOGs consideration. This program would form the basis for the possible
development and inclusion of a housing completion component in the proposed
Urban III project.
Costs, Financing and Cost Recovery
1.03      The estimated base cost of this component is US$0.1 million
equivalent (¢33 million). The foreign exchange cost is estimated at
US$80,000, 80Z of project costs (see Annex 16-H for details). Financing
would be as follows:
IDA(Z)             GOG (Z)
Local  Foreign      Local   Foreign
90      100         10        ---
Costs would not be directly recovered under the project. However, the
strategy will aim at eventual full cost recovery whenever the program is
implemented.
Institutional Arrangements
1.04      TSC would be fully responsible for implementing these studies,
and direct responsibility would reside with TSC's Housing Consolidation
Department. TSC would also ensure that the study proposals are reviewed
and approved by EPC.
Status of Project Preparation
1.05      Consultants have already been selected to undertake the studies.
However, formal ratification by the Public Agreements Board and the PNDC is
awaited. It is expected that this will be completed by March 1990 and that
the studies can begin in advance of project effectiveness. Initial funding
is being provided from PWP.
OIRUMi^Dtll.R



- 134 -
Annex 12
Page 1 of 3
GHANA
URBAN II PROJECT
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
INSTITUTIONAL REFORM - HOUSING PARASTATALS, AESC AND TSC
I. SUMMARY
Objectivess To redirect, rationalize and strengthen housing parastatals,
AESC and TSC.
Description: Technical assistance for studies of SHC, TDC, AESC and TSC to
define roles and responsibilities and to rationalize, commercialize and
where possible to privatize operations.
Locaticu:      Project cities
Estimated Costs:    Total base cost US$2.1 million equivalent (00.7
billion)
Financing:
IDA(Z)              GOG()
Local   Foreign      Local   Foreign
90       100         90        100
Economic Rate of Return: Not assessed
Implementation Responsibility: TSC/MWH
Commencement: January 1991
II. DETAILED DESCRIPTION
Background
1.01      Urban and housing sector studies conducted during the last three
years have confirmed the inefficiency and near bankruptcy of the housing
parastatals (SHC and TDC) and the Architectural and Engineering Services
(AESC), the major state engineering and architectural services agency. GOG
has long recognized the ineffectiveness of these institutions, but until
recently, few efforts have been made to reform them. Now that housing has
become a priority sector for GOG reform and restructuring of the
parastatals is high on the agenda and MWH, the parent ministry, has taken
the lead in formulating plans for reform. This component would support
MWH's efforts.



- 135 -
Annex 12
Page 2 of 3
1.02      MWH itself is quite weak.  However, efforts are now being
mounted to strengthen its policy, programming, and monitoring capability
through a UNDP financed Shelter Sector Project. This project is expected
to begin by June 1990. The Bank has cooperated closely with UNDP in
formulating the project and will help monitor its implementation.
Description
1.03      This component would support GOG's efforts to restructure SHC,                -
TDC and AESC. It would also support efforts to strengthen TSC.
Specifically, the component would help to finance the execution of detailed
financial and institutional studies of the agencies, the elaboration of
feasible plans for reform and restructuring and, to the extent possible,
the implementation of these plans. The studies will examine options
ranging from completed investment and winding-up to rat$onalization and
commercialization. The main objective would be to privatize the agencies
to the extent possible, and where this is not feasible, to improve their
operating efficiency through commercialization.
1.04      Since preliminary analysis has already confirmed the
inefficiency of the agencies, and since GOG has already decided to proceed
with restructuring, the emphasis of the studies will be on clearly defining
the roles and responsibilities of the agencies and elaborating a feasible
reform program which will ensure that the agencies operate on the basis of
commercial criteria and are exposed to market competition.
1.05      TSC:  As part of the effort to strengthen TSC, studies would
also be undertaken to develop an appropriate organizational financial
framework for TSC project support and management functions.
Costs, Financing and Cost Recovers
1.06      The estimated cost of this component is US$2.1 million
equivalent (¢0.7 billion), and the foreign exchange cost is estimated at
US$1.7 million equivalent, 812 of the total cost. Financing would be as
followss
IDA(Y)              GOG(Z)
Local   Foreign       Local   Foreign
90       100         90        ---
In the case of SHC and TDC, it is expected that reform will include the
revaluation and sales of assets, including the sale of existing rental
housing units. To the extent possible, costs would be recovered through
this avenue. Otherwise, cost would be recovered through general revenues.
In the case of AESC, reorganization costs would be recovered through
general revenues only.



- 136 -
Annex 12
Page 3 of 3
Institutional Arrangements
1.07.     MWH, with TSC's assistance, will be fully responsible for
implementing this component. These responsibilities include the
commissioning and evaluation of the studies, and the implementation of the
reform program. MWH would ensure that the studies are effectively carried
out; review study recommendations in consultation with the Bank; seek PNDC
approval for an agreed restructuring program; and supervise the
implementation of the program. The Ministry would not undertake the
studies or the implementation process directly, but would hire qualified
consultants for this purpose. However, MWH and the Housing Finance and
Institutional Reform Committee (HFIC) established under the project would
provide overall policy guidance and monitor performance. TSC will provide
logistic and administrative support to MWH in ensuring the effective
implementation of this component.
Status of Proiect PreDaration
1.08.     Consultants have already bean selected by GOG to undertake the
necessary studies and the Bank has given its no objection to the selection.
Formal PNDC ratification is awaited. This is expected by July 1990. It is
thus expected that the studies can begin by September 1990 and that
reorganization can begin at project effectiveness. Initial funding for the
studies is being provided from PWP.
DinRttAIE9c12.SuR



- 137 -
Annex 13
Page 1 of 19
GHANA
URBAN II PROJECT
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
PILOT HOUSING FINANCE COMPONENT
I. Summary
Obiectives:  To initiAte the establishment of a sustainable housing finance
system aimed at moderate and middle income households, and to assist in
financing the divestment of existing housing stock owned by housing
parastatals.
Description: A three year pilot project to finance the establishment of a
new entity 9Home Finance Company Ltd* (HFC), a partially owned affiliate of
MBG and managed by MBG on a commercial basis. HFC would float 30 year
mortgage-backed housing bonds which would be subscribed by SSNIT and GOG.
GOG's share would be financed by an IDA line of credit. The proceeds from
the bonds would be on-lent by HFC to approved OSIs for mortgage lending to
households meeting specified eligibility criteria. Repayments by
households would be on the basis of 251 of verifiable household income and                -
through payroll deduction scheme.  The outstanding principal on all bonds
and mortgage loans would be indexed to inflation on a monthly basis.  Two                 I
thousand (2,000) new houses and 1,000 existing parastatal-owned houses
would be financed.  IDA funds would be used to purchase mortgages in
respect of the new units only.
Location: Not specified, but probably limited to Accra, Tema and Kumasi.
Estimated Cost: Total US$18.5 million equivalent (¢6.1 billion) base cost
(see Annex 16-J for details).
Financ ins:
-----IDA(Z)----    --GOG(Z)--   ---SSNIT(Z)--
Loc   For   Tot    Loc  For      Loc  For  Tot
Mortgages - New Units         --   --    40      --   --        --   --   60
Mortgages - Existing Units   --   --    --       --   --        __   _-  100
Technical Assistance etc.    95  100   100        S   --       --
Economic Rate of Return: Not Applicable
Implementation Responsibility:  MFEP, BOG, SSNIT, MBG, HFC
Commencement of Component:  January 1991



- 138 -
Annex 13
Page 2 of 19
II. Detailed Description
A. Institutional and Financial Structure
1.01      Any housing finance scheme in Ghana faces at least three major
barriers. First, high and variable rates of inflation make lending that is
unsubsidized and unindexed prohibitively expensive, both because of the
usual tilt effect and because of the uncertainty of the real return.
Second, real incomes are subject to significant decliner. Third, there is
no traditior, of long-term household repayment of loans and foreclosure
procedures are relatively weak and inefficient.
1.02      Since Ghana has no housing finance system currently, it can
address all three of these problems in the initial design of a pilot
program and with benefit of experience in other countries. In summary, the
system proposed here is based on loans in which the principal is indexed to
inflation, the payments are fixed as a percent of the borrower's wages, and
repayments are through payroll deduction. In addition, the system would
operate on a commercial basis, with profit incentives for efficient
performance. Domestic funding would be from the social security system,
which is in need of long-term, indexed investments.
1.03      The institutional and financial structure of the pilot has been
designed to meet several goals. These includes
(a)  Provision for ultimate control and policy guidance by the GOG.
(b)  Operation of the system on a commercial basis.
(c)  Appearance to the public of the mortgages being debts to the
private sector.
(d)  Insulation of the restructured banking sector from significant
risks.
(e)  Eventual expansion of system to private sources of funds.
1.04      The system will be administered by a new entity, the Home
Finance Company CHFC), jointly owned by the GOG, SSNIT, and the Merchant
Bank of Ghana and operated on a commercial basis by the MBG. The HFC would
be purely a financial management operation, with its liabilities being
backed solely by the mortgages funded from the proceeds of bonds and other
borrowings. HFC would utilize the resources obtained from the sale of
housing bonds to purchase eligible mortgages from approved OSIs. The OSIs,
in turn, would utilize the funds obtained from HFC to provide mortgages to
qualified borrowers. The financial institutions originating and servicing
the loans ,i.e., OSIs, would operate on an incentive basis, and would risk
only a very limited amount of capital. The overall system would receive
policy guidance from a committee of GOG agencies.
Policy Guidance
1.05      To ensure that these policy goals are met, general guidelines
will be set and performance monitored by a committee with members from all
the relevant Government bodies, including the Ministry of Finance and



- 139 -
Annex 13
Page 3 of 19
Economic Planning; Ministry of Works and ome; the Bmak of Ghana; SSNIT;
and Town and Country Planning. This Housing Finance and Institutional
Reform Committee (HFIC) would be particularly active in the initial stages
of the program formulation. However, to ensure the efficient operation of
the program and full cost recovery, HFIC will provide only broad policy
guidance and the program would be impler ted on a purely commercial basis
by MBG.
1.06      Appendix 1 presents an outline of the institutional framework,
Appendir 2 presents an outline of the financing arrangements and Appendix 3
provides a sumary of loan terms, house type restrictions and income
targeting under this program.
Sources and Terms of Funds
1.0/      Funding will be through (i) about US$16.2 million equivalent
($5.3 billion) in long-term mortgage-backed housing bonds sold to SSNIT;
and (ii) US$8.0 million equivalent (03.1 billion) in long-term bonds sold
to GOG and financed through a credit from IDA to the Republic of Ghana.
These amounts should be sufficient to fund m-rtgage loans on 3,000 houses
over a three year period starting in 1991. X share of the IDA credit
(US$1.3 million equivalent or ¢0.4 billion' would be provided by GOG as a
technical assistance and institutional support grant. At the end of the
first year of the pilot program (i.e., January 1992), or at such time as
HFC is well established, bond issues would be opened up to holders of long-
term funds other than SSNIT, including public and private sector pension
funds, insurance companies, major public and private companies and overseas
Ghanaians. If this bond issue should prove successful, then HFIC and the
Bank will review and agree on the desirability of expanding the number of
mortgages to be financed.
1.08      The housing bonds formally will carry a 30 year term, but will
probably be fully repaid before then. Outstandlng principal will be
adjusted each month for the average change (increaseldecrease) in the
published Consumer Price Index during the last three months for which data
are available. This will preserve the value of the remaining principal due
against the impact of inflation.
1.09      Interest will be due on the bonds each month at a rate of 12 per
annum. This rate is quite low, even as a real return'. But it is quite
high in the Ghanaian economy. Government debt and short-term deposits have
yielded large negative real returns historically and such returns continue
to be somewhat negative. There are no competing long-term financial
instruments. Even if there were, it is unlikely that their risk-adjusted
real return would be greater than 1Y once the uncertainty of achieving the
prospective real return was accounted for.
1.10      The bonds will be issued to SSNIT and GOG by the Home Finance
Company Limited (HFC) (discussed below). Servicing of these debts will be
from the cash flows into the HFC from the OSIs. These cash flows will be
allocated in the following orders



- 140 -
Annex 13
Page 4 of 19
(a) Administrative expenses of HFC (set as a percent of outstanding
mortgages, probably 0.50X);
(b) Interest due on SSNIT bonds;
(c) Interest due on GOG loans;
(d) Prepayment of principal of SSNIT bonds;
(e) Once SSNIT bonds are paid off (after about 10 years), the
prepayment of GOG bonds.
1.11      This order of payments implies that SSNIT is exposed to
practically no repayment risk and that its funds can be fully drawn out of
the housing finance system in about 10 years.
1.12      Bonds will be issued by HFC to SSNIT and GOG in amounts and
frequency designed to match the originations of mortgage loans to the
extent reasonable. Proceeds of the SSNIT bonds will be invested in short-
term government securities or other high-grade securities pending
origination of loans.
The Home Finance Company Limited (HFC)
1.13      A core administrative unit would be set up to manage housing
finance under this project. The tentative title of this entity is the
iHome Finance Company" (HFC). Its responsibilities will include:
Ca) Overall program development and management;
(b) Issuance of the housing bonds to SSNIT and to others as the
system develops;
Cc) Creation of detailed operating guidelines for the program;
(d)  Review and approval of loan originators and servicers;
(e) Review of all lc a applications 1/;
(f) Issuance of funds to originators at time of origination; and
(g) Auditing of originators and servicers.
1.14      The HFC would be a private non-bank company initially owned on
an equal basis by BOG, SSNIT, and Herchant Bank of Ghana (MBG), which is
70Z owned by public sector entities. There could eventually be equity
investments by other financial institutions, insurance companies and other
private interests. It would be operated under a management contract with
Merchant Bank and be accounted for as an affiliate or associate of MBG. It
would also be the recipient of major technical assistance from the World
Bank. Its operations would be funded initially through equity
contributions and loans at a commercial rate. In addition, part of the
proceeds of the IDA funds (about US$1.3 million) would be provided as an
institutional support grant from GOG. This grant would be used to purchase
essential equipment, establish accounting and managerial systems, and
undertake studies vital to HFC's development and that of OSIs. Its income
11 This would not substitute for the detailed review of each borrower which
would be the responsibility of OSIs.



- 141 -
Annex 13
Page 5 of 19
would derive from an administrative fee imposed as a percent of mortgage
loans outstanding and payable out of repayments on those loans. Additional
income could be received from fees for the issuance of the housing bonds
and for approvals of loan applications.
1.15       HFC would not be a traditional financial intermediary, taking
risks and requiring a substantial capital base. It would be limited to
issuing and servicing mortgage-backed bonds, purchasing eligible mortgages
from approved OSIs and administering portfolios of mortgage loans backing
issuances of bonds. The sole collateral of the bonds would be the
mortgages issued from their proceeds. HFC would purchase mortgages from
approved OSIs at an interest rate of 1.5Z per annum, i.e., 0.5Z above the
rate payable on the bonds, and for a maximum period of 30 years. The
outstanding principal on the mortgages would also be fully indexed to
inflation as described in para 1.08 above.
1.16      It should also be noted that the functions of the HFC must be
separated from the institutions expected to be the major originators of
loans, since HFC will act as an independent oversight agency, ensuring the
quality and integrity of the originator and servicing activities.
1.17      The HFC is seen as a relatively small unit, consisting initially
of 3-4 experienced professionals to develop and monitor underwriting and
servicing procedures, develop related computer programs, and review loan
applications, plus 3-4 support staff to review loan applications and
maintain records and provide administrative services. It would be housed
in MBG and benefit from MBG's administrative, financial and legal
expertise. Total operating costs, including management fees to MBG, should
not exceed 20-30 million cedis per year, or about 0.5Z of loans expected to
be outstanding after the pilot phase of operation.
1.18      The HFIC will provide policy guidance and oversight of the HFC
with assistance from the BOG's Banking Supervision Department (BSD).  It is
expected that eventually the BSD will be formally responsible for
monitoring the HFC under future legislation covering non-bank financial
institutions.
Originators and Servicers (0Is)
1.19      Any approved financial institution will be able to originate and
service loans. All existing institutions will be encouraged to participate
and new institutions specializing in originating and servicing mortgages
under the program could also be created. In all cases, an institution must
demonstrate to the HFC that it has the capacities and procedures in place
tos
(a)  originate loans according to the guidelines of the HFC;
(b)  maintain accurate accounting records of repayments, adjustments
to principal, etc.;
(c)  coordinate with employers on payroll deduction of loan payments;
and



Annex 13
Page 6 of 19
(d) pursue alternative collection procadure if the payroll deduction
process is not feasible.
1.20      Payment for these services will be in the form of an one-time
origination fee (1-21) for processing, title verification, and other costs,
and an annual servicing fee (1-22) on principal outstanding to cover
collection costs. More work is needed to establish what such costs will
be, but fees for this pilot will be set to ensure motivated participation
in the program by existing financial inatitution4.
1.21      Under the pilot, OSIs will not be required to lend their own
funds. They will, however, take on direct liability for repayment of up to
10? of the outstanding balance on the mortgage loan in the event of default
by a borrower. They are thus not solely conduits for the funds of the HPC.
This limited but significant liability on the part of OSIs is to assure
that any repayment problems would not erode the capital base of a primary
financial institution, while simultaneously assuring that OSIs take their
commitment to HFC seriously. The OSIs will also operate partially on an
incentive basis. Any shortfall in collections will be borne by the OSI, up
to a maximum of one-half of the servicing fees otherwise due.
1.22      The coverage on account of the servicing fee is significant.
Since loan repayments are about 6-72 of principal in the early years of a
loan, shortfalls of up to 8 in repayments would be covered by the
reduction in servicing fees from, for example, 12 to 0.5?. Thus, if an OSI
has ¢100 million in outstanding loans, perfect, on-time repayments would be
about ¢6 million per year, of which the OSI could keep ¢1 million as fees
(at a 1S fee rate). If various internal administrative problems and
borrower delinquencies result in cash flows of 95Z of scheduled cash flows,
i.e. a shortfall of ¢300,000, then the fees due to the OSI will be reduced
by the full shortfall (but not to exceed ¢500,000).
1.23      If they wish, OSIs, with HFC's approval, can transfer the
servicing duties to another approved OSI after originating the loan.
Servicing duties can also be revoked by the HFC and shifted to another OSI
if the HYC feels they are not being performed adequately.
1.24      Those institutions that take an early interest in developing
their originating and servicing capabilities will be eligible for
significant technical assistance.
1.25      Over the longer term, the HFC could encourage the devalopment of
OSI's in all areas of the country. These could include financially viable
regional institutions set up in affiliation to the rural banks. The only
limitation would be the neet for a sound capital base and established
competence in the management of home loans.



Annex 13
Page 7 of 19
Who Bears Risks of Repayment?
1.26      The OSIs are bearing some of the normal business risk through
the contingency of their servicing fee on collections and through their
limited liability to HEC in the event of defaults by borrowers.
Delinquencies because of loss of job, illness, or administrative
incompetence will probably run less than 5S, at least in the early years of
the program. Since half of a servicing fee of 1t of outstanding principal
is 0.52 and normal repayments are about 61 of principal, forfeiture of this
portion of the fee will cover delinquencies up to 8X. In other words,
delinquencies up to 81 of scheduled repayments will not affect cash flows
through HFC to the debt holders.
1.27      If defaults on housing loans are so great as to prevent full
recovery even after reduction in fees to the OSIe (e.g., because of major
economic or political upheavals), then 901 of the loss could eventually be
borne by the GOG through less-than-full repayment on the loans made by it
to the HFC. The shareholders in the HFC have a liability for such a
shortfall limited to the extent of the nominal level of contributed capital
and retained earnings. Of course, BOG, as a shareholder in the HFC, can
act to minimize GOG's potential losses, including the active pursuit of
foreclosure proceedings against defaulters. Since the collateral coverage
on the loans should be excellent, effective foreclosure actions should
ensure minimal eventual losses. But, in the final analysis, GOG is the
only entity capable of taking the larger macroeconomic and political risks
in this pilot project. If the risks prove to be moderate enough, private
investors should be willing to bear them in the future.
Terms of the Loans Made by OSIs to Borrowers
1.28      Adiustment of Principals At the first of each month, the
remaining balance would be increased/decreased by the average percentage
change in the Consumer Price Index during the last three months for which
data are available. It should be noted that, even if the publication of
the CPI lags the above procedure should still ba used. The adjustment
should not be delayed to wait for a CPI contemporaneous with the
origination anniversary.
1.29      Monthly Payments:  Monthly payments by borrowers would be fixed
at the time of origination at 25Z of the total salaries earned by husband
and wife, Including back-pay, bonuses, separation payments and any other
payment or allowance, and before deduction for SSNIT, income taxes, etc.
Each salary earner would be required to sign an agreement (e.g., a power of
attorney) to this effect For simplicity, the percent would generally be
251, even when households are not bortowing the maximum possible.
1.30      If there are initially two salary earners but one is terminated,
the other salary would have to t2ar the full payment. Alternative
collection procedures will be instituted for cases in which both salaries
are terminated (e.g., through payment at branches of any authorized loan
originator). Further work will be done to establish the risks of mortality
at specified ages to see if a reasonable up-front fee might be charged for



Annex 13
Page 8 of 19
mortgage life insurance. The alternative of requiring coverage under a
life insurance policy is not desirable, because the life insurance
companies in Ghana are not operated on a comercial basis (e.g.,
investments are at below market rates).
1.31      The desirability of forbearance procedures in the case of loss
of employment will be explored, including an examination of procedures in
other developing countries. For example, collections could be suspended
automatically for a maximum of six months in this case, until alternative
formal sector employment was obtained or informal sector employment began
and loan repayment to 8 branch of an OSI was set up. Interest would
continue to accrue and in no case would be forbearances extend beyond six
months.
1.32      Adjustment of Payments  The monthly payment made by borrowers
will rise each time the salary Is increased. The loan servicers will keep
track of the appropriate interest charge each month (i.e., this changes as
principal is paid down and as principal is adjusted for inflation). Any
remainder of the payment is credited against the principal, as are any
prepayments.  Implicitly, the term of the loan changes constantly, depend-
ing upon how increases in salary compare with price increases.
1.33      Since the stated interest rate on the loan will be relatively
low, usually half or more of the monthly payment will be going towards
repayment of the principal. The chance of the payment being less than the
interest due is quite low. That is why it is highly unlikely that the
interest payments on the housing bonds and GOG loans will not be met by
HFC.
1.34      Interest Rates  The domestic portion of the funding of this
pilot program will be entlrely from SSNIT 2/. Thus, the opportunity cost
of funds is the highest real return available to SSNIT on incremental
funds. SSNIT9s portfolio is primarily invested in Government debt, which
has historically yielded a negative real return (including during 1989). A
portion of SSNIT's assets have also gone into housing development,
apparently without full cost recovery, certainly not on an inflation-
adjusted basis. Perhaps SSNIT potentially has alternative investments with
higher yields. But, as a practical matter, the funds for this program will
come from fundirg otherwise going into housing development and govetwment
debt.
1.35      Given these alternatives, SSIT has stated that it is seeking
only a minimal positive real return.  In fact, it is highly unlikely that
SSKIT has any alternative domestic investment open to it that would yield
an ex-post positive real return with any degree of assurance. The
Financial Sector Adjustment Program calls for positive real rates in the
economy and short-temn lending rates appear to be positive currently, e.g.
2/ See para 1.07 above for a possible exception to this.



Annex 13
Page 9 of 19
26-30? vs. inflation of 25?. However, deposit rates and rates on
government debt remain negative and still are not *market-determined".
1.36   '  Thus, a net return of 1S after inflation has been set for the
borrowing by HFC from SSNIT and GOG. The stated interest rate on the
mortgages needed to achieve this return would further depend on the fees
retained by the loan servicer and the HPC. If the fees run 1.5-2.52, the
stated rate will be 2.5-3.52.
1.37      Period of Loan:  The period of repayment by borrowers depends
entirely on the pace of wage increases experienced by the borrower relative
to the changes in the price level, and on the general level of ivilation.
The basis for underwriting purposes will be repayment over 20 years,
assuming that the real wases of the borrower increase at a 2? rate and the
inflation rate averages 20?. The target term of 20 years would be reduced
to th, number of years to the normal retirement age in the case of
applicants over 40 years old.
1.38      The assumption of 2? real wage increases is derived from an
assumption that the upward trend in real wages over the period is 1Z and
that the employee makes minimal progress through the typical pay grades in
civil service or parastatal organizations, (relative salary increases of at
least 1X per year are the norm). Any employee experiencing more than
minimal promotion in rank will repay more rapidly, generally in less than
20 years.
1.39      If inflation is high and real wages decline, it is possible that
the term of the loan would extend beyond 30 years, e.g., with 50 inflation
and -1.0? real wage growth, as indicated on attachment 2. In this case the
remaining principal will be written off and the GOG will absorb the loss
through less than full repayment of its loans to HFC.
1.40      The actual term also devends on the rate of inflation, because
the principal is adjusted monthly while wages are usually adjusted only
annually. To balance the avowed intent of the government to reduce
inflation below 10? with the historical average of over 40?, a 20S rate
would be assumed in the underwriting process. The sensitivity of the term
to different ratea of inflation and real income growth is displayed in
Appendix 4. As the attachment indicates, only the extreme case of income
growth of -1? for 30 years plus inflation of 30? or more will prevent the
loan from being paid off in less than 30 years.
1.41      Degosit (Downpayment)s  The purpose of a der sit is to ensure
that: (1) the borrower has a strong incentive to main-ain the property and
keep payments current; and (2) the lender has a cushion from which to
recover delinquent interest and foreclosure costs. In developed countries,
a deposit of 202 is usually considered sufficient protection. In Ghana,
even self-construction involves an up-front payment of at least 20? of
total cost, if only for the land, site preparation and foundation. Thus a
20? deposit will be required as a minimum. Many borrowers will need to
make a larger deposit because their incomes will qualify them for loans of
only 70X or less of the value of the house. Section 4 of Appendix 3 shows



Annex 13
Page 10 of 19
how the maximum loan-to-value ratio a household can qualify for varies witt
the household income and the mortgage interest rates.
1.42      Initial Processins Fee:  In addition to the deposit, 8borrowers
would be responsible for covering the costs to OSIs of originating the loan
and any legal work required to assure clear title (or leasehold). These
costs should not exceed 1 to 22 of the loan amount in cases of reasonably
clear, and title. For contested titles, loans will not be feasible until
title is settled. A portion of this fee may go to HFC for application
review.
1.43      Servicing Fees:  In addition to the interest paid by borrowers
and ultimately received by the lenders under this program, there will be
charges for the cost of servicing the loans. Servicing includes
calculating and recording interest and principal payments, dealing with
employers to ensure accurate payroll deduction, and the costs of collection
incurred when payroll deductions are not feasible.
1.44      More complete analysis is needed before setting this fee, but it
shouLd be in the range of 11 per year of the outstanding loan amount. (In
the U.S., it is less than 0.5Z for a much more complicated servicing task.)
it is effectively indexed, and thus will cover increases in the cost of
operations over time.
1.45      As noted below, there is a need for a further small annual fee
to cover expenses incurred by the HFC in administering the program. This
fee should not exceed 0.5Z of the amount outstanding.
1.46      Effects of Macro-economic Decline:  Whenever a price indexed
debt is introduced into a financial system, it is necessary to consider the
potential impacts of severe declines in real incomes. Such declines
occurred in Ghana in the 19609 and 1970s and could occur again. This
mortgage system has been designed to withstand such events. While the real
value of the debt is maintained against inflation, the real burden of
borrower repayment is fixed as a share of nominal salary income. If real
wages decline, the term of the loan is automatically extended. If, for
unforseen reasons, the term of the loan extends beyond 30 years, the HFC,
with HFIC's guidance and in consultation with IDA, will consider whether
the remaining balance can be written off and the loss absorbed by the GOG.
In this event GOG would have to make explicit provisions in its budget for
this loss.
Target Households and Houses
1.47      Eligible Households:  Mortgage loans will be underwritten
against the verifiable incomes of the borrowers and collection will rely on
payroll deductions. Since only verifiable income can be used in approving
the loan and the borrower must have a salary to deduct repayments from,
only those with regular salaried employment will be eligible for loans in
this pilot. Alternative procedures for those in the informal sector will
be developed later, once the foreclosure procedures are strengthened.



Annex 13
Page 11 of 19
1.48      The eligible group coincides with those who contribute to SSNIT,
which will be the major source of funds for the pilot. This focus of
eligibility largely on SSNIT contributors could be viewed as due to SSNIT
being the major source of funds. But it should be recognized that SSNIT
contributors are also the only significant group capable of being lent to
at this point 31.
1.49      The program is intended for first-time homeowners and solely for
owner-occupied housing. Various safeguards will be implemented to assure
this targeting.
1.50      Eligible Houses:  There are two groups of houses eligible under
the pilot program. The largest number of loans (2000)., will be made under
the housing development program for newly-built houses. In order to focus
funds under this program on middle-level workers. houses will be eligible
for loans only if it is no larger than 50 square meters in covered floor
space (about 550 sq. feet). In fact, 402 of the funds must be used for so-
called "core' units of 25-34 square meters (a bedsitter with kitchen and
bath), 402 for units between 35 sq.m. and 44 sq.m. (one-bedroom unit), and
only 201 over 44 sq. m. (2 bedroom units). In general, these units will
include full infrastructure and the capacity for incremental additions.                  -
However, some units (not exceeding 30? of the total number) could be flats
in multi-story buildings.
1.51      Detailed design specifications will not be provided beyond those
related to health and safety concerns. This is to encourage cost-saving
innovations in materials and design.
1.52      These house sizes are smaller than those that Ghanaians
currently aspire to live in. However, they are the most that even middle
income workers can afford, currently costing ¢2.0-3.0 million. They are
also typical of the units being built in other developing countries and are
better than most ezisting rental units, while also providing security of
tenure and a valuable asset. in this pilot program, the siting and
marketing of the units must be handled carefully to minimize disappointment
or ccntrast between larger, employer-provided housing or overseas-Ghanaian
housing and these modest unite affordable under the program on an
unsubsidized basis. Monitoring of siting will be made part of existing
development approval processes.
1.53      Although there is a large unmet demand for housing and thus for
house financing, there are other substantial barriers to large scale
production of houses. One of the goals of the program is to foster the
growth of the housing development industry and to create incentives for
public and private entities to work towards reducing the obstacles to
formal sector housing production. Pending success in that process, it is
31 Other recognized pension fund contributors would not be excluded from
participating if adequate payroll deduction guarantees can be provided by
their employers.



Annex 13
Page 12 of 19
not expected that the effective demand for financing vill require a formal
allocation procedure over the course of this pAlot.
1.54      In addition to the 2000 loans under the nousing development
program, the sale to tenants of 1000 houses currently rented out by SHC or
TDC vill be financed to provide funds for the restructuring of those
organizations. The method of selecting the units to be sold and the use of
the resulting funds will be determined by HFIC and HFC in consultation uiith
IDA. IDA funds would be utilized for purchasing mortgages in respect of
the new units only.
1.55      Income Levels Served: For a number of reasons documented
elsewhere (e.g., the Housing Sector Review), the cost of housing relative
to incomes is extraordinarily high in Ghana. Thus, in the absence of
significant subsidy and even at very low real interest rates, new housing
of minimal size cannot be afforded by the lowest income groups. However,
this program would open up housing options to a wide band of moderate
income salary earners who currently have no prospect of owning a formal
sector house.
1.56      A spreadsheet model was created to analyze this issue.  The
input section of the program is displayed in Appendix 5. Appendix 6 shows
the output section. Parameters of the model include house price, deposit,
income, payment-to-income ratio, interest rate. and inflation rate. The
output includes the mortgage payment and outstanding balance by month and
the number of months it takes to pay off the loan. The model can be used
to find the minimum income needed to pay off a given loan amount in 20
years.
1.57      Appendix 5 shows the parameters in the case of the smallest
house in the program (about 30 square meters). With a relatively small
deposit of 241 of the cost of the home, a household earning p30,000 a month
can afford the mortgage. If the deposit is increased to 48Z, households
with monthly salaries as low as 020,000 could afford the house.
1.58      It is difficult to say exactly how common these income levels
are. Based on several pieces of evidence, they appear to be in the middle
range for urban areas. For example, a 1989 survey of Accra 4/ found that
households in the middle income areas such as Achimota and Asylum Town
reported income of ¢26,500 per month on average. In 1990, the figure would
be closer to e32,000 per month. In addition, these same households
reported total expenditures of ¢65,000, suggesting that incomes were being
understated.
1.59      Similar results can be derived from the 1988 Ghana Living
Standards Survey. Table 60 in the October 1988 report on the GLSS
indicates the distribution of households by annual expenditures as follows:
4/   Preliminary data from the UNDP Accra Structure Plan project unit.



Annex 13
Page 13 of 19
Household Expenditure Group               Mean Expenditure (Cedis)
lst Quintile                              141,830
2nd Quintile                              235,473
3rd Quintile                              303,684
4th Quintile                              345,074
5th Quintile                              402,231
Total                                 285,872
These figures represent the household's estimate of expenditures during
late 1987 and early 1988. Inflation since the survey has exceeded 50Z. If
expenditures in the 2nd quintile are adjusted for this inflation and put on
a monthly basis, expenditures for those below-median households appear to
be about 30,000 per month, enough to afford a home undex this program.
However, reported cash incomes are probably lower and thus the effective
usage of the program will tend to be by households at or above median
expenditure/income 5/ levels.
1.60      It should also be noted that a husband and wife each making the
average base pay of the 600,000 SSNIT contributors in 1989 (about ¢10,500)
would, with cost allowances, have total household salaries of over ¢35,000
in 1990.
1.61      Despite the fact that the program would probably not finance
households below the median income ievel, many urban residents other than
the program participants would feel relief from the growing pressures on
rents and space, due to the expansion of the housing supply. Since the
households served by this program will probably vacate mostly moderate
quality rental accommodation or facilities shared with relatives,
households at lower income levels will benefit.
Consistency with Financial Sector Development Program
1.62      Pursuant to the recommendations of the Task Force on Financial
Sector Operations, the project has been reviewed for its impact on the
development of the financial sector in Ghana. This included:
(a) An assessment of current sources of housing finance and why
demand for housing finance is not being adequately met;
(b) An analysis of the feasibility of direct removal of market
inhibiting factors; and
(c) An examination of how the project fits into the overall strategy
for the development of Ghana's financial sector.
5/   We are assuming, because of the lack of better data, that the income
and expenditure distributions are similar even though we would expect
some divergence.



- 150 -
Annex 13
Page 14 of 19
There are currently no practical sources of unsubsidized housing finance in
Ghana. Employers provide subsidized finance in some cases as a tax-free
form of incoma. Commercial banks could provide short-term financing at
market rates (262-30Z), and informal sector lenders offer funds at higher
rates, but these loans are not financially supportable for anything other
than short-term bridge financing. Su-Su's (a type of saver's club)
apparently provide relatively short-term financing for housing construction
sometimes.
1.63      The biggest barrier to providing unsubsidized housing finance is
the high and variable rates of inflation.  The fact that inflation rates
are 20X makes the payment burden on a loan unbearable for nearly all
potential borrowers (or, equivalently, the amount that can be borrowed is
relatively trivial compared to the cost of the house).  The fact that
inflation is so uncertain implies a major risk premium for long-term fixed
rate lending or even variable-rate lending (because of high default risk).
Only macroeconomic and political stability can resolve these problems.
1.64      Weak foreclosure laws would be another barrier to housing
finance if the inflation problem is solved. Strengthening foreclosure laws
and procedures will be a part of this project. The major goal of the
project, however is to set up a system of financing and repayment and a
mortgage instrument that will resolve the major barrier to housing finance,
high and volatile inflation rates (and related volatility in real incomes).
1.65      The project is supportive of other Bank goals in the housing
sector and for the overall economy. It introduces a financial instrument
capable of withstanding real and monetary shocks to the economy while, not
impairing the banking system or household disposable income. It should
promote additional formal sector housing production of houses of a more
appropriate size than current consumer desires.  It will encourage
inclusion of complete infrastructure in housing developments and put new
pressure on efforts to clear land titles.
1.66      The program is also consistent with policy goals in the
financial sector. The recapitalized banks may find origina.ting and
servicing the loans to be a profitable business. In any case, the equity
base of financial institutions will not be threatened by repayment problems
under the program. The provision of long-term credit in Ghana with a
positive real return is a unique accomplishment which could lead to
strengthening of the portfolios of long-term lenders such as pension funds
and insurance companies, as well as Ghana's social security system. The
development of the financial expertise to administer the project will
itself inject into the financial community an increased level of
sophistication.
Other Aspects
1.67      Construction of Houses:  The housing development portion of the
program would be open to houses constructed by private sector developers,
by employers for purchase by their employees, by individuals operating
through sub-contractors, and by public sector entities such as a



- 151 -
Annex 13
Page 15 of 19
reorganized State Housing Corporation. In general, one of the policy goals
of the program is to foster the growth of private sector capacity for house
construction and private entities are expected to take the leading role in
design, marketing, and construction.
1.68      Construction Finances  The pilot is not intended to provide
construction-period financing. In other words, loans will be disbursed
only against completed houses. This is because the land and partially
constructed units cannot be considered sufficient collateral under current
foreclosure procedures. If foreclosure procedures are improved
sufficiently to permit take-over of properties by OSIs (as agents for the
HFC), then a system of progress payments could be set up.
1.69      It is expected that construction finance will be available
through commercial banks, the Bank for Housing and Construction, and
possibly employers. Ways of upgrading the availability of such financing
should be explored. For example, the issuance of conditional commitment
letters and establishment of a funds reservation system by the HFC to
assure the availability of loan funds at completion of a development,
should increase the attractiveness of construction financing for a
commercial bank.
1.70      Employee Housing:  Employers will be encouraged to organize
construction of housing units for sale to their employees under this
program. For example, funds could be committed in advance to an employer
providing sufficient evidence of timely completion of housing for employee
purchase.  Any subsidy an employer wished to provide can be channeled
through reductions in the purchase price of the house. The program,
though, is not intended to provide financing for employer-owned housing
rented to employees. Such a employer housing program could be jeveloped
later.
1.71      Institutional Reform:  One third of the total loans provided
under this program are intended for financing the sale of rental units by
State Housing Corporation and Tema Development Corporation to sitting
tenants. Such sales are intended to provide funds for the restructuring of
these organization in ways to be agreed by the Government and the World
Bank, and the availability of IDA funds for the housing sector is
contingent on such an agreement.
1.72      Public Education:  Long-term home mortgages are currently not
available in Ghana and most households are unaccustomed to repaying loans
over a long period of time. This program begins the process of expanding
credit availability to middle-income households. It must be pursued
carefully to ensure that borrowers understand their responsibilities and
that the Government is not guaranteeing or going to forgive their loan. In
fact, the loan is not from the Government, but instead from a separate
private entity. On the other hand, it must be made clear to the public
that such loans are a major improvement over the current situation and
represent an opportunity to own the house free-and-clear of debt after 15-
20 years, while simultaneously living in it.



- 152 -
Annex 13
Page 16 of 19
1.73      Foreclosure Reform:  The Mortgages Decree of 1972 abolished
foreclosure as a remedy for mortgagees. The remedies available to a
mortgagee (lending institution), upon default, are provided in Sections
15,16, 17 and 18 of the Decree. The emphasis in these sections is the
requirement of court action for the enforcement of mortgages.
1.74      The judicial process is slow and costly despite the recent
introduction of the Commercial Division of the High Court. The appeal
procedures automatically cause delay, i.e., time in compiling and agreeing
the record, the setting down of the hearing dates for the appeal, and the
possibility of further appeal to the Supreme Court. The procedural rules
of the Superior Court system are cumbersome.
1.75      To make housing finance in Ghana attractive to private
investors, it appears that Sections 15, 16, 17 and 18 of the Mortgages
Decree must be revised to allow foreclosure by recognized institutions.
Action has already been initiated to review these rules, but the details of
the review are not available currently. The HFC may wish to seek a special
exception for its loans from the prohibition against foreclosure. In
addition. a condition of the IDA loan is that a review of foreclosure loans
be completed in the first year and actions taken to strengthen loan
recovery procedures.
1.76      Incentives and Controls.  As the mortgage system grows, the
total funds involved will be quite large and the potential for losses due
to negligence or fraud will also be quite large. Thus, there must be a
system of audits, controls, and incentives to perform. The audits and
controls will be the responsibility of the HFC to put into place. In
particular, the HFC will ensure that the OSIs are not originating poor
quality loans just to reap the origination fees.
1.77      There will also be monetary incentives for the OSIs to maintain
the quality of the loans and the level of repayments, since small
shortfalls in repayments will come out of their profits and only major
shortfalls will impact the repayment of the housing bonds issued by the
HFC.
Future Development
1.78      Looking beyond Urban II, if the mortgage system can be made to
work, including efficient origination and collection procedures and a very
high level of repayment, then mortgage lending in Ghana could develop
steadily over time in a number of directions. For example, the loan system
could be extended to the purchase of existing houses. If foreclosure
procedures can be improved sufficiently, loans could also be made to
workers in the informal sector. These workers cannot provide the security
of a steady salary to be attached for repayment that a formal sector worker
can, but the house itself could serve as sufficient assurance of repayment.
1.79      If inflation comes down over time to the range of 102 or less,
then the mortgage system could blossom into a full-fledged savings and loan



- 153 -
Annex 13
Page 17 of 19
system, whereby financial institutions seek deposits and use those deposits
to make loans at interest rates 2-32 above the rate they pay on deposits.
Finally, as the financial system is strengthened an increasing share of the
risk could be borne by OSIs.
B. Costs and Financing
2.01      The total base cost of this component is estimated at US$18.5
million equivalent (¢6.1 billion) of which the foreign exchange component
is estimated at US$10.1 million (55Z). The total cost including
contingencies is estimated at US$25.5 million (08.4 billion) of which
US$24.2 million (08.0 billion) would be for mortgage finance and US$1.3
million ($0.4 billion) would be for institutional development and support.
Costs are summArized in Annex 16-J.  Financing would be as follows:
---IDA(%)----    -GOG(Z)-   --SSNIT(Z)--
Loc  For  Tot    Loc  For   Loc  For Tot
Mortgages - New Units (2,000)    --   --    40       --  --    --   --   60
Mortgages - Exist. Units (1,000) --                                  __  100
Technical Assistance,
Training, Equipment,
etc., (grant).                    95   100   --       5   --   --    --  --
SSNIT's share of financing, including contingencies, would be US$16.2
million equivalent (05.3 billion). IDA's share of financing including
contingencies would be US$9.3 million equivalent (03.1 billion).
2.02      An outline budget showing the estimated costs for HFC's three
years of operation is presented in Appendix 7.
Onlending Terms
2.03      A share (US$9.3 million equivalent) of the proceeds of the IDA
credit would be provided as a line of credit to GOG for financing this
component. Part of this line of credit (US$8.0 million equivalent) would
be used by GOG to purchase mortgage-backed housing bonds issued by HFC.
HFC in turn would use the proceeds of the bonds to purchase approved
mortgages issued by OSIs. This is a somewhat novel arrangement wherein the
bond purchase by GOG is being substituted for the normal GOG subsidiary
loan. The terms of the GOG bonds would be the same as those on SSNIT
bonds, i.e., 30 years, at 12 per year, interest payable monthly, with the
balance indexed to inflation (see paras. 1.08-12 above for further
details). The remaining share of the line of credit would be made
available by GOG to HFC on a grant basis to finance institutional
developments (technical assistance, training and essential equipments) for
entablishing HFC and for supporting the developments and strengthening of
OSIs. The on-lending terms of HFC are specified in detail in paras. 1.19-
1.59 above. The foreign exchange risk on IDA funds would be borne by GOG
while the credit risk would be borne by HFC.



- 154 -
Annex 13
Page 18 of 19
Cost recovery
2.04      With the exception of the institutional development grants,
costs would be fully recovered through mortgage repayments.
C.  Institutional Arrangements
HFIC's Responsibilities
3.01      As noted in para 1.06 above, GOG would establish HFIC which in
turn would provide policy guidance and supervision for this component.
HFIC would request BOG to provide financial supervision of HFC by reviewing
HFC's operations on an annual basis and recommending to HFIC any changes
necessary to ensure the financial integrity of HFC (see also para 1.18
above).
MBG's Responsibility
3.02      MBG, with the assistance of MPEP, BOG and SSNIT would be
responsible for establishing HFC. MBG would manage HFC and would provide
financial, technical and legal assistance to HFC as well as provide the key
personnel systems, equipments, accommodations, etc., and initial working
and capital. The latter would be provided as a loan to HFC on commercial
terms. MBG's management services will be provided for an annual fee not
exceeding 0.5? of outstanding mortgages (see para 1.07 above).
HFC's Responsibility
3.03      HFC would be responsible for establishing and operating the
housing finance pilot. These responsibilities include, inter alia:
floating and servicing mortgage-backed housing bond issues; establishing
and operating the indexed housing finance system including necessary
computerized systems; selecting OSI, on the basis of the criteria outlined
in Appendix 8 which may be revised from time to time but only with prior
GOG and IDA approval; purchasing eligible mortgages from approved OSIs;
monitoring the financial and operational performance of OSI's and taking
remedial action when necessary; providing support for technical assistance
and training to strengthen the capacity of OSIS, including the development
of entirely new OSIs; managing any IDA special accounts; ensuring that
adequate accounts are maintained; ensuring that financial statements are
prepared annually and published on a timely basis; reportirng to the Bank on
progress on a quarterly basis; and ensuring that all related project audits
are undertaken by on a timely basis by qualified accounts acceptable to
IDA. The terms and targeting of home loans are summarized in Appendix 3
below.
Institutional Support
3.04      An institutional support grant of US$1.3 million equivalent will
be provided to HFC by GOG. Apart from essential vehicles and equipment for
HFC and OSI, this grant would include technical assistance to establish



- 155 -
Annex 13
Page 19 of 19
computer systems; to undertake essential economic. financial and
organizational studies of HFC's and OSI's performance; and studies on
originating and servicing costs; and to undertake training of key HFC and
OS personnel. This training would include short local and overseas
courses in specialized areas relating to housing finance. The cost of this
sub-component is summarized in Annez 16-J (see also Section III of the
main text for further details).
D. Status of Prolect Preparation
4.01      The institutional and financial framework of the project has
been agreed with MFEP, BOG, SSNIT, KWH, and MBG. HFIC and HFC have already
been established. The detailed operating and financial guidelines
(including detailed financial projections) will be prepared and submitted
to IDA for review by August 15, 1990 and completion of these projections on
a basis acceptable to IDA would be a condition of project effectiveness.
Work on establishing the necessary operational manuals and computer systems
will begin by December 1, 1990 and should be completed by June 1, 1991.
HFC should be ready to grant its first mortgage by June 1, 1991.
U
!



156 -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~niAnnex 13
Page 1 of 1
i § {ts1  i                          IIl
1 2 S    i E~I                               l  Aip
g w1    ~~I       t                      
Ii   ii                                                 - 20|i 5   X 4!
I                                       11 Pal
. ..   .  Ft



- 157 -                        Annex 13
GHANA                    Appendix 2
URBAN II PROJECT               Page 1 of 1
HOUSING FINANCE SYSTEM
MORTGAGE FINANCE
SSNIT & OTHERS
r  I     | REPAY                           ORIGINATING
HOUSING BONDS  c                                AND SERVICING   MORTGAGE
INSTITUTIONS
I   >   HOME  .>  .        (OSIsI
r- --  >    FINANCE Co.    <
BHC
FGBS
IMORTGAGE BACKED                     ---------_>    OTHERS
HOUSING BONDS  <           REPAY     --------
, w  l l          REPAY MORTGAGES
GOG                            I I
LOAN->                                   I
WORLD BANK                          ------    SALARIED
(IDA)               MORTGAGE    I I
GUARANTEE  | ---->       WORKERS
AND                (Payroll Deduc.)
TAKE OUT->-> I
I  I
I I
i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I I ...I
SHORT TERM CONSTRUCTION FINANCE    j             II
It  ---HOUSE BUILDINGIPURCHASE
I I       INDIVIDUALS
I 1---->    DEVELOPERS
I          COMPANIES
CONSTRUCTION
LOAN
COMMERCIAL
BANKS AND
OTHER SHORT-TERM
FINANCIERS
I_ -SECONDARY MARKET                - I                    PRIMARY MARKET               -,



- 158 -
Annex 13
Appendix 3
Page 1 of 2
GRANM
HOUSING FINANCE COMPONENT
Home Loan Terms mad Targeting
1.01 Introduction
The Housing Finance Company (HFC) will be responsible for
developing detailed guidelines and comments in the implementation of this
program. In the process, many remainitg technical details must be
addressed. However, it has been agreed to proceed within the following
parameters.
1.02 Terms of Loans
(a)  Stated Interest Rate:  Not more than 3.52.
(b)  Principal Adjustment:  Monthly, 100S of change in Consumer Price
Index.
(c)  Application Fee:  0.52.
'd)  Origination Fee:  Not more than 1.5Z.
Ce)  Maximum Financing:  802 of Appraised Value.
(f)  Repayments:  252 of total cash compensation.
Cg)  Term:  20 years, assuming 20! inflation and 2X real wage
increases for borrowers.
(h)  Maximum Term:  30 years (same as the bonds).
1.03 Housing Standards
Sizes of eligible houses are defined within ranges and generally
would be subject to exception. All lots must be fully serviced.
Type A          Type B          Type C
a)   Description                Bed-sitter      1 Bedroom       2 Bedrooms
w/ facilities
b)   Covered Area               25-34 s.m.      35-44 s.m.      45-50 s.m.
c)   Minimum Lot Size           60 s.m.         60 s.m.         60 s.m.
d)   Share of Loans
originated                40!             40!             202
e)   Est. Minimum Cost            2.0             2.5             3.0
(0mil.;US$ at 03301$,       ($6,000)        ($7,600)         ($9,100)
1990 prices)



- 159 -
Annex 13
Appendix 3
Page 2 of 2
1.04 Income Targeting
There are no income restrictions. However, given the sizes and
costs of the houses, most purchases will have total monthly household
salaries of about ¢25-35,000 (less than US$100) in 1991, slightly above the
middle-range for urban salaried workers. (Formal data on the income
distribution is unreliable.)
The following table indicates the range of percentages of the
estimated minimum cost of House Type A that can be borrowed at different
income levels.
Household Income (cedis/month)
Interest Rate             20,000    25,000    30,000    35,000
2.5?                   52?       652       762      80  (max)
3.5Z                   47-       592       692      80S  (max)
1.05 DeveloDment Program
Approx.   Percent    No.         Development
House        House      Selling     of        of           Program
Tspe         Size       Price a/  Progra-m  Units      1991 1992 1993
(14')     (¢.M)        (Z) _
A) Bedsitter   25-34       2.0        40        800        80  240  480                 I
8) 1 Bedroom   35-44       2.5        40        800        80  240  480
C) 2 Bedroom   45-50       3.0        20        400        40  120  240
100      2000       200  600 1200                 U
a/ January 1990 prices.
1.06      EPC APproval:  To qualify for an HFC mortgage all houses built
in developments of 10 or more units and in deve' -ments in which the
densities exceed 50 habitable rooms per hectare must, as part of the normal
planning approvals process, obtain EPC approval. A habitable room includes
all rooms used for living or sleeping, and specifically excludes bathrooms
and kitchens.



- 160 -
Annex 13
Appendix 4
Page 1 of 1
GHANA
HOUSING FINANCE COMPONENT
Sensitivity of Loan Haturity for Iflation and Growth
in Real Wages of Borroers
Real Wage   Maturity         LTV
Inflation      Growth    (Months)    At 30 Years
102          3.0Z        207           0.02
102          2.02        225           0.02
10          0.02        280           0.02
102         -1.01        328           0.0Z
202          3.02        215           0.0%
Base Cost             202          2.OZ        234            0.02
202          0.OS        295           O.0x
20X         -1.02        350           0.02
302          3.02        222           0.02
302          2.O2        243           0.02
30Q          O.02        309           0.02
302         -1.02        360 (max)    3.12
502          3.02        235           0.02
5o:          2.z0        259           0.02
502          0.02        338           0.02
502         -1.0        360 (m)   12.5Z
D1R:-uNATM.O



I      13
- 161 -                                     Appendix 5
Page 1 of 1
CFNA14
4OUSINO FINAN  COPONENT
DETAILED DEST SERVICE SCOEDUS AND AMPTION
(TYPE A HOUS)
TOTAL COT (CEDIS):           2,000,000
INFRASTRUCiWE ASSISTANCE:            0X            0 CUDIS
OIG-PAYMENT(CEDIS):                 243       410,000 CEDIS 
LOAN AMOUNT AT BEG(CEDIS):    1,520,000     LOAN TERM    ES IRR  ACTUAL IRR
TERM OF LOA  (YEARS)                     15 YEAR LOAN         306      18.003
(MATURITY PERIOD):                  20  20 YEAR LOA           301      22.843
26 YEAR LOAN         301      22.84x
INTEREST RATE:                    2.50  30 YEM LOAN           3OX   a ."%X
LEVL OF DOEXATION
OF LOAN TO DIILATION:              1o o_
INFLATION RATE:                     201
DISCOUt  RATE FOR NPV
CALCULATION:                     22.501
SHARE OF INOME
PAID FOR
DEBT SERVICE:                       253
NOMINAL MO1NLY HOUSE-
HOLD INOM  1N 1500:             80,000



Annex 13
-162-                                        Appendix 6
Page I of 5
MONTHLY                          LOAN BLANLE      NOMINAL   REAL
MORTGAE     INTEREST PRINCIPAL  AT KEGINNIN    NOWSEHOLa   BALANCE
MONTH  PAYMN       COWW    CO0wNENT          OF PERtOD      INCOME  ON LOAN
1      7,600        8,167      4,98       1,820,000      80,000    1,520,000
2      7,500        8,200      4,294      1,8 1           0,000    1,515,"7
8      7,50         8,246      4,254      1,58,070       80,000    1,511,487
4      7,00         8,267      4,213      1,577,504      80.000   1,507,511
5      7,5s0        8,828      4,172      1,597,479      80,000    1,503,29
a      7,600        8,870      4,180      1,617,700      80,000    1,4a0,860
7      7Y,5         8,413      4,067      1,68,278       80,000   1,406,581
a      7,500        3,467      4,043      1,650,204      80,000   1,401,801
9      7,S00         ,601      8,990      1,650,601      80,000    1,488,165
10      7,600        8,546      8,954       ,702, 166     80,000   1,484,624
11      7,500        8,502      8,906      1,724,213      30,000   1,481,176
12      7,600        8,639      s,66       1,746,642      80,000   1,477,861
10      9,180        8,686      6,494      1,760,402      36,720   1,474,552
14      9,180        8,781      5,449      1,790,974      36,720   1,460,974
15      9,160        8,777      5,403      1,812,660      36,720   1,465,601
16      9,180        8,828      5,857      1,885,126      86,720   1,461,183
17      9,160        8,870      6,310      1,657,784      86,720    1,466,68
10      0,190        8,916      5,262      1,660,638      36,720    1,452,705
19      9,160        8,967      5,218      1,904,236      36,720   1,44,641
20      9,160        4,017      $,16       1,923,140      86,720   1,444,675
21      9,15         4,06       6,112      1,962,426      86,720    1,440,607
22      0llO0        4,119      6,061      1,9",125       86,720    1,487,084
23      9,130        4,171      5,000      2,002,256      86,720   1,483,385
24      9,160        4,225      4,966      2,027,824      36,720    1,429,770
26     11,286        4,270      6,957      2,053,686      44,946    1,426,270
26     11,236        4,380      6,907      2,076,217      44,946    1,421,444
27     11,236        4,361      6,85       2,108,21       44,046    1,416,720
23     11,236        4,434      6,602      2,123,257      44,946    1,412,108
29     11,23         4,487      6,740      2,158,983      U,945    1,407,589
B0     11,286        4,542      6,695      2,180,056      44,946    1,408,179
81     11,286        4,50?      6,639      2,206,634      4,946    1,890,670
82     11,286        4,653      6,563      2,281,676      44,045    1,394,661
83     11,286        4,711      6,5U       2,261,180      44,046    1,890,551
84     11,216        4,0m       0,467      2,269,181      4,945    1,36,586
86     11,.86        4,623      6,406      2,317,661      44,945    1,32,621
J      11,286        4,36       6,847      2,346,687      44,945    1,376,796
87     18,768        4,"0       6,608      2,876,116      55,018   1,875,069
86     13,75         5,0W       6,746      2,403,513      5,018    1,869,974
9      13,753        5,0606     6,6        2,481,476      56,013    1,364,939
40     13,78         5,125      6,629      2,459,670     65,018    1,360,112
41     18,78         5,136      6,563      2,486,776      5,018    1,,341
42     18,758        5,246      6,507      2,516,100      65,013    1,350,675
48     18,763        5,800      6,445      2,4s,o096      55,018   1,846,112
44     18,758        5,872      8,361      2,576,551      5,018    1,341,661
46     18,7"         5,486      6,817      2,600,497      55,018    1,837,290
46     18,758        5,502      6,251      2,641,00       55,01     1,33,026
47      18,75        6,5        6,164      2,678,063      56,018    1,820,6
46     18,7U         6,563?      ,l1      2,705,671      56,018    1,824,704
49     16,684        5,700     11,123      2,736,6u       67,386    1,820,320
60      6,34         6,770     11,064      2,760,46       67,33     1,815,464
6i4    1X6,64       65,86      10,990      2,300,651      67,8      1,810,190



- 163 -                                         .       1 3
Appendix 6
MOITHLY                           LaM BALAUCE       NOINAL    REAL               Page 2 of 5
MCRTACE      INTEREST  PRINCIPAL   AT PE01212N0    HOUSaJ6    BALANCE
MONMH   PAYMENTS    COWPONWT  CWMPBT          OF PERIOD        INCOME  ON LOAN
62       6,$"4        6,601     10,1"       2,682,880       67,8uo    1,305,068
Ss      16.s'4        6,0       10,86       2,004.621       67,886    1,300,016
64      1,$"4         6,08o      10t7       2,607,444       67,860   1,295,064
68      166"4         6,106     10,726      2,080,640        67,886    1,290,268
66      16,654        6,177     10667       2,94,617         67,388    1,285,656
67      16.68         6,249     10,668      2,910,866       67,886    1,260,914
Ss      16,6"4        6,822     10,512      8,084,56        67,8a6    1,276,803
69      16,684        6,897     10,487      8,070,848       07,816    1,271,972
60      16,684        6,472     10,862      6,106,751        67,380    1,267,648
61      J0,66         6,550     14,05       8,148,798        82,419    1,26,420
62      20,o60        6,620     18,66       8,17,68          62,419    1,267,772
68      20,606        6,692     18,918      8,212,102        62,416    1,252,286
64      20,606        6,766     16,640      8,247,162        62,419    1,246,612
65      20,60         6,689     18,766      a,282,012        82,419    1,241,498
66      20,606        6,915     18,690      6,810,094        62,419    1,286,292
67      20,605        601       18,618      8,866,006        62,419    1,281,198
68      20,60         7,070     18,6us      8,31,566         62,419    1,226,199
6o      20,605        7,15O     18,485      8,4$1,77         82,419    1,221,W8
70      20,606        7,281     18,874      8,470,064        62,419    1,216,520
71      20,606        7,818     18,292      8,510,209        62,419    1,211,682
72      20,606        7,897     18,206      8,660,468        62,410    1,207,248
78      25,220        7,482    17,78        8,591,806       100,61    1,202,762
74      26,220        7,680     17,6"1      8,626,871       100,$1    1,190,612
75      26,220        7,68T     17,568      8,668,|0        100,661    1,100.80
76      26,220        7,717     17,508      8,704,200       100,6"1    1,188,274
t7      26,220        7,766     17,422      8,748,166       100,881    1,179,678
7o      26,20         7,881     17,889      8,762,617       100,861    1,174,108
79      25,220        7,06"     17,255      8,828,125       100,801    1,168,801
0       25,220        6,060     17,170      8,664,186       100,861    1,16,625
e1      26,220        8,187     17,0U       8,0S0,661       10o,661    1,156,86
82      26,220        8,226     16,9s0      8,64,818        100,661,   ,18,280
68      26,220        8,816     16,905 8    8,991,50        100,l61    1,148,825
84      26,220        8,407     16,618      4,086,44        100,861    1,148,462
as      80,670        6,6oo     22,869      4,080,169       128,478    1,188,607
66      80,o6o        6,568     22,266      4,119,912       128,470    1,182,455
87      so8TO *0,667            22,202      4,160,S8       128,470    1,120,829
6       80,670        6,783     22,116      4,201,509       128,476    1,120,818
60      80,670        6,640     22,020      4,24,877        128,470    1,114,421
90      80,670        6,6       21,941      4,266,974       128,476    1,106,686
91      80,670        9,019     21,680      4,829,814       128,476    1,102,160
92      80,670        9,111     21,756      4,878,400       128,478    1,007,869
a6      80,670        9,206     21,066       4,416,272      123,476    1,001,034
94      80,670        0,S0o     21,570      4,468,017       128,476    1,066,579
96      80,670        9,807     21,478      4,510,887       123,476    1,061,829
so      80,670        9,495     21,875       4,857,606      126,476    1,076,161
97      87,764        9,696     26,160       4,608,670      151,186    1,071,184
so      87,764        9,662     26,102      4,647,569       161,186    1,064,576
99      87,764        9, "      26,018      4,690,166       151,188    1,08 ,141
100      87,74         0,882     27,028      4,788,680       151,186    1,061,621
101      67,764        9,068     27,6U       4,777,oS6       161,186    1,046,616
102      87,764       10,047     27,787      4,62,586s       151,188   1,080,626
10S      87,704       10,142      7,642      4,866,224       151,186    1,038,546
104     s8,y74        10,280     27,548      4,914,666       151,186    1,027 678
106      87,764        0,U87     27,447       4,961,682      151,l86    1,0o ')I
100      87,764       10,41      27847        5,0s1,oeo      161,18     1,016,261
o0       67,7"4       10,540     27,246       5,061,966     1s,1as    1,010,716



- 164 -                                       Annex 13
------   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~Apen d i x 6l
MONTHLY                        LOAM SALIANC    NOMINAL   REAL            ppe  3 of 5
MORtUGE    INTERIST PRINCIPAL  AT 6CGIMI8N    HS  M       ALNE             age3Lof
MOTH  PAYMTS   CO T OWWOt                 OFI?  W PERIOD  INCmE ON LOA
106     57,734      10,645    27,141     6,106,784    161,183   1,005,275
109     40,248      10,749    8,4W       5,159,441    164,902    900,984
110     464,24      10o,68    U5,410     5,202,U1     140m        30.054
111     46,248      10,920    88,010     6,246,060    164,902     90,295
112     46,243      11,022    8n,25      5,290,U5     14,902      979,655
118     46,243      11,116    85,182     ,8s8,765     14,992      978,132
114     40,24       11,212    86.06      5,"1,738     14,902      06,725
116     46,243      11,810    84,09      5,42,608     164,002     960,481
116     46,241      11,409    84,680     5,476,281    164,992     9S4,260
117     46,£43      11,610    64,7W      6,524,704    164,002    904,179
11     46,241      11,618    84,636     5,574,014    164,002     942,217
110     46,248      11,717    84,531     6,624,184    164,002     936,362
120     46,243      11,625    84,425     5,675,227    164,992     080,618
121     66,604      11,982    44,676     6,727,160    226,481     924,98-
122    56,60        12,020    44,58      5,769,460    226,431     917,758
128     60,606      12,100    44,490     5,812,537    226,481     910,660
124     56,606      12,201    44,407     5,066,844    226,481     9008,60
125     6B,606      12,294    44,814     6,900,915    226,481     896,886
126    56,606       12,388    44,220     5,946,262    226,481     890,101
127     56,606      12,404    44,124     5,902,400    226,431     68U,482
12"    56,60       12,512    44,026     6,030,841    226,431     376,077
129     56,60       12,081    48,0M6     6,067,101    226,481     670,504
1SO     56,608      12,7      4,826      6,18,092      226,481    364,301
181    56,608       12,88     48722      6,165,181    226,481     956,128
182    566d06       12,900   48,617      6,285,480    226,481     852,062
183     69,286      18,007    56,191     6,286,607    277,161     84,102
184     69,286      18,179    56,100     6,825,600     277,151     88,580
1a8     60,286      18,262    5,026      6,6,677      277,161     831,101
186     69,288      18,846    56,041     6,406,240    277,151     68,787
17      60,2380     18,482      ,6"      6,447,527    27,151      816,593
186     60,23       18,620    55766      6,489,U4      2",151     800,519
189     60,26       18,6090    65,079    6,582,264     277,151    802,562
140    46,268       18,600     5,5       0,675,723     277,161    796,721
141     69,268      18,702    55,46      6,610,908     277,151    798,95
142     69,266      1,865    1,402       6,664,061     277,151    762,880
148     60,286      18,901    55,807     6,710,743     27,161     775,6
144     6,288       14,073    5,210      6,757,52      277,161    7P9,462
145     84,803      14,177    70,62      6,604,723    830,288     708,196
146     34,00       14,244    70,"4      6,"7,191      88S,23     755,274
147     64,06       14,818    70,466     6,670,221     88,258     747,479
143     64,'00      14,6U8    70,425     6,0,626       880,28      70,600
140     34,606      14,454    70,8S4     6,0"8,016     83,288     782,262
1S0     84,606      14,527    70,232     6072,602       80,26      724,387
151     6,606       14,600    70,206     7,006,105     889,288     717,581
152     84,608      14,675    70,1U8     7,044,204     880,2U      710,848
1i      64,606      14,762    70,067     7,080,840     8a3,21      708,270
184     84,806      14,80    60,907      7,116,115     8809,28    6#6,12
155     84,606      14,908    69,000     7,156,089     889,28      680,46
156     64,60       14,060    69,010     7,194,64      889,28      682,782
157    106,605     1,071      6,785     7,28,662      416,221     676,107
156    108,6s0      15,114     6,6092    7,254,68      416,221     667,818
165    108,60      1",1W7    66,648     7,275,540     415,221     650,649
160    106,06       15,202    6,608      7,296,02      416,221     "8,611
161    106,606      15,247    66,5"      7,816,661     416,221     643,60
162    106,6"       15,208    6,512      7,0,812       415,221     63,910
168    106,606      15,840    66,466                   415,221     623,248



- 165                                           Annex 13
Appendix 6
MONTHLY                          Ll"4 BALANC      NOMINAL   REAL             Page 4 of 5
M0RTGAE     INTEREST PRINCIPAL   AT BEGINNING    HOUSEOD    BALA4
MOT   PAYMENS   COMONENT COMPONENT          OF PERID        INCOME  ON Lam
164    108, ON       15,8S1     a6,417     7,316,289      415,221      620,606
166    108,30        16,487     86,84s      7,409,647     416,221      618,266
166    10,306       16,480     86,810      7,48,262      416,221      606,061
167    1083,@0       16,686    8W,260      7,467,862      415,221      600,751
1"     108,306       16,067     06,210     7,481,93       415,221      691,64
169    127,06        15,630   111,410       7,565g,914    06,231      564,186
170    127,038       16,643    111,416     7,06W,718      606,281      676,010
171    127,066       16,647   111,411      7,510,650    560,281        567,468
172    127,066       16,661    111,407     7,612,417      506,281      569,046
178    127,066       16,656   111,408      7,514,816      60,281       560,765
174    127,06        15,650   111,890       7,618,247     50,281       542,590
175    127,068       15,608   111,895       7,518,212     606,281      584,548
176    127,066       16,667   111,801      7,520,212      50,2a1       526,626
177    127,068       15,671   111,8W        7,522,247     506,281      616,827
173    127,066       16,676   111,36        7,524,817     606,281      511,144
179    127,060       16,60    111,878      7,626,428      509,281      s08,678
180    127,066       16,685   111,378       7,528,566     500,281      496,126
181    166,519       16,689    189,980      7,680,745     622,075      488,787
182    166,510       15,688   180,896       7,604,067     622,075      479,711
138    156,510       16,577   189,942       7,476,928     622,076      470,768
1Q4    155,510       16,610   180,900       7,40,807      622,076      461,967
16E    155,s6        16,461   140,060       7,421,200     622,076      468,275
186    155,610       15,401    140,117      7,862,622     622,075      444,721
107    165,01B       16,341   140,170       7,368,687     622,075      486,292
1s8    155,619       16,270   140,240       7,888,044     622,076      427,986
L18    1s5,610       16,21G   140,802       7,808,087     622,076      410,802
90O    166,610       16,168   140,800       7,278,204     622,076      411,788
191    1656,610      15,088   140,481       7,242,088     622,076      408,792
192    166,610       16,022   140,497       7,210,820     622,075      a86,962
1in     1to,856      14,064   175,401       t,170,087     761,419      886,247
194    190,865       14,812   176,54        7,100,874     761,419      878,760
t19    190ls,        14,660   175,687       7,040,402     761,410      869,40s
196    190,866       14,621   176,884      6,960,901      701,419      860,190
197    190,866       14,871   175,984       6,898,001     761,410      861,108
196    190,86        14,219   176,186      6,825,000      761,419      342,146
199    190,855       14,064   176,201       6,750,668     761,419      888,816
200    190,86        18,906   176,440       8,675,022     761,419      824,011
201    190,85        18,746   176,60        6,508,064     761,419      816,081
202    100,866       18,568   176,772       6,6,19764     761,419      307,671
208    190,866       18,417   176,930       8,440,100     761,419      290,282
204     190,886      18,246   177,107       0,869,047     761,419      291,011
206    282,904       11,070   210,01        6, 276, 8e8    081,077     262,006
206    282,064       12,011   220,108       6,140,869     981,977      272,904
207    282,994       12,542   220,418       6,019,979     981,977      208,219
206    282,964       12,207   220,727       6,66,814      981,977      256,80
200    282,994       11,90    221,006       6,74,854      081,977      244,074
210    282,964       11,704   221,290       6,610,061     081,077      234,700
211    282,06        11,415   221,579       6,479,808     981,977      225,455
212    282,904       11,121   221,878       5,8U6,808     981,977      216,886
218    282,664       10,822   222,172       5,194,766     981,977      207,847
214    282,664       10,610   a22,470       5,046,721     981,077      190,470
216    282,904       10,209   222,786       4,900,182      81,077      180,788
216    282,004        0,694    228,101      4,748,964     981,977      161,108
21     288,185        9,578   276,612       4,595,142    1,140,740     172,690
216    266,138        9,187    276,040      4,868,660    1,140,740     162,246
219     26,l8         8,688    276,480      4,172,62     1,140,740     152,084



- 166 -                                        Annex 13
Appendix 6
moRTYy                            LOamSALMCE        NOMINAL    REAL               Page 5 of 5
MORTGAGE     INTEREST  PRINCIPAL   AT BEGINNING    HOUS4OLD   BALANCE
WMONT   PAYMENTS    COIPONefT  CO WONENT      WF PEIDD        INCOME  ON LOA
220     26,16          3,241    276,944      8,968,6"1    1,140,740      141,959
221     25,15          7,761    277,404      8,7",067    1,140,740       132,00
222     2,16"          7,814    277,671      8,610,58     1,140,740      122,2,6
228     265,165        68       270,347      8,262,206    1,140,740      112,642
224     266,186        6,864    276, 31      1,046,846    1,140,740      102,M
226     265,186        G,61    279,324       2,613,440    1,140,740       98,681
226     2865,1865      6,60    279,26        2,672,912    1,140,740       64,290
227     28, 16        4,850    280,886      2,20,198    1,140,740        76,128
228     265,186        4,882    280,658      2,079,210    1,140,740       ",077
220     840,067        8,804    346,268      1,825,"6    1,3896,266       57,152
280     540,067        8,182    845,985      1,508,298    1,806,2"        46,846
231     940,067        2,440    644,610      1,176,077    1,818,200       86,660
282     840,067        1,752    847,314        841,142    1,896,2"        25,156
288     840,067        1,046    648,022        501,388    1,896,268       14,769
284     160,089          324    155,714        156,714    1,396,266        4,517
285           0            0          0              0    1,396,260            0
286           0            0          0              0    1, 396, 2"           0
287           0            0          0              0    1,398,266            0
288           0            0          0              0    1,896,260            0
289           0            0          0              0    1,896,266            0
240           0            0          0              0    1,896,260            0
241           0            0          0              0    1,709,080            0
242           0            0          0              0    1,709,080            0



- 167 -
Annex 13
Appendix 7
GHANA
HOME FINANCE COMPANY
ADMINISTRATIVE BUDGET PROJECTIONS (Cash Flow Basis)
(Constant Cedi thousands)
Year 1      Year 2       Year 3
SALARIES
Professional staff (4)                5,000        5,250        5,510
Support staff (4)                     1.400        1,470       1,540
Total                              6,400        6,720       7,050
STAFF BENEFITS & ALLOWANCES
Professional staff          -         8,800        9,240        9,700
Support staff                         2,000        2,100       2,210
Total                             10,800       11,340      11,910
OTHER OPERATING COSTS 
Motor vehicle expenses                4,000        4,200        4,410
Office space rental                   1,000        1,050        1,100
Communications                          500          525          550
Printing & stationery                 1,000        1,050        1,100
Business entertainment                  750          790          830
Sundry (incl. computer servicing)       750          790          830
Related contingencies                   700          735          770
Total                              8,700        9,140       9,590
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES
Motor vehicles (5)                   26,500
Personal computers (4)                6,500
Printer (4)                           4,000          -
Contingencies/maintenance             3,000        3,150        3,310
Computer Systems Establishment       71,500       10,000       10,000
Technical Assistance for
Specialized Studies                42,200       42,200      42,200
Training                             30,000       30,000      26,000
Equipment and Supplies                4,500        4,500        4,500
Total                            185,200       89,850      85,910
GRAND TOTAL                         211,100      117,050     114,460
(Costs will be funded initially out of equity contributions supplemented by
loans at a commercial rate of interest and a capital grant from GOG until
fully covered by HIC servicing and issuing fees.)                                       !



- 168 -
Annex 13
Appendix 8
GHANA
Housing Finance Pilot Program
Eligibility Criteria for Selection of Originating and Servicing
Institutions (OSIs)
1.        The following criteria would be used by GOG for assessing the
eligibility of financial institutions as OSIs in the housing finance pilot
program.
(a) Adequacy of capital. The present Banking law of 1989 requires a
minimum capital adequacy ration of 6Z unless fixed at a higher
level by the Bank of Ghana (BOG) for a particular bank. The
capital adequacy ratio is measured as a percentage of the
capital base of the banK to its adjusted asset base in
accordance with the provisions of the first schedule to the
current law.
Cb) Adequate provisions for all loans classified below scurrento on
Banking Supervision Department Form 8 satisfactory to the BOG.
'c)  Criteria (a) and (b) above may be waived if the financial
institution is undergoing a formal recovery or restructuring
process as part of the Financial Structural Adjustment Project
and the process is proceeding to the sacisfaction of the BOG and
the Bank.
Cd) An adequate liquid reserve ratio according to current BOG
requirements.
(e) Satisfactory compliance with submission of all BOG Banking
Supervision Department prudential reporting requirements.
(f) Adequate organization, staffing and administrative capacity to
handle mort6age origination and servicing satisfactory to the
Bank.
(g) Operating policies and procedures acceptable to the Bank.
2.        The eligibility of a financial institution as an OSI in the
pilot program will have to be acceptable to both the BOG and the Bank.
3.        The eligibility of the OSIs will be monitored by BOG on an
annual basis.



- 169 -
Annex 13-A
Page 1 of 6
GHANA
URBAN II PROJECT
DETAILED DESCRIPTION
PILOT HOUSING FINANCE COMPONENT
REVIEW OF MERCHANT BANK (GHANA) LILiTED
Overall Findings
1.01      The condition and capabilities of Merchant Bank (Ghana) Limited
(MBG) was reviewed in light of its proposed role in the establishment of
the Home Finance Company (HFC) pilot program. The review included a
thorough analysis of MBC's financial position, the condition of its loan
portfolio, the quality of its management, the bank's organizational
structure, and its technical capacity to administer an innovative mortgage
refinancing operation.
1.02      The mission found MBG to be financially sound and particularly
well-managed, with an established track record of genuine profitability and
innovative leadership in the country's financial system. Although there is
no room for complacency in a challenging economic environneat and with new
competitors on the doorstep, there is good reason to believe that MEG will
continue to be a well run and profitable in the foreseeable future.
Specifically, it was concluded that technically MBG would be ideally suited
to undertake the complex administrative responsibilities of establishing
and managing the HFC pilot program with a modest amount of short term
technical assistance at the outset.
1.03      A brief summary of MBG's organization and performance is
presented below. Further details are to be found in the project file.
Background
1.04      The Merchant Bank (Ghana) Limited, established in 1972, is a
joint venture of the Government of Ghana (302), National Investment Bank
(25Z), the State Insurance Corporation (152), and Grindlays Bank, UK (30Z).
As Ghana's first merchant bank, it provides a wide range of commercial and
investment banking services, including the issuance of commercial paper and
debenture stocks on behalf of clients, to private Ghanaian corporations,
public enterprises and individuals. MBG provides advisory services on
investment, corporate finance, project finance and capital market activity
in addition to the leasing and hire purchase of capital equipment. It also
provides a full registrar's service for 9 of the 14 corporations which have
issued shares publically in Ghana.
1.05      With a total staff of 216, it operates its head office in Accra,
branches in Sekondi-Takoradi and Kumasi, and four wholly-owned
subsidiaries: Credit Finance Limited, Investment Holdings Limited,



- 170 -
Annex 13-A
Page 2 of 6
National Stockbrokers Limited, and Merban Forex Bureau Limited. While the
1989 financial statements for MBG and its subsidiaries are presently being
audited, management accounts for the year indicate profits before tax of
¢112 million for Merban, ¢16.4 million for Investment Holdings, and 01!.4
million for Credit Finance. There will be an effective breakeven position
for National Stockbrokers which expects to become more active later this
year with the opening of the Ghana Stock Exchange in July. (MBG's Deputy
Managing Director Mrs. Stephanie Baeta Ansah serves as the present
Chairperson of the Stock Echange while MBG's former Board Secretary and
Senior Legal Officer Mr. Yeboa Amoa serqes as its Chief Executive Officer.)
1.06      MBG enjoys a stable deposit base, 752 of which is in the form of
current accounts or other demand deposits that since 1988 have earned
modest rates of interest (presently in the 3.5-6.0X range). The remaining
252 is in the form of 6 to 36 month time deposits presently earning 14.5-
22.52 respectively. About one-third of deposits are from public
institutions while two-thirds are from the private sector. The bank enjoys
a comfortable 41.92 loan/deposit ratio and has no appreciable interest rate
or maturity mismatch funding risk. The loan portfolio is primarily in the
form of overdraft facilities (72Z) with loan tenors extending to a maximum
of 24 to 36 months. All funded credit facilities carry interest rates
subject to change at any time by the bank although in practice the rates
are changed only occasionally (most recently in September 1989). All loans
are based on audited financial statements and cash flow analyses reviewed
annually.
Financial Condition and Performance
1.07      A detailed analysis of MBG's balance sheets and income
statements over the past five years is presented in the tables attached to               ;
this appraisal summary. The debt/equity and various capital/asset ratios
all reflect a prudently capitalized bank.
1.08      More importantly, however, a detailed review of MBG's credit
policy and procedures, problem loan classifications, provisions for
possible losses and related accounting policies, leads to a high degree of
confidence that the net loan portfolio is sound and properly valued in the
financial statements. This means that the ratio analysis can be accepted
at full face value which is not often the case in many parts of the world.
In fact, it could be argued that MBG*s provisions for possible loan losses
are on the overly cautious side due to its conservative method of
accounting for interest which has been susper.ded on non-performing loans
n,d due to the Bank of Ghana's present requLrement that "the only security
which should be taken into account when calculating provisions for bad
debts should be cash, government stocks, other readily realisable
securities and liens against deposit accounts. Property and guarantees are
not currently regarded as sufficient security because of the difficulty of
foreclosure and collection.,
1.09      The loan portfolio also appears to be appropriately diversified
with concentrations in priority sectors of the economy: manufacturing
(36Z), agriculture (162) and export trade (16Z). One area of concern was



- 171 -
Annex 13-A
Page 3 of 6
the very high level of contingent liabilities in 1986 related to foreign
currency denominated guarantees and the dramatic depreciation of the Cedi.
Subsequently, these contingent liabilities have been steadily and
significantly reduced to acceptable levels as of the end of 1989. They
represent no undue risk to the bank's capital despite a major rela.ed
recovery situation which was thoroughly reviewed by the mission.
1.10      Analysis of recent Profit and Loss Statements indicates that
foreign exchange revenues have been the largest source of profits followed
by fees & commissions and finally by net interest income. This earnings
profile is not unusual for a merchant bank in a relatively uncompetitive
environment and is reflected in the very healthy Return on Assets and
Return on Equity ratios. The number of staff has been kept fairly lean
with only modest annual growth.  Although the cost per employee has risen
due to the highly inflationary environment, total employee costs as a
portion of operating costs has been kept under control at under 20Z for the
past three years. It is expected that the cost per employee will continue
to rise in the near term, apart from inflation, due to the recent licensing
of two new merchant banks which are likely to attempt to entice MBG staff
away with high compensation packages. This has been the experience of
Nigeria's expanding banking system in the last few years.  It would be most
uniterstandable if MBG sought to retain its well trusted and highly
experienced staff, particularly at toe managerial level, through
significant compensation increases in the next year or two.
Management and Organization
1.11      The bank's organization chart, staffing patterns and personnel
qualifications were also reviewed. It was concluded that MBG is well
organized, is staffed efficiently, and enjoys a high quality of management.
The management team is well educated academically, well trained in the key
fields of banking, and highly seasoned with an average of over 15 years of
banking experience each.
CaPacity to Manage HFC
1.12      Although MBG has not had extensive experience with long term
residential mortgage lending directly, its personnel clearly has the
financial sophistication and ability to quickly grasp the dimensions of the
proposed Home Finance Company pilot program. MBG's prudent and profitable
management of its own Credit and Marketing Division loan portfolio,
Corporate Finance Division, and its four subsidiaries supports this
conclusion. All that HFC will require at the outset is some technical
assistance to set up the appropriate refinancing instruments,
documentation, accounting systems, operating guidelines and monitoring
procedures. The technical assistance will also need to include the
purchase of about three personal computers with appropriate spreadsheet
analysis software and related training seminars.
DIR:U9I@"AMg1.SAA



- 172 -                           Annex 13-A
Page 4 of 6
MERCHANT BANK (GHANA) LIMITED
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(As of December 31; ¢ millions)
1985       1986      1907      1988           1989
Audited    Aud4ted  Audited   Audited    Unaudited
(Bank Only)
ASSETS
Cash & SIT Funds            277         269      3,963       4,825      6,243
Investments                 377         468        229         675      1,154
Loans & Advances (Net)  >1,049      >3,433       1,556       1,729      1,960
Other Assets             >          >              929       1,422      1,350
Leased Credit                 0          18        '11          90    >    41
Fixed Assets                 42          45         71         490    >   912
Total Assets  1_745                  4.233       6.759       9,231     11,660
LIABILITIES
Deposits & Current A/c  >1,568      >3,937       2,495       3,682      4,678
Other Liabilities        >          >            3,874       4.951      5,657
Total Liabilities         1,568      3,937       6,369       8,633     10,335
NET WORTH                   177         296        390         598      1.325
Total Liab & Net Worth   1.745       4.233       6.759       9,.231    11.660
Contingent Liabilities   1,217       3,530       2,543       1,558      1,090
Total Egployees             155         173        195         204        216
RATIOS
Loans/Deposits (2)                                62.4        47.0       41.9
Debt/Equity                 8.9        13.3       16.3        14.4        7.8
Capital/Tot Assets (2)    10.1          7.0        5.8         6.5       11.4
Capital/Net Loans (Z)                             25.1        34.6       67.6
Capital/Cont Liab (2)      14.5         8.4       15.3        38.4      121.6
Loans/Employee (¢ mll)                             8.0         8.5        9.1



- 173 -
Annex 13-A
Page 5 of 6
MERCHANT BANK (GHANA) LIMITED
Consolidated Loan Portfolio Analysis
(As of December 31; ¢ millions)
1987       1988        1989
Auditea    Audited    Unaudited
(Bank Only)
BY TYPE OF CUSTOMER
Individuals                                          35           9
Private Enterprises                               2,032       2,681
Public Enterprises                                  167         143
Staff                                                57          68
Gross Portfolio                                   2,291       2,901
Provisions                                         (562)       (941)
Net Portfolio                                     1,729       1,960
BY SECTOR
Agriculture                             250         344         455
Export Trade                            225         290         462
1'4anufacturing                         664         702       1,030
Transport/Storage                       229         19'.        141
Mining/Constr -tion                     145         246         263
Import Trade                             70          55          76
Oil                                      14           6           2
Services/Commerce/Finance               301         397         396
Miscellaneous                             56         67          76
Gross Portfolio                       1,954       2,291       2,901
Provisions                              (398)      (562)       (941)
Net Portfolio                         1,556       1,729       1,960
BY TYPE OF ADVANCE
Loans                                   691         901         812
Overdrafts                            1,263       1.390       2,089
Gross Portfolio                       1,954       2,291       2,901
Provisions                              (398)      (562)       (941)
Net Portfolio                         1,556       1,729       1,960



- 174 -                            Annex 13-A
Page 6 of 6
MERCHANT BANTK (GHANA) LIMITED
Consolidated Profit & Loss Accounts
(As of December 31; ; millions)
1985       1986        1987        1988        1989
Audited    Audited    Audited    Audited    Unaudited
(Bank Only)
interest Income                                      496         625         763
Interest Expense                                    (285)       (437)       (462)
Net Interest Income                                  211         188         301
Fees & Commissions                                   138         240         499
Profits or. Exchange                                 271         424         505
Leasing Income                                         9          51          78
Hire Purchase Income                                   9          13           -
Other Operating Income                                54          32          18
Total Operating Income       291         544         692         948       1,401
Employee Costs             >(109)      >(206)       (113)        :182)      (202)
Other Oper Expenses        >           >            (156)       (242)       (326)
Provisions                 >           >            (195)        (38)       (200)
Net Operating Profit         182         338         228         486         673
Other Income                   0           0           1           1          10
Profit Before Tax            182         338         229         487         683
Taxation                    (103)       (223)       (130)       (278)       (377)
P?rofit After Tax (PAT)       79         115          79         209         306
Dividends Paid                 0         (30)          0           0
(38)*
PAT Retained                 1002         74Z        1001        1002         882
RATIOS
Net Int/Oper Income (2)                             30.5        19.8        21.5
FeeslOper Income (Z)                                19.9        25.3        35.6
FX Inc/Oper Income (Z)                              39.2        44.7        36.0
Emp;. Costs/Oper Income (Z                         16.3        19.2        14.4
Empl Costs8FEmployee (¢ mil)                          .58         .89         .94
P.eturn on Ave Assets (2)   5.46        3.85         1.44        2.61        2.93
Return cn Ave Equity (2)  57.70        48.50        23.00       42.30       31.80
*(proposed dividend)



MERCHANT BANK (GHANA) LIMITED
4------,
1            20 
I     M~D
t----------
tO I0
*4-___----,t
o----e   ED  t
0    ---   -       -   --- 4---- -----t----+
t~~~~~~~~~ S
Corporae Finane  Adminstratio        Secreary to       redit         Bnking         Fnancia I                     Intena
P               I                                           I
|~~~~                                         ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ I  I t       I
+ _~~~~~~~~~,--_.--_---.    4---_----.4   4---t4    --4                                               1____  +___  __*__
I  a                                                           :    a          ti             ii t                   s   
IIf~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~I  : N~   I     I  S/l.   :         VM    I tND                2  F/Ct           I       I  : IICTI
Corporate Finance         OAdinistration           Secretary to    Credit &         Banking       Financial          1Internal
Division                    &                      B0ard        M1arketing      Services      Control ler        S       Control
Personnel
Investmaent Holdings                               Legal Adviser                    (includes                  '--------4
Limited                                                        Credit           2 Branches                 I
Registrars     Finance             plus                    I   BP    I                       >
Notional Stockbrokers                                 Services      Limited          1erban Forex               4       4
Limi ted                                                                         Bureau)                                              c laIx
Recoveries                                                  Electronic                   1
Da ta                   0 ~p
Processing                 °
s_s    $~~~



- 176 -
Annex 14
Page 1 of 2
GRANA
URBAN II PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT TO TSC AND MWH
I. Summary
Objectives: To strengthen TSC's capacity to manage Urban II and other
projects and to prepare for Urban III.
Description: Technical assistance for project preparation studies
including a study to develop feasible methods of involving women in village
housing construction; vehicles, equipment, training and operational
support to manage project.
Estimated Costs: To the Base Cost US$0.9 million (00.3 billion). See
Annex 16-K for details.
Financing:                   IDA (X)               GOG (I)
Local   Foreign        Local  Foreign
90      100           10        --
Estimated Rate of Return:      Not assessed
Implementation Resoonsibilitvs TSC
Commencement of Componentss January 1991
II. Detailed Description
1.01      The project would support the acquisition of essential vehicles,
equipment, materials and spares from project management and supervision.
It would also provide operational support and technical assistance and
training (including project management seminars hela locally and overseas)
to strengthen TSCs managerial capacity and to prepare studies for future
projects.
1.02      Women in Housing Constructions  Among the studies that would be
undertaken is a study to define feasible a meaningful way of involving
women in the housing construction process at the village level. This will
involve the develoipment of a small pilot project that, with the help of
local women's NGOs, would train selected rural 'mmen in improved village
constrUction techniques. The pilot would involve training for about 40-50
women in 10 villages in basic methods of construction using existing
village technology (largely mud) but paying special attention to the design
and construction of foundations, walls, openings and roofs. The objective
here would be (a) to improve on local technology; (b) to train local women
in basic techniques and methods of disseminating these techniques; (c) to



- 177 -
Annex 14
Page 2 of 2
develop the capacity of women to earn a meaningful livelihood as a result
of this training; (d) to develop a program which can be sustained without
major governmental input or support but would rely heavily on village and
NGO initiative. A small revolving fund for model unit construction would
also be provided. About 10 model units would be constructed.
Costs and Financing
1.03      The total base cost of the component is estimated at US$0.9
million of which the foreign exchange cost is estimated at 672 of the total
(see Annex 16-K for details). The women's component is estimated to cost
about US$50,000 equivalent.
1.04      Financing would be as follows:
IDA (1)                   GOG (Z)
Local  Foreign           Local   ForeiRn
90      100              10        --
These investments would not be directly recovered under the project. (N.B.
funds for detail engineering design of project components are budgetted
separately).
Institutional Arransements
1.05      TSC would be fully responsible for the implementation of this
component.  The women's component would be implemented by a local women's
NGOs under the direction and supervision of TSC.
Status of Proiect Preparation
1.06      Project management training is already underway.  Further
workshops are due to be held in July and December 1990. The detailed
design of the women's component is being done and should be completed by
July 1990. The pilot should begin in January 1991.
I
I



GHANA
URBAN II PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
LOCAL GOVERNUENT SECTOR REFORM COMPONENT
INTER-MINISTORIAL COMMITTEE (ZMC)
-             -------------------------------------------------------- ---     MINISTRIES
_  lI                                                                         - POLICY
_  PUt _       .   _  H   _  _           _MIO                    R       I       GUIDANCE
I _I_ ____________   __                --     ---------------------_ --___
PROJECT COORDINATIO N COMMITTEE ( PCC)
_. _-        -----------    M_ PROJECT
I    3I  COORDINATON
IMPLEMENTATION
I -u                  __         _       _       _       _ r                          __P "1  , ,_, 
_   |                      r                                           |           ~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ACTIVITIES  x0
PROPE T    - P AN 111_METRV    - OVERALL PROJECT        TRAINDIO        REVEIE
REV ALUATI ON  II NOITORDIN AND                        |DEVELOPMENT      M"OBILIZATION|RHB
16 CITIES    M- APPING              REPUTIUNG                                                 (XJ
6 IT          -IAP                   E  I    DOO- T.A. TO CITIES - FINANCIAL                  MAOR
- DEEDS REGISR     - KUNASI MARKET            I                                   INASTRU-
- LVB W- STIES                                                                                     TM
STREN1"THENON  CUVEVANCIN         - TEMA SEWAG                           - SOILD WASTE       PRECUREff
I    I                                      IU^~~~~~~~~~~~MNAOEMENT  
PILOT LAND        - GENERAL PR1KAtEMENT                                       - DISBURSEMENT
ADJUDICATION                                               - OTHER ENG1NEERD4
- DISBURSEMENT                         SERVICES             - ACCOUNTIO
MONITORDNG                             ROUTINE A          - REPORTIND
PERIODIC ROAD
REPORTDNG                            MAINTENANCE            MONITORINO
STUDIES                                PROPERTY             STUDIES
REVALUATION
LWB:  LAND VALUATION SOARS                                                  N/DSC. METROPOLITAN/DISTRICT STEERING COMMITTEE
ULSC: LAND ADMINISTRATION STEERING COMMITTEE                                DUR:   DEPARTMENT OF URSAN ROADS
TSC:  TECHNICAL SERVICES CENTER                                             Q*sU:  DISTRICT ROADS UNITS                                  1
LCPSU: LOCAL GOVERNMENT PROJECT SUPPORT UNIT                                MFEP, MLNR, MUM, MLO. URH: GOVERNMENT MINISTRIES            o
TSU:  TRAINING SUPPORT UNIT                                                                                                             rn
DXR\9Ma\AW0XS.SAR



Page 1 of 1
wIu.Ic W amm
C~~~~CII
PeucTt of
Lol   Fumigs        Total        Loel  foip         ToUl   S, Go"
033 '65                       (Cedi mi II ion)        (
LCL QlT. IETAM?TO  N01
Five Citli
. IarustjA b   11vlsmitsl $ym 11sh.
- Rood & Trumpot Syebm               *,24    14,234   U3,              2,"      4,667    7,us        a0
- rnvl o me I Syutm                  4,142     6,3         i,n         IW       2,82    4,049        is
- ineL &"oft to  A NdW  Ub           1,057     4,7#6   65,3             in      1,8    1,95           a
- Inst. Swpoeb to Cit Tech. D_s.      52      1,473     2,920          115       4#1      608        a
- EPCSuPoft                             W1                 27                     8 a?      S        0
sul-Tom                        14,40     2,6W      45,02         4,0    9,457   14,217         5
. Imlelpsl Amme WM I lutle            4         9Su      1,0            la       a0       46         2
. Prepw_ Aalustlos                      5o        9n0      1,4"           173       00      479        2
. Lw  AlMnistre                         Su2     1,'m       1,Ws           us       4tl    62           2
55-lOYAL (Cli                   1-.12     8,17      4,              44       0      1,488        6
ministry of Loin Get. sop.wt
. Trlinisle  Castr Nibi litae s                   2       1,iK             n       2U       8          1
. Troimq hrow  __1 i.                    6754                m0 #                  249      31         1
* MA ProJa  Sport Wt1t                            472       Go             60      is      2no         1
SlTAL (l amW)                               I,2"                      210     Sdi       8          8
&mBi-TOa  (OI SClmm .F-W-          26,42     n.m       s10 $14,4U0    a,mU   26,m
-
. Urbe Bmndie                         1,m       2,3        8,740          40       773    1,24 
Hming C_mlleioe Stadle                  so        s0       100             7       26       JJ        0
.hattt,*iml Idmt                        480     1,73      2,1=            146      6S       71         a
" HMine Fl1w -                           ,2      9u,4    1,=0           2,3      8,2K     6,2         SG
.    IH  _ b                           29        as        .2             W       on       am         I
SS-Th.. "an15 GiWm.                  10        14,4 1    3,45          sl        4,11 1    ,4         84
TOTAL 31s C251                          3,214    49,210    3.34           6,62    15,62   24,92n       1
P1C3  CW    OXe                        8,"2 3     ,3       6,518         l,m      1,m      2,2K
FR   INMaw   IM                        0,466    9,0    16,6              2,30    6,9a6    q,,r
TOL  PUUC   0051                         6,321    U6,5    120,4u2        1s,=   23,u?   -,6,



- 18   A 16-A
- 180 -                                      Page 1 of 2
GHANA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT It PROJECT
DETAILED COST TABLE
___________________
TOTAL
COMPONENT                    LOCAL   FOREIGN    TOTAL
(USn '000)
A.LOCAL GOVMNT. REHABILITATION A REFORM
I.Infrest.h Environmnt l Rehab.& Iprov.
1.Road Rehab. I Traffic Systems Meet.
*.Accra
Kands Highway Construction              B,J61     5,026     8,877
Newtomn Rd. Upgrading A Signals         1,167     1,780     2,967
Darkuman Rd. Reconstruction               788     1,182     1,970
Kwauhie.mn Rd. Reconstruction             816       474       790
Donsoman/Sakaman Reconstruction         1,171     1,7tS     2,927
Subtotal Accra                             0,612    10,218    17,080
b.iumasi
Aseafo Mkt.Circ.-UTC Circ.,Rd.h Brtd4     400       600     1,000
Traffic Monagemnt Tmprow.                 60      1,002     1,670
3ubtotal Kumasi                            1,068     1,602     2,670
c.Sokondi-Takoradi
Traffic Managemnt Impeow. Stags 1         164       246       410
Traffic Monagement Ipreov. Stage 2        411       616     1,027
Subtotal Sekondi-Takoradi                    576       862     1,437
DOtailed Design and Supervision OUR (B1)    169       1,522     1,891
Subtotal Road Rehab. A TSM                  8,624    14,204    22,826
2.Environmsntal Systems Rehab A Iprov.
a.Infrostruct. Rehab. - Tamale
Drainage                                  600       400     1,000
Road Rehabilitation                       460       721     1,201
Ward *E Upgrading
Access and Drainage                     482       266       720
Water and Sanitation                     11         8        19
Subtotal Ward "El Upgrading               448       296       789
Subtotal Infrastruct. Rehab. - Tamale    1,524       1,416     2,940
b.Sewerage Rehab. - Tes
Lend                                      250         0       250
700 mm Pumping Main from PSl               e6       841       426
600 mm Pumping Main from PS2               66       264       880
Installation Sewage Pusps at PS1           14       260       274
Installation Sewage Pumps at PS2            6       110       116
Installation Sewage Pumps at PSS           16       299       815
Civil Enginevering Iprv.Worke at PSI       12        22        88
Civil Engineering Inprv.Works at PS2       12        22         U8
Civil Engineering Imprv.Worke at PSI       28        48        67
Power Correction at P8$                     2        15        17
Standby Generator at PS8                   88       242       275
Sewage Treatment Ponds                    61a       208     1,017
DeolIting of Detention Basin                1         0         1
Repair of Submarine Outfall                 a       896       895
R-pair of Dnawged Sower Outfall Plpe        2         0        10
Maintenance, Toole and Equipment            0        80        60
Drainage                                    0         0         0
Subtotal Sewerage Rehab. - Tes             1,885     2,805     8,640



Annex 16-A
- 181 -                                      Page 2 of 2
TOTAL
COMPONENT                     LOCAL   FOREIGN    TOTAL
(USS '000)
c.Contral Market Rehab. - Kumasi
Intrastructure
Drains 160 * twin culvert 900 -           9         14        28
Drains 2 Ks tertry.covered U sect.       89         59        g8
Concrete Slabb 2 Ka                       7         11        19
Pav eme nt (Asphalt) 90,000 .2          664        847     1,411
Water Supply A Sonit. Block              14         21        is
Ilprovemnt to Security Lighting          40        60        100
Telephone Installation                   Ja         50        es
Accommodation Works                       6          8        18
Subtotal Central Market Rehab.- Kumasi       718      1,069     1,702
d.Waste Management System Development
Sekondi-Takoradi
Vehicles & Spares                        70        680       700
Equipment A Materials                    10         90       100
Civil Works                              80        120       200
Tems
Vehicles I Spares                        70        680       700
Equipment A Materials                    10         90       100
Civil Works                              80        120       200
Tamale-
Vehicles A Spares                        70        680       700
Equipment & Materials                    10         90       100
Civil Works                              80        120       200
Subtotal Waste M9.t. System Development      460      2,520     8,000
Detalled Design and Supervision TSC(8!)       91        618       909
Subtotal Environ.. Systems Rohab A lmprv   4,142       8,128    12,271
Total Inf.a Env.Rehab.& Improv.Base Cost   12,766    22,882    a5,0os
Physical Contingencies                     1,262      2,288     8,486
Price Coritingsnciee                       3,062      4,680     7,692
Total Inf.& Env.Rehab.A Improvemnt Coat   17,060    29,196    46,276
0



- 182 -                                     Page 1 of 1
GHANA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT rx PROJECT
DETAILED COST TABLE
TOTAL
COMPONENT                    LOCAL   FOREIGN    TOTAL
(USS '000)
II.Municipal Revenue Mobilization
---------------------------------
1.Vehicl-o, Spares, Equip. A Materials
a.Vhlicl.e A Spares
AMA                                        10        90       100
KMA                                        10        90       100
TDA                                         8        72        80
STYA                                        5        45        s0
TADA                                        a        72        80
Subtotal Vehicles A Spares                    41       369       410
b.Equipaent 8 Materials
AMA                                        10        90       100
KMA                                         5        46        60
TDA                                         7        68        To
STMA                                        7        68        70
TADA                                        7        es        70
Subtotal Equipment & Materials                as       824       860
Subtotal Vehic.,Spares, Equip. & Matrle.        77       698        770
2.Tachnical Assistance
ABA                                        6s         4        72
KNA                                       e6          4        72
TDA                                        68         4        72
STMA                                       68         4        72
TADA                                       68         4        72
Subtotal Technical Assistance                 842       1i        860
3.Training
AMA                                        10        40        s0
KMA                                        10        40        s0
TDA                                        10        40        50
STMA                                       10        40        s0
TADA                                       10        40        s0
Subtotal Training                              so       200       250
Total Munic. Revenue Mobiliz. Base Cost        469       f'11    1.880
Physical Contingencien                        47        91      18
Price Contingencies                           99       1'1       270
Total Munic. Revenuo Mobills. Cost             G61     1,178     1,786
III.Property Revaluation
1.LVB Support
*.Vehicles A Speroe                           80       270       800
b.Equipment A Materials                       80       270       800
c.Technical Assistance                         0       100       100
d.Training                                   120        80       150
*.Operational Support                        860       240       600
Subtotal LVB Support                          640       910     1,460
Total Property Revaluation Sass Cost           540       910     1,450
Physical Contingencies                        54        91       146
Price Contingencies                          18O       166       295
Total Property Revolustion Cost                724     1,166      1,890



- 183 -                                     A 
Page 1 of 2
GHANA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT It PROJECT
____________________________
DETAILED COST TABLE
TOTAL
COMPONENT                    LOCAL   FORE1GN    TOTAL
(USS '000)
IV.Land Administration
1.Projoct Secretariat
a Vehicles a Spares                           2        15         17
b.Equlpment A Matorials                       0        27         27
c.Technlcal Assistance
Statistics Review                         10         0         10
Survoy Department Review                   0        25         25
Land Into Syot Expert                      0       268        268
Project Monitoring                        80         0         s0
Subtotal Toechnical Assistance               40       138        865
d.Training                                   48         12        60
*.Operational Support                        27         7         34
Subtotal Project Secretariat                 117        874       491
2.Ptlot Land Adjudication Project
a.Vehicles & Sparse                           8        81         84
b.Equipuent & Materials                       0        10         10
c.Technical Aseistance                      187         7        144
d.Training                                    8         2         10
e.Op.rational Support                        24         6         3o
Subtotal Pilot Land Adjudication Project      172        66        228
8.Survey Department Support
e.Mapping trom Spot Imagery                   0        30         8O
b.Photomapping                                0       160       10
e.Vshiclos A spares                           4        87         41
d.Equipment A Materials
Survey Depertment                          0        60         s9
Cartoraphy A Survey School                 4        Ss         40
Subtotal Equip. A Materials                   4       105        109
e.T*chntcal Assistance                        6        24         80
t.Traininq                                    2         8         10
Subtotal Survey Dept. Support                 16       884        400
4.Land Co_mission Secretariat Support
a.Vehicles A Spares                           8        81         84
b.Equipment & Materilss                       0        64         84
c.Technical Asisteance                        6        24         8O
d.Training                                    2         8         10
Subtotal Land Commission Secret. Support      11        147       15S



Annex 16-C
- 184-                                       Page 2 of 2
TOTAL
COMPONENT                     LOCAL   FOREIGN    TOTAL
(US$ '000)
S.Land Registry Support
aV-ehioles a Sparoe                            4         84        86
b.Equipment & Materials                        0          a         8
c.Technical Assistance                         6         24        so
d.Training                                      2         6        10
Subtotal Land R-gistry Support                  12        14         e6
.ODeds Registry Support
*.Vehicles a Spare                              1         9        10
b.Equipment A Materials                         8        27        so
c.Technical Assistance                         6         24        8o
d.Training                                      2         a        10
Subtotal Deode Rogistry Support                 12        66        80
T.Dept. of Town & Country Planng Support
a.Vehicles & Spares                             6        44        49
b.Equipeent A Materials                        4         8?        41
c.Tochnical Assistance                         0         30        80
d.Training                                     0         10        10
Subtotal Dep.o  Town & Ctry.Plnng.Supprt         0       121       180
3.Eduea'ion Support - Unlv.ot S&T Kumasi
a.Dept.of Geodetic Engineering
-Vhticl-e & Spares                           1         11        12
-Equipment A mterials                        0         s0        sO
Subtotal Dept.ot Geodetic Engineering          1        el        62
b.Dept.ot Land Economy
-Vehicles A Sparoe                            1        11        12
-Equipment A materials                       0         15        1
Subtotal Dept.of Land Economy                   1        26        27
c.Land Administration Rsearch Center
-Equipment A m*trials                        0         10        16
Subtotal Lend Admin. Research Center           0         16        16
Subtotal Educ. Supprt-Univ.of SUT Kumasi         2       108       0og
Total Land Administration Boas  Cost            852     1,826     10678
Physical Contingencies                       a8         188       166
Price Contingencies                           77        227       804
Total Land Administration Cost                  404     1.666     2,150



- 185-                                       Page 1 of 1
GHANA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT 11 PROJECT
DETAILED COST TABLE
TOTAL
COMPONENT                     LOCAL   FOREIGN    TOTAL
(US$ '000)
VU1inlstry of Local @.nt. Support
l Traningn Ctr. Rehab * Improvemont
*.Civil Works Acera                          0oo        460       760
b.Ctvil Works Tamale                          s0        120       200
c.Design and Supervitsion                      a         68        76
Subtotal Trg. Ctr. Rehab. & laprovent.         886       686     1,026
2.Tralnlng Program Dev-lopment
*.Vehicles a Spares
-Accera                                     10                  100
-Tamale                                      8         72        80
b.Equipment A Materials
-Acera                                      20        18O       200
-Tamale                                     10         90       100
c.Technical Asistonce
-AcCra                                       0        120       120
-Tamale                                      0          o0       s0
d.Staff Training
-Accra                                       0         60        s0
-Tamale                                      0         so        so
e.Operational Support
-Accr                                       so         20        so
-Tamale                                    i          12        80
Subtotal Training Prgrm. Development           96        754       e50
8.ML8 Projet Support Unit
*Vehitcle  & Spores                            6         72        s0
b Equipment a Materials                       10         90       100
c.Technical Aselotnce                        184        260       884
d.Staff Training                               0         40        40
eOperational Support                          80         20        s0
Subtotal MLO Project Support Unit             182        472       654
Total Ministry of Local Gvmnt. Baes Cost       666      1,864     2,580
Physteal Contingenciee                        67       10        258
Pricd Contingeclee                           158        857       509
Total Ministry of Local Ovunt. Cost            S6O      2,407     8,292



- 186 -                                      Page 1 ol I
GHANA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
___________________________o
DETAILED COST TABLE
___________________
TOTAL
COMPONENT                    LOCAL   FOREIGN    TOTAL
(USn '000)
8.Institutional Support to DUR and DRU*
*.Vehicles, Equipment A Spares (DRUm)
AMRU (Spares only)                         80       270       So0
KDRU                                      100       900     1,000
STDRU                                      8S       765       860
TDRU                                       8b       766       860
TADRU                                      so       270        800
Subtotal V-hlc., Equip. A Spares (DRUo)      880     2,970      l,800
b.Workshops - Civil Works (DRUs)
AMRU                                       80       120       200
KDRU                                      100       150       260
STDRU                                      20        30        SO
TDRU                                      100       150       260
TADRU                                      40        60       100
Subtotal Workshops - Civil Works (DRUs)      840       610        860
c.DUR Support
Vehicles & Spares                           5        46        sO
Equipment & Mateorials (Solis Lab)          5        45        60
Technical Assistance (Ine. DRU*)           48       482       480
Training (Inc. DRUo)                       40       160       200
Operatiomal Support (2X Rd.Rehab.)        264       1609      428
Studies Future Projects                    46       405       450
Subtotal DUR Support                         897     1,256      1,658
Subtotal Inst. Support to DUR and DRUs      1,067     4,786      5,808
4.rnet. Support to City Technical Depte.
e.Vehic.*Equip. A Speres(City Tech.Oepts.)
AMA                                        s0       450       500
KMA                                        80       270       800
STMA                                       20       180       200
TDA                                        20       180       200
TADA                                       20       180       200
Suh-totel Veh.,Eq.6 Spre(City Tec.Depts)     140     1,260      1,400
c.Technical Assistence
AMA Tech. Dept.                            68         4        72
KMA Tech. Dept.                           6O          4         72
STMA Tech. Dept.                           68         4        72
TDA Tech. Dept.                            68         4        72
TADA Tech. Dept.                           66         4        72
Subtotal Technical Assistance                842        16       860
c.Training
AMA Tech. Dopt.                            10        40        50
KMA Tech. Dept.                            10        40        50
STMA Tech. Dopt.                           10        40        s0
TDA Tech. Dept.                            10        40        s0
TADA Tech. Dept.                           10        40        s0
Subtotal Training                             50       200       250
Subtotal Inst. Supp. to City Tech.Depts.      582     1,476     2;010
Total lnst.Sup.:DUR, DRUs,CIty T.D.Base    1,695       6,214     7,818
Physical Contingencies                       180       621        761
Prico Contingencies                          888     1,220      1,558
Total Inst.Sup.:DUR, DRU*,Clty T.D. Cost    2,097      8,055    10,162



Annex 16-F
- 187-                                      Page 1 of 1
GHANA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT It PROJECT
DETAILED COST TABLE
TOTAL
COMPONENT                    LOCAL   FOREIGz    TOTAL
(USS '000)
6 EPC Support
*.Sub Projeet.
I)Sonitation MonitsTasale A Kumast         4         1         6
Ii)SanIt.Monit:Accra,Sekond1 Takoradi      18         8        16
II) Sanitation Monitoring:Tea               14         4        16
iv)Rovisw of Korle Lagoon Studies           2         0         2
v)Pub.Awarnes. Prgs.Odaw-Korle Catch       7         2          9
Subtotan  Sub Projects                       40         10        50
b.Training, Vehicles and Equipment
Vehicles                                   7        28         85
Equipmnt                                   2         8         10
Training                                   6        20         25
Subtotal Training. Vehic. A Equip.           14        56         70
c. Tech.Asst.:Environe. LoeislatIon           5        45         s0
Subtotal EPC Support                          S9        111       170
Total EPC Support Base Cost                    60        111       170
Physical Contingencies                        4         11        15
Price Contingenclo                          14        24         86
Total EPC Support Cost                         77       146        228



-188 -                                    Page 1 of 1
GHANA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT 11 PROJECT
OETAZLE5  COST TABLE
TOTAL
COMPONENT                    LOCAL   FORUEON    TOTAL
(USS '000)
B.HOUSINO SECTOR REFORM
Y.Urban Upgrading
1.T..a (Ashalmn Ph.2)
a.Rords / Walkways                          15l       241       402
b.Draine                                    168       280       sea
c.P:Por Supply / Streetilghting              120    1,199     1,999
d.R-fuse Collection Points                   12        17         29
e.TDC Estate Seworage Rehab.                 30       120        15O
Subtotal Tem (Ashomian Ph.2)               1,165     1,808      2,968
2.Kumasi (Suae Magazine)
a.Roads / Walkways                            0       120       200
b.Drains                                     so        90       lCO
c.Power Supply / Steoetlighting              40        s0        100
d.Refaee Co! !ctlon PoInto                   20        80.        s0
Subtotal Kumasi (Sua-e Magazine)             200       800        g00
Dosign and Supervision (TSC)                  20       249        277
Total Urban Upgrading Base Cost             1,B88     2,857      8,740
Physical Contingencies                      206       841        647
Price Contingenciee                         81a       4v1        778
Total Urbea  Upgrading Cost                 1,901     3,159      5,060
I



- 189 -                                 Page 1 of 1
GHANA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
____________________________
DETAILED COST TABLE
TOTAL
- ----------------------
COMPONENT                   LOCAL  FOREICN   TOTAL
(US1 'GOC)
II.Hou-lng Consolidatlon
l.Technical Assistance                      20        80       100
Total Housing Consolidation Base Cost         20       80       100
Physical Contingencies                       2        8        10
Price Contingencies                          3       12        16
Total Housing Consolidation Cost              26      100       126



- 190 -                                     Annex 16-I
Page 1 of 1
GHANA
URBAN DEVELOPMENT 11 PROJECT
DETAILED COST TABLE
___________________
TOTAL
COMPONENT                    LOCAL   FOREIGN    TOTAL
(USS '000)
Il.Inatitutional Reform
1 .Tchnical Assistance
*.ToC
Studies                                   s0       200       250
Staff Suppopt                             58       280       268
b .SHC
Studies                                  100       400       500
Staff Support                             s8       280       288
c.AESC
Studies                                   40       16O       200
Staff Support                             58       280       288
d TSC
Studioe                                   10        40        s0
Staff Support                             s8       280       280
Subtotal Technical Assistance                480     1,722     2,152
Total Institutional Reform Base Cost          480     1,722     2,152
Physical Contingencies                       48       172       215
Price Contingencies                          95       829       428
Total Ynatitutional Reform Cost               660     2,228     2,791



Annex 16-J
- 191 -                             Page 1 of I
GHANA
L'R8AN DEVELOPVENT Ir PROJECT
DETAILED COST TABLE
TOTAL
COMPONENT                     LOCAL   FOREIGN    TOTAL
(US$ '000)
WV.Housing FinancU
INew Housing Units (2,000)                  6,600      8,400    14,000                           -
2.Converelon/ExistTng Rent.Uniss(l,000)    2,800         700     3,500
8a.nstitutlonal Support to HFC A OSI0
a.T.ch.Asst.                                  29        l1C       144                           I
b.Couputer Systmem                            43        178       216
c.lisc., other Studies                        24         06       120
d.Training                                    10         90       100
*. Computers                                   2         18        20
f Vshicles                                     8         72        80
g.Support to OSsl
I)Training                                  16       144        160
Il)Toch.Asst.: Accounting System            O6        24        120
ili)Equipeent and Supplies (8 coup.)          8        32         40
Subtotal Inst. Support to HFC & OSIs          286        764     1,000
Total Housin  Finance Base Cost              8,686      9,864    18,500
Physical Contingencies                     1,284      1,441     2,726
Price Contgennciet                         2,142      2,102     4,248
Total Housing Finance Cost                  12,061    18,407    2S,468



Annex 16-K
- 192-                                     Page 1 of 1
GHANA
URBAN OEVELOPMENT II PROJECT
DEtASLED COST TABLE
TOTAL
COMPONENT                    LOCAL   FOREIGN    TOTAL
(USS '000)
V.TSC / MUM Support
-                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~29 
l V-hicl.  & Spare                                                 25 a   a
2 Equipment A Materiols                        01        9         10
8.Technical Austance                           0        10         10
4 Trainin                                      0        so         so
c Operational Support                        190       127        817
s Studies (Future Frojocts)                  100        400       600
Total TSC / MWU Support Bcse cost             294       a18        912
Phyeleal Contingencies                       29        62         91
Pricl Contingnciee                          70        148       218
Total TSC / WM  Support Cost                  39a        628     1,21?



REPWLIC OF tV4
tJRAM 11 PtJE
________________
ProJrct Financing
Totel coat.
( ith Conti amnd..)                        MA                               Government at Chsn                            Cotinaneing
Local From. Total        Local Fra.n. Total   Local Frgn.          Local Frgn. Total   Local Frgn.           Local Frgn. Total   Local Fran.
Woks6                                          (*  l  I ionS)           (US  mllion)          1                   (Ws million)   (*        )                (US11 *illion)    (*      )
lnfr.t.A Eoviraa1ntal Systea Rhsb.
- Rod Rehab A Tranap. Systeas Ngat.
Ac.rs                               9.1  18.4  22.5           8.2  18.4  21.8         901i  100         0.9   0.0   0.9        10i      Oi        0.0   0.0   0.0          Os    Oi
_1mel                               1.4   2.1    8.8          0.0   0.0   0.0          01   0          0.9   0.0   0.9        6013     Oi        0.6   2.1    2.6        401  1001
Salondl-Talor_1                     0.8   1.2   2.0           0.7    1.2   1.9        90Ws  1C0         0.1   0.0   0.1        10i      Oi        0.0    0.0   0.0         01    01
- RulsblIltation - To_lo                2.1   1.9   8.9           1.9    1.9   8.7        901i  100        0.2   0.0   0.2         10N      01        0.0    0.0    0.0        Ol    O1
- Sawrg Reshab - Team                   1.7   8.0   4.7           1.4   8.0   4.4         84ti  1001       0.8   0.0   0.8         1i       an        0.0    0.0   0.0         03    01
- Cantral Ibit t Rahab. - Koaai         1.0   1.4   2.4           0.0   0.0   0.0         O1    as         0.8   0.0   0.8         80      0s        0.2    1.4    3.6       203  1001
_aat Ib   agamet Syatem
Tom_l                               0.2    1.1   1.8          0.2    1.1   1.8        901S  100        0.0   0.0   0.0         101      O1        0.0    0.0   0.0         O1    01
T_                                  0.2   1.1    1.8          0.2   1.1   1.8         903   1001       0.0   0.0   0.0         1l01     O1        0.0   0.0   0.0          01    01
SAMonI-Tako"Wl                      0.2   1.1   1.8           0.2    1.1   1.8        903  1o00        0.0   0.0   0.0         101      O1        0.0    0.0   0.0         O1    01
-Workdo                                 0.4   0.6    1.1          0.4   0.6   1.0         903  1001        0.0   0.0   0.0         101      O1        0.0    0.0   0.0         O1     as
TrDining Cant.r Rehabllitation          0.8   0.7    1.2          0.6   0.7    1.2       9WS   1001        0.1   0.0   0.1         1i0      01        0.0    0.0    0.0        O      O1
Urban U>oredina (Anhie. SuBa)           1.9   2.8   4.7           1.7   2.8   4.8         90   1003        0.2   0.0   0.2         lO       03        0.0   0.0    0.0         Os   0O
Vabolo.l  Ei-lp_Iot md Sparea
.fInr. Pleat, Eq'st.. A 8pmr..          0.4   8.9    4.8          0.0   0.0   0.0         as    as         0.4   0.0   0.4        1001      O1        0.0   8.9   8.9          O1  O11
V.oIle, and apur
- Citl Tachnical Dept..                 0.2   1.6    1.8          0.0   0.0   0.0         Ot    as         0.2   0.0   0.2        1o00      Ot        0.0   1.6   1.8          Ot  loot
- lhnlc.Rov. Mabilixet.(5 Citias)       0.1   0.8    0.8          0.0   0.6   0.8        90s  1003         0.0   0.0   0.0         101i     0         0.0   0.0    0.0         01    O3
- Other Vehiclda                        0.1    1.0   1.2          0.1    1.0   1.1        9e0  1O00        0.0   0.0   0.0         10i      07        0.0   0.0    0.0         Os    09
- Office Eqpt.. Suppl i£ & paraa        0.2   1.6   1.9           0.1   1.8   1.9        905  100l         0.0   0.0   0.0         10C    0          0.0   0.0    0.0       0C    as
Contr.ctuel Socs.. TacB. AnIot.,
Proj. Sperwlison. TralInng Studies
Contrctgal Serwicee                     0.9   8.9    6.7          0.0   8.9    6.7        901  1Ci3        0.1   0.0   0.1         103t    01         0.0    0.0   0.0         03   0O
Tachnlcal Aslnatenes
- mInistry of Loc.eVtt.                 0.2   0.6    0.8          0.2   0.6   0.8        90t   1003        0.0   0.0   0.0         101      01        0.0   0.0    0.0         at    Os
- Other Todt. Am4lt1nce                 1.8   2.8   4.1           1.4   2.8    8.9       903  1003         0.2    0.0   0.2       101      011       0.0   0.0   0.0         03     Ol
Trlniong                                0.4    1.1   1.8          0.4    1.1   1.       901  1oos         0.0   0.0   0.0         103      O1        0.0   0.0   0.0          Os    as
Proj*nt RoNaoet                         1.8   0.6   2.1           1.2   0.8   2.0        903  I00i        0.1   0.0   0.1         105    0o          0.0    0.0   0.0        as     Os 0:
"owing Line of CredIt                                                                                                                                                                                   D X
r.ouing Finane Oa
- NtJiliU;to                            7.8  11.8  19.8           0.0   0.0   8.0    401! of totI          7.8   8.4  11.8        1001    803         0.0   0.0    0.0        O3     ox
- Conversion - Imisting Units           8.9   1.0   4.9           0.0   0.0   0.0        0e    Os          8.9    1.0   4.9       1003   1003         0.0    0.0   0.0        01    O1
- Tach. Aet. A Supp.to MFC £ OSil       0.3   1.0   1.8           0.8   1.0   1.8        Wti  1003         0.0   0.0   0.0          at      O1        0.0    0.0   0.0        Oi    03
Total                                86.9   6.8  100.4         19.8  80.1  70.0         843      793 16.8   4.4  20.7             44      7         0.6    9.0   9.6 a             143
_T _ WF , II



- 194 -
Annex 18
Page 1 of 6
REPUIcC W UA
ISAM it P3ACT
Contwctual Servlces, Todmlcal Asalstana so  Truir'np
Ostal led Eatlmtm
Effort                        BM  Co*t
Local Foreip    Toatl          Local Forign   Total
Contratotl Swloss -i                    -         -m            -       -
(a NU   )                       Om  '000)
A.OCAL 00VWim. R4AMUATI4 A REFOM
1.Infrast.& Environmtal R*wb.& frrov.
1.Road Rehab. A Tafftic Systems UMp.
D.tl led D"sip and Superv. DW  (5)    so       162      200           109   I.m       1,691
2.Environmnaal System Rehab A ?rov.
D.al led D0lIn and Suprv. TSC (GS)    30        82      112            91      aS       S0a
V.Anlstn  of Local 1snt. SuWport
I.Training Ctr. Rehab. & Improv,mst
c.Dsisn .       Supwvlalon              *        7        6             S       66       76
Subtobal                              0       241_    330            U      2,40    2,6
1.1I4OUSI  SECTR REFO
I.Urban Upgrading
Design sa Supervlsion (Mg                 9       26       84            26      249      27
Totil                                 O       a        364           296   2,636    2,963



- 195 -                                     Annex 18
Page 2 of 6
Effort                        Same Cost
Locai Foreign   Total           Local Foreign  Total
(mn months)                      (La  '000)
Technical Assitance
A.LMNL OVWET. RBEIUXTATION A REFOR
I.InfraeA Enlronmntal Rehb.& rmprov.
3.!natitutional Support to MM and ORUs
c.DUR Support
Technical Asuistanee (Inc. ORU.)      16       48       69            48      432      480
Studies Future Projects               16       41       s6            46      406      460
Subtotal                               31       84      116            93      837      980
4.Inst. Support to City Technical Depts.
b..Tchnical Assistance
AMA Tech. Dpt.                        23      0.4       23            s8        4       72
KMA Tch. Dept.                        23      0.4       23            e8        4       72
STA Tech. Dpt.                        23      0.4       28            68        4       72
TDA Tch. Dept.                        28      0.4       28            68        4       72
TADA Tech. Dept.                      28      0.4       28            68        4       72
Subtal                                114        2     1l6            342       18       8
G.IPC Support
a.Sub Projects
I)Smnitation Mont. :Tamale   Kumasi    1       0        1              4        1        6
II)Sanitation Monit.:Accra,Sek-tak      4       0        6             18        a       1e
III)Sanitation Monlt. :Tema              5       0        6             14        4       16
;v)Revica of Korle Lagoon Studies       1       0        1              2        0        2
c. Tech.Aot. :EnviroTw. Ligilslt.        2        S       6              6       46       s0
Subtotal                               1s        s      18             88       se       2
IX.Municipal Revenue Mobilization
2.T4chnical Asoitatenc
AMA                                   28        0       28            S8        4       72
KMA                                   28        0       28            68        4       72
TDA                                   28        0       28            as        4       72
STmA                                  28        0       28            66        4       72
TADA                                  28        0       28            68        4       72
Subtotal                              114        2     116            342       18      860



- 196 -                                   Annex 18
Page 3 of 6
Effort                       sawS Cost
Local forein   TOt"l           Lcal For.gn   total
(u.n inntM)                     (US  '000)
(Technical Asei.tsnc contlnution)
ri.Property Revaluation
1.LW Support
c.Technica Assistance                   0       10      10             0      100     100
IV.LIad Adinistration
I.Proj.ct Secretariat
eTeTnmical Assisanc
statietis Revon                      a        0       a             0o       0       1o
SurVey Dep"f7t Revie                 0        8       8             0       26       2t
Land info Syet Expert                0       20      20             0      298      288
Projet Monitoring                    1o       0      10            a0        0       30
2.Piiot Land Adjudication Project
c.Technical Assietocs                 46        1      48            137       7      144
a.Survey Deprt     Support
a.a pptn.tromSpot!OoI7                 0        a       a             0       so      so
b.Phpotowppin                          0       13      is             0      180      180
o..ecinical Assistance                 2        2       4             6       24      so
4.Land Cmlmsion Secretariat Support
c.Tehnical Assistance                  2        2       4             6       24      80
5.Land Rugietry Support
c.Teclmical Assistance                 2        2       4             6       24      80
6.Desdo Registry Support
c.Tecnoical  Assistanc                 I        2       4             6       24      so
?.Dpt. of Tom A Country Pilog Support
c.Tachical Asistance                   0                a 3           0       so      sO
SubtotAl                                       s      1n           201               B 67
V.Ulinistry Ot Loal 0mb. Support
2.Training Pr_om Devloepmet
c.Technical Assstanc
-Ars                                  0       12      12             0      120      i
-Tmle                                 0        6                     0 0            so
8.I*0 Project Suort Unit
c.Tech. Asist.                        45       25      70          14       2S0     884
Subtotal                             45       45      90           1I4      4S0      684
A. Subtoal                  B                   215                  1,160   2,182   3,268



- 197 -                                    Annex 18
Page 4 of 6
Effort                        sae Cost
Local Foreign    Total          Local Foreign  Total
(_an maths)                      (US  1000)
(Technical Assistanc continuatlon)
B.HMSIm SECTOR REFORM
IU Housing Consoildetin
1.Technical Assistance                    7        8       15            20       80      100
YU.Institutional Rsfom
1.Technical Aslstance
a.'TDC 
Studies                               17      20       87            so      200      250
Staff Support                        19       28       42            s8      230      288
b.SHC
Studies                              a3       40       73            100     400      500
Staff Support                         19      23       42            s6      230      288
c.AESC
Studies                               1       16       29            40      160      200
SItaff Support                       19       28       42             58     230      268
d.TSC
Studies                               a        4        7            10       40       s0
St, Support                          19       28'      42            61      230      288
Subotal                               148     172      81            430   1,722   2,162
ZV.Houslng Finance
3.Inatitutionai Support to WC a OSI
a.Tacbh.Ast.                           10       12       21            29      116      144
b.Computr Sysbems                      14       17       32            48      173      216
c.Mise., other Studios                  6       10       18            24       98      120
9.Support to OSls
i)Tech.Aast.: Accountlng Systm        82        2       34            96       24      120
Subtotal                              64       41      106            192     408      600
V.TSC / WM Support
3.Technical Assistnce                     0        1        1             0       10       10
G.StudIles (Fture ProJects)              3a       40       73           100      400      5o
Subtotal                              a8       41       74           100      410      61O
--  -   - -I
B. Subtotal                             247      202       #            742   2,620   8,362
Total                                61       475     ,             1,892   4,762   6,648



° 1O                                             18
Page 5 of 6
Effort                        sem Cost
L~cl  Foreign    Total          Loal Foreil.'  Total
Training Sumry               -  -              -               -
(mn month')                          '000)
!.InfreA.& Enviro.ntab Rehab.& Improv.
3.Xnatitutlonal Support to OMJ and DRUl
C.WUR Support
Training (Inc. DRU*)                  40      1i        s8            40      160      200
4.1nat. Support, to City Technical Dopte.
c.Training
AMA Tch. Dept.                        10        4       14            10       40       s0
KMA Toech. Dpt.                       10        4       14            10       40       SO
STMA Tech. Dep.                       10        4       14            10       40       SO
TDA Tech. Dept.                       10        4       14            10       40       s0
TADA Tech. Dpt.                       10        4       14            10       40       s0
Subtotal                               50       20       70            s0      200      250
5.EPC Support
b.Training, Vchicles and Equipmnt
Training                              5        2        7             6       20       25
Subtotal                               96       88       a             96      880      475
U.M11ilcpel Revenue Mobil zation
S.Training
AMA                                   10        4       14            10       40       so
(MA                                   10       4       14             10       40       sO
TDA                                   10        4       14            10       40       w
ST"A                                  10        4       14            10       40       EO
TADA                                  10        4       14            10       40       i4
Subtotal                              50        20      70             50      200      250
1IU.Property Revaluation
1.LVB Support                          -    -    -                       -    -    -
d.Trainng                             120        8      128           120       J0      150
IV.Land U1nlstration
I.Project Secratarlat
d.Tralning                             48        1      49             48       12       s0
2.PI lot Land L2udlceaton Project
d.Troinlng                              2        1       8              2        8       10
8.Survewy D"epartent Support
f.Tralni ng                             2        1       8              2        8       10
4.Lwn  Commieion Sertrriat Support
d.Training                              2        1       8              2        8       10
6.Land Rgi"ry Support
d.Trainino                              2        1        a             2        8       10
S.Deed Registry Support,
d.Tralning                              2        1        8             2        8       10
7.Dept. of Town & Country Planng Support
d.Trainlng                              0        1        1             0       10       10
Subtotal                               58        6      64             58       82      120
-___ -I~n       



- 199 -
Annex 18
Page 6 of 6
Effort                       so" Coot
Local Foroign   Tol            Local Forsiogn  Total
(_n    -                       OmSS '000)
CtraIntng continuatlon)
.inistry of Local vt. Support
2.Tc,lnlns Proarm Deelopmnt
d.Staff Tralisng                       0 t                            0                6
-T_l-                                0                                      ao       80               U
S.I&0 Project Support unit
d.StafTralining                        0       4        4             0       40       40
Subtotal                               0       1S      18             0      IS0      180
A. Subttal                              878      so      408           828      802   1,125
B.HM#IN SECTOR REF
XV.Houminog financ
3.Inoltutlenal Support to HPC a OS1*
d.TrlonlIg                           10       9       19             10      90      100
TrmInl. q                          is       14      80             16     144      100
Subtoftal                             O       28       49            26      284      260
V.TSC / Wu Support
4.Training                                0       5        G             0       S0       So
B. Subtoatl                              2                54            26      284      810
--       -        -             -           
Total                                880     126      520           800   1,286   1,685__



Annex  19
Page 1of 2
Fo.uLic OFa
URBAN I FR.ECr
DA Crdit Dilu_rsent
DA                     mA is
Totl               Loal  Foreign
1 .    bb1                                         =                             _=. 
*.     .  HInrast.& Env)i r lu I Sytwoe Rehab.
1)   - Rd Reha A Trrmp. Sys.9.-Accrs         19.4                  s       1005
II)   - Rd Rdob & Trnsp. Sya.ll4ek-Ta,    1.7                     ts        100i
111)   - RsbilIltation - T_l-                   8.4                 so%      10o
iv)   - Swerags Rnhab - Tm                     4.0                 am       1005
v)   - ast msagu,nt Syste                     3.5                 so       1005
(TCrl, T_, Sekondi-Takoredi)                              gm       10013
Vi)   - Workhop                                0.9                 s0       1005
b.      . TruInin Cntr Rehbi I it.tlon            1.1                e9        100
C.      . Urban Upgradnl (Ashii_nn, SuIJ)         4.1                 as5      10o
2.     Vehicles, Eqjlpmit and Spg'e
a.       - Vehicles 8 Spares                      1.5 a /3                     10cm lo
b.       - Office Equpt., SuWlieS A Spae          1.7                 90       100
8.     Contractual Svcs., Tech. Alsst.,
Proj. Supervision, Training Studies
a.      * Contratal Sevice                        6.0                 905      100
b.      . Technical Assistance
I)   - Ministry of Lac.Goveb.                 0.7                 m        lw
11)   - Other Tech. Ad snm                     8.5                 go       1005
e.      . Training                                1.                  go       1=
d.      . Oprati Icosts                           1.8                 so       10013
4.     Homing Lin of Credit
a.     . Housing Finos
i)   - Mortgqa: N_ Units                      7.2                 40 of Total
ii)    - Tech. Ass%. a Supp.to WfC &  Is1      1.1                 Mm       1005
S.     Unallocatd                                   7.0
Total                                70.0
a/ Exclud  Vehicles and Spere for City
Tchnical ODeprmt.



_,  i_                                          19
Page 2 of 2
m      IucF G
~ u F
Dld_en  SdhaIl /
Cluli,tiv. D1 laremu*0
Aplt.
o*rtw               AprIml            CZ.
Emlng               Ebl_n              X
Hord,                1.0               iS
_um                  4.2               a
FYN2
S"AwW         ,      7.7              115
D_Ar                11.2              105
1breh               14.7              215
_..                 18.2              35
_otwhmp            2a.9               36
DO _&m              5.7               405
Mardm               J.4               six
Jun                 41.2              so
46.1               -
aeu~sv              51.0              7M5
Mum                  .9               s1o
09006W  ~      64.7              3
M    _              as.?              95
iw                  U.6               9
p's
eICred  a     t       .0             ow1
Creit  _wn  to b_m offwlv an Jwry  Is 1g



- 202 -
Annex 20
Page 1 of 10
GHANA
URBAN II PROJECT
ECONOMIC EVALUATION & FOVERTY IMPACT
A.  ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.01      Only those components with quantifiable benefits (representing
about 442 of project costs) were evaluated. Those components are (a) Road
Rehabilitation and Traffic Systems Management in Accra, Kumasi, Sekondi-
Takoradi, and Tamale; (b) Ward E Upgrading in Tamale; (c) Sewerage
Rehabilitation in Tema; (d) Centra' Market Rehabilitation in Kumasi; (e)
Land Administration for the Local Government Sector Reform; and (f)
Ashaiman Phase II Urban Upgrading in Tema. Only two examples of typical
components are presented in this Annex. The rest are available in the
project file. The two examples are (a) upgrading of Patrice Lumumba and
Amilcar Carbal Roads in Accra, representing road rehabilitation components,
(b) community upgrading of Ashaiman area in Tema, representing community
and market upgrading components.
1.02      Cost streams include civil works, equipment and machines,
demolition and resettlement, engineering design, physical contingencies and
provisions fot operatien and maintenance costs. Financial costs and
benefits are expressed in US$ at January 1, 1990 prices. Economic costs
and benefits are expressed in international border prices (i.e., in USS at
January 1, 1990 prices) at the shadow exchange rate of Cd 350 to USS and
adjusted by the general conversion factor for Ghana of 0.93. A brief
description for economic evaluation of each component is presented below
starting with the two examples.
1.03      Upgrading Patrice Lumumba and Amilcar Carbal Roads, Accra.  This
component will upgrade the above two roads to two lane arterial standard
and let them serve as a part of Kanda Highway. Its capital cost is
estimated at US$1.26 million without physical contingencies. Lo calculate
economic costs, its foreign portior. is assumed to be 60? and its local
portion is adjusted by the shadow exchange rate of Cd 350 per US$ and the
standard conversion factor of 0.93. Its annual average daily traffic
(AADT) was 4,500 vehicles per day in 1989, and is assumed to grow at 6.021
per annum until 1995, at 12.47S between 1995 and 2000 to account for
completion of new Kanda Highway which will connect CBD of Accra to Patrice
Lumumba and Amilcar Carbal Roads, and at 42 afterward with the project.
Traffic speed on these is estimated at 48 kilometers per hour (kph) in 1989
without and with the project because current traffic volume is less than
their capacity. By 1995, however, traffic volume will exceed the capacity
and reduce traffic speed down to 33 kph without the project. With the
project, the speed can maintain its free-flow level of 48 kph until 1995
since roads capacity will have been increased by the project. With respect
to road surface conditions, four categories are adopted for vehicle



- 203 -
Annex 20
Page 2 of 10
operation cost (VOC) calculations good surface, slightly failed surface,
moderately failed surface, and severely failed surface. Depending on the
surface conditions and speed, VOC and passenger time costs vary. Tables 2-
1 and 2-2 present the economic road user costs, which is an aggregate of
VOC and passenger time costs, depending on two factors: surface and speed.
In most cases, passenger time costs accounts less than 10X of the economic
road user costs. Only in cases of low speed less than 10 kph, it does
account for more than 10%. Economic user cost savings per vehicle-
kilometer for Accra can be read from table 2-1. For example, the savings
by the project is estimated at Cd 26 per vehicle-km in 1989.  ERR to this
component, 742, is estimated at the bottom of 14th column of table 1.
Exclusion of the savings in passenger time does not affect the result very
much. ERR trill be 71% without it. Even with extremely conservative
assumptions of no traffic growth and no decay in surface condition after
1989, ERR is still reasonably .aigh at 222.
1.04      Accra Road Rehabilitation and Traffic Systems Management.
Following the same method, ERRs for other road rehabilitation components
were computed. Table 3 summarizes the results for Accra. The weighted
average ERR for all road components in Accra is estimated quite high at
105%.
1.05      Ashaiman Community Upgrading.  This is the second phase of
Ashaiman Community Upgrading in Tema municipality.  The first phase is
being implemented under the Priority Works Project. The Phase II will
improve roads, pedestrian ways, drains, refuse collection, a partial
sewerage system, and power supply in West Ashaiman area. The project area
accommodates 27,263 residents, 6,039 households, 1,903 housing units, 109
ha of land of which 76.2S is for residential use and 7.82 is for commercial
use, and 8,107 rooms in 1989. The base cost of this component is estimated
at US$2.96 million and additional operation and maintenance costs is
assumed to be 3% of capital costs with physical contingencies.
1.06      There are three classes of residential buildings in the project
area: the first class buildings with concrete structures (about 5Z of total
buildings), the second class buildings with sandcrete wall and good finish
(about 452), and the third class buildings with sandcrete/swish wall and
poor finish (about 502). Plot size is fixed at 50 ft. times 50 ft. A
property value of land and a building with six rooms is estimated at about
Cd 6 million for the first class, Cd 3.3 to 6 million for the second class,
and Cd 1.5 to 2 million for the third class in 1989. Taking the lowest
value for each class, the weighted average value is estimated at Cd 0.423
million per room. Multiplying by the total number of rooms, the total
property value in the project is estimated at Cd 3,429 million in 1989 at
1990 prices. Prices of comparable plots with all infrastructure services
such as roads, drainage and power range from Cd 4.5 to 6 million. Hence,
it is conservatively assumed that property values would increase by 70Z
with the project. Thus, total benefits from the project is estimated at Cd
2.4 million or US$8 millon in 1989 in terms of financial value. Based on
these estimates, ERR for this component is computed to be 37Z. The ERR is



- 204 -
Anne-t 20
Page 3 of 10
very sensitive to reduction in benefits. A 202 decrease in benefits
reduces ERR by 492 dowa to 192 ERR.
1.07      Other Upgrading Components and Tema Sewerage Rehabilitation.  In
regards to Ward E Community Upgrading in Tamale, 17 properties in the ward
were surveyed by a local realtor and a local planner.  Their results wire
(a) the average property value of house and land is about Cd 72 millon per
ha in 1989, and (b) the property value would increase by 342 with the
project.  Based on this, ERR is estimated at about 24Z.  In regard to
Central Market Rehabilitation in Kumasi, a real estate agent and a property
valuation office surveyed the market. According the their results, the
property values will increase by 100 to 2002 with the project. It is hence
assumed that the value will increase by 1002 with the project. The
res-alting ERR is 1072. Regarding the benefit of Tema Sewerage
Rehabilitation, the property value approach was also adopted. No data on
property value difference between a wit'.iout-project (non-functioning
sewerage system situation and a with-project (functioning) situation are
available. If it is conservatively assumed that property values would
increase by 1Z with the project, ERR is more than 1002. Even a very small
increase of 0.12 in property values will still yield an ERR of more than
602.
1.08      Overall ERR for the Entire Project.  Table 5 summarizes all ERRs
and also computes an overall ERR for the entire project of Urban II.
Benefits were measured for about 432 of the total project costs. The
weighted average ERR for the entire project is estimated to be quite high
at 442. This is so even when, as is conservatively assumed, the ERR of the
non-quantified and non-quantifiable components is zero.
B. POVERTY ANALYSIS
1.09      Table 6 presents several indicators o' poverty level in urban
Ghana in 1988. They range from Cd 35,000 to Cd 54,000 per year per person,
their average being Cd 45,326. Based on these estimates, projects benefits
to the poor under communit  upgrading components arx  significant.  Table 7
presents the income distribution in Ashaiman. Assuming a poverty threshold
of Cd 45,326, about 502 of the total population (27,263) in Ashaiman
project area is living below the poverty line. Since this component serves
the entire population of 27,263 people, it is expected that about 50X of
the cost of this component (US$3 million in base costs) will directly
benefit the poor. A similar statement can be justified for Tamale Ward E
Upgrading component.
1.10      Table 8 presents income distribution in Ghana in 1988.  Using
the same poverty threshold, about 302 of the urban population on Ghana is
living below the poverty line. Project component of (a) Road
Rehabilitation and Traffic Systems Management, and (b) Environmental
Systems Rehabilitation and Improvement will serve total populations in the
target cities. Hence, about 302 of the total costs for these two
components (about US$35 million in base costs) will directly benefit the
poor.



Table 1. ERR for Patrice Lu_uaba and
Anilcar Cabral Roads Upgrading 12.2kb) II
Ihsittud 000 at IM0 prices)
Economic            Annual Projet Cost of  Ecmostc          Nlet  SndstivitYl   Smnsitivity2   SensitivityS
e  Year   V/C Ratio 21        Traffic Speed     Surface      User     AADT Econosic Contingncies       Iaint ce Econoic  Ibt Ecomic   Nt Economic  let Economic
-----------------  -----------------Cendition  Savings   ml all  Rd.Uur -----------------    Cost  Befit    Benefit /i              benef it vI    Bnit ml
/n ProJ VI ProJ w/o ProJ V1 Proj v/o Proj            per ProJect      Cost   Fin,n. Econos.    SavWd                 Pasnger   lro Traffic           201 Cost
(kphl    lkph)        31   Veh-km       4/ Savings                  5        6/             Ties Savings   firouth *  l        Increr
Icedis1   ------ 10t000)    0000)  (10000  IS 0'0)  IS000)             0000)  Ne Surf.DeceY
_~~~~~----    ---    -----   -------  T. IFE   --------~- ~   ~   ~~
Source   T.H-3     T.11-3    T.N-3    T.N-3    T.H-l       H-1  T.IY-3               sf               T.VI-2                  11000)         (1Q0003        1000)
..... .......__ . . .__.. ... . .... ........ ... ......._...._ ..._..__._......... ......___.
1989     0.26     0.18      49.0    49.0  Nod.Fail      26.0    4,500       313
190                                                     30.1    4,772                                   not
I1999                                                      34.7    5,061              207.9    19l.0 accounted    (1911            (1911          11t1)          (291
2    2lm                                                    40.2    5,367       97    415.0    382.1               1296)           13001          13351          14451
31995                                                       46.4    5,692      319    623.7  S5.1                 12551           1270)          1432)           (Sol
4  1994                                                    53.7    6,036       780    138.6    127.^                653            616             154            54
5   1       2.51      1.00     35.0     49.0 0 "Ja.Fil      62.0    6,400    1,062                                1,062           1,012            313           1,062
6  1996                                                     2.0    7,9 9    1,1 I,195                                             1,138            313           1,19S
71 " 1916.0    9,096    1,34                                                                                      I,34            I,2M             313          1I34
a199                                                        62.0    9,105    1,11 ,511                                          2,440            313          1,511
9199                                                        62.0   10,241    1,69U                                I,9             1,620            313          1,69
10  2000                                       Sev.Fail     U.0   11,520    1,912                                  1,912          I,m               313          9,92
It 2001                                                      62.0   11,991    1,998                                1,99           1,'               313          1'm
12 202                                                       62.0   12,460    2,068                                2,066          1,9m              313          2,066
13  2003                                                    62.0   12,958    2,150                                 2,150          2,049             313          2,10
14  20                                                       62.0   13,477    2,237                                2,237          2,131             313          2,237
total                                                                             5,396.0
280      0.74           0.71           0.22            0.57
l74)           fil)           1221 msn)
11 Upgrading of Patrice Lr ani and  uilcear Cabral Roeds to tw                   41  AnnuI traffic growth factors ae At 6.02M  untll11 995,
lane Arterlal Standard.  A part of landa Highway Construction.                   12.471 betwn 19  sad 2000 to accont for coeplet1     f new
Code to 181 toe-lane.                                                            Kand High ke  construction, med 41 afterurd 1.2V-3).
21  The main  effectiVe capecity Of th  eitsting two-lane arterial               5/ To calculate conuiC cots, foreig  portion ms *assmd to
roads In  ccra is assumed to be 19,00 sixed vhicles per hour ad                  be 601 and lKoal          t o, adjusted by shad  ecnc                                                   
25,000 oeod veicle per 24 hurs.  And that of four-lanes is assued                rate of 350 cedimlusl and stdadard coversion factr of 0.93.
to be 50,000 pe day.  VIC ratio stands for volm/Capeacity 
ratio.                                                                       61  Ther is mintentrce cot saved but It is not acconted for.
0  C
3/ Feow  categorin of road surface conditions are adopted for
veicle operation csnt calculations good serface, slightly                                       Date Revisdt            16-Nr90
failed  rface, eoderetely failed, and severely failed.
It is assued that after 5 or 6 years a road will deteriorate
by one rank without project.
*       ;                                   a~~~~~~~~~~~~'



Table 2-1. Summary of Econosic Road User Costs                                           Table 2-2.  Summary of Economic Road User Costs
with Congestion (Non-uniform Speed)                                                      with Congestion (Won-unifore Speed)
for Accra IJ                                                                             for Takoradi and Kusasi, 1909 I/
(Unit: cedis per veb-km at lan.1990 prices)                                              ((Uit: cudis per veh-km at Jan. 1990 prices)
Speed      Good  Slightly  Rodertly         Severly                                        Speed       Bood  Slightly Nodertly         Severly
Range      Rad    Failed    Failed           Failed                                         Range      Road    Failed   Failed          Filed
(kphi  Surface   Surface   Surface          Surfaice                                       (phi   Surface   Surface  Surface           Surfage
1-05     197.0     237.3     258.1           285.4                                         1-05        192       221      242             269
6-10     114.0     152.6     173.5           200.2                                         6-10        108       144      167             194
1I-15      96.5     122.6     141.0            166.3                                        11-15        93       119      130              163
16-20      75.9     110.9     129.6           153.4                                        16-20        73        109      127             151
21-25      64.1      93.9     109.2            M30.3                                       21-25         62        92      107              129
26-30      59.9      89.0     104.9            124.6                                       26-30         59        07      103              123
31-35      52.4      76.3      89.2            106.3                                        31-35        51        75       98              105
36-40      4.9       72.4      04.7            101.3                                       36-4          49        71       83              100
41-45      45.5      63.8      72.4            B9.6                                         41-45        44        63       71              97
46-50      44.0      61.9      69.9            95.5                                        46-50         43        61       69              05                       a'
NOTES,                                                                                   NOTESs
1/ This includes passenger time cuts.                                                    1/ This includes passnger tin costs.
This is for a composit vehicle uith existing                                             This is basd on a cosposit vehicle Nith existing
vehicle min In kcra, 1989.                                                               vhicle mix in kcrla in 199.  A modifcatias as
mde only for passnger tim  cost in the to
Date Revisd    25-Apr-90                                                                    towms by asuming it Is 602 of that In kcra.
m :
-ns
x
o lo
0



Annex 20
-  207  -                                        Page  6 of  10
Table 3. ERR of Road Rehabilitation and
Traffic Systess Hanagemmnt, Accra
(Unitt us$000 at Jan 1990 price-'
Component                    Portion         Code  Base Cost       ERR
u/a Phy ----------------
Cont cy          Expected
(aJ    Value
_--- -_ - - ----------------------............ _....  _....... ...  .........    ----- ..........
Kanda High Road Construction        I.Patrice Lumumba &    IL    1,260.0         74        5
Auilca Cabral Rds
2New Kanda High         IA    7,116.7       49        20
Now Toam Rd. Upgrading & Signals                           121    2,966.6       352       61
Darkuman Rd. Reconstruction                                  6    1,970.0        55        6
Koashieman Rd. Reconstruction                                 7      790.0      176        a
Dansoman/Sakanan Reconstruction   I.Sakaean                  10    1,400.0       26        2
2.0ansouan              10    1,526.7       17         2
Suggisburg Ext. & Recansteruction                            11        0.0       41        0
Total and Weighted Average ERR                                 17,030.0               105
NOTES:                                                                                (103%)
II  The overall ERR is the cost seighted average  of all components.                  (
Date Revisedi            16-Way-90



- 208-                                                        20
Page  7 of  10
Table 4. ERR for Ashaimin Up-Grading 1/
Property Value Approach
(Unit: us$ 000 at Ja. 1990 prices)
hom
,. -------------------------------------------   ...................... ,.. , ..... ...... _.. ...
No  Year Capital Cost WI         Economic        Benefit                Net   Sensitivityl   SensitivitY2
Phy.Cont.115)   0If Cost -------  ----------- Econornc   Net Economic   Net Economic
-----------------             2/    Finan.   Econom,   Donvfit         Benefit a/       Benefit u/
Finan.   Econon.        13Z)          3/         41              20? Reduction   201 Increase
(usUOOOI (us$'0001 (usX00)0  O    usS00000   (us$00)s   (us000)    in Benefits          in Costs
--.. ------ . ------   ------     -----       -----    ---- .      ----      ------           .. .... ... .. .
1989
1990
I  1991      951.9      792.7                                       (702.7)          (782.71          (939.3)
2  1992   1,363.0   1,252.4          23.5                         (1,275.9)        (1,275.9)        (1,531.0)
3  1993   1,192.6   1,095.8          61.1                         (1,156.9)        (1,156.9)        11,399.3)
4  1994                             102.2   9,000.0   6,377.1   6,274.9             4,599.5         6,254.5
5  1995                             102.2                           (102.2)          (102.2)          (122.7)
6  1996                             102.2                           (102.2)          (102.2)          (122.7)
7  1997                             102.2                           (102.2)          (102.2)          (122.7)
a  1999                             102.2                           (102.2)          (102.2)          (122.7)
9  1999                             102.2                           (102.2)          (102.2)          (122.7)
10  2000                             102.2                           (102.2)          (102.2)          (122.7)
I1  2001                             102.2                           (102.2)          (102.2)          (122.7)
12  2002                             102.2                           1102.2)          (102.21          (122.7)
13  2003                             102.2                           (102.2)          (102.2)          (122.7)
14  2004                             102.2                           (102.2)          (102.21          (122.7)
15  2005                             102.2                           (102.2)          (102.2)          (122.7)
16  2006                             102.2                           (102.2)          (102.2)          (122.7)
17  2007                             102.2                           (102.2)          (102.2)          (122.7)
18  2008                             102.2                           (102.2)          (102.2)          (122.7)
19  2009                             102.2                           (102.2)          (102.2)          (122.7)
20  2010                             102.2                           (102.2)          (102.2)          (122.7)
21  2011                             102.2                            (102.2)         (102.2)          (122.7)
22  2012                             102.2                           (102.2)          (102.2)          (122.7)
23  2013                             102.2                           10O2.2)          (102.2)          (122.7)
Total   3,407.5   3,131.0                 9,000.0                1,117.2
IRR8            0.37             0.19             0.22
(37?)           (19%)            (22?)



Table 5,  Overall ERR for the Entire Project              -  209  -                                         Annex  20
IUnitt usJ '000 at Jan. 1990 prices)                                                             Page  8 of  10
Component                    Capital Cost V/a       ERR         Expected      I of EspKeted
Phy.Contngcy   ----------   Value    Total    Value
--- . .. .- .... ..   ERR  Source               Bas
(us$S000)   (2)      (2                II)     Cost       (1)
...... ........... .................. ......................... ....................  ..... ......  -----.. _........ ......_. _
LOCAL OVEMIT. REHABILITATION & REFORM
nuasu3uuunuauaauuausznaaustuam..E
1. Infrast.& Environmental Rehab.& teprow.
I.Road Rehab. & Traffic Systems Mgst.
*.Accra                                          17,030.0   34.0    105  Ts.203       35.7     22.5      23.7
b.Kusasi                                         2,670.0    5.3       33    T.11       1.9      3.5       1.2
c.Sekondi-Takoradi
-Roads Rehab.Staqe-l; Roads                     203.4    0.4    345   1T12          1.4      0.3       0.9
Others                   206.6    0.4
-Roads Rehab. Stage-2                         1,026.7    2.0    126    T.13         2.6      1.4       1.7
-Detail Dosign & Supervision                  1,690.9    3.4
2.Environmental systems Rehab. L lprov.
.Toamale Infrast. Rehab
-Drainage                                      1,000.0    2.0
-Roads Rehabilitaion                           1,201.0    2.4   55.0    t.14        1.3      1.6       0.9
-Vard E Upgrading                                739.0    1.5   23.9    T.15        0.4      1.0       0.2
bM1een Seerage Rehab.                             3,639.5    7.3    226    T.16 l       .4       4.9     10.9
c.Kumasi Central Market rehab.                    1,782.1    3.6    107    T.17        3.P       2.4      2.5
d.Vaste Managesent System Development             3,000.0    6.0
e.Detail Design  1 Supervision                      908.9    1.9
3MVuhicles, Equipmunt & Workshops                  5,550.0   11.1
4.Technical Assistanco                               360.0    0.7
5.Training                                           250.0    0.5
6.DUR Support                                      1,702.7    3.4
7.EPC Support                                        120.0    0.2
lI.Nunicipal Revenue Nobilization                   1,390.0    2.0
lII.Property Revaluation                            1,450.0    2.9
IV.Land Administration
I - 6.Land Adjudication & Titling                  1,443.0    2.9       2    T.18       0.1       1.9      0.0
7 - R.Support to Planning & Univ.of SIT              235.0    0.5
VMHinistry of Local 6overnment Support              2,530.0    5.0
SubtotAl and Weighted Average ERR for A            50,119.8  10.0                       63.4
HOUSIN6 SECTOR REFORN
l-I.Toma Ashaimn Ph.1l Upgrading                    2,963.0   11.7   37.0    T.20        4.3      3.9       1.5
The Rest of I through V                            22,441.5   99.1
Subtotal and Weighted Average ERR for 3            25,404.5  100.0                       4.3
aawlumuuwzsua   gus=gass  gus..ur UUU   mas
TL MiOJ. BASE COST I WEIGHTD AV ERR FOR T.B.C.  75,523.3                                         100.0     43.5
(43.51)
Date Reviseda 16-Nay-90



j        20
- 210 -                                         Page 9 of 10
Table 6. Poverty Threhold and the Share of the Pwor
in Urban Population in Shana, 1999
(Units cedis/person at 1988 prices)
........ _.._. . ......... ... ._ ................ . . .* .... ..... . ... . ..... ...__
Relative Povrty Threshold                                     35,000           20
of the No
bsolute Poverty Level in                                     53,68             40
Social Indicators of NO
Ninimue Wage                          143                     44,616           30
Taxi Drinvr                                      4,000         0,000           3
Average                                                       45,326
NOTES:
11) The relative poverty threhold defined by the World Sank for a
person living in an urban ae is 50& of  wr capita SOP.
The per capita GDP    Shoaf na in 18 is estimated at abut cedis
70,000.
12) Tho absolute poverty level vas estimated in Social Indicators of
Developmnt 190 by the US. It *as 351 codis per capita in 1975.
Inflation rate fru  1975 through 191  as 15,20o.  NultipicatiUon
of thns  tuo nubrer produces 53,688 cdis per ye.
(3) The dinimu  wage in 198  is 143 cedis/day.  osuin 26 working days
per month, the minio vwage is 44,616 cedie/lyar.
14) The mission colleted  mothly incoms of four taxi driwers in
kera and Koforidua, which wre 4,000, S,00,  ,000 and £2,000.
Taking the loest of the four, the anul incom  ins etistad
at 48,000 cedis for a tai drivw.
Date R evis       Wlhy-
WA



Table 7.  Incoae Distribution in Ashaisan, 1988         -  21 1 -                Annex  20
(Unit: Cedis at 1998 Prices)                                           Page  10  of  10
__.........._. .........................__ ._ ............,, ....... _., ....... .__   
Category Incose(Cedis)/Month/Housohold          Incou  in 1989/        Nuaber
-------------------------------------Yuar/Person                of      1
Incose in 1989       Incose in 199e                       Household
(at 1999 Prices)    (at 1998 Prices) (at 1999 Pricens)
..-....... ................ .                    .                    ........ .......
I        0 -  4,999          0 -  4,048         0- 10,773           46     11.3
2    5,000 -   ,999      4,049 -  9,097   10,774 - 21,547           36      8.9
3   10,000 - 14,999      9,098 - 12,147   21,548 - 32,321           71     17.4
4   15,000 - 19,999    12,149 - 16,196   32,322 - 43,095            44     10.8
5   20,000 - 24,999    16,197 - 20,245   43,096 - 53,968            36      8.9
6   25,000 - 29,999   :;,246 - 24,294   53,970 - 64,643             53     13.0
7   30,000 and Over    24,295 and Over   64,644 and Over           122     29.,9
Total       408    100.0
NOTES:
1/  Tho assuoptions usgd to coopute incout distribution in 1988
at 1989 prieio aro: (a) inflation rate of 201, (b) real 60P grovth
rate of 6%, and kc) population grouth rate of 3.11 frno 1988
to 1989.
Date Reviseds                16-Iay-90
Tablg 9. Distribution of Income in Shana, 1980
(Unit: Cadis/Cap/Vear at 1998 Prices
Docil of           Kean   Estimated Kean Urban per
Population    per Capita   Capita Expenditure
Expenditure   (cedis/caply)
97-98-
(cedis/cap/y)     87-98          1id.08
1        14,337         17,501         18,497
2        22,307         27,354         30,336
3        28,722         35,220         39,059
4        35,057         42,989         47,675
5        41,870         51,353         56,940
6        49,314         60,471         67,06
7        57,491         70,49          70,183
8        70,485         86,432         95,854
9        90,80         111,351        123,489
10       177,713        217,921        241,675
All Ghana          58,714         71,998         79,846
Data Ravisede                  16-May-90



Annex 21
- 212 -                                Page 1 of 2
la                                                            MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND
4un.",     " of t, #                                           ECONOMIC PLANNING
P.O. BOX M."
od N.vo -ELSZ..P/O36                                                     ACCRA
REMMLICOr C1ANA             1eth ",arch       1990
Tr. NJ... ,_
International lDanls for
Reconustructlon and Dovolop=oat
1616 H Street, N.V.
Washington, D.C., 2o4S3
U.S.A.
Gentloens:
Res Ghana Moouing Policy
Policy Statemnt
The improvement of houain8 conditiono La a priority of tho Governm=nt
of Ghana.  To this end the Government hae alreody taken a number of otope
to encourage the development of the Houolng Sector.  In order to accoloeato
the developmnt of tho sector and to otrngethon housing inaotitutiono. the
Government has sought the sosistenco of tho World Bank (IDA).
Pursuant to recet dioeueoiono with the World Bank 'IDA) on the Ghana
Urban XI Project, the folloling otatomonto will oerve to reaffirm the
Goverment's housing policy:
(a)  Hlusin, .finance:  In order to ensure the mobilizatlon of
long-term finance for housing development on a suctainQd
basis, the Govemtnt will establish of a new entity,
*lousing Finance Company Ltd., (HFC)a as an affiliate and
under the managemnt of l4erchant Bank of Ghana (MG).  HFC
will be jointly OmPed in equal shares by the Goverment of
Ghana, the Social Security and National Insurance Ttuot
(S8SNT) and HBG, and will be authorized to undertake the
financing of houses under the Urban II Project.
(b)  Housina Standards:  in view  of the high coot of houeing in
relationship to household incomse  in Ghana and to
facilitate the tidoest poooible acceso by housoholdo to
affordable houcing, the Goveormnt tsill adopt tho folloming
modest houolng otandacrdo ao the basle for the unit to be
finaced under the Ugban Ur Proj ct:



Annex 21
- 213-                                Page 2 of 2
- 2-
(t)  House site  30m' - 50>,
(ii) House typos   expandable core units but with the
provision that a maxim up to 301 oi the units could
be flats in multi-storey apartmentat and
(iLL)  House price lncluding lend, infrastructure and gervices
¢2.0 milllon to ¢3.5 million at January 1990 prices.
(c)  Review-of the Foreclosure Laws:  in ordsL  to ensure the
adequacy of collateral for lane in the housing and other
sectors and to genecally facilitate the development of the
financial system, during the first two yreas of the Urban
11 Project, l.e. during 1991-92, the 3overment will
review, amend and strengthen the foreclolure laws.
(d) RestructurLni of SICt in accordgace with agreemAnts
previously reached under the Financial Sector A4justment
Credit (PfNSAC). the Government will ensure that the SAM
for Housing and Construction (BIC) is restructured to
enable it to act effectively as one of the key originating
and servLcing Lastitutions (OSge) under the Urban 11
Project.
(5) Restructurins of Rousing Parastatels and AZSCs In order to
strengthen the perfomance of the pubLc sector, improv
the housing dellvery system and Improve resource
utilization, the Goverment will restructure the State
Housing Corporation (SHC) and the Tema Development
Corporation (TDC), and the ArchLtectural and Engineering
Sevicess CorporatLon (AESC).
(f)  Measures to Encourage the Private Sector,  In addltion to
the tax and other ineentlves recently Lnsetituted to
encourage the particLpatLon of private developers in the
provLeLon affordable housing, the Government will take
steps to facLlitate, lnter alia, the timely access by
legLtimto private developers to land suitable for housing
dvelopmet and to development fLnance.
The above polLcies will be implemnted in consultation with the World
eak0 CIM) and on terms and conditions acceptable to the World Bank (IDA).
Uhere necessary the Government will, on a timely basis, promulgate
logLilation on other Lnstrumnts to giev effIft-1            abofe
PoDc as        ~inance
ing W a



- 214 -
Annex 22
Page 1 of 2
GHANA
URBAN II PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS ON PROJECT FILE
Infrastructure and Environmental Systems Rehabilitatio..
Accra District Traffic Management and Improvement Study Final Report,                    H,
DeLeuw Cather, May 1988
Accra District Traffic Management and Improvement Study, Sekondi-Takoradi
Vol. I and II, DeLeuw Cather, Sept. 1989
Accra District Traffic Management and Improvement Study, Kumasi, Vol. I and
II, DeLeuw Cather, Sept. 1989
Urban II Project - Draft Design Reports, Final Report, DeLeuw Cather,
Sept. 1989
Accra District Traffic Management and Improvement Study, Tema, DeLeuw
Cather, Sept. 1989
Urban II Prepatory Studies, Kumasi Market Study, Integrated Development
Consultants, Ltd., March 3, 1989
Pre-appraisal Preparation and Project Identification Report in respect of
Tamale District, MLG Task force, Dec. 1989
Urban II Studies for Tema Infrastructure Rehab. Status Report #1,
Watertech, Dec. 1988
Urban II Studies for Tema Infrastructure Rehab. Status Report t2,
Watertech, March 1989
Land Administration
Lands Management in Kumasi, Ghana, Jan.  .1, 1989                                        -
Ghana Urban Sector Study, Land Issues and Land Management Report, Lyn
Holstein, Feb. 18, 1988
Study of Institutional-Legal Problems Associate with Land Delivery in Accra
Report, Ebenezer Acquaye & Assoc., Oct. 1989
MLG Support
Pre-appraisal Mission Report on Urban II - Emphasis on Training and
Institutional Development, Fred Fisher, Nov. 1989



- 215 -
Annex 22
Page 2 of 2
Preparation Mission, Report on Urban II - Training and Institutional
Development, April-May 1989
Municipal Revenue Mobilization
Urban II - Property Revaluation and Municipal Revenue Mobilization Profile
Report, Jack Bahal, March 1990
AMA 1988 Budget                                                                          .
AMA 1989 Budget
AMA 1988-1993 Corporate Plan
AM. i988 Report/Accounts
AMA Civil Service Reform Program Report on Accra City Council, Cooper and
Lybrand, Dec. 1987
AMA ADRP Resource Mobilization Report, A.L. Jones, Financial Adviser, AMA,
Jan.-June 1989
KMA 1988 Budget
Tamale 1988 Budget
Sekondi-Takoradi 1989 Budget
Tema 1989 Budget
Housing Sector
Home Finance Company Ltd. (HFC)
- Certificate of Registration
- Regulations
- Draft of Management Agreement with Merchant Bank (Ghana) Ltd.
Ghana Civil Service Housing - Preliminary Study, Steve Akuffo, Nov. 1988
Ghana, Broadening the Recovery through the Housing Sector, Report (AF4IN),
June 1989
Diagnostic Study of BHC, Development Banking Draft Report, Peat Marwick
McLintock, Nov. 30, 1987
Report on Rehab. of Architectural and Engineering Services Corp., FM,WH
Sept. 1985



MAP SECTION



G H A N Ai
URBAN II PROJECT
ACCkA
PROIECT:
New Road
... Road Reconstruction
=    Built-up Areas
Roads and Streets
-i--Railroads
v RN                                                                    Soo    1000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~onoe,n.la acpano0 



\~ ~ ~~ ~~~T Shi i H,715.          /                               o IV.-lb,F l                   J M$lmPOA
OURKINA FASO     ,                                                               G  HA  N A
~~~_                       _     _     _    _     _     _     _URBAN               11  PRO JECT
cHSIAN A
R  <    °T EM A                                                                 KUVM AS I
AU XJ  XSB)                I   I ~~Urban Upgrading                 I IUrban Upgrading               -   Roads and Streets"                 _*,,, 
b J       > h                00~~~~-    Sewage Treatment Site        h~lRehabilitation Areas         -i--i Railroads                   .-                ,
t; ( Klimasl <+\/t(EXISTING:                           -Traffic .mprovement   I                       ZI Built-up Areasw
_ FF~~~ema                   1 -        Roads and Streets        o ,        s o o 0o   OAO00<OP                1000O¢n
8                              I   t~~~~~~~E   Built-up Areas                                  MTR 
'I       l                 A



G H A N A
TAMALE                                                       URBAN 1l PROJECT                                                     SEKONDI-TAKORADI
um behener ,CJ  J  um
H   f~~~~~~~~~~a                                                                                                        Gufo,Gie
BU)RKINA FASO(
t   \ C H ^ N ^) %                                                                                            z.o t^^ ww ,,. r:,^,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h YftM4,S lal astt
aHANA Ulama            r        | lJrban lJpgrading (Ward E.)                                               Roads and Traffic Improvements    '        "
2o /                      Xll o | Infrastructure Improvements                                     Railroads
u-j   >_ | Built-up Areas                                                           Built-up Areas-
CCI_CR A          -        Roads and Streets              ,°          ;10 ,-                         Roads and Streets
_     kondi                                                                   MvlF TFRS



