Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY           Report No:  19993
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(Core ICR)
ONA
CREDIT 2157-GH
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 53.7 (US$70.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FOR AN URBAN 11 (SEC CITIES) PROJECT
PROJECT ID: P000910
L/C NUMBER: 21570
January 4, 2000
Water & Urban 2
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipient only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Exchange Rate Effective
1990= 326.28
1991 = 367.73
1992= 437.09
1993= 648.98
1994= 956.73
1995  1,200.40
1996 = 1,637.24
1997 = 2,050.28
1998 = 2,314.15
Currency Unit = Cedis
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADRP          Accra District Rehabilitation Project
AESC          Architectural and Engineering Services Corporation
AESL          Architectural and Engineering Services Limited
CBD           Central Business District
CPI           Consumer Price Index
DA            District Assembly
DRU-          District Road Units
DUR           Department of Urban Roads
EIA           Environmental Impact Assessment
EPA           Environmental Protection Agency
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
ERP           Economic Recovery Program
GERP          Ghana Environmental Resource Project
GoG           Government of Ghana
HEC           Home Finance Company
LGDP          Local Government Development Project
LVB           Land Valuation Board
MDSC          Metropolitan/District Steering Committee
MLGRD         Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development
MWH           Ministry of Works and Housing
NDF           Nordic Developrment Fund
OPEC          Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries
PCC           Project Coordinating Committee
PWP           Priority Works Project
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SHC           State Housing Corporation
SSNIT         Social Security and National Investment Trust
l C         Tema Development Corporation
TMA           Tema Municipal Assembly
TSC           Technical Services Corporation
UESP          Urban Environment and Sanitation Project
UST           University of Science and Technology
UTP          Urban Transport Project
.              Vlce P~~~~resident:   Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:   Peter Harrold
Sector Manager/Director:    Letitia A. Obeng
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:   Jagdish Bahal



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GHANA - URBAN II PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CONTENTS
Page No
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              11
6. Sustainability                                                                  13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   15
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 18
9. Partner Comments                                                                19
10. Additional Information                                                         19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P0009l1                                         Project Name: URBAN II(SEC CITIES)
Team Leader: Jagdish K. Bahal                               TL Unit: AFTU2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                          Report Date:
1. Project Data
Name: URBAN II(SEC CITIES)                                LIC Number: 21570
Country/Department: GHANA                                                   Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: UH - Urban Housing
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD.'  04/19/88                                 Effective: 01/01/91             05/28/91
Appraisal:  01/22/90                                    MTR.' 07/30/95              09/18/95
Approval:  06/14/90                                  Closing.  06/30/96             06/30/99
BorrowerlImplementing Agency:  REPUBLIC OF GHANA/MIN OF WORKS AND HOUSING & MIN OF ROADS
AND HIGHWAYS
Other Partners: Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC); Nordic Development
Fund (NDF)
STAFF                 Current                                     At Appraisal
Vice President:       Jean-Louis Sarbib                           E.V.K. Jaycox
Country Manager:      Peter C. Harrold                            C. Koch-Weser
Sector Manager:       Letitia A. Obeng                            Tony Pellegrini
Team Leader at ICR:   Jagdish Bahal                               K. Robotham
ICR Primary Author:   Charles K. Boakye; Eleanor V.
Warner; Jagdish K. Bahal
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS-=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, I)N=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely. HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H-High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability. L
Institutional Development M
Impact:
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)         ICR
Quality at Entry:
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3. 1 Original Objective:.
The project objectives as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) were to:
(i) Local Government Rehabilitation: (a) help rehabilitate and improve essential infrastructure, services



and environmental systems; and (b) strengthen the technical, financial and managerial capacity of local
government;
(ii' Housing Sector Reform: (a) help initiate the development of a sustainable housing finance system; (b)
relorm the housing parastatals; (c) begin to relieve the acute shortage of affordable houses; (d) improve the
environmental conditions; (e) provide essential infrastructure and service for the urban poor; and (f)
strengthen the Ministry of Works and 1-ousing (MWH); and
(iii) Environment: help improve en.vironmental management and. monitoring through support to the
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
Assessment of Objectives. The above project objectives were realistic and responsive to the Ghana
Gcvernment's circumstances and development priorities. The project evolved from the Urban and Housing
Sector reviews prepared in 1989, which identified the most critical areas in infrastructure development and
in the provision of housing in Ghana's five largest cities. Following the success of the Accra District
Rehabilitation Project (ADRP, Cr. 1564) in Accra and Tema, the Ghana Urban II project was devised to
consolidate the gains and replicate the outcomes in the remaining four metropolitan/municipal cities, Tema,
Kumasi, Sekondi-Takoradi and Tema.
While the first two objectives dealt with the numerous problems that affected the urban sector in the five
cities, the third objective, a secondary but important component, was incorporated to address the positive
and negative environmental impacts of the project.
3.2 Revised Objective.
N/Ak
3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of the following components:
Local Government Rehabilitation (i) Infrastructure and environmental systems rehabilitation and
ma:intenance works, such as roads, drains, sewerage, markets, solid waste management and environmental
sanitation in five project cities; (ii) Municipal revenue mobilization, such as financial management
improvements, property revaluation and tax reform and revenue mobilization in the five project cities; (iii)
Land administration, such as mapping, pilot land adjudication, improvements to registration and
conveyancing systems; (iv) Institutional support to the Ministry of Local Government and Rural
Development (MLGRD), such as training program  development, curriculum  and teaching materials
development, training trainers, project management support, and development of policy formulation and
project management capacity; and (v) Institutional support to Department of Urban Roads (DUR), District
Road Units (DRUs), City Technical Departments and Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), technical
assistance, equipment, materials, training for sector and project studies, and for operational management
and support for project agencies and the EPA.
Housing Sector Reform (i) Urban upgrading works in Tema and Kumasi, such as roads, drains, water
supply, environmental sanitation, training 100 women in construction techniques (with local NGOs
assistance); and housing consolidation studies, for example completion/divestment studies for uncompleted
GOG-owned units; (ii) Institutional reform (commercialization/ privatization) of housing parastatals,
Architectural and Engineering Services Corporation (AESC), State Housing Corporation (SHC) and
Technical Services Center (TSC); (iii) A line of credit to establish a pilot housing finance sub-project with
-2 -



institutional development and indexed mortgage financing for about 2,000 new sales units and the
conversion of 1,000 existing parastatal-owned rental units to sales units; and (iv) Institutional support to
TSC in such areas as technical assistance, training, vehicles, equipment and operational support for sector
reform, project management and project studies, including studies aimed at increasing the participation of
women in the housing construction sector.
Assessment of Original Components:
The Local Government Rehabilitation component of total cost US$77 million, was well designed to
achieve their objectives. They covered most areas that were needed for improving urban infrastructure and
strengthening the capacity of local governments, including major infrastructure facilities and services,
namely, Accra and Kumasi roads rehabilitation, Tema!s sewerage reconstruction and solid waste disposal
sites, local government schools works at Accra and Tamale, construction of seven offices and workshops
for District Road Units of DUR in all five project assemblies, and procurement of road and waste
management equipment for the assemblies. The project also computerized the accounting and billing system
in the five assemblies and MLGRD; undertook property revaluation in Sekondi-Takoradi, Kumasi and
Tamale; and provided assistance to the Land Administration system in Ghana. The environment part of the
objectives was an essential feature of all the above components.
The DUR and TSC implementing agencies handled the above components and relied on the capacity built
from the previous ADRP (Cr. 1564) and Priority Works Project (PWP, Cr. 1874). The staff were civil and
public servants seconded from other government agencies to perform the task. Management was stable and
staff turnover negligible; this guaranteed a continued administrative and financial capacity in the
implementation of the project. The components of the urban projects were similar to the two previous Bank
urban projects and relevant lessons were taken into account by the agencies in the execution of the project.
DUR and TSC now manage new Bank and other Donor supported projects.
The Housing Sector Reform component, total cost US$32.6 million, was well designed to meet the
objectives of the project. The component was very clear and focused mainly on urban upgrading of
Ashaiman (Tema) and Suame magazine (Kumasi), and the line of credit that established the pilot housing
finance subproject. The upgrading works were implemented by TSC while the housing finance component
was implemented by HFC, a company set up under the project to implement and manage the component.
The HFC was initially managed by key staff seconded from the Merchant Bank but later recruited its own
staff while retaining the seconded staff who opted to stay. Shareholders increased the HFC capital to
strengthen its financial base. Although there was no previous staff or Bank experience with housing
finance in Ghana, the new management used their private sector experience and relied on technical
assistance, provided under the project in line with similar successful institutions in Asia and USA, to make
the component one of the most successful. The administrative and financial management capacity of IEC
is sound and will sustain the operations of the company.
The institutional reforms of housing parastatals, namely SHC, AESC and TDC were timely as the existing
structures had virtually broken down and needed improved managerial capacity for efficient performance.
3.3 Revised Components:
There was no formal revision of the project components. However, based on lessons learned during
implementation, the following minor adjustments were made to the subcomponents which were effectively
handled by the supervision team.
Tema Sewerage project - Originally, designs of the sewerage project had envisaged the discharge of treated
- 3 -



effluent into the nearby Sakumono lagoon. Based on the EIA. report, the designs were changed to enable
treated effluent to be discharged lkm into the sea, instead of the lagoon. This additional work, which was
cofinanced by the Bank-supported Ghana Environmental Resource Management Project (GERMP, Cr.
2426), was to preserve the lagoon which had been earmarked as a Ramsar site.
New Town and Patrice Lumumba roads - These roads, originally meant for reconstruction, were not done
because of anticipated cost overrun, such as high level structural demolition and related compensation and
resettlement costs. Moreover, the condition of the roads was relatively better than other roads in the
project. The savings were used to improve traffic management and security systems on rehabilitated roads,
which were not part of the original design. During the latter part of the project, savings from SDR
exchange rates were used to finance asphalt resurfacing of 47km of additional roads in Accra, including
Patrice Lumumba Road.
3.4 Quality at Entry:
The Quality at Entry of the project was satisfactory. The project evolved during the implementation of
ADRP (Cr. 1564) and PWP (Cr. 1874,), and was a priority for the sector and the country, according to the
198B9 Urban Sector and Housing Sector Reviews, and received Government support throughout
imiplementation. The project was subsequently conceived at the initial stages of decentralization and
received support from the highest level of Government through an Inter Ministerial committee of cabinet set
up with oversight responsibilities to ensure smooth implementation; the then Chairman of the Committee of
Secretaries (equivalent to Prime Minister) showed direct interest and full commitment to the preparatory
work. The weak technical and managerial capacity in the MLGRD at that time, and the high importance
and ownership government had for the project led to the setting-up of three separate and distinct
implementing agencies to handle key aspects of the project, namely TSC, DUR and HFC. The agencies
were under the Ministries of Works and Housing, and Roads and Transport. It incorporated lessons from
the ADRP, especially with respect to thie financial management system as well as valuable implementation
experience from the PWP. The Bank also committed a substantial input of staff effort for project
preparation and supervision. Consistent with the Bank's safeguard policies, the project's environmental
issues were highlighted as one of the three main objectives of the project. The project's bottom-up
methodology complemented other IDA-financed urban development projects in the Bank.
However, there were significant delays in project processing, (a) eleven months lapsed between Bank's
boaLrd approval and effectiveness; and (b) difficulties were experienced identifying cofinanciers. (OPEC
and NDF formally gave their consent in 1993, while the respective loans became effective in 1995.) Board
processing delays did not affect the project as designs were still ongoing, but delays related to the
co-financiers affected the Kumasi Kejetia contract and the NDF procurement of waste management
component.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall, the physical outcome of the project was satisfactory. The infrastructure and environmental
rehabilitation and maintenance subproject has established the basis for effective traffic management in
Accra; urban upgrading schemes have brought considerable improvement to the quality of life of certain
low-income communities; and action has been taken to address the pollution of the Chemu Lagoon in
Terna. For the first time in Ghana, the issue of solid waste disposal has been tackled in one major city,
Terna, in a systematic and professional manner.
The municipal revenue mobilization component fueled a surge in revenue generation capacity in the five
- 4 -



project cities and assemblies which could lead to substantial improvement in service delivery and
infrastructure maintenance.  The percentage increase in property tax revenue collected by the five
Assemblies from 1988 to 1997 ranged in nominal terms from 2,713% in Accra to 62% in Tamale.
Corresponding figures for total internal revenue for the same period range from 2,062% in Accra to 38% in
Tamale. This is an annual increase of over 300% in property rates, and 230% for total internal revenue for
Accra. Although the foundation for enhanced own source revenue mobilization was laid in Accra by the
Bank-supported ADRP (Cr. 1 564-GH), Urban II further improved capacity to raise revenue.
In economic terms, the outcomes are highly encouraging. The ex post high rate of return, particularly in
the transport sector, indicates a sound application of capital. Traffic management activities have improved
mobility in Accra, and the Kanda Highway/Castle Road scheme has reduced the waiting time and length of
queues at transit stations. Significant increases have been recorded in traffic levels for this corridor.
However, Kanda (in particular) had a low volume capacity ratio, indicating its ability to cope with future
demand.
Local Government Rehabilitation: The objective of rehabilitating and improving targetted infrastructure,
services and environmental systems in Accra, Tema, Sekondi-Takoradi, Kumasi, and Tamale was
achieved. Urban infrastructure (including roads, street lighting, sanitation, and solid waste management),
which was in a state of disrepair in the project towns, was rehabilitated and is now beginning to see a
structured attempt at maintenance.
The objective of strengthening the technical, financial and managerial capacity of local government was
substantially achieved. Significant advances have been made in local government reforms, including the
following:
(a)   revenue collection has improved in all towns;
(b)   initiatives aimed at the reorganization of local government training have taken root;
(c)    project management expertise has been developed in key government agencies; and
(d)    up-to-date maps of appropriate scales are now available in Accra, Kumasi,
Sekondi/Takoradi, Tema and Tamale.
These gains have contributed towards the successful implementation of the Government's ongoing
decentralization program, and given staff in these agencies a clearer sense of direction.
Housing Sector Reform: The objective to initiate development of a sustainable housing finance system
was fully achieved. An unsubsidized housing mortgage finance system has been put in place to largely
cater to the middle income groups. The HFC which was set up under the project in 1991, exceeded its
target of providing mortgages, thereby relieving the acute shortage of affordable houses in Accra. HFC,
granted mortgage finance to fund 4,100 new houses as against SAR target of 2,000 houses. HFC has
issued US$20 million in inflation indexed Cedi bonds, providing Social Security and National Insurance
Trust (SSNIT) with its best performing asset over the period. HFC has also issued US$4.5 million in US
dollar denominated bonds, the first private corporate bond issued ever in Ghana. HFC is now regarded as
one of the premium non-banking private financial institutions in Ghana, with one of the best performing
stocks at the Ghana Stock Exchange.
The objective of reforming housing parastatals, commercialization, rationalization of organization and
- 5 -



staffing, and establishing partnerships with private developments, was largely achieved. The existing
housing parastatals, namely TDC, AESL and SHC have been reorganized into commercially oriented and
viable companies. TDC in particular. has successfully undertaken several housing schemes where TDC
provided land and private developers provided capital and management of new housing schemes. Most of
the houses were sold to individuals through HFC mortgage ifacilities. The impact of SHC, currently
earmarked for divestiture, has not been very significant.
The objective of improving the environmental conditions and providing essential infrastructure and services
for the urban poor was achieved. Urban upgrading schemes in Ashaiman in Tema, Suame in Kumasi and
Ward E in Tamale have given access to basic sanitation and other infrastructure facilities to otherwise
deprived members of urban communities.
The objective of institutional strengthening was partially achieved. The project helped identify and solve
cril:ical issues in urban management. It has also improved inter-agency coordination, particularly between
the Lands Valuation Board (LVB) on the one hand, and the Assemblies, on the other. However, differences
between the newly created land title registry and the old deeds registry hindered the progress of land titling
activities. Considerable effort would be required in the coming years to integrate the activities of these two
agencies and carry out major land reforms on the basis of project findings through the pilot land component
ancl the subsequent Land Administration Study. This will be addressed under a follow-on project.
Environment: The objective to help improve environmental management and monitoring through support
to LPA was achieved. Equipment, technical assistance and training were provided to EPA to reinforce its
capacity to monitor the environmental components of the project. These included monitoring the sanitation
situation in Tamale, Kumasi and Sekondi-Takoradi; collecting and reviewing studies conducted on Korle
Lagoon; creating public awareness programs for Odaw and Korle catchment areas; and carrying out
environmental impact studies for specific comments.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The status of achievement of project components as against SAR targets is summarized below:
-6 -



TARGETED AND ACHIEVED OUTPUT
ITEM               i   SAR TARGET               ACHIEVEMENT                 COMMENTS
(1989)            (JUNE 30,1999)
1. Local Government Sector Rehabilitation
(i) Reconstruction of arterial &           17.4 km                 13.3km        Successfully achieved
collector roads in Accra
(ii) Rehabilitation and asphalt overlay      0                    47.6km         Not originally intended. This was
of roads in Accra                                                                executed with funds accrued from
SDR savings against the US Dollar
(iii) Construction and widening of          240m              Not implemented   Inadequate budget for
bridge over railway between Asafo                                                recommended alternative.
market circle and UTC circle in                                                  Available funds were used to top up
Kumasi                                                                           the Kumasi Kajetia component
(iv) Rehabilitation of Kumasi Kajetia  Involve market improve-    Ongoing, 85% complete. This component largely financed by
market and construction of Kajetia    ment, telecommunication   Not yet achieved  OPEC delayed due to counterpart
road & traffic management system  facilities, drainage, road &                   funds problems. Also cofinanced
traffic management works                       by IDA.
(v) Tema Sewerage System          Rehabilitation, provision of Fully achieved.   System currently not functional.
Rehabilitation                    3 Pumping stations, cons-   36,000m3 fully aerated  Remedial works are being rectified
truction of new treatment   pond by year 2010  and expected to be completed by
facility, sewer outfall etc.                   April 2000.
(vi) Property revaluation of 87,000    Kumasi (40,000), Sekondi-  Substantially achieved.  Sekondi-Takoradi was not fully
buildings in Kumasi, Tamale and   Takoradi (30,000) and    Kumasi (40,000)       achieved because of the poor state
Sekondi-Takoradi                  Tamale (17,000)          Sekondi-Takoradi      of some of the buildings.
(27,000) and Tamale
(20,000)
(vii) Construction of new local Govt.     2 Schools.           Fully achieved    The schools have been
training school in Accra and                                                     commissioned and are now in
rehabilitation of existing school in                                             operation
Tamale
(viii) Procurement of various road and  Over 250 pieces.       Fully achieved    The road equipment were financed
waste management equipment for                                                   by the NDF credit while IDA
DRU and WMD of the five (5)                                                      financed the waste management
metropolitan assemblies.                                                         equipment
(ix) Undertaking studies to identify   Foreign and local firms to  Done          Critical measures include the
waste management problems confront- carry our study in Tema,                     construction of landfill sites in
ing three cities and recommend urgent Sekondi-Takoradi and                       Tema and toilets in Tamale and
measures to address critical needs.    Tamale.                                   Sekondi-Takoradi.
(x) Land Administration
- Issue titles to land in Accra and         1,000                  1,200
Kumasi
- Large scale photomapping in Accra       180 sq.km              250 sq.km
- Large scale photomapping in Kumsai      220 sq.km              250 sq.km
- Extensive education and short-term   Exposure to advanced and  Fully accomplished   Team visited Thailand, Canada,
training programs for Executive Direc- new land titling and records              Australia and another developing
tors and Project Officers of the Land   management methods.                      country.
Administration Steering Committee.
-7-



TARGETED AND ACHIEVED OUTPUT
ITEM                     SSAR TARGET            ACHIEVEMENT                  COMMENTS
2. Housing Sector Reform
(i) Establishment of Home Finance         2000 units              4,100 units     Very successful
Conipany (HFC) and mortgaging of
houses under the scheme
(ii) The sale of existing SHC and TDC     1000 units              3,175 units     Due to a court injunction, it was
rental units through SSNIT and HFC                                                impossible to pursue this compo-
nent. Later when the injunction was
lifted, TDC succeeded in carrying
this action through a Home
Ownership Scheme (HOS) without
HFC, SSNIT assistance
(iii) Restructuring of GoG housing  TDC, AESL, SHC to be        Fully achieved    TDC and AESL have shown
parastatals through diagnostic    commercialized,                                 substantial economic growth since
institutional studies.                                                            1995. SHC is now earmarked for
diverstiture.
(iv) Training of women in                 100 women         60 women fully trained 60 women who were fully trained in
construction techniques with the                                                  Ashaiman & Gomoa Essakyir
assistance of local NGOs                                                          received certificates. Others did not
complete the training
(v) Upgrading of three suburbs,   Involved the construction of  Fully achieved    Property value increased in
namely Ashaiman in Tema, Suame in  roads and drains, water                        Ashaiman and Ward E. Increased
Kumasi and Ward E in Tamale       supply and sanitation, street                   revenue for artisans in Suame.
and security lighting, etc.                     Crime wave reduced in Ashaiman.
3. The Environment
(i) Aissist EPA in the drafting of                                  Done          This was very useful for the
appropriate environmental legislation                                             formulation of Ghana's
for C,hana                                                                        Environmental Action Plan
(ii) Carry out environmental impact   EIA reports needed for all    Done          All EIA recommendations were
assessment studies to assess the impact major contracts                           implemented, especially major ones
of civil works under the project.                                                 on Tema sewerage and Accra roads.
(iii) Strengthen EPA to monitor and   Public education and short  Fully achieved
evaluate implementation of        term courses
environment component
(iv) Developing public awareness and Studies                        Done          These two studies led to two
reviewing past studies on Odaw river                                              projects, KLERP and Odaw
and Korle Lagoon Ecological                                                       drainage portion of UESP
Restoration Project                       ___
(v) F'rocurement of water and Air  Not originally in SAR.           Done          Financed by NDF
monitoring equipment for EPA      Added to further strengthen
EPA's monitoring role.
-8 -



Infrastructure and Environmental Systenm Rehabilitation and Maintenance Works: The Accra road
rehabilitation work was successfully completed. It included construction of 13.3 km of new arterial roads
and rehabilitation of 47.6 km involving asphalt overlays on selected sections of roads with heavy traffic,
surface dressing of selected local roads, intersection improvements, provision of pedestrian facilities and
drainage. At the initial stages, works suffered considerable delays as a result of demolition of a number of
property walls adjacent to the roads and relocation of utilities. This component was the most significant
aspect of the project and had the greatest impact on the average Accra resident, as it resulted in the opening
of the Central Business District (CBD) corridor through the western part of Accra (Dansoman and
Darkuman roads), which hitherto, was either inaccessible or characterized by poor road network. The
construction of the Kanda highway and Castle roads also improved traffic from the northern part of Accra
to the CBD through the newly constructed middle corridor. The construction of Kanda highway has
considerably improved the north-south mobility in the city of Accra, reduced travel time from more than
one hour to less than twenty minutes, improved riding quality of arterial roads and reduced vehicle
operating cost. Security lighting, traffic management and other safety works were also carried out on the
roads as additional works. About 211 households/families were affected by the construction works and
were paid compensation by GoG.
In the last year of the project, funds accrued on the project from SDR exchange rate gains against the
Dollar were used to carry out rehabilitation and asphalt resurfacing of 14 roads in Accra, totaling 47.6km.
These include Osu, Cantonments, Link, Patrice Lumumba, etc.
The contract for redevelopment of Kejetia (CBD in Kumasi) involving rehabilitation of the Kumasi market,
road rehabilitation and drainage works was terminated on account of non-performance by the lowest
evaluated bidder, but was subsequently re-awarded to the second lowest bidder. This component was
financed by OPEC under a cofinancing agreement which had been extended to June 2000 to accommodate
time overruns. The upgraded works in Tema, Tamale -and Kumasi significantly improved services through
the construction of roads, water supply, storm water drainage, power supply and street lighting, public
toilets, and refuse collection facilities. In Ashiaman, a suburb of Tema, the following were constructed:
(a) road and drainage works; (b) water supply and ancillary structures; (c) liquid and solid waste facilities;
and (d) security lighting. About 24,000 people benefitted from these facilities that resulted in property
value increases. The provision of street lighting in Ashaiman also reduced significantly, the high crime rate
in Ashaiman. In Tamale Ward E, basic infrastructure and services (roads, storm water drainage, water
supply, power supply, solid waste collection points) were successfully completed benefitting about 13,000
inhabitants. About 765 affected residents were resettled in the adjoining Kaladan area, where similar
facilities were provided. To reduce incidents of flooding, about 2.4km of drains were constructed in the
Sakasaka area, and an additional lkm road now links the remote sections of this community to one of the
arterial roads in the town. In Kumasi, about 3,830 mechanics and artisans have benefited from this
scheme and studies have shown high increases in income of the artisans. New offices and workshops built
under the project would be utilized by the Kumasi District Road Offices as their operational base for
routine and periodic maintenance of urban roads, including roads financed under the project. There is
adequate financial support from assemblies for O&M of the upgraded areas, including contributions from
the beneficiaries in the form of increased property tax payments. The pilot component to train women in
rural housing construction, normally a male dominated area, was successful and about 100 women were
trained on two key projects at Essiakyir (in the Central Region) and Ashaiman (in Tema).
Rehabilitation of the central sewerage in Tema comprised work on three pumping stations, sections of the
trunk mains, retention basin, 1.6km submarine outfall sewer and 920meter domestic sewer. A laboratory
and a new domestic waste treatment plant (oxidation ponds fitted with floating aerators) were constructed.
-9.-



Work defined in the SAR was completed to a very high standard. However, late identification of additional
works, such as the replacement of permalon lining with clay and the parts of the industrial sewer pipes,
have causecd the system not to function well. This has rendered the part of the system serving the industrial
area inoperable, which largely explains the very low ERR for the sewerage component (section 4.3).
Firancing for the completion of these remedial works have been provided under the on-going UESP (Cr.
2836) and wvork is expected to be completed by April 2000.
Mllnicipal Revenue Mobilization: The property revaluation exercise was successfully completed in the
five project towns, and billing and collection systems based or revised property valuations were installed.
There has been a significant increase in the collection of own source revenue, far exceeding SAR
expectations. The improved revenue mobilizaton and effective expenditure control has enabled assemblies
to generate significant surpluses, providing much needed resources to help finance their O&M requirement
as well as their capital programs. A table showing the improvement in revenue collection is included in
Annex 7 (List of Supporting Documents).
Land Administration: In support of land reforms the project assisted the establishment of a digitized
registry mapping system and the formulation of a strategic plan for the Survey Department. Institutional
support (technical assistance, training, vehicles and equipment) was provided to the Lands Commission,
Survey Department, Deeds Registry. Land Title Registry and tvwo faculties of the University of Science and
Technology (UST). Also, studies were carried out for a records storage and management system and a
statistical survey of land titling activities for the land agencies, providing government with the basis for
initiating major land reforms, including the merger of the deeds and title registries.
Institutional Support to MLGRD: Construction of the local government training school in Accra anld
rehabilitation of the local government training school in Tamale were successfully completed. Technical
support was provided to the five assemblies for building capacity in the areas of planning, municipal
engineering and municipal finance and to the LVB for property valuation. However, due to lack of
capacity in the MLGRD some of the manuals have not yet been fully operationalized, and the MLGRD
was not able to fully utilize the project to build its own internal institutional framework and provide
capacity building support to the assemblies.
Institutional Reform of Housing Parastatals: Extensive studies, carried out on the performance of three
housing parastatals, Tema Development Corporation, State Hlousing Company and Architectural and
Engineering Services Limited (AESL), led to downsizing and reorientation of efforts with the private sector
in an attempt to make the three housing parastatals financially viable. There has been considerable
improvement in TDC's performance, measured in terms of number of houses constructed in partnership
with private developers and sites prepared for sale annually. The company has also been able to settle all
tax liabilities and pay dividends to the Government, its major shareholder. As part of the reorganization,
TDC staff were reduced from 450 to 310 over two years. TDC's commercial operations relating to
delivery of serviced land and new housing made substantial progress (over 5,000 new houses). The sale of
1,000 existing TDC rental units through SSNIT and HEFC was initially frustrated by a court injunction
initiated by the Tema Tennants Association but TDC made special arrangements with the Association and
was able to sell over 3,000 rental units by close of the project. SHC was unable to obtain head leases from
the Lands Commission and its internal bureaucracy adversely affected its operations. SHC could not
compete in Accra, and therefore moved its operations primarily to the regions and districts where business
was less active. SHC is now earmarked for divestiture. As part of the restructuring process, AESC, which
had a monopoly of executing Government consultancy assignments, was incorporated as a limited liability
company in 1995. It was downsized and its Hydro department was made autonomous. AESC now
- 10-



competes in the open market for consultant assignments and is fiancially viable.
Housing Finance Component: The Home Finance Company was established eight years ago under the
pilot housing finance component of the project. The component was an innovative scheme to create
unsubsidized long-term finance for moderate income home ownership with the multiple goals of facilitating
private investment in housing, helping to develop a market for large scale efficient production of housing,
and strengthening the financial system by developing a long-term, low-risk financial asset. HFC is the first
housing finance institution south of the Sahara in Africa which has established a viable index linked
mortgage finance system. The pilot had a target of providing mortgages to 2,000 households; however,
HFC actually issued 4,100 mortgages. BFC's young but dynamic management team has tapped the
successful international experience in similar schemes and turned HFC into a highly successful company.
HFC has issued about US$20 million equivalent of Cedi denominated inflation linked bonds providing
SSNIT with its best performing asset over the period. It has also issued $4.5 million US denominated
bonds, the first private corporate bond issue ever in Ghana. HFC's success can be measured in terms of
(a) the enabling environment created for successful real estate development; (b) the increase in housing
stock, particularly in Accra over the past six years; (c) the number of loans processed; (d) the financial
structures and linkages established for mortgage financing; (e) the invaluable amount of data on the
housing sector that has been collected over the years; and (f) the indigenous technical expertise developed
under the project. However, HFC needs to double its volume of middle income mortgage operations to
become financially viable from mortgage operations only. Overall, HFC is financially viable as it provides
other financial services, including issuing and managing its own local and foreign currency bonds and
providing mortgages to Ghanaians abroad wishing to buy houses in Ghana and to institutions to provide
housing for their staff. As a result of the inability of the financial sector to respond to the construction
finance needs of the developers, the housing finance component of the project was extended to provide
continued support to HFC through the revised credit closing date of June 30, 1999.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic objectives of the project 'were met. The overall ex post ERR for the project is 82%,
compared to the SAR estimate of 44%. The weighted rate of return for all road and drainage works in
Accra is 116%, as compared to the SAR estimate of 105%. The current ERR calculation was based on
actual road traffic as of August 15, 1998. This information was obtained from traffic counts conducted on
the rehabilitated roads, specifically for the purpose of this report, between July 18 and August 15, 1998.
The road overlays presented the highest returns. This could be attributed to the fact that, even though
overlays costs less per kilometer than new roads, its finish was of the same quality as the new roads. The
rehabilitated roads also cost less per kilometer, however, the finished surface was not of the same quality as
the asphalt concrete roads. Thus, its returns have been lower than the overlays.
The urban upgrading works also presented high returns, ranging from 43% in Ashaiman compared to the
SAR estimate of 37%; to 29% in Tamale as against 24% in the SAR. The ERR for Tema sewerage was
computed to be 100% in the SAR. The current figure, based on the proposed tariff for sewerage, is 1%
due to the exclusion of a major sector of the system serving the industrial area in the original design, and
the current mal-functioning of the system. However, when the remedial works now being implemented
under the ongoing UESP (Cr. 2836) is completed, the ERR will be 154%.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
- 11 -



4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional component has helped equip implementing agencies with tools needed for their mandated
work. The Assemblies have a permanent database for property valuation, while the LVB has demonstrated
its capability for undertaking similar assignments in the future. The project provided an opportunity to use
the services of local engineering consultants in designing and supervising the Accra roads and the Tema
sewerage without any external technical assistance and with a satisfactory outcome. The HFC has been
established as an exemplary, highly successful and sustainable housing finance institution. Project
assistance was effective in helping to restructure the housing parastatals (especially TDC and AESL), into
commercially viable entities which have established partnerships with the private sector. The MLGRD and
the five project cities' assemblies benefitted from technical assistance and systems improvements to make
their operations more efficient.
The project was conceived at the initial stages of decentralization of management functions of Government
to appropriate administrative levels. It provided considerable support in terms of clearer direction to the
Assemblies. Some transitional inefficiencies in management were unavoidable. The Government admits to
a continuing need for more assistance, particularly to the MLGRD, and the Bank's advice is sought via
ongoing urban projects on how urban and decentralization problems might be tackled more effectively in
the future.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
These include (a) significant reduction in the water level in the Volta Lake due to lack of rainfall which
caused serious power shortages adversely affecting the availability of key inputs, such as cement, required
to complete some of the components involving civil works; and (b) poor contractor performance on the
Kejetia redevelopment in Kumasi which led to the termination and contract re-award to another contractor
delaying completion of this OPEC-funded component to February 2000.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Chiefly among these are (a) procurement: there were delays with equipment procurement which was
critical to the startup of the property valuation component; there were similar delays in obtaining
government approval for the appointment of the Land Information Systems Advisor for the pilot land
component (these were isolated cases, as procurement generally proceeded smoothly); (b) the failure to
make timely release of countervart funds to meet Government's obligation under the project caused some
delays which particularly affected the Kejetia redevelopment scheme co-financed by OPEC; (d) fiequent
transfer of staff in the Assemblies, led. to erosion of some of the benefits of the training program; (e)
delays related to land acquisition for construction of project facilities as in the case of the site for the
MLGRD training school in Accra; and () resettlement cost and time overruns associated with relocation
of utilities and possession of site for rcad and drainage works in Accra. There were similar delays in
Tamale for payment of compensation to the affected residents of Ward E upgrading by the Tamale
Municipal Assembly.
5.3 `actors generally subject to implementing agency control
These include (a) cost overruns associated with the revision in design of Tema Sewerage project. The
agency did not foresee the need to include the industrial area of Tema in the original design of the
subproject; and (b) late completion of the Institute of Local Government Studies in Accra. The scope of
the subproject was changed without consulting the Bank. Resolving this issue resulted in delays.
- 12 -



5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total original cost of the project was US$100 million, financed as follows: IDA US$70 million (SDR
57.3 million), SSNIT US$16 million, cofinancing of US$10 million, and GoG US$4 million. The total US
dollar amount however, increased to $110.2 million due to the following: (i) US dollar depreciation against
the SDR increasing the total IDA contribution from US$70 to US$76.4 million; (ii) at the time of project
preparation, the co-financiers had not been identified. When they were finally identified, OPEC and NDF
each contributed US$5.9 million. The US dollar value of the NDF component of SDR4.5 million,
subsequently depreciated increasing the total NDF contribution to US$6.1 million; and (iii) the SSNIT
component remained at $16 million, while the total GoG budget increased to $5.8 million due to increased
GoG counterpart funding on the Kumasi Kejetia component and further GoG commitments on the Accra
Local Government Training School contract.
The major project components with significant cost increases were (a) the Infrastructure and Environmental
System rehabilitation and (b) the Housing Sector Reform which absorbed most of the exchange rate gains.
The total increase of about US$5.46 million in the  Infrastructure and Environmental System
Rehabilitation mainly due to: (i) traffic management, and asphalt resurfacing/road rehabilitation works that
were undertaken by Messrs. Sonitra Construction Ltd. on major roads in Accra, (ii) additional works on the
Accra Local Government training school contract, and (iii) increase in the contract sum of the Tema
sewerage project to accommodate cost of laterite filling material, the removal of ship-wreck and repair of
1.6km submarine sewer outfall to enable effluent to be discharged into the sea. The importation and
haulage of laterite filling material for the Tema sewerage works became necessary because the original
design assumed that material excavated from the site would be used for filling embankments, which proved
to be unsuitable. During the repair of the 1.6km sewer outfall, it was discovered that a sunken vessel was
sitting on part of the pipeline and a specialized subcontractor was called from Portugal to remove the
vessel.
It is worth noting that the original design of the Tema sewerage project had envisaged the discharge of
treated effluent into the nearby Sakumo lagoon but the Environmental Impact Assessment report
recommended that the effluent be discharged into the sea instead. This was to avoid any possible pollution
of the lagoon which had been earmarked as Ramsar site. Subsequently, a 920-meter domestic sewer
outfall, with 50 meters protruding into the sea surf zone was constructed at a cost of US$560,000. The
IDA-supported Ghana Environment Resource Management Project (GERMP, Cr. 2426) which had been
promoting the Ramnsar site project co-financed the construction work of the sewer outfall at a cost of
US$435,000.
The US$2 million increase in cost of the housing finance component was due to (i) the construction of
about 200 houses under a special construction finance facility which was converted to HFC mortgages, and
(ii) the increase in cost of the Kumasi Suame Industrial upgrading contract to accommodate additional
works (streetlighting, drainage, etc.). The pilot scheme had assumed that construction finance, being of a
short term nature, would be adequately provided by the banks in Ghana but this was not the case, as the
banks did not offer any significant funding due to the fact that, Government treasury bills offered attractive
yields.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is likely to be achieved. Considering the positive trend in revenue build-up in all the
Assemblies, the foundation for putting them on a sound financial footing has been laid. More needs to be
- 13 -



done to continue to develop prudent and accountable financial practices, and support is being provided
under follow-on projects approved in 1994 and 1996, Local Government Development Project (LGDP, Cr.
2568) and UESP (Cr. 2836). Also, the establishment of training facilities in Accra and Tamale has
strengthened MLGRD's role to provide support to the DAs for capacity building.
There is a sound program in place for operation and maintenance of roads and drainage to ensure
sustainabilily supported by proceeds fiom the Road Fund (from levies on fuel). Since the beginning of
1997, funds have been allocated to DUR on a quarterly basis from the Road Fund (about US$20 million
annually) for the routine and periodic maintenance of the urban road network in the five metropolitan
assemblies in the country, and the maintenance work have beeni effectively done by the private sector. The
OUR is committed to the establishment of an effective -maintenance culture, and a maintenance
mranagement system for assessing annual work load and allocating available funds according to given
priority levels has been installed in each of the DRUs of the five assemblies.
An Infrastructure Maintenance Fund has been put in place to generate an amount of $300,000 annually for
the operation and maintenance of the Tema Sewerage Project, and a maintenance manual has already been
prepared through a collaborative effor1: of Tema Municipal Assembly (TMA), NILGRD, the consultants
and suppliers, with inputs from the Bank. For the Tema sewerage project, (TMA) has effectively
increased tariffs for domestic sewerage by 100%. The industrial sector will be expected to meet its
increased share of the cost of operations and maintenance when the works on the pumping station and the
industrial sewer have been rectified under the ongoing UESP.   Anticipated revenue from industries
constitutes about 80% of the total revenue accruing to the se werage unit. Sustainability of the entire
system is therefore dependent on completion of the remedial works.
The housing finance system has developed into one of the most innovative and successful private financial
institutions in Ghana, and its sustainability is highly likely. It has achieved a record of steady growth in
professional staff, revenues and profits, and a sustainable level of operations. However, it needs to at least
doulble in size to achieve the economies of scale that would provide an appropriate return to shareholders.
This will require continued access to real rate, long-term resources. Additionally, now that Ghanaians have
accepted the principle and discipline of repayment of full loarn balances, future borrowers need to move
towards market-determined mortgage terms. This would allow HFC to operate on a basis that is less
dependent upon special funding and move towards a market basis of institutional funds and possibly retail
deposits.
Sustainability of the land administration component is uncertain, but the difficulty surrounding this
uncertainty is going to be addressed under the proposed Urban 'V project. During the project, the steering
committee on the pilot land component recommended the merger of the Lands Title Registry and the Deeds
Registry, but this could not be achieved due to poor interagency collaboration. A new Government Land
Policy, based on an Urban Administration Study, sponsored by the Ministry of Lands & Forestry and the
World Bank in May 1998, supports the merger and involvement of the private sector in the delivery of
titles. The Urban V project will be used to facilitate implementation of the key elements of the policy,
including the merger of the lands title and deeds registries.
A table of the sustainability considerations of physical works completed under the project is part of the list
of supporting documents.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Metropolitan/Municipal Assemblies will be responsible for future operation and maintenance of the
- 14 -



physical outputs of the project. Road and drainage elements will be taken over by the Assemblies' DRUs.
A maintenance management system, established in the DRUs, has put in place a suitable basis for planning
maintenance activities. There are already indications of its benefits spreading to other Departments.
The City Treasurer's Department will be responsible for continued revenue collection and financial
management. Sound revenue bases have been established in the five Assemblies. High speed computers
have been installed to assist computerization of the billing system, and store data on property valuation.
The surpluses in income over expenditure recorded by most of the Assemblies, if continued, will enable the
District Assemblies (DAs) to increase allocations for operation and maintenance and investments.
Sanitation, sewerage and solid waste facilities will be maintained by the Health Department and buildings
will be maintained by the City Engineer's Department. Other beneficiary agencies, such as the Survey
Department, LVB, Lands Commission, Land Title Registry, EPA, DUR and TSC, will build on the
projects foundations to develop actions and measures aimed at reaching their institutional goals. These
agencies have been strengthened through provision of plant and equipment, technical assistance including
financial, technical and management training and exposure to good practices elsewhere. Although the
present managers appear to be capable, the agencies are young, in the new era of decentralization, and
would therefore require continued support.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank prepared this project in full consultation and collaboration with the Borrower.   The project
evolved during the implementation of ADRP (Cr. 1564) and PWP (Cr. 1874), as a priority for the sector
and the country, according to the 1989 Urban Sector and Housing Sector Reviews. It incorporated lessons
from the ADRP, especially with respect to the financial management system as well as valuable
implementation experience of the PWP. There were delays in project processing: (a) eleven months lapsed
between Board approval and effectiveness; and (b) difficulties were experienced identifying co-financiers
(OPEC and NDF formally gave their consent in 1993, while the respective loans became effective in 1995).
Board processing delays did not affect the project as designs were still ongoing, but delays due to the
availability of co-financiers affected the Kumasi Kejetia contract and the NDF procurement of waste
management component.
7.2 Supervision:
During the initial stages of implementation a high supervision input was required because of the
administrative complexity, and the geographical spread of the project. There were an average of three
supervision missions in each of the first three years of implementation. From 1993 onwards, in addition to
a minimum of two formal supervision missions, the project was supervised on a continuous basis by the
Task Manager, based at the Resident Mission in Accra. With respect to the supervision content, the
project was rated S throughout its implementation period. The implementing agencies recognized the value
of a disciplined framework of regular progress review, accompanied by short-term, time-bound action plans
and fully collaborated with Bank supervision missions. Working relations with the Ghanaian staff were
cordial and highly productive.
- 15 -



7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall the Bank's performance was satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Government preparatory work for the project was very satisfactory. As part of the Economic
Recovery Program (ERP) launched in 1983, the Government took measures to encourage greater local
government autonomy and to decrease their reliance on the national budget. The project was subsequently
conceived at the initial stages of decentralization and received support from the highest level of
Government, through an Inter-Ministerial cabinet committee set up with oversight responsibilities to ensure
smooth implementation (the Chairman of the then Committee of Secretaries showed direct interest and full
cornmitrnent to  the  preparatory  work).   The Project Coordinating  Committee  (PCC) and
Metropolitan/District Steering Committee (MDSC) were also established to oversee project preparation at
the Agency and Metropolitan Assembly levels, and the Bank mission attended some of the PCC meetings
before credit effectiveness. Three separate and distinct implementing agencies were on hand to handle the
major financial, operational and managerial aspects of the project, and the entire Borrower's team fully
participated with the Bank during project preparation. The TMA and MLGRD saw to the availability of
land for the construction of the Tema Sewerage projects.
All studies that were carried out prior to project preparation had strong Government ownership, and the
Banik also received copies of previous studies that had been carried out by the Government which was
useful for the preparatory work. The Government's environmental monitoring agency, the EPA, was
effective in engaging consultants to carry out assessment of the major EIA reports before bidding and
award of contracts.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government's performance during project execution was satisfactory. The project was implemented during
its iirst four years within a sound macro-economic framework, but a serious downturn of economy in 1995
arising out of high interest rates, high inflation and depreciation of the Cedi affected some aspects of the
project, namely, the housing finance component and the increased cost of construction materials. While
HFC resolved the former by arranging a cap on interest rates with SSNIT and the Government, the increase
in construction materials was largely resolved by application of the price adjustment formula in the
contracts. Generally, the real Cedi depreciation against the US dollar was higher than the SAR forecast,
but this did not affect the foreign currency contracts.
The record of four Ministries, three implementing agencies, five metropolitan/municipal authorities and six
other agencies involved in the execution of the project was generally satisfactory. Transfer of trained staff
to other non-participating metropolitan assemblies affected the capacity building efforts of the project.
Government appointed experienced managers for the three key implementing agencies at the beginning of
the project and the key staff were stable with very negligible turnover. There was little Government
interference in the management and day-to-day operations of the project.
Problems that arose related to the timely release of counterpart funds on the Kumasi Kajetia project which
was co-financed by OPEC, and land acquisition for the construction of the local government school in
Accra.  These led to implementation delays, but were largely resolved through constant dialogue,
consultation and interaction between Bank and GoG staff.
- 16 -



7.6 implementing Agency:
The performance of the three key implementation agencies (TSC, DURM EC) was very satisfactory in the
execution of a relatively complex multi-agency project with many components and financiers. The DUR,
set up under the previous ADRP (Cr. 1564), was responsible for the reconstruction and rehabilitation of
roads in Accra and Kumasi, HFC dealt with the pilot housing finance component, and TSC, the lead
agency also set up under ADRP, with experience under the PWP, handled all the remaining components of
the project. The performance of the other agencies and assemblies was generally satisfactory. The specific
performance of each of the three key implementation agency is highlighted below.
Technical Services Centre: The TSC, as the lead implementation agency for the project with overall
procurement, financial management and reporting functions, performed very well throughout the project.
TSC ensured compliance with all project covenants and submission of progress and audit reports on a
timely basis. With the exception of the housing finance and roads components, the TSC handled all
remaining components of the project and performed creditably. Management stability guaranteed a stable
administrative and financial capacity during project implementation. Apart from the Director, who
resigned midway through the project, the entire team was in place throughout the project. The experience
gained by the staff in the execution of this, and the previous projects made it possible for staff to prepare
the Local Government Development Project (Cr. 2568) and the Urban Environmental Sanitation Project
(Cr. 2836).
Department of Urban Roads: The DUR was responsible for the operational and financial management of
the roads components in Accra and Kumasi. Performance was satisfactory. It was headed by a Director
who was a public servant and recruited specifically to oversee the preparation and administration of the
project. The staff consisted of a core group of civil servants, mostly recruited immediately after graduating
and performed very creditably. Technical assistance was provided to the team at the initial stages of the
project by the recruitrnent of three key Ghanaian contract staff to provide financial management,
engineering and procurement capacity to the team. Apart from the Director who sought leave-of-absence to
establish a similar roads agency under a Bank project in East Africa, the core staff remained throughout the
project. The experience gained by the staff made it possible to prepare the followup Urban Transport
project.
Home Finance Company: EfC's performance in project implementation has been very satisfactory. The
HFC was established in 1991 under the project to float the mortgage-backed housing bonds which were
subscribed by GoG, SSNIT and Merchant Bank. It was initially structured to be managed by a Merchant
Bank as one of its subsidiaries but later, as it became clear that housing finance was different from the
bank's main line of business, the shareholders accepted to set up HFC as a separate institution by
increasing its stated capital. It was listed on the Ghana stock exchange in March 1995 by offering 25% of
its shareholding to the public, and in early 1998, the Government sold its shares in the company. Today,
the company is owned by 472 shareholders, but it is still dominated by SSNIT, Merchant Bank, Bank of
Ghana, Ghana Union Assurance and other institutions who together hold up to 97%. HFC has made a
profit since its second year of operation and has consistently paid dividend to shareholders.
Although there was no previous staff or Bank experience with housing finance in Ghana, the new
management used their private sector experience and relied on technical assistance, provided under the
project through similar successful institutions in Asia and USA, to make the component one of the most
successful. The administrative and financial management capacity of NEC is sound to sustain the
operations of the company. At a critical point of the project (1995) when there were threats of mass default
due to very high inflation levels (70% as against design of 20%), a review of the Consumer Price Index
- 17-



(C;Pl) was made which resulted in the temporally capping of indexation. The terms of the bond were
renegotiated with the lenders and this restored confidence in the mortgage.
In addition to the headquarters of HFC in Accra, branches in Kumasi and Tema are now well established
and are doing brisk business in selling savings products, i.e., the Unit Trusts and the informal sector
savings scheme. HFC expects the mortgage business in Kumasi to significantly increase when developers
start delivering houses that meet market requirements. Apart from the pilot scheme, the company provides
for other mortgage products financed with loans from institutions. BFC also manages the HFC Unit Trust
and the HFC Real Estate Investment Trust, from which it earns fee income. The balance sheet of HFC as
at March 31, 1999 showed a total assets of Cedis 90 million, equivalent to about US$40 million.
Liabilities are in the form of bonds and owners fund.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance.
The performance of each implementing agency involved in the project was satisfactory. Key staff of
implementing agencies showed commitment to the objectives of the project and worked hard to improve
the:ir own skills. The complex nature of the project demanded a high level of coordination and attention to
details. Procurement procedures were adjusted with the Government's approval requirements, and a high
standard of reporting was maintained throughout the project. The Bank was kept informed of all critical
developments and, in most cases, proposed solutions to problems. With the experience gained by staff and
Agencies, it was possible to prepare and implement follow-on projects (UTP, LGDP, and UESP) more
efficiently and effectively. The issue of counterpart funding now receives more attention in the Ministry of
Finance, but still remains an issue.
8. Lessons Learned
Key lessons learned from the project are as follows:
1. In the absence of adequate monitoring capability in the lead Ministry, a multisector project
involving many implementing agencies can be successfully implemented through a proper
institutional support mechanism. The success of the Urban II project has been largely due to the
adequacy of the supporting infrastructure within the implementing unit.
2. An unsubsidized mortgage housing finance system is viable in a developing country in the
medium to long term if the design takes account of local conditions, including the choice of
appropriate management, loan indexation mechanism and streamlining of foreclosure laws. The
success of HFC is attributed to its dynamic leadership, which helped build a very capable
management and technical team, tapped into successful international experience, coordinated
activities of developers, land holders, financial intermediaries and land titling institutions to ensure
that housing production, delivery, titling and financing were properly facilitated.
3. Large civil contracts involving foreign construction firms must use the services of Claim
Specialists to facilitate better contract management and minimize claims and have the work
executed efficiently. The success of DUR in implementing the Accra Roads project was partly due
to the considerable time and effort the senior management staff devoted to analyzing and
negotiating claims submitted by the contractor. This at times over-extended their capacity to
perform substantive activities until they contracted the services of a Claims Specialist.
4. By designing civil works packages to encourage participation of local consultants to help build
local capacity, local consulting firms can provide competitive design and supervision support.
Design and supervision of the Accra Roads, Tema Sewerage and indeed all civil works
sub-projects were undertaken by local consultants without any external technical assistance.
- 18 -



5. The key to ensuring project sustainability is to strengthen municipal capacities. The maintenance
of infrastructure, presently carried out by the Metropolitan and Municipal Assemblies, is still done
in an ad hoc manner. Municipal financial resources, including transfers and own-source revenue,
are often inadequate for pursuing maintenance in a systematic manner. It is therefore important to
recognize that local governments need to be encouraged to further develop technical and
managerial capacity for long-term investmnent programming as well as resource mobilization
through improved user charges, tax levies and collection. Under the project, a strong tax base and
billing and collection system has been established for the five Assemblies.
6. The rate of transfer of trained staff in the Metropolitan assemblies affected the capacity building
efforts of the project. The Controller and Accountant General, who is responsible for posting
finance staff to the DAs, has recently agreed that in future Finance Officers within project
assemblies will be rotated within the participating assemblies during a project.
7. Borrowers should identify cofinanciers at the time of project preparation so that respective loans
become effective on time. The effectiveness of OPEC and NDF loans in the fourth year of the
project adversely affected implementation of the respective components. Also, the existence of
unrealistic funding arrangements can lead to undue delays, as in this case, Government was
committed to providing about 27% of the cost of the component financed by OPEC, including the
foreign exchange portion, but was unable to meet its commitment.
8. The absence of a broad development framework and a sectoral development strategy including lack
of strategyforfiscal decentralization, points towards the need for a development framework as
has been done under the Urban V Project. In addition, the Urban V project has followed a
demand-driven approach.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Borrower reviewed a copy of the draft ICR and is in agreement with what has been prepared. A copy of
their ICR is available as part of the list of supporting documents (Annex 7).
(b) Cofinanciers:
A copy of the draft was sent to the cofinanciers, OPEC and NDF, for their review, but no feedback was
received.
(c) Other partners (NG Os/private sector).
10. Additional Information
-  9 



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I jmpact Indicators:
Reduction in population living below poverty
level in communities being upgraded.
Increase in property values (by 70% in
Ashaiman; by 34% in Tamale, Ward E; by
100% in Kumasi Central Market
Increase in roads capacity and improvement
in traffic management.
Inr.rease access to affordable housing.
Lcwer cost and increase output of housing.
Create productive employment
L__
Oiatput Indicators:
1. Road & Transport Systems Mgmnt
Road Rehabilitation in Accra        Jan. 1994 (23.9km)                      Jan. 1995 (19,2)
- Traffic Mgmnt at Kadjetia           Jan. 1994                               Ongoing (Cofin. extended to 12/99)
- Traffic Mgmnt at Market Circle, Takoradi Jan. 1994
2. nfrastructure Improvements- Tamale                                           June 1998
- Ward E Ulpgrading                   Oct. 1997                               June 1998
- Road Rehabilitation                 Oct. 1997                               June 1998
- Drainage Rehabilitation             Oct. 1997
3. Sewerage System Rehabilitation       March 1996                             August 1996
4. Central market Improvement, Ksi      Jan. 1992-Jan. 1994                    Ongoing (Cof in. extended to 12199)
5. Waste Management System Dev.         Oct. 1992-Oct. 1994                    June 1998
6. Valuation of Properties
-Target Valuation Properties in Kumasi   Jan. 1990-June 1991 (40,000)         Dec. 1993 (39,071)
-Target Valuation Properties in SAEMA    Jani. 1990-June 1992 (30,000)        Dec. 1993 (25,578)
- Target Valuation Properties in Tamale   Jan. 1990-June 1993 (17,000)        Dec. 1993 (20,000)
7. Revenue Mobilization
- Nominal % increase in Prop. Tax Rev.    691%                                  1171%
1988-1996 Accra
- Nominal % increase in Prop. Tax Rev.    426%                                 893%
1988-1996 Kumasi
- Nominal % increase in Prop. Tax Rev.    718.60%                              2341%
1988-1996 SAEMA
- Nominal % increase in Prop. Tax Rev.    272.70%                              614%
198&-1996 Tema
- Nominal % increase in Prop. Tax Rev.    920%                                  2460%
1988-1996 Tamale
- Nominal % increase in int. Rev.       186%                                    2855%
1986-1996 Accra
- Nominal % increase in Int. Rev.       108%                                    560%
1988-1996 Kumasi
- Nominal % increase in Int. Rev.       199%                                    1049%
1988-1996 SAEMA
- Nonminal % increase in Int. Rev.      184%                                    1513%
1988-1996 Tema
Nlominal % increase in lnt. Rev.       162%                                    560%
|1983-1996 Tamale
-20 -



8. Land Administration
- Issue titles to land in Accra & Kumasi   Jan. 1991-Dec. 1993 (1000)       June 1997 (310)
- Large scale photomapping in Accra  180 sq. km.                            250 sq. km
- Large scale photomapping in Kumasi    220 sq. km.                         250 sq. km.
9. Ministry of Local Government Support
- Completion of Training Schools in Accra Jan. 1991-Dec. 1993               June 1998
& Tamale
- Training Program Development       Dec. 1991                              Not Done
- Establishment of LGPSU             Dec. 1991                              June 1993
10. Urban Upgrading
- Upgrading benefiting 24,000 residents in April 1991-April 1993            March 1995
Ashaiman
- Upgrading benefiting 300 artisans in  March 1992-March 1994               February 1997
Suame
- Training of 100 women in construction    April 1991-April 1993             February 1995
11. Study on 5,000 GOG owned          Jan. 1991-Jan. 1992                    December 1993
uncompleted houses
12. Study on Inst. Reform of AESC, SHC,  June 1992                           June 1992
TDC & TSC
13. Pilot Project to finance mortgages  Jan 1991-December 1993 (3,000)       Dec.1997 (3083
II. Modified Indicators
1. Additional Road Rehabilitation in Accra   July 1, 1998 (31.7 km)          July 1, 1998 (49 kmn)
End of project
- 21 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Local Government Sector Rehabilitation
- Infrastructure and Environment System Rehab. 5 cities  43.09          73.34             57
- Municipal Revenue Mobilization                         1.34            0.54              2
- Property Revaluation                                   1.45            1.05              2
- Land.Administration                                    1.68            1.78              2
- MLG Support                                            2.53            0.60              3
Housing, Sector Reform                                 25.40            32.63             34
Total Baseline Cost                                     75.49          109.94
Physical Contingencies                                  8.57
Price Contingencies                                    16.34
Total Project Costs              1.00.40           109.94
Total Financing Requirad               100.40           109.94
Profect Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Ap raisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
_-                                                                         Tha ei . ;.oi,. _,.. 
1. Works                     44.90         230           2.80         0.00         50. 0
(39.90)      (2.20)        (0.10)       (0.00)        (42.20)
2. Goods                     4.70          0.00          5.10         0.00          9.80
._______________________  (2.90)   (0.00)       (0.80)        (0.00)        (3.70)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         15.10         0.00          15.10
(0.00)       (0.00)       (14.90)       (0.00)       (14.90)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00         0.00          3.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Housiing Line of Credit   0.00          0.00         25.50         0.00         25.50
(0.00)       (0.00)       (9.30)        (0.00)        (9.30)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                     49.60          2.30        48.50         0.00          100.40
(42.80)      (2.20)        (25.10)       (0.00)       (70.10)
-22 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate)(US$ million e Vvalent)
X  _                             _~~~~~~~~~~~ Tola Co$t
1. Works                        49.12           2.45           2.37           3.83           57.77
(43.91)        (2.32)         (0.21)         (0.00)         (46.44)
2. Goods                         4.35           0.00           1.15           5.87           11.37
(4.13)         (0.00)         (0.98)         (0.00)         (5.11)
3. Services                      0.00           0.00           12.01          0.52           12.53
(0.00)         (0.00)        (11.29)         (0.00)         (11.29)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00            0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
5. Housing Line of Credit        0.00           0.00           0.00           25.68          25.68
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (12.34)         (12.34)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.39           1.26           0.00            1.65
(0.00)         (0.38)         (1.16)         (0.00)         (1.54)
Total                        53.47           2.84           16.79          35.90          109.00
(48.04)        (2.70)         (13.64)        (12.34)        (76.72)
' Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
21Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Coponent (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component              Ap raisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
L__al _overn _eat S:ctor  Bank   Govt.     CoF.       Bank      Govt.     CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
Local Governmient Sector                                                               0.0    0.0    0.0
Rehabilitation
- Infra. & F>nv. System  49.38      4.10      9.80      59.42      4.50      10.04    120.3  109.8  102.4
Rehab
- Municipal Revenue       1.33      0.05      0.00       0.54      0.00       0.00    40.6   0.0    0.0
Mobilization
- Property Revaluation    1.40      0.05      0.00       0.98      0.07       0.00    70.0   140.0   0.0
- Land Administration     1.64      0.04      0.00       1.71      0.07       0.00    104.3  175.0   0.0
- MLG Support             2.45      0.06      0.00       2.87      0.60       0.00    117.1  1000.0  0.0
Housing Sector Reforn    13.80      16.20     0.00      15.77      16.00      0.00    114.3  98.8   0.0
Total                    70.00                          81.29                         116.1   0.0    0.0
-23 -



Annex 3: Economics Costs and Benefits
APPRAISAL ESTIMATE                      ACTUAL 1998
_  Sensitivity Analysis                  Sensitivity Analysis
COMPONENTS                             ERR   ERR             ERR              ERR          ERR    ERR
BASE    w/cost      with benefits      BASE    with/cost   with ben.
CASE    up 20%    less 20%              CASE    up 20%        less 20%
LOCAL, GOVT. REHAB. &B REFORM
Road & Transport Systems Mngmt.
Accra Roads                               105                                      116          98           106
Kumasi Kejetia Rd & Drg.                   33                                                    0            0
Sekondi-Takoradi Rds. & Drainage          345                                                    0            0
Enviror.menta1 Systems Rehab.
Tamale Drainage
Tamale Roads                               55
Tamale Ward E Upgrading                   23.9                                      29            8            0
Tema Sewerage Rehabilitation              226                                         1          0             0
Kumasi Ce.ntral Market                    107
Waste Management Systems
Vehicle Equipment & Workshops
Technical Assistance
Training
DUR Support
EPC Support
Municipal Revenue Mobilization
Property Revaluation
Land Administration                                 2
MLG Support
HOUS1IG SECTOR REFORM
Ashaiman Upgrading Ph. 2                         37                                      43           28           25
Suamne NMagazime UJpgrading                                                                49          23            21
Weigthed Average ERR                             43.5                                      82
-24-



ECONOMI ANALYS  FOR RADWORKS
SAR ESTIMATES                  ACTUAL                             SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Read Name                  Estimated  Cost         ERR    Actual    Cost            ERR    Expected   ERR %
ADT    (USS)          %       ADT       (USS)       ___    Value    ZERO TRAFFIC 20% COST
GROWTH          INCREAStS
Kanda Highway/Castle Rd.               7,116,700       49    42,368   18,518,000         64        38.71              56           56
Patrice Lumumba Road                   1,260,000       74    25,120       310,760       1376       13.97            1400         1143
Darkuman Road                          1,970,000       55     13,264    4,286,872         56        7.84              42           50
Kwashieman Road                         790,000       176     18,848    2,289,000         64        4.79              60           57
DansomanVSakaman Road                  2,926,700       26     14,032    5,210,000         49        8.34              27           44
Total & Weighted Av. ERR                                               30,614,632         74          74              63           64
ADDITIONAL WOIRKS
Newtown Area Roads                                              3332      763,050        230       29.05             229          192
Kokomlemle Area Roads                                           4710      466,830        407       31.45             406          340
Osu Area Roads                                                  6048      518,780        620       53.25             619          517
Royalt Castle Road                                            11,634      218,680        614       22.23             613          512
Eduardo Modhlana                                              11,880      985,780        417       68.05             416         348
Spintex Road                                                  12,960      424,770        504       35.44             500         420
Ring Road                                                     47,616      214,288        276        9.79             274          230
Nima Highway                                                  11,634      213,138        165        5.82             158          139
High Street                                                   21,266      255,545        815       34.48             810          680
Ouggisberg Avenue                                             22,036      267,259        137        6.06             136          114
Mantse Boi Street                                              8,648       62,860       383         3.99             378          321
Lokko Road                                                    15,104       66,590        872        9.61             860          728
Farrar Avenue                                                 9,884       81,310        547        7.36             546          456
Cantonments Road                                              20,288      176,010        552       16.08             551          460
1,325,515
Total & Weighted Av. ERR                                                6,040,405        333        333              240          201
Overall Weigthed ERR                                                   36,655,037        116S 116                     92           87



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Montb/Y'"'-''ear    Cout       Spealt                           Prgrs             Objecti''ve
Id en tifica ti on/Pre;;
paration                 7   1 UP, 1 PA, 5 CON
11/88
10/89                  10   2 UP, 1 PA, 1 EC, I LIS, 1 OA,
4 CON
AppraiisallNegotiationl
01190                   8   I1UP,I1FA,I1EC, 1OAA 
CON
Supervision
07/90                    3  2 EN, 1 FA                           HS                 HS
11/90                    3  2 EN,1I FA
01/9:1                   6  2 EN,U2 CON, IUP, I FA               HS CS
05/91                    2   1 EN, IFA                           HS                 US
10/91                    4  2 EN, I FA, I HE
021/92                   3   EN, I FA, 11C,                       S IS
07/92                    4  2 EN, IUP, IFA                        S                 HS
121/92                   2   1EN,1PA                              S                HS
71/93-294                4  2 EN, 1 PA, 1 CON                     S                 HS
06/94                    4  2 EN, I HF,1UF                        S                 S
02/95                    4  2 EN, IUP, IUF                        S                 S
10/95                    3  2EN, I UP
03196                    3  2 EN, I UP, I T                      S                 S
04/97                    2   I EN, I F                            S                 S
02/98                    2   1EN, 1      UF                       S                 S
04/99                    2   1 EN, 1 UF                           S                 S
ICR
10/99                   2    1 TL, I EN                           S                 S
EN - Muniicipal/Civil Engineer; TL - Team Leader; FA - Financial Analyst, UF - Urban Finance; UP -
Urban Planner; TS - Training Specialist; CON - Consultant; EC - Economist; OA - Operations Analyst;
HF - Housing Finance; LIS - Land Information System
(b) Staff:
[~ ~ Stg  f Proec Cy                      Acta/Lae Estimat
Identification/Preparation              133.9                       251.9
Appraisal/Negotiation                    41.3                         82.7
Supervision                             148.1                       289.7
- 26 -



1 ICR                _          Not yet available            Not yet available
Total                _      1           323.3         1             624.3 
- 27 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(Il-=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
LO Macro policies
f1Sector Policies                           OH  *SUOM  ON  ONA
f- Physical                                 O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
N Financial                                 O H  *SUOM  O N  o NA
M Institutional Development                 0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
FE, Environmental                           0 H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Social
F Poverty Reduction                  O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
Z Gender                             OH OSUOM ON ONA
LI Other (Please specify)
L] Private sector development
F Public sector management                  O H  O SU  *M  O N  0 NA
E] Other (PIlease specify)
-28 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6. 1 Bank performance                               Rating
 Lending                                           OHS OS OU OHU
F Supervision                                       OHS OS  Ou  OHU
F Overall                                           OHS *OS  O U  O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
I Preparation                                       OHS OS   O U  O HU
 Government implementation performance             O HS O S  O  U  0 HU
F Implementation agency performance                 O HS 0 S  0 U  0 HU
N Overall                                           O HS OS O U O HU
-29 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. List of Studies included in Project
2. ICR Mission Aide Memoire
3. Borrower's ICR
4. Completion Report by Housing Finance Company (HFC)
5, Evaluation of Physical Works - Inventory of Activities
6.. Evaluation of Physical Works - Sustainability Considerations
7. Financial/Economic Evaluation of District Assemblies
- 30 -



