Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15078-E
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 18, 1996
Industry, Trade and Finance Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Macedonian Denar
US$1.00 = 23.3 on December 31, 1993
US$1.00 = 43.3 on December 31, 1994
US$1.00 = 36.8 on December 31, 1995
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BRA           -      Bank Rehabilitation Agency
CMEA          -      Council of Mutual Economic Interest
DM            -      Deutsche Mark
EU            -      European Union
FESAC         -      Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit
FX            -      Foreign Exchange
GDP           -      Gross Domestic Product
GSP           -      Gross Social Product
IBRD          -      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA           -      International Development Association
ID/NBM        -      International Department, National Bank of Macedonia
IMF           -      International Monetary Fund
IRR           -      Internal Rate of Return
MOF           -      Ministry of Finance
MKD           -      Macedonian Denar
NBM           -      National Bank of Macedonia
PA            -      Privatization Agency
PFI           -      Participating Financial Intermediaries
PSD           -      Private Sector Development
SAC           -      Savings and Credit Associations
SAL           -      Structural Adjustment Loan
SCL           -      Single Currency Loan
SME           -      Small and Medium Scale Enterprises
SOE           -      Statement of Expenditures
SRP           -      Special Restructuring Program
STB           -      Stopanska Banka
TA            -      Technical Assistance
USAID         -      United States Agency for International Development
FYR OF MACEDONIA - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                      The Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
Loan Amount:                   DM 18 million
Beneficiaries:                 Private enterprises, including private farmers, participating financial
intermediaries.
Loan Terms:                    Single currency loan (SCL) in Deutsche Mark (DM) for twenty
years, including five years grace, at Bank's standard LIBOR-based
variable rate for SCLs denominated in DM.
On-lending Terms:              The NBM will rediscount the subloans of the participating financial
intermediaries (PFI) in DM at the cost of Bank funds plus a margin
of 100 basis points to cover the cost of administration and the credit
risk associated with lending to PFIs. The PFI subsidiary loans will
be extended on a first-come first-served basis, back-to-back to PFI
subloans to final beneficiaries. The PFIs will bear the full credit risk
of their subloans.  The subloans for private enterprise  and
permanent working capital finance will be provided with 1-10 year
maturities including up to 3 years grace. The subloans to farmers
will be provided with up to five year maturities including up to two
years grace period. The PFIs subloans to the beneficiaries will be
denominated in DM with variable interest rates based on the Bank's
lending rate plus the 100 basis points, plus a market-based PFI
spread. The final beneficiaries will bear the currency and the
interest rate risk.
Project Objective:             (a) promote growth of the private sector and improve conditions for
effective supply response from private enterprises and farmers;
(b) facilitate adoption of safe and sound banking practices; and
(c) promote credit market competition.
Project Description:           (a) Private Sector Finance (DM 14 million) for projects of private
enterprises to improve   profitability by increasing output or
improving efficiency; and (b) Private Farmer Finance (DM 4
million) for projects of private farmers to expand agricultural output.
Benefits and Risks:            The expected benefits include: improved conditions for effective
supply response of private enterprises, including private farmers;
increased efficiency, value-added and profitability of private
enterprises and farmers; improved institutional capacity of
participating financial institutions to appraise subprojects and to



- ii -
assess and manage risk; and increased competition in the credit
markets.
Institutional weaknesses and skill deficiencies of banks and private
enterprise management is the main project-specific risk.  It is
addressed through technical assistance to improve PFI's capacity to
assess and manage risk, by keeping open access to eligible PFIs, and
through increased supervision. There is also a risk concerning PFI
intermediation capacity -- macroeconomic volatility and uncertain
prospects may adversely affect PFIs' willingness to engage in term
lending. The PFI credit risk and the foreign exchange risk of final
beneficiaries has been decreased by extending a single currency loan.
On the macro level, the macroeconomic instability is the main risk,
which is addressed by the FESAC and the SAL, which is currently
under preparation, and through on-going policy dialogue with the
IMF. There is also a geo-political risk because of instability in the
Balkan region.
Estimated Cost:
----------------------(DM Million)------- ------------
Local            Foreign             Total
Private Investment Finance                     6.0               14.0              20.0
Private Farmer Finance                          1.0               4.0               5.0
Total                            7.0               18.0              25.0
Financing Plan:
- ----------------(DM Million)---).
Local            Foreign             Total
IBRD                                             0.0               18.0              18.0
Private Enterprises and Farmers                  3.0               0.0                3.0
Financial Intermediaries                         4.0               0.0                4.0
7.0              18.0              25.0



- iii -
Estimated Disbursement:
- --------------------(DM million)------------------
FY97          FY98           FY99
Annual                             2.50           6.5            9.0
Cumulative                         2.50           9.0           18.0
Rate of Return: Expected minimum rate of return is 15 percent, which is based on the rate of return
expected on individual subprojects.






STAF1F APPRAISAL REPORT
THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I. INTRODUCTION . ................................................ 1
H. ECONOMIC AND SECTOR ENVIRONMENT .................                                                                        2
A.  Macroeconomic Developments  ...................................   2
B. Structural Reforms ...........................................   4
C.  Private Sector Development .....................................   5
Im. BANKING SECTOR                                 ............................                                             8
A. Regulatory and Institutional Framework   .............................   8
B. Banking Sector Structure  .......................................   9
C.  Credit Markets  ............................................    12
IV. PROJECT RATIONALE                      ....................                   ......................    14
A. The Bank Group Strategy for Assistance  ............................    14
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement  .................................    15
V. THE PROJECT                    ................................................                                         16
A. Objectives and Scope of the Proposed Project .........................    16
B. Project Components  .........................................    16
C. Project Cost and Financing Plan  .................................   20
D. Environmental Aspects  .......................................    20
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND ONLENDING ARRANGEMENTS .......... 21
A. Loan Terms and Conditions  ....................................    21
B. Lending Arrangements  .......................................    22
C.  Loan Administration   ........................................    25
VII. BENEFITS AND  RISKS  .........                          ..................................    27
A. Benefits . ................................................ 27
B. Risks ................................................... 27
VII. AGREEMENTS AND  RECOMMENDATION   ...........................   28
This project has been prepared by a team comprising S. Brajovic-Bratanovic (EC1IT, as task manager), T. Uyanik
(EC1AE) and Y. Tzvetkova, V. Barrios and V. Polizato (Consultants). The preparation was initiated  in the final
stages of the Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit, which was presented to the Board on May 16, 1995
and the appraisal mission took place in July 1995. Peer reviewers: 1. Zurayk (EC2CO) and A. Ewing (PSD).
Managers: Franco Batzella, Chief (EC11T); Kenneth Lay, Director (EC1DR)



AiNNEXES
Annex 1:     Procedure for Accreditation of Banks and Criteria for Banks Qualification
Annex 2:     Participating Financial Institutions
Annex 3:     Disbursement Schedule
Annex 4:     Project Implementation Schedule
Annex 5:     Terms of Reference for Operational Audits of Participating Banks
Annex 6:     Development Indicators
Annex 7:     Selected Documents Available in the Project File
Map. No.    IBRD No. 27711



THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01         The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia became a sovereign state in April 1992 and
a member of the World Bank in December 1993. It is a small, landlocked, mountainous country of about
26,000 square kilometers and two million people. The rate of population growth is just under one percent
per year and the country's income per capita was US$790 in 1994. Nearly half the area of the country
is devoted to agriculture, split about equally between cultivated area and pastures. Industry is the
dominant sector, accounting for 43 percent of GSP and for 48 percent of the total employment.
1.02         Although overshadowed in recent years by the difficult process of transition to a market
economy, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia possesses a diversified and potentially sound
economic base. Legal and institutional frameworks are being strengthened to better suit a market
economy and the policy framework has been substantially liberalized. Recognizing the difficulties of
achieving an adequate supply response and efficiency gains in enterprises owned and operated by the
public sector, the Government plans to privatize the socially-owned enterprises. About 705 companies
have been privatized by March 1996 under the 1993 Privatization Law, in addition to about 440
enterprises privatized under the former Yugoslav legislation. The privatization program under the
Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit (FESAC) envisages the privatization of about 1,200
enterprises by end-1996.
1.03         The ownership reform of the state sector is supplemented by a broad program to support
growth of indigenous private sector enterprises. About 77,000 new private firms were registered by May
1995, of which about 38 percent have already opened for business. In agriculture, there are about
177,000 privately-owned farms. In the 1990-1994 period, employment in the private sector enterprises
increased from about 60,000 to 100,000 employees, with a similar increase of employment in private
agriculture. The private sector participation in GDP has grown from about 10 percent in 1990 to an
estimated 20 percent in 1995.
1.04         The growth of the private sector has been inhibited by several factors, including crowding
out by the public sector from access to capital, raw materials and infrastructure. The proposed Project
is expected to have a meaningful impact on the overall transition process by promoting development of
the private sector by providing financial support to private enterprise investment programs. Investments
financed by the proposed Project will yield positive effects regarding employment and income generation
capacity of the private sector, including private farmers. It will also contribute to further transformation
of the banking system by encouraging competition. Through hands-on involvement with individual banks
in the process of banks and projects appraisal, it will help to improve banks' operational policies and
business practices.
1.05         To support the proposed Project, the Government has requested a Bank loan of DM 18
million. The proposed Loan would include: a private sector finance component of DM 14 million for
investments of private enterprises active in the manufacturing and services sectors; and a private farmer
finance component of DM 4 million for investments of private farmers.



- 2 -
II. ECONOMIC AND SECTOR ENVIRONMENT
A. Macroeconomic Developments
2.01           Against the backdrop of the loss of markets, as the CMEA and the Yugoslav Federation
broke up, the economy of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia took a hard hit. In the 1992-93
period, attempts to stabilize the economy failed owing to a rapidly shrinking revenue base and the very
high inflation. In 1994, however, the Government implemented strict budgetary discipline with tight
wage and monetary policies to turn the economy back from the brink of hyperinflation. Thus, the fiscal
deficit, which had averaged 12 percent of GDP in 1992-93, was cut to 3 percent of GDP by 1994. The
rate of (December-on-December) inflation, peaking at 1,925 percent in 1992, was brought down to 230
percent in 1993, 55 percent in 1994 and about 9.2 percent in 1995. There was also a significant price
liberalization. In early 1992, price controls covered about 40 percent of items in the retail price index.
By late 1994, the direct price controls covered about 19 percent of items in the retail price index and the
list continues to be revised downwards. At present, price controls cover mostly public utilities. Items
not subject to price controls, but closely monitored, include milk, heating and urban transport.
Table 2.1: Real Growth Rates 1990-94
(Annual Percentage Changes)                                l
Average
Growdh
1990      1991      1992      1993      1994     (1990-94)
GDP                                    -9.7     -9.8      -12.4     -12.0     -5.7        -10.4
Industry and Mining                 -13.2     -16.8      -15.7     -14.4    -10.5       -14.6
Agriculture Forestry and Fishing    -19.4      17.3       0.0      -20.0      7.9        -3.3
Trade                                -18.8    -14.7      -19.4     -12.0     -7.6        -14.9
Catering and Tourism                 -8.8     -15.4      -9.1       20.0     -8.3        -4.3
Conatruction                        -15.0     -18.6      -14.3     -13.3    -11.5       -14.9
Transport and Communication         -18.9      -19.4     -20.0     -15.0    -11.8        -17.4
Econonmc Report ly 1995
2.02           The period since independence has also been characterized by sharp and sustained fall in
GDP (Table 2.1). GDP fell by about 12 percent in 1992 and 1993, the decline slowed down to about
6 percent in 1994 and to about 2 percent in 1995. Industry and mining recorded a 42 percent fall in real
terms between 1990 and 1994, but the decline slowed to 10.7 percent in 1995. Heavy industry was
extremely affected by the loss of traditional export markets (in the SFRY and the CMEA area) and the
severing of traditional links with sources of supply. The construction sector also took a hard hit due to
the loss of overseas markets for construction services and the sharp decline in domestic investment.
Value added in the sector fell by 46 percent, in real terms, between 1990 and 1994, in addition to the
21 percent drop in activity over the period 1986-89. Sectors directly affected by regional tensions, such
as trade, tourism, transport and communication also contracted, in real terms, by 36, 15 and 48 percent,
respectively, in the 1990-94 period. The agriculture sector with an average 3.3 percent contraction was
the least affected.



- 3 -
2.03         Gross domestic investment declined from about 32 percent of GDP in 1990 to around 18
percent in the 1993-94 period due to uncertainties facing the economy. In addition, as the crisis in the
banking sector intensified, investment decisions became difficult because of high and volatile rates of
inflation. Investment financed by the central government stagnated below 1 percent of GDP during 199 1-
93 and rose to 2.7 percent in 1994. Gross investment of the enterprise sector averaged 14 percent of
GDP in the 1991-94 period.
2.04         The registered unemployment rate increased steadily from 17 percent in 1990 to about
20 percent in 1994. Employment in socially-owned and mixed enterprises fell by 22 percent between
1990 and 1994; or about 112,000 jobs were lost, of which 56 percent were from industry. The
retrenchment continued in 1995 with additional 15,000 jobs shed under the FESAC program.
Employment in the private sector nearly doubled, from 60,000 to 100,000, but not enough to fully offset
the decline.
2.05         Some trade liberalization has taken place since independence with the removal of several
quantitative restriction, and many goods are subject to free trade. Nevertheless, distortions remain,
including the presence of import quotas on a number of agricultural products, such as wheat, the use of
export subsidies, and the imposition of various duties and special levies which can thwart the published
(apparently low) tariff rates. Reforms of the trade regime are currently being considered by the
Government in the context of a proposed Structural Adjustment Credit/Loan.
2.06         Exports from the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia have typically comprised semi-
processed manufactured goods, such as ferrous metal components, iron and steel, and textiles and
consumer manufactures, primarily footwear and clothing. Merchandise exports averaged US$1.2 billion
annually in 1992-94, and increased by about 11 percent in 1995. The loss of export markets in eastern
Europe and the Middle East has been largely responsible for the disproportionate fall in manufactured
exports, while exports of goods has risen as markets in western Europe gained greater importance.
Consumer goods (food, beverage and tobacco) accounted for 22 percent of the value of goods exported
in 1992-94 minerals and manufactures were close to 65 percent and the rest, 12 percent, were machinery
and capital goods.
2.07         In 1992, total imports of goods and non factor services were US$1.23 billion, down from
US$1.63 billion in 1990. During 1993 imports rose marginally to US$1.3 billion, increasing to US$1.64
billion in 1994, and producing a current account deficit of US$370 million or about 10 percent of GDP.
The total merchandise imports, consumer goods accounted to roughly 20 percent, mineral and
manufactures to roughly 65 percent, and capital goods to 15 percent.
2.08         Medium-Term Outlook. Economic management in the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia has been continuously improving since independence, leading to better macroeconomic balance
and substantially reduced inflation (about 6 percent projected for 1996). The contraction of economic
activity appears to be levelling off. With the prudent macroeconomic management, the economic decline
could feasibly be reversed to an average growth of about 3 percent per year in the 1996-1999 period.
The growth of total consumption, however, needs to be kept in check, since the domestic savings would
be needed to finance critical investments, for the debt service payments and to restrain the external
borrowing requirements.



B. Structural Reforms
2.09          Complementing economic stabilization, a structural adjustment program was adopted in
1993. The program's objectives were to address the macroeconomic constraints and create an enabling
environment for private sector development, speed up the restructuring of the socially-owned enterprise
sector and achieve sustainable growth in the medium-term. The main components of the program were:
(a) strengthening the legal and regulatory environment to suit the emerging market economy;
(b) streamlining and speeding up the privatization process; (c) reforming the enterprise and banking
sectors; and (d) enhancing mobility in the labor market. The structural reform program execution was
initially slow, in part because of the need for exhaustive consensus building and practical preparations.
2.10          The Government's reform efforts in the 1993-94 period were assisted by the Bank's
Economic Recovery Credit. As part of the initial program, most prices were freed, import tariffs lowered
and non-tariff barriers to trade removed. Some reforms were introduced in the enterprise and banking
sectors to cap the expansion of credit and hasten the restructuring of the enterprise sector. Labor market
reforms were also initiated, as were reforms of the social safety net. These initial reforms were followed
by a more comprehensive reform programs in the enterprise, financial and social sectors which the
Government adopted in early 1995, along with a program of additional stabilization measures. The 1995
program is supported by the Bank's FESAC program, which was approved by the Board in May 1995.
2.11          Enterprise Reform. The Government's strategy for enterprise reform in the medium-
term centers on privatization and private sector development. In the short-term, the reform program aims
to force the socially-owned enterprises'/ to restructure by imposing hard budget constraints. Their
continued operations are to be based on their viability, and there will be no government subsidies or
bailouts. Consequently, the rediscounts by the National Bank of Macedonia (NBM), which has been the
customary way of financing enterprise losses, were abolished as of March 1994, and the government
guarantee program for loans to enterprises was discontinued as of October 1994.
2.12          For the largest 25 politically sensitive loss-makers2/, the Government has introduced the
Special Restructuring Program (SRP). The losses of these enterprises accounted in 1993 for about 13
percent of GDP, or more than 80 percent of the total losses in the enterprise sector and over 60 percent
of the bad debts in the banking system. Under the SRP, the enterprises are isolated from their creditors,
including the banking system, and provided with technical assistance to develop consolidation plans that
would restore a positive cash flow. The enterprises which are not able to generate the positive cash flow
in the specified time period are to be liquidated. By end-1995, the 16 loss-makers were broken up into
about 135 successor enterprises, of which 115 filed for privatization, and the liquidation decision was
made for four enterprises. A Mining Law, to be submitted to the Parliament by mid-1996, is expected
to help with the final resolution of issues concerning the remaining three enterprises which operate in the
mining sector.
1/     However, socially-owned enterprises in the agricultural sector are not included in the FESAC program and will be
addressed by the Structural Adjustrnent Credit/Loan.
2/     The list includes 23 large conimercial enterprises and two public utilities, railways and electricity generation and
distribution.



- 5 -
C. Private Sector Development
2.13         Like most other reforming economies of Central and Eastern Europe, the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia has followed a two-pronged approach to increasing the share of the
private sector in the economy: (a) implementation of an extensive program for the privatization of the
socially-owned enterprises; and (b) an open entry policy for the private sector reinforced by the creation
of an enabling environment for the sector. The supply response of the private sector has been
encouraging. From 1990 to mid-1995, the number of private enterprises in the former Yugoslav Republic
of Macedonia has drastically increased to about 77,000 from 5,800.
2.14        iLal. Institutional and Policy Framework. In the 1992-1995 period the Government
has made notable progress in completing the regulatory framework generally following the model of EU
countries, which will create a favorable legal and regulatory enviromnent for private sector development
and growth. The most important elements of the legal framework, which are being put in place, include:
(a) a Commercial Companies Law, which is in its final draft to be presented to the Parliament in May
1996; (b) a Bankruptcy Law, including a US Chapter-11 type of financial restructuring and a clear
definition of the right of creditors, to be presented to the Parliament in June 1996. The Government also
intends to amend the regulation on collaterals and to build up the capacity of the court system. In a
related effort, the Government plans to strengthen the role and capacity of the Land Cadastre Office and
to introduce other measures which will clarify the treatment of land as a collateral and improve efficiency
of the agricultural land market; (c) a Law on Denationalization and Restitution, which is submitted to the
Parliament, and is expected to resolve the issues currently deterring privatization of urban properties; and
(d) modernization of the Law on Standards and Intellectual Property Rights is also in progress.
2.15         Progress has been also made in developing an appropriate institutional framework for
private sector development. A Privatization Agency, established in 1993, is the principal institution in
charge of implementing the privatization. The role of the Chamber of Commerce, with mandatory
membership for all registered companies, has been expanded to include functions needed by the private
sector, including private sector promotion. The private companies are currently in the process of
establishing a voluntary membership organization akin to the Chamber of Commerce, which would be
specialized to deal with issues specific to the private sector. An Industrial Property Protection Office has
been established in the Ministry of Development and a Department of Standardization has been established
in the Ministry of Economy. Both Ministries have also expanded their functions to include private sector
promotion aspects. The Government is receiving technical assistance to complete and strengthen the
regulatory and institutional framework for the private sector from a number of bilateral and multilateral
donors.
2.16         The policy environment is changing and has been made more favorable to the private
sector. Entry to the economy has been liberalized, and there is no legal discrimination against the private
sector. Economic policies, including price policy, have also been liberalized. A new, non-discriminating
Tax Law has been enacted in lanuary 1994. It introduced a flat corporate tax rate of 30 percent.
Dividends are exempt from taxation. Since interest income is taxed, this measure specifically promotes
private ownership. Accelerated depreciation is allowed for up to 25 percent of profits before taxation,
and carry-over of capital losses is permitted. Imported production equipment is eligible for tax deduction
and equipment related to environmental protection is tax exempt. These measures aim to stimulate private
investment and the development of private initiatives in industry, transport and tourism sectors.



- 6 -
2.17         The Government considers foreign investment to be an important means to raise additional
development resources. It has liberalized entry for foreign capital and provided tax and other incentives
to foreign investors, which are comparable to or better than those offered by other countries in the region.
The new Tax Law offers automatic three-year tax holiday and tax holiday without time limits for
investments made in areas declared as underdeveloped, flat 30 percent corporate tax rate and free tax
status if the 30 percent of taxable income is reinvested, exemption from custom duties for imported
equipment and services, and 90 percent repatriation of dividends. Nevertheless, foreign investment in
the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, including joint ventures, has been low compared to other
refbrming economies in the region. Of the 3,500 letters of intent received by the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs, only few have materialized. The foreign investments, including joint ventures, accounted for
about 1.8 percent of the total private investments as of mid-1995. To address this problem, the
Government intends to streamline the institutional framework for approval of foreign investments and to
introduce well-focussed foreign investment promotion programs. Technical assistance has been requested
from a number of bilateral donors.
2.18         Privatization. Socially-owned and mixed-ownership enterprises in the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia comprised 1,856 enterprises in early 1994 and employed about 324,000 workers,
primarily in the trade, construction, agriculture and textile sectors. In an attempt to address the
shortcomings of social ownership, former Yugoslavia introduced legislation in 1989 (the Law on Social
Capital) for the transformation of social ownership. Implementation of this law was left to the republics
and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia partially or fully privatized about 440 enterprises by
allowing employees to buy "internal shares".
2.19         The current privatization program is governed by the Law for Transformation of Socially-
Owned Enterprises (the Privatization Law), which was approved in June 1993. The Government has
targeted 1,200 enterprises for privatization under the law, representing 79 percent of all socially-owned
and mixed ownership enterprises, 78 percent of employment, and 53 percent of assets. Banks,
monopolies Oargely confined to public utilities) and agricultural cooperatives-- a total of 388 enterprises-
are not subject to the Privatization Law. Of the enterprises targeted for privatization, 100 are large, 263
are medium and 837 are small, representing only 5 percent of assets. The Government intends to
complete the program by the end of 1996.
2.20         The privatization program  is based on a case-by-case approach.  However, the
Government has also introduced a version of the mass privatization scheme through the asset-to-asset
swap program. The Privatization Law allows the use of frozen foreign exchange deposits, which have
been removed from the banks' balance sheets, for purchase of enterprise shares, housing and business
premises. The asset-to-asset swap at the same time reduces the claims on the Government created by its
assumption of foreign exchange deposit related liabilities. Technical instructions, which define the
guiding principles of swaps of frozen foreign deposits for shares and other socially-owned assets, were
issued by the Ministry of Finance in December 1994, and the scheme is now operative. Certificates
issued to depositors are generic (i.e., they can be applied toward the purchase of shares in any enterprise
and the purchase of business premises), but are restricted to exchange for shares or assets targeted for
privatization (to prevent the creation of quasi money).
2.21         After initial difficulties, privatization (under the FESAC auspices) has gained momentum
in 1995. By the first tranche release in May 1995, about 147 enterprises have been privatized; 114 small,
18 medium and 15 large enterprises. By mid-March 1996, privatization was completed for 705
enterprises, of which 67 are large, 120 medium and 518 small enterprises. For the FESAC second



- 7 -
tranche release, a total of 791 enterprises should be privatized (or liquidated). This target is expected
to be achieved by mid-1996.
2.22         Private Sector.   The private sector has witnessed considerable growth since
independence. By May 1995, there were about 77,000 registered private enterprises, a more than 13 fold
increase since end-1990. About 29,000 private enterprises are active and about 10,000 are handicrafts.
Most private activity is in trading due to the opportunities presented by the disruption of formal trade
caused by the embargoes, the lower risk and smaller capital required, the quick return, and the tradition
of trading among the people. Manufacturing and related activities account for less than 10 percent of the
total private enterprise activities. They typically employ labor intensive technologies, and the production
functions are typically assembly and basic, low value-added activities. About 25 percent of private
enterprises are engaged in services of which transport, tourism and personal services are the most
important.
2.23         While a significant progress has been made to create an enabling business environment
for the private sector, a number of surveys have shown that there are still some areas of concern,
especially regarding the lack of business premises, inadequate market information and rudimentary
marketing techniques used by the private sector, skill deficiencies concerning business planning and book-
keeping and the inadequate access to finance. The private sector needs for business premises is being
met by the program for business premises privatization launched in early 1995. About 150,000 square
meters of business premises are to be offered to the private sector through an asset-to-asset swap scheme
under the FESAC program. The Government intends to sell all business premises without legal
encumbrances by the end of 1996. Legal encumbrances on the rest are to be resolved after the adoption
of the Restitution Law and completion of the scheme is expected in 1997. In a parallel effort with IDA's
technical assistance, the Government is building a new legal framework concerning ownership and the
right of use of business premises including leaseholds.
2.24          Access to working capital finance for private companies is difficult due to the crowding
out by the large socially-owned enterprises. Difficulties in access to finance are further complicated by
the general unwillingness of banks to extend term-credits due to the perceived uncertainties in the
economy. This attitude is exacerbated by the lack of skills in the banks to assess price and manage
financial risk associated with private sector borrowers and their projects, and to efficiently collect on
collaterals. As a result, investment finance with medium-to long-term credit maturities is practically not
available. The majority of private companies finance new investments exclusively from retained earnings,
which limits their growth potential. The proposed Project aims to address this problem by providing
investment and working capital financing on non-discriminating terms and with adequate maturities.
2.25         Private Farming. Agricultural sector in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
accounted for about 20 percent of GSP and 16 percent of exports in 1994. Almost 45 percent of the
country's population lives in rural areas and the welfare and incomes of rural population are closely
linked to agriculture. Agriculture is based on about 662,000 hectares of arable land and a further
640,000 ha of pasture (together accounting for about 50 percent of the total country's area). The arable
land is used to produce a variety of crops including cereals, industrial crops, fruits and vegetables. The
pastures support a substantial sheep industry, including profitable lamb exports.
2.26          Agricultural production has traditionally been a predominantly private sector activity.
As a result of the downsizing of the socially-owned enterprise sector, farming is expected to assume
increasing importance in the medium-term. About 30 percent of the total arable land is cultivated by



- 8 -
about 217 agricultural enterprises, which account for about 9 percent of the total enterprise employment.
The remaining 70 percent is owned and cultivated by some 177,000 farmers with farms of an average
2.6 hectares. Farms are operated almost exclusively by labor of the extended family, and women are
often the primary managers of the family's home-based livestock and vegetable/fruit production units.
2.27         The presence of private sector activity in farming has helped the agriculture sector adjust
to the country's changing macroeconomic environment in recent years. Some policy reforms in the sector
have taken place, for example, direct financial support from the budget has been reduced from 10 percent
of agricultural GSP in 1991 to a projected 3 percent in 1996. Nevertheless, a significant further
liberalization remains on the agenda. For example, the market for certain important agricultural
commodities, such as wheat, sugar and dairy products, are still subject to price distortions. In the context
of the proposed Structural Adjustment Loan, the Govermnent is preparing additional policy reform
measures to be introduced in 1996 and 1997, including substantial reduction of agricultural subsidies,
removal of trade protection and other trade distortions, and deepening of privatization in agriculture.
2.28         Parallel to the agricultural policy reforms, the Government intends to strengthen the
assistance to private farming, including improved access to investment finance to increase agricultural
output and earnings in rural areas. The Government program for private farmers is supported by the
Private Farmer Support Project and by the proposed Project.
1II. BANKING SECTOR
A. Regulatory and Institutional Framework
3.01         Legal Framework. A new legal framework for the financial sector is mostly in place.
The National Bank Act was adopted in April 1992, and amended in May 1993, together with the
enactment of the new Banking and Savings Institutions Law. Further amendments to the National Bank
Act and the Banking Law, aiming to harmonize the existing legislation with internationally accepted
standards, have been submitted to the Parliament in early 1996, as part of the FESAC second tranche
release conditions. A Securities Act, a Financial Transaction Law and an Insurance Law were adopted
in 1992, and a Foreign Exchange and International Transactions Law in 1993. An Accounting Law was
enacted in 1992 and amended in 1994, and new amendments, which are expected to fully harmonize the
law with the internationally accepted standards, are being prepared. This will include a new chart of
accounts for the banking sector. Existing legislation encourages the entry of new, well capitalized banks
with sound managers and reputable owners.  Sound and efficient private banks, along with the
improvement of existing banks through the effective enforcement of prudential regulations, and more
competitive market conditions will yield a healthier and more efficient banking system.
3.02         National Bank or Macedonia. NBM was established as the country's central bank in
April 1992, following the enactment of the National Bank Act. NBM is independent and responsible to
the Parliament which appoints the Governor and the eight other Board members for a seven-year term.
The National Bank Act mandates NBM to be responsible for the stability of the national currency, the
regulation of money supply, the payment system and the supervision of the banking sector. The building
of NBM's institutional capacity started in 1993 with technical assistance from the International Monetary
Fund (IMF), the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and other donors to
improve its organizational structure, monetary operations, banking regulation and supervision, bank



-9-
reporting and accounting, and information technology. This has yielded major improvements in monetary
and foreign exchange policy management, including abolishment of interest rate controls and of automatic
refinancing, liberalization of the exchange rate and of exchange rate markets, introduction of monetary
programming and increasing use of indirect mechanisms for central bank interventions.
3.03         On the banking supervision side, NBM is in charge of: (a) issuing bank licenses;
(b) issuing prudential regulations; (c) exercising off-site and on-site supervision; and (d) applying
sanctions on banks that fail to comply with the regulations. In order to be licensed, banks have to have
a minimum capital of DM 3 million (DM 1 million for the branch of a foreign bank) and to submit to
NBM a comprehensive and well-documented application file. Special licenses are required for a bank
to engage in foreign exchange and international transactions. For these operations, the minimum capital
required is DM 9 million. According to the new amendment to the Banking Law under consideration
by the Parliament, the minimum capital will be increased to DM 7 and DM 21 million, respectively.
3.04         Prudential regulations cover liquidity position and the capital adequacy of banks, large
exposures and loans to connected parties, level of term transformation and loan concentration,
classification of risk portfolios and the level of provisions, foreign exchange risk exposure, and internal
control systems of banks. The prudential regulations concerning liquidity, capital adequacy, asset
classification and provisioning and exposures to connected parties have already been issued by NBM in
the 1992-1994 period. Under the FESAC auspices, the regulations were amended in November and
December 1995 and are now fully harmonized with international standards. With the latest amendments
the prudential regulatory enviromnent in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is fully satisfactory
to the Bank.
3.05         The development of on-site and off-site supervision is a long-term process. NBM is
developing its supervision capacity with training and technical assistance from the IMF and the USAID.
The special audits of the four largest banks, which were completed by international auditors under the
Bank's Economic Restructuring Loan, have provided a good baseline information, as well as the models
for future annual audits. By mid-1995, NBM has developed prudential reporting standards and is already
receiving monthly reports from banks and performing off-site supervision. The on-site supervision started
from March 1995 according to the established supervision schedule. The Supervision Department has
played a major role in restructuring Stopanska Banka.
3.06         Bank Rehabilitation Agency. Bank Rehabilitation Agency (BRA) was established in
early 1994. In coordination with NBM, it is empowered to intervene in a failing bank, invest on
Government's behalf, appoint a new board and managers, and sell the bank as a whole or in parts. The
BRA is headed by a General Manager under a supervisory board. The General Manager was appointed
in April 1994, and he has now 20 professional staff and foreign technical assistance. BRA's role under
the FESAC program focuses on administration and collection of the non-performing assets removed from
the banks' balance sheets.
B. Banking Sector Structure
3.07         The banking sector in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, as inherited from the
former Yugoslavia, was recognizably similar to that of market economies although with significant
structural distortions. At end-1994, the structural problems, which became severe enough to bring the
banking sector to the edge of banking crises, were affecting about 63 percent of the total banking sector



- 10-
balance sheet, including the frozen foreign exchange deposits of households3/, the non-performing foreign
exchange denominated loans'/ and the non-performing domestic currency loans5/. The market-related
structural problem was the excessive concentration, including Stopanska's dominance of about 65 percent
in the domestic deposit and credit markets. The banking system stability was also threatened by the
protracted agony of Foreign Trade Bank, with about 20 percent share in both domestic and credit
markets.
3.08          These structural problems have been addressed by the FESAC. The non-performing
assets (in domestic and foreign currencies) and the foreign exchange deposits related claims on NBM,
including the corresponding liabilities, have been removed from balance sheets of banks and placed with
the BRA. The market concentration problem was addressed by substantially reducing the size of
Stopanska Banka (bringing its market share to less than 40 percent) and by creating five smaller regional
banks from its largest (and formerly independent) branches in Bitola, Kumanovo, Ohrid, Prilep and
Tetovo. Foreign Trade Bank was orderly liquidated, thereby creating a space for growth of new private
banks. Other important aspects of the FESAC banking sector reform program included a program to
strengthen prudential regulations and their harmonization with international standards, and the change in
corporate governance and incentives through full privatization of the banking sector.
3.09          For the most part, the implementation of the banking reform supported by the FESAC
has been successful.  New prudential regulations have been issued thereby creating a regulatory
environment comparable to international standards. The balance sheet of the banking sector has been
successfully cleaned from problems inherited from the former Yugoslavia. The banking sector has been
fully privatized and the market dominance of Stopanska has been reduced. Some problems, however,
remain. The privatization of Stopanska has been accomplished, but the corporate governance has not
sufficiently improved, due to the lack of strategic investor, fully independent from government's
influence. In addition, Stopanska remains undercapitalized and is still experiencing occasional liquidity
problems. A search for a suitable foreign investor, capable of providing effective corporate guidance,
is under way. The remaining problems with Stopanska, however, will not affect implementation of the
proposed Project, as the bank will not be accepted for participation until it is able to meet the
qualification criteria.
3.10          Selected indicators from the aggregated balance sheet of the banking sector are shown in
Table 3.1. The situation on May 31, 1995 shows the results of the implementation of reforms due as the
FESAC first tranche conditions. After the removal of the frozen foreign exchange deposits and of the
Paris Club loans, the exit of Foreign Trade Bank and the removal of the part of the non-performing assets
from the Stopanska Banka balance sheet, the total banking sector assets contracted from US$4.2 billion
to US$1.5 billion, of which Stopanska Banka accounted for 65 percent. The share of loans to economic
agents increased to about 37 percent of the total banks' assets, of which Stopanska accounted for 56
percent. The situation on December 31, 1995 shows further transformation of the banking sector.
3/     About 1.3 million accounts in four banks amounting to about US$1 billion, and accounting for about 30 percent of the
balance sheet of the banking system and balanced by claims on NBM.
4/     The non-perfonning foreign exchange loans were funded by foreign borrowings, amounting to about US$900 million
or about 28 percent of the banking sector balance sheet.
5/     These amounted to US$220 million or about 5.5 percent of the banking sector balance sheet.



- 11 -
Stopanska's share of assets contracted to about 40 percent of the total assets, its loan portfolio to 29
percent of the total loans, and its capital to 21 percent of the total capital in the banking systems.
Table 3.1: Selected Indicators
(in million US dollar)
As of 05/31/95      As of 05/31/95
Total               Total
|____________ .           Stopanska   Banks   Stopanska   Banks
Total Assets                965    1,474        917    2,279
% Total Banking Syst.       65      100         40      100
Total Loans                 307     544         103      353
% Total Assets              32      37          11       15
% Total Banking Syst.       56     100          29      100
Total Domestic Deposits    288      497         108      301
% Total Liabilities         30      34          12       13
% Total Banking Syst.       60     100          36      100
Total Capital               75      242          98      469
% Total Banking Syst.       31     100          21      100
Source: NBM
3.11           There are, however, new reasons for concerns indicating that some fragility remains in
the sector and that it will take some time until the situation is fully stabilized. The immediate concern
is a significant drop of the share of loans in the total assets of the banking system from 32 percent as of
May 31 to about 15 percent as of December 31, 1995. There is a similar problem in terms of resource
mobilization, as the share of deposits in the total banking liabilities dropped from 30 percent to 13 percent
in the same period. The reasons for the disintermediation trends are not entirely clear. Another problem
is a worsening of the loan portfolio quality, as the percentage of loans in arrears in the banking system
increased to about 30 percent. This is likely a consequence of the enforcement of hard budget constraints
under the FESAC, which was primarily targeted to large socially-owned lossmakers. The protection from
creditors afforded to lossmakers under the SRP, however, effectively passed-on the shock to their
privately-owned suppliers. The worsening of the financial position of the private suppliers has, in turn,
negatively affected the credit relations with their banks.
3.12           The proposed Project will address these problems by carefully scrutinizing banks which
have applied for participation and by maintaining high banks qualification standards. At the subproject
level, the risk will be addressed by training the participating banks in projects and credit risk appraisal
and by introducing sophisticated computer-supported analytical tools developed by the Bank. Initially,
there will be no free limits, and the free limits will be set on a bank-by-bank basis once a bank has
clearly demonstrated the satisfactory quality of its appraisal process.



- 12 -
C. Credit Markets
3.13          Market Conditions. Liberalization of interest rates in the banking markets of the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia took place in 1992. As a matter of policy, the NBM discount rate has
been always positive in real terms, with liquidity credits being priced significantly above the discount
rate, and the interest rates on compulsory reserves and T-bill subscriptions very significantly
underpriced6/. Against the background of December-on-December inflation of about 55 percent in 1994
and 9.2 percent for 1995, the deposit rates in the first half of 1995 were in the 6-12 percent range for
demand deposits and in the 30-45 percent range for term deposits. The lending rates were in the 75-95
percent range (50-70 percent positive, in real terms), with an average lending margin of about 40 percent.
3.14          The inflation expectations were adjusted in mid-1995. The positive results of banking
refbrms under the FESAC also started to be felt. NBM increased informal pressure on banks to lower
their lending spreads. As a result, the deposit rates fell to a level of 10-12 percent for shorter than three-
month deposits, and 17-22 percent for term deposits, with an average of 16 percent. The lending rates
fell to a level of 25-30 percent for both short- and long-term loans, (about 15-20 percent positive, in real
terms), with the lending spreads averaging about 15 percent. Overall, the conditions in the banking
sector markets in the second half of 1995 showed notable improvement and the markets seem to be on
a good track to be fully stabilized.
3.15          In order to avoid introducing the credit market distortions, the Bank funded subloans to
the private sector and farmers are to be freely priced by the participating banks according to prevailing
market conditions. For the subsidiary loans extended by the apex to the PFIs, there were no fully
satisfactory benchmarks. Therefore, the price of funds extended to large banks by the foreign export
credit agencies was used as an approximation. The Bank funds are likely to be of somewhat longer
maturities; average maturity of three years is expected for the private farmer finance and about four to
five years for the private sector finance, as compared to one to three years maturities of the typical export
credits. The use of Bank funds entails, however, a significantly higher transaction cost. As a result, the
subsidiary finance to PFIs was priced within 10-15 basis points range of the cost of benchmark funds.
3.16          Credit Market. The banking markets in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia are
small even when taking into account the small size of the economy. The total deposit market volume as
of end-1995 was about US$301 million and the credit market volume about US$353 million. On the
demand side, the market has been traditionally dominated by socially-owned enterprises. On the supply
side, the major player in the market was Stopanska Banka followed by another two large banks, which
together accounted for over 90 percent share of the total credit market. The unstable macroeconomic
environment and structural problems in the economy, compounded by the lack of capacity of banks to
analyze and properly price their risks, have brought very conservative lending practices and exorbitantly
high spreads. The maturities of available investment credits have shortened to below two years, and
credit for capital investments involving imports is practically not available, other than funds provided by
the foreign export agencies.
V     The NBM discount rate in July to December 1995 was 15 percent (expected inflation 8 percent), the interest on
compulsory reserves was 5.8 percent and on liquidity credits 30 percent with interest penalty rate of 45 percent.



- 13 -
3.17         Parallel to the main-stream market dominated by large banks and socially-owned
enterprises, there is an active market used by private enterprises. It is funded by the private banks' own
funds and is not larger than about US$20-30 million. The typical terms are one to two month maturities
without grace period and the collection rates have traditionally been about 90 percent. Term finance is
generally unavailable. Small- and medium-size private enterprises, including export-oriented enterprises
and the new private enterprises which have grown to employ over ten people, are the most negatively
affected by the lack of term-finance. This is particularly problematic because the supply response from
these types of enterprises holds a potential for reversing the country's current economic decline.
3.18         The situation is even worse in the credit market segment catering to farmers and small
private agrobusinesses. The main channel for agriculture finance has traditionally been Stopanska Banka.
The conservative lending climate coupled with liquidity and solvency problems experienced by Stopanska
Banka in the period since independence have practically closed the credit market for farmers and private
agrobusinesses. In the 1992-1995 period, the total volume of the segment catered by the private banks
was in the US$1-2 million range. The proposed Project aims to overcome the credit supply problems
in this market segment. Of the proposed DM 18 million Bank loan, DM 4 million has specifically been
targeted for loans to private farmers hoping to encourage diversification by new banks into the
agricultural finance. Specific measures will be taken to expand the outreach of participating banks to
include the rural areas.
3.19         Credit Demand. During the preparation of the proposed Project a demand survey was
undertaken to assess the investment and financing needs of the private sector. The survey included a
number of large banks which have applied for participation. The survey has found that there is an
appreciable level of private sector capital formation, which can serve as an indicator of the potential
demand for medium- to long-term credit at reasonable terms. The total private sector investment in fixed
assets in the 1992-1994 period are estimated to be about US$139 million, with construction of business
premises accounting for US$79 million and production equipment for US$51 million. Most of the total
private sector investments has traditionally been funded by their own funds, and the remainder by bank
credits. Since the average medium-term loan maturity was about 18 months in the 1992-1994 period,
and the interest rates were very high, the viable demand has obviously been depressed. With recent
changes in credit market conditions, the investment demand is expected to substantially increase. The
surveyed banks have estimated an increase in the total credit demand for investment loans of the private
sector to about US$60 million annually, excluding the newly privatized or soon to be privatized
enterprises.
3.20         The expectations concerning increase in private sector credit demand were confirmed in
informational interviews with senior managers of a number of large, profitable, recently privatized
enterprises. All interviewed managers shared the opinion that there is a high (and currently hidden)
future demand for investment loans. Investment in socially-owned enterprises has been suppressed so
far due to the delay in privatization, since investments would have increased the value of enterprises
thereby making the internal privatization more costly. Managers of privatized enterprises were confident
that the investment demand would pick-up and grow with the pace of privatization.
3.21         Subsidized Credits. With the abolition of selective credits as of March 31, 1994, as
agreed under the Economic Recovery Credit, explicit credit subsidies in the former Yugoslav Republic
of Macedonia were significantly reduced and the remaining subsidies mostly confined to agriculture. In
the agricultural finance area, the most important forms of subsidy were the directed credit and the interest
rebate scheme. The volume of directed credit was about US$14 million in 1994, but the subsidy was



- 14 -
thereafter abolished. The interest subsidy scheme, totalling about US$18 million in 1994, included a 15
percent rebate on interest paid on loans for wheat, corn and tobacco storage, and for milk and wheat
production. The rebate for storage loans was paid to the storage enterprises, and that for milk and meat
production directly to producers. In the 1995 budget, the allocation for interest subsidies was reduced
to around US$4 million, and no money has been earmarked in the 1996 budget. Other significant
subsidies still persist in the sector, including rebates on seed purchase, price support and premiums paid
on selected agricultural commodities and various trade protection measures. These other forms of
subsidies are also being reduced. Explicit planned budget subsidies for agriculture in 1996 amount to
around US$26 million, which is about half of the 1994 amount. Further subsidy reductions and
liberalization in the sector are a key part of the dialogue with the Government under the proposed SAL/C.
IV. PROJECT RATIONALE
A. The Bank Group Strategv for Assistance
4.01         The reform strategy in Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is similar to that of other
central planning economies trying to make a transition to a market economy. The reform priorities
include: (a) macro-economic stabilization; (b) accelerating the transfer of ownership to the private sector;
(c) rationalization of productive sectors to make them efficient and internationally competitive; and
(d) providing social protection to the affected segments of the population. The Government remains
committed to moving decisively and coherently across a broad front to sustain the reform effort.
4.02          In intensive dialogue over the past three years, the Government and the Bank have found
considerable agreement on the priorities for adjustment and development. The Bank's country assistance
strategy, which was presented to the Board on May 16, 1995, comprises several strategic themes as
reference points for guiding the overall program in support of the reform effort. The Bank aims to:
(a) facilitate and support the structural reform and the transformation to a market economy; (b) contribute
to financing balance-of-payments requirements; (c) support sectoral adjustment and development efforts;
and (d) help mobilize resources from both official and private sources.
4.03         The initial support to the Government's reform program was provided through the
Economic Recovery Credit/Loan of US$80 million, which has been fully utilized. The SDR 54.7 million
FESAC, approved in May 1995, aims to advance critical elements of the market reform, including:
(a) comprehensive reform of the banking sector and banking markets; (b) isolation of largest loss-making
enterprises, including hard budget constraints, leading to liquidation or privatization of major loss
makers; (c) comprehensive privatization program; and (d) social safety net reform program. A Structural
Adjustment Credit/Loan, aiming to support further policy changes in the transition to a market economy,
is currently under preparation. The specific SAC/L objectives are to further the trade reform, to reduce
interventions and subsidies in the agricultural sector, thereby reducing distortions in the agricultural
products markets, and to privatize the socially-owned agroenterprises.
4.04         The proposed Project is in concordance with the country assistance strategy. Continued
support to privatization and private sector development is critical to the success of transition. Fully aware
of the pressing needs for investment and permanent working capital finance, which will allow the private
sector to effectively utilize its development potential, and facing difficulties in mobilizing resources under
the terms and conditions which effectively meet the private sector demand, the Government has requested
the Bank's support. The Bank intends to deliver this support through the proposed Project which is fully



- 15 -
consistent with the Bank's assistance strategy and supports development of the private sector activities,
including private agriculture. The proposed Project is processed in tandem with the proposed Private
Farmer Support Project, which seeks to promote institutional changes in the agricultural sector. This
project will develop agricultural extension services, private veterinary services and design an agricultural
already covered wholesale market system and promote agricultural research. Thus, the two projects are
highly complementary, with the proposed Private Farmer Support Project seeking to create an enabling
environment for the private agriculture and the private farmer finance component of the proposed Project
aiming at facilitating investments of private farmers.
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement
4.05          Since its independence, the Government has successfully established the legal and
institutional framework necessary for a market economy. The role of the state in both macro- and micro-
economic management has changed. On the macro level, the new policies emphasized liberalization
(e.g., price, foreign trade, interest rates, entry and exit policies), decentralization and competition (e.g.,
in banking, industry, agriculture), and market and private sector orientation. At the micro-level, the
Government has already disengaged from the operational management of enterprises. It is enforcing their
financial discipline, and plans to fully divest the socially-owned holdings in the near future. Financial
policies and entry to the banking sector and markets have been liberalized, resulting in the emergence of
new private institutions.
4.06          At the macro level, the Bank has been involved in the transition process in the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia from the very beginning. Since the framework for the development
of a market economy and the structural reforms are at an advanced stage of implementation, the Bank's
focus is now shifting to the micro level to promote growth of the private sector and to support the process
of transition through institution-building work and by providing well-calibrated financial assistance,
through banks already operating on sound financial and commercial principles, to competitive private
enterprises. The proposed Project aims at addressing critical needs which impair the supply response of
the private sector in manufacturing, services and agriculture.
4.07         The lessons from the Bank operations in other countries also point to the need that a
major financial sector reform operation with macro objectives, such as the FESAC in the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, should be followed by a credit line operation to solidify the
transformation of the financial sector on a bank-by-bank basis thereby helping to build the banks'
institutional capacity. The proposed Project will provide an opportunity to assist the banks, through
training and hands-on consulting, and to improve their lending, risk-management, supervision and loan
administration practices. This is especially important for the new, smaller private banks which normally
do not have access to high quality technical assistance. Participation of many banks will also stimulate
competition in the credit market.



- 16 -
V. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Scone of the Proposed Project
5.01         The principal objectives of the proposed Project are to: (a) promote growth of the private
sector and create conditions for an effective supply response from viable private enterprises and farmers;
(b) facilitate the adoption of safe and sound banking practices; and (c) stimulate competition in the credit
market. The proposed Project will provide an opportunity for the Bank to follow-up on the level of
individual banks with its assistance, initiated under the FESAC, to transformation and strengthening of
the banking sector.
5.02         The proposed Project would be supported by a DM 18 million IBRD loan. The loan
would be used to provide:
(a)    Private Sector Finance to creditworthy private industrial and agricultural enterprises to
improve profitability by increasing output or improving efficiency; and
(b)    Private Farmer Finance to viable private farmers to increase their output.
5.03         The loan will be initially divided into DM 14 million for private enterprise finance and
DM 4 million for private farmer finance. The new private banks, which are expected to be the main
intermediaries for the credit line, have little or no experience with private farmer finance. The crowding
out of the private farmers from access to the Bank credit line, was therefore, a potential problem which
needed to be addressed. To ensure the private farmers access to finance and, at the same time, encourage
the private banks to diversify into this sector, the DM 4 million has been preallocated for credit to private
farmers. This initial allocation will be regularly reviewed once the implementation starts, and the
necessary adjustments to reflect the apparent market demand for Bank funds will be made, if and when
necessary. After the first use of Bank funds, with financing to be continued from the roll-over fund,
there will be no specific allocations and the utilization of Bank funds will be on a first-come first-served
basis.
5.04         The proposed Project does not have a technical assistance component. However, a
comprehensive technical assistance program of US$1.25 million, of which US$300,000 under the
proposed Private Farmer Support Project was financed by IDA, has been developed in coordination with
a number of bilateral and multilateral donors. The technical assistance program would address issues
impeding the flow of credit to the private sector and provide training and hands-on consulting services
to participating banks in the areas critical for the*successful implementation of the proposed Project.
B. Project Components
5.05         The Private Sector Finance ComRonent would provide investment and permanent
working capital loans to private enterprises, including agricultural enterprises. Due to the lack of
medium- to long-term foreign exchange financing in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia,
provided on terms and conditions attractive to the private sector, the growth of private sector activities
in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia has been less than satisfactory. The Bank finance is
targeted to the most viable private enterprises aiming at improving their efficiency and profitability, and



- 17 -
at increasing their output. On the average, the funds would revolve about three times during the 20-year
maturity of the proposed Loan. As a result, the DM 14 million component for the private sector finance
would mobilize financing of about DM 45 million during the life of the proposed Loan.
5.06            Access to private sector finance would be open to viable private enterprises'/, including
agricultural enterprises. Eligibility of enterprises and subprojects would be determined based upon:
(a)    financial viability of a subproject, with the expected financial rate of return of minimum
15 percent. The economic rate of return, which must be minimum 15 percent, will be
checked by the Participating Financial Intermediaries (PFIs) and the Bank for all
subprojects affected by the significant price or tariff distortions;
(b)    satisfactory financial condition of the prospective borrower and capacity to bear the
foreign exchange risk;
(c)    presentation of a satisfactory business plan and financing plan for components of the
subprojects which are not covered under the PFI subloan, including adequate assurances
from cofinanciers or a proof that the enterprise has enough own funds to be able to
implement the project; and
(d)     clearance by competent authorities concerning environmental aspects.
5.07            The subloans will be denominated in DM  to match the prospective export revenues of
final beneficiaries. Interest rates would be variable, based on the Bank's lending rate, plus a spread to
cover administrative expenses and the PFI related credit risk, plus a market-based PFI spread, so as not
to introduce the credit market pricing distortions. Proceeds of the subloans would be used to fund capital
investments, including permanent working capital needs. For the private enterprises in the manufacturing
sector, the subprojects will typically aim to improve quality, packaging or to address other product
deficiencies; to improve production cost structure; to address production bottlenecks; or, when having
a reasonable prospect to increase exports, to increase capacity to produce exportable products. For the
tourism and services sector, the subprojects will typically aim at improving quality, value-added, or cost
structure of services; to address bottlenecks in service delivery; or to increase the capacity to provide the
foreign exchange earning services.
5.08            The Private Farmer Finance Component. Access to this component will be open only
to private farmers. The DM 4 million has been specifically earmarked for farmers, because there is a
high likelihood that they would be otherwise crowded out from access to Bank funds. The average
maturity of the subloans is expected to be about three years. With an assumption that the private farmer
will turn out to be efficient users of Bank funds, and therefore, manage to stay within the initially
allocated range, the DM 4 million earmarked for the private farmer finance would mobilize financing of
about DM 25 million during the 20-year maturity of the proposed Loan.
7/     The term private refers to enterprises which were established by private entrepreneurs and enterprises originally in
public ownership which have been privatized to have at least 51 percent private ownership and are independently
operated by the private owners. The 51 percent privatc ownership is deemed satisfactory, since the remaining 49
percnt will be socially owned. The social ownership in the specific former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
circumstances is usually fmgrnented, it does not allow for state interference and the 51 percent majority is enough to
ascertain a decisive vote in enterprise management.



- 18 -
5.09         The interest rate will have the same basis as that for the private investment finance
component. The eligibility of subprojects will be determined based on their financial viability, with an
expected financial rate of return of minimum 15 percent, in real terms, and a satisfactory repayment
capacity of the prospective borrowers. For all subprojects having as production input or output
agricultural commodities subject to price or tariff distortions, economic rate of return of minimum 15
percent will be required. Eligibility criteria, which include the economic rate of return, currently apply
to wheat, sugar and dairy products.
5.10         The subprojects will finance investment and working capital related to production of crop
and livestock. Incremental short-term credit would be provided for production inputs such as land
preparation, seed, fertilizer, agrochemicals, animal feed, hired labor and transportation. Investment credit
would be provided for farm mechanization, livestock and horticulture. Livestock subprojects would
include sheep and pig breeding and fattening, beef fattening, dairy and poultry (broilers and eggs).
Investment inputs financed would include machinery, equipment, civil works (e.g., barns, feed storage
facilities), planting material and breeding stock.
5.11         Financial Rate of Return. Since the interest rate on subloans is to be variable and the
final borrowers are to bear the interest rate risk, the minimum acceptable financial rate of return of a
subproject has been set to ensure that the subproject would always generate enough income to service the
subloan. Because the subloans are to be denominated in DM, the financial rate of return will be
calculated on a DM basis. The minimum rate of return will be 15 percent annually in nominal DM
terms. This reflects the sum of: the highest average historical interest rates for LIBOR-based DM loans
with six month maturities in the period 1986-1995; the apex institution margin over the Bank's lending
rate, i.e., 75 basis points net; and the average bank margin taken by the banks in the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia when intermediating DM denominated funds.
5.12         Economic Rate of Return. Calculation of the economic rate of return will not be
required, unless requested by the Bank based on a presumption of the existence of price or tariff
distortions affecting a subproject. Prices in the economy of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
have been liberalized and now reflect the market supply and demand. Notable exceptions are the prices
of certain agricultural commodities. Furthermore, the shadow wage rate in certain sectors of the
economy is somewhat below the current market rate. Therefore, in practical terms, the difference
between the financial and the economic rate of return can generally be safely ignored.
5.13         For subprojects using as production inputs goods subject to known price or tariff
distortions, or where the price of output is subsidized, the calculation of the economic rate of return will
be required. For such subprojects to be eligible for Bank finance, the economic rate of return must be
minimum 15 percent, in real terms. At this time,, significant policy induced price distortions still persist
in agricultural markets and apply to wheat, dairy and sugar producers. Therefore, until the subsidies
issues have been sorted out under the SACIL, the eligibility of subprojects involving these commodities
as input or output will be subject to the explicit calculation of the economic rate of return using border
prices.
5.14         Technical Assistance. While the proposed Project does not have a technical assistance
component, a comprehensive technical assistance package directly related to the implementation of the
proposed Project has been agreed and will be funded by a number of bilateral and multilateral sources.
The technical assistance program of about US$1.25 million comprises the following components, to be
provided by:



- 19 -
(a)    the Bank, before the proposed Project effectiveness: (i) installation, including training
of participating banks, of an interactive project implementation management system,
which comprehensively covers Bank funds management, subloan administration,
collection and billing, procurement and disbursement management, trouble shooting,
implementation forecasting and full reporting capacity; and (ii) training of participating
banks in techniques of credit risk appraisal and subproject appraisal, including the use
of computer-based tools with full financial statements and financial ratio analysis features,
cash flow projections and analysis, calculation of financial and economic rate of return
and sensitivity analysis;
(b)    the proposed Private Farmer Support Project (US$300,000) includes: (i) a program to
improve management information systems of participating banks; and (ii) assistance in
developing a training program for the private sector and farmers to facilitate access of
the private sector to the formal financial sector, including courses to improve accounting
and bookkeeping skills; provide information on regulatory framework applicable to
SMEs, including applicable tax and custom laws and regulations; prepare credit
applications for investment and working capital finance; and improve their technology
skills'/.
(c)     U.S. Agency for International Development (US$250,000), including: (i) a review of
pertinent regulations and court practices related to credit collateral and the effectiveness
of collection on collateral, to recommend modifications to the existing or issuance of
missing laws and regulations and other measures that will effectively address the
collateral issue; and (ii) a training program for the responsible court officers and for
other programs to implement recommendations of the review under point (i);
(d)     EU Phare Program through EBRD (US$400,000), covering: (i) training of banks in
asset/liabilities management and risk management, including methods in identifying,
analyzing, managing and pricing various types of financial risks, and methods and
policies for asset/liabilities and risk management; and (ii) training of banks in project and
credit risk appraisal, including lending policies, credit risk and project appraisal
procedures, loan administration and project supervision;
(e)     U.K. Know-How  Fund (US$50,000), including: training of banks in environmental
appraisal of projects and environmental reviews management; and
(f)    the Government of Netherlands (US$250,000): external audits of banks to assist in banks
appraisal process and which should serve as a benchmark for future audits to be
performed by domestic auditing firms.
The background to develop the training program for the private sector will be provided by a study, currently under
preparation, which aims at providing an assessment of the business, regulatory and market environment applicable to
SMEs. The study will review the applicable regulatory framework, markcets and market conditions, access to
technology and technology utilizer, pricing, earning and financing aspectB of their operations, etc. The study will
also provide specific recommendations on measures to be taken to create an enabling environnment for SME growth.



- 20 -
C. Project Cost and Flnancing Plan
5.15           An estimate of the total cost associated with the proposed Project is shown in Table 5.1.
This cost does not include the cost of subprojects which will be funded after the closing date of the
proposed Loan from repayments of subloans financed by Bank funds.
Table 5.1
Estimated Total Project Cost
l _______________________________  (USS     M illion)
Amount
Local          Foreign            Total
Private Sector Finance Component     6.0y'           14.0             20.0
Private Farmer Finance Component     1.07'            4.0              5.0
Total                                7.0             18.0              25.0
1/ Enterprises' funds and PFI Funds
Z/ Private farmers' funds and PFI funds
5.16           Based on the discussions held with prospective PFIs and final beneficiaries, it is expected
that the line of credit will largely finance foreign costs and that the local costs of the private sector
investmnent projects will be funded by the beneficiaries themselves from retained earnings and by the PFI
credits. This results in a financing scheme under which the Bank financing would cover DM 18 million
equivalent, or about 70 percent of the total cost of the project. The financing plan developed with these
assumptions is presented in Table 5.2.
Table 5.2
Proposed Financing Plan
(DM Million)
Amount
l ________________________       Local      Foreign      Total
IBRD                               0.0        18.0        18.0
Private Enterprises and Farmers    3.0         0.0         3.0
PFis                               4.0        0.0          4.0
Total                             7.0        18.0         25.0
D. Environmental Aspects
5.17           The former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia has an Environmental Law, which sets
standards generally comparable to those in EU and which is soon to be amended with the Bank's
assistance. The proposed Project has been classified in Category B. Environmental aspects would be
addressed on a subproject-by-subproject basis. In order for subprojects to be financed from the Bank



- 21 -
credit line, clearance by competent authorities concerning the environmental impact of the proposed
investment would be required. Environmental impact analysis would have to be prepared for all
investment projects that so require under the Environmental Law. It is expected that the equipment to
be purchased from subloan proceeds will be mostly with environmentally sound technology of foreign
make and, therefore, will not post environmental issues. While reviewing the subprojects submitted by
the PFIs, the Bank will ensure that the subprojects are environmentally sound and that the clearance by
competent authorities has been received. The PFIs will monitor compliance with environmental
regulations in the course of normal subproject supervision. The Bank would also check, on a sampling
basis, environmental compliance of larger subprojects during its supervision missions.
5.18         A manual for Environmental Review Procedures has been developed by the authorities
in agreement with the Bank and would be used by PFIs in the process of subproject appraisal for
screening environmental issues. It is expected that the manual would also be used by the PFIs when
appraising other projects, as a means to assess the risk of potential environmental liabilities which might
affect the borrowers' credit rating.
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND ONLENDING ARRANGEMENTS
A. Loan Terms and Conditions
6.01         The proposed Loan of DM 18 million will be made to the former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia for a period of 20 years, including five years of grace. It will be a standard LIBOR-based
variable interest rate single currency loan (SCL) in DM. In order to provide quick and efficient support
for the development of the private sector (including private farmers), a phased formula for extending
Bank finance is proposed. Once the DM 15 million of the proposed Loan has been committed, Board
approval would be sought for additional financing of DM 18 million under the same terms and conditions
as the proposed Loan.
6.02         NBM will rediscount eligible loans of PFIs, which would channel these resources to
eligible subborrowers for eligible subprojects. Lending arrangements include: (a) Loan Agreement
between the Bank and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia; (b) Subsidiary Financing Agreements
between NBM and the PFIs; and (c) Subloan Refinancing between NBM and the PFIs, back-to-back to
Subloan Agreements between the PFIs and the final borrowers. Subsidiary Financing Agreements by at
least two PFIs satisfactory to the Bank is a condition of effectiveness. The Subsidiary Financing
Agreement will include: (i) terms and conditions of subsidiary loans extended to a PFI; (ii) terms and
conditions of PFI subloans to final borrowers; (iii) commitment by a PFI to follow agreed appraisal
procedures and eligibility criteria; (iv) agreement to establish or strengthen a technical appraisal unit;
(v) agreement to establish a Credit Committee; (vi) agreement to undertake external audits and to
implement auditor's recommendations; and (vii) agreement to provide periodic reports on the portfolio
financed from Bank funds. Subloan Agreements will refer to particular subprojects and must be of a
form and content satisfactory to the Bank.
6.03         The NBM's subsidiary to PFIs ("subsidiary loans") will be extended on a first-come first-
served basis and back-to-back to the PFI subloans to final beneficiaries, with identical amounts, maturities
and repayment schedules. The subsidiary loans to PFIs will be made in DM at the variable interest rate
equivalent to the Bank's lending rate, plus a NBM spread of 100 basis points. The NBM spread is to
cover the credit risk associated with subsidiary finance plus the real NBM cost, including administration



- 22 -
cost, commitment fees, applicable interest charges and other incidental expenses. The spread will be
reviewed by the Bank from time to time, and may be adjusted to better reflect the actual cost and risks
of the apex.
6.04         The PFIs would onlend the funds to eligible final borrowers for eligible projects. The
PFIs will assume the full credit risk. The subloans will be made in DM at variable interest rates priced
on the basis of the Bank's lending rate plus the NBM margin, plus a market-based PFI spread. The
beneficiaries will assume the currency risk and the interest rate risk. Subsidiary and subloans terms and
spreads will be reviewed by the Bank from time to time.
6.05         The PFIs, which will bear the full credit risk, will apply their own risk exposure limits
on the total financing for subprojects as decided by their Board and codified in their operations and credit
policies. The average exposure of banks in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is currently
about 70 percent of the total project cost. The maximum exposure of any PFI will not exceed the limits
set by NBM prudential regulations.
6.06         Private Sector Finance. Maturities of subloans for the private sector will range from
one to ten years, including a grace period of up to three years. Grace periods and repayment schedules
will be flexible to suit requirements of individual projects and enterprises. Maximum subloan size will
be DM 800,000. Exceptions may be authorized by the Bank on a case-by-case basis based on
significantly increased foreign exchange earning potential of a particular project and/or final borrower.
This maximum will be reviewed and may be adjusted from time to time.
6.07         Private Farmer Finance. Maturities of subloans for private farmers will be of up to
five years, with a grace period of up to two years. Grace periods and repayment schedules will be
flexible to suit requirements of individual projects and borrowers' cash flow and overall repayment
capacity. Maximum subloan size will be DM 200,000. Exceptions may be authorized by the Bank on
a case-by-case basis.
6.08         Repayments. Repayments by the PFIs to the NBM will match the repayment schedules
of subloans to the final borrowers. Should the final borrower prepay all or part of the subloan prior to
maturity, the PFI would be required to immediately prepay its subsidiary loan to NBM. In case of
arrears in principal or interest repayment on any due date from a final borrower, the PFI will nevertheless
be liable for the payment to NBM. NBM will establish a rollover fund with resources generated by
repayments of all subloans under the Project. Resources from the rollover fund will be available to
finance additional subprojects, which meet the same eligibility criteria, or to service the Bank loan.
6.09         Free Limit. Initially, a free limit for both types of finance will not be established. The
Bank will continue to review subloans proposed by each PFI until a PFI's appraisal capacity is deemed
satisfactory. At this time, a free limit for the particular PFI will be established. This free limit will be
PFI specific and may be adjusted from time to time.
B. Lending Arrangements
6.10         The Apex Arrangements. Financing for both components would be provided through
an apex arrangement to allow open access of new PFIs. The apex functions would include: (a) appraisal
and qualification of the PFIs; (b) refinancing of PFI loans to final beneficiaries; (c) monitoring of the use



- 23 -
of Bank funds; (d) administration of the disbursements and collection (repayments) of funds advanced to
or received from PFIs; (e) monitoring of PFIs to ensure their continued qualifications; and (f) reporting
to the Bank on all aspects of Project implementation.
6.11          Initially, the Bank would retain the responsibility for the appraisal and qualification of
the PFIs and for periodic evaluation of their eligibility. This function would be discharged in close
cooperation with NBM. In particular, in accordance with agreed criteria (Annex 1), the Supervision
Department of NBM would screen financial institutions which have applied to participate in
intermediation of the Bank funds and propose to the Bank financial institutions which are deemed capable
to qualify. As part of the normal supervision process, NBM will continue to monitor soundness of PFIs
including their capacity to appraise subprojects, inform the Bank of any deterioration of their financial
and operating conditions, and ensure that the PFIs subject their financial statements for external auditing
on a regular basis. If a PFI, due to the deterioration of its financial condition, ceases to meet the
qualification criteria, it will be disqualified. The decision on the PFI disqualification will be made by
the Bank, upon appraisal of its financial condition.
6.12          The International Relations Department of NBM, or another entity selected in agreement
with the Bank, would have the primary responsibility for operational functions, including: (a) providing
subsidiary finance to PFIs; (b) monitoring the use of Bank funds, including procurement and
disbursement; (c) collecting from PFIs; (d) repaying to the Bank; and (e) reporting on the use of project
funds and other matters related to the implementation of the proposed Project9/. A unit having specific
responsibility to administer the Bank loan funds (called Project Implementation Unit or Apex Unit) will
be established in the International Department of NBM or in another institution satisfactory to the Bank.
The unit should be staffed with experienced, adequately trained individuals. Establishment of this unit
and adequate staffing with well-trained and experienced professionals is a condition of effectiveness.
6.13          Monitoring and reporting would require a good accounting and management information
system in order to track disbursements and collection of funds and to provide the necessary reports in
accordance with Bank procedures (e.g., procurement, reporting). Such a system is being developed in
the Bank and will be installed in the apex unit and in all PFIs. The system is a computerized, interactive
database system with full capacity for loan accounting and loan service administration. The system
includes modules for procurement and disbursement management and monitoring, and has troubleshooting
and forecasting capacities and the full reporting capacity.
6.14          Participating Banks. The developmental objectives of the proposed Project are to:
(a) encourage competition in the credit markets; (b) strengthen the delivery system for private investment
and agricultural finance; and (c) promote adoption of safe and sound banking practices. It is, therefore,
desirable that as many eligible banks as possible participate in intermediating Bank funds. The private
banks have been encouraged to participate as PFIs, in order to increase the competition and to spread the
risk.
6.15          All banks operating in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia are eligible to
participate provided that they meet the qualification criteria (Annex 1). The qualification criteria include
the following:
2/     Note that the project implementation unit will not be involved in credit decisions and/or in rationing credit among the
PFIs.



- 24 -
(a)    satisfactory fnancial position and capital adequacy meeting international standards, as
evidenced by external audits performed by auditors satisfactory to the Bank and according
to international accounting and auditing standards;
(b)    full compliance with NBM prudential regulations and other applicable legislation;
(c)    satisfactory financial policies and operating procedures, especially concerning loan
classification and provisioning and project appraisal, and adequate funding structure;
(d)    adequate profitability and satisfactory operational performance, especially concerning
past-due and non-performing loans and collection ratio for the total loan portfolio of
minimumrr 85 percent; and
(e)    satisfactory technical capacity to identify, appraise and supervise utilization of Bank
funds.
6.16           The PFIs' responsibilities include: (a) promotion and building of the project pipeline;
(b) subproject and borrower appraisal; (c) subloan administration and collection; (d) subproject
performance supervision; and (e) periodic reporting to the project implementation unit and the Bank. The
PFIs would be required to establish a technical unit, specialized in long-term project lending and properly
staffed. The unit will perform the appraisal and supervise all subprojects financed by a PFI. Appraisals
should be cleared by the respective PFI Credit Committee. A PFI is also expected to introduce
appropriate internal audits and controls.
6.17           To address possible inadequacy of the branch networks of PFIs, in terms of ability to
effectively reach individual farmers in rural areas, the PFIs will be allowed to use marketing, retail or
collecting agents, including savings institutions'/. The relationship between a PFI and its agent will
be contractual, whereby an agent will receive a fee, and the PFI will continue to appraise the subloans,
make credit decisions, bear the credit risk and keep the loan in its portfolio until repaid. When acting
as marketing agents, the savings institutions will provide and disseminate information about the proposed
Project and on terms and conditions of borrowing. When acting as a retail agent, the savings institutions
will solicit subloan applications, prepare initial documentation and forward it to the respective PFI.
6.18           Ten banks have expressed interest in participating so far. These include: Komercijalna
Banka, Makedonska Banka, Almako, Kreditna Banka, Balkanska Banka, Invest Banka, Ohridska Banka,
Stopanska Banka Bitola, Tetovska Banka Tetovo and Stopanska Banka Skopje. At the outset, a minimum
of two eligible PFIs would be sufficient to start the proposed Project implementation.
6.19           Details on banks qualification process and the qualification criteria are provided in
Annex 1. In addition to a clean audit opinion on all financial statements given by reputable and
independent external auditors satisfactory to the Bank and based on full external audit (standard terms of
reference for external audits are provided in Annex 5), the Bank appraisal is based on two types of
criteria: (a) level of capitalization and capital adequacy, using international standards as qualification
10/    The savings institutions are privately owned savings and loan agencies which are, by their charter, limnited in dealing
with individualm and households. They are regulated by NBM. For the rural areas, they may have comparative
advantage over banks in terms of access to potential borrowers.



- 25 -
criteria; and (b) qualitative criteria showing that a bank has a satisfactory capacity to intermediate Bank
funds. Annex 2 discusses the process of appraisal and provides details on banks' financial position and
appraisals.
6.20          The appraisal of banks which have expressed interest in participation will start as soon
as a bank is able to present a full external audit as of December 31, 1995 completed by external auditors
satisfactory to the Bank, according to the terms of reference provided in Annex 5. For banks which are
not able to pay for the full external audit because their boards are not willing to approve such expenses,
the external audits will be paid by the trust fund established by the Government of Netherlands.
According to the preliminary unaudited financial statements, at least four PFIs are deemed capable of
meeting the qualification criteria for participating in the proposed Project.
C. Loan Administration
6.21          Procurement. Procurement will be performed by final beneficiaries. For items which
cost less than DM 150,000 equivalent, procurement will follow normal commercial practices satisfactory
to the Bank`1/. The aggregate amount of such procurement will not exceed DM 7 million. Items which
cost DM 150,000 to DM 1.5 million equivalent would be procured through international shopping on the
basis of at least three competitive quotations obtained from suppliers in two eligible countries. The
aggregate amount of such procurement will not exceed DM 8 million. For items which cost more than
DM 1.5 million equivalent, international competitive bidding would be followed. For proprietary items,
direct contracting will be used. For technical assistance to help with preparation or implementation of
the subprojects, the final beneficiaries would follow the Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants (Bank
Guidelines). The Bank would review and clear all contracts above DM 150,000 for the employment of
consulting firms and above DM 75,000 for the employment of individual consultants. The smaller
contracts will be reviewed on a sampling basis during regular supervision missions.
6.22          The PFIs will be required to maintain records of the procurement made under the Project,
with summaries of offers received and awards made under each subloan. These records would be used
by external auditors in auditing the PFIs' statement of expenditures. The first contracts cleared by a PFI
and all contracts above DM 1.5 million equivalent will be subject to prior review by the Bank. Review
of other contracts will be on a sampling basis during regular supervision missions. The Bank will
organize a procurement seminar for PFIs to assist them in acquiring the necessary procurement skills.
The first such seminar for the PFIs will be organized prior to loan effectiveness. In addition, consulting
assistance in procurement matters would be made available to PFIs. From time to time, procurement
seminars will also be organized for the final borrowers.
6.23          Disbursement.  Disbursements for the private sector finance component will cover:
(a) up to 100 percent of foreign exchange expenditures (cif) for directly imported goods; (b) up to 80
percent of locally produced goods, as well as for other items procured locally; (c) up to 100 percent of
expenditures for engineering, consultant services for the preparation of enterprise business plans and
restructuring programs, for the preparation of subproject applications and for subproject implementation
assistance, and for the development of management information systems; and (d) foreign expenditures
for technology transfer, licenses and other payments for specialized technology and associated equipment
II/    These typically include selection from a number of suppliers of the beat offer bawed on predefined selection criteria.



- 26 -
of proprietary nature. For the private farmer finance component, disbursements will cover up to 100
percent of foreign exchange expenditures under the subproject and up to 80 percent of local costs and/or
of items and services procured locally.
6.24         Due to the great number of small disbursements expected under the proposed Project,
disbursements under DM 750,000 million for expenditures for goods and training, DM 150,000 under
contracts for consulting firms and DM 75,000 under contracts for individual consultants will be made
against a certified statement of expenditures (SOE), for which appropriate documentation would be
retained by the PFIs and the apex. Disbursements above DM 750,000 million for goods and services,
DM 150,000 for consulting firms and DM 75,000 for individual consultants will be made on the basis
of full documentation. The Bank's reimbursement will be limited to expenditures made by a subborrower
not more than 180 days prior to the Bank's receipt of the request for reimbursement. A disbursement
seminar will be organized by the Bank at the time of loan effectiveness to familiarize the PFIs and the
implementing agencies with the disbursement procedures.
6.25         Special Account. Since the proposed Project would involve the financing of many small
items, a special account would be created in a mutually agreed bank to facilitate disbursements. Most
expenditures under the project (which are approved by the PFIs and subsequently authorized by the Bank)
would be met out of the funds in the special account. When appropriate, special commitments or direct
payment to foreign suppliers may also be used. The Bank would disburse an initial amount of
DM 750,000 into the special account upon effectiveness of the proposed Loan and would periodically
replenish the account on the basis of reimbursement requests. The replenishment amount would be
increased to DM 1.5 million after cumulative disbursements have reached DM 2.5 million. The
minimum application size for direct payments, reimbursement and Special Commitments until the
aggregate disbursements reach DM 2.5 million will be DM 150,000; thereafter, it will be DM 300,000.
6.26         Disbursement Schedule and Closing Date. The estimated disbursement schedule for
the project is contained in Annex 3. The expected disbursement of the loan is based on ECA/MENA
experience with similar operations and adjusted for specific circumstances in the former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia. A review of the proposed Project implementation performance will be made on
or about September 30, 1997, i.e., about one year after loan effectiveness. If the implementation
performance is deemed unsatisfactory, the Bank will have an option to cancel the remaining loan amount.
The commitment amount which would indicate satisfactory implementation performance is DM 3 million,
and at least two PFIs should maintain their qualification. If, on the basis of performance review, the
Bank is satisfied with the performance record, the commitment period will be extended to September 30,
1998. The closing date for the loan is June 30, 1999.
6.27         Reports and Audits. The PFIs would submit to the Bank semi-annual reports on
commitments, disbursements, collections and arrears under the project to the Bank. In addition, the PFIs
would maintain proper accounts for subloans, including supporting procurement and disbursement
documents, which would be audited annually by external auditors acceptable to the Bank. Since most
subloans would be disbursed on the basis of SOEs, the regular annual audit of the PFI wouid have to
include a special opinion on the adequacy of SOE procedures. Audit reports have to be submitted to the
Bank no later than six months after the close of a PFI financial year. These audits should include a
certification that the PFI is in compliance with the financial covenants agreed under the proposed Project.



- 27 -
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
7.01          The proposed Project is expected to contribute to reversing the country's economic decline
and to increasing the private sector's share in the economy, thereby facilitating the transition to a market
economy. Its objectives and development indicators are summarized in Annex 6. The proposed Project
would support viable private enterprises. Investments financed by the proposed Project would increase
their earnings and profitability, and yield positive effects regarding employment and income generation
capacity of the private sector. Through the demonstration effect, it may stimulate more open access to
the credit market for the private sector.
7.02         The farm investments and production inputs financed under the proposed Project would
enable farmers to intensify cultivation and animal husbandry and thereby increase agricultural output.
Short-term crop production credit would assist farmers to purchase improved seeds, fertilizers, and pest-
control chemicals, as well as finance land preparation and labor costs, as elements of improved technical
packages for crop production. Medium/long-term credit for investments in livestock production would
assist farmers to provide housing and stores for breeding, feeding and fattening operations, and improved
genetic stock for higher yields of milk, meat and wool. Investments in modern farm equipment would
enable farmers to achieve early and better crop plowing and sowing, better soil moisture infiltration and
storage, and reduced cultivation costs. These benefits would be further supported by the proposed Private
Farmer Support Project, which is being processed in parallel, and which will fund technical assistance
to further improve the enabling environment for the development of private agriculture.
7.03         The proposed Project will also contribute to the strengthening of the banking sector in
a number of aspects. Encouraging participation of small but financially viable new private banks will
promote competition in the credit markets. The process of bank appraisal, with the participation of
NBM, will help to practice on-site supervision; the discussions with senior banks management will help
in assessing the strengths and weaknesses of each institution. The rigorous subproject appraisal required
by the proposed Project is expected to yield positive demonstration effects on banks, thereby helping to
better assess and manage financial risk, to improve banks' lending policies and appraisal procedures and
to improve their loan accounting.
B. Risks
7.04         The recent reopening of the country's borders should help in stimulating trade and private
sector development. General instability in the Balkan region, however, remains an overhanging risk for
the implementation of the proposed Project. The macroeconomic instability, which could re-emerge
during the period until the transition to a market economy is completed, is also a risk. The reforms
supported by the FESAC, together with the ongoing dialogue with the IMF and the Bank's proposed
Structural Adjustment Loan should, however, minimize the risk of policy slippage which could lead to
macroeconomic instability.
7.05         The main project specific risk results from general institutional weakness, including skill
deficiencies of banks and private enterprise managements. This risk has been addressed by arranging
technical assistance for all participants in the proposed Project and covering the most important aspects
where skills deficiencies might jeopardize the Project's success. Close supervision of about 20 staffweeks



- 28 -
during the first year of implementation and 16 staffweeks per year thereafter, rather than the Bank's
average of 12 staffweeks, will help to contain this risk.
7.06          Volatility and uncertain prospects can adversely affect the PFIs willingness to engage in
long-term lending to private enterprises or to diversify into agricultural lending. A general increase in
non-performing assets would decrease the PFIs capacity to take the credit risk associated with the
proposed Project. This risk is contained by a technical assistance to the PFIs to better manage risks, and
by strengthening their capacities to assess credit risk associated with particular borrowers and projects.
Credit risk of the PFIs and currency risk of the final beneficiaries has been decreased by extending a
single currency loan rather than the Bank's standard pooled loan.
VIII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01          During negotiations, final agreements were reached on the following: (a) the single
currency loan terms, including loan currency and interest rate basis (para. 6.01); (b) the interest rate and
on-lending terms of PFIs (para. 6.03); (c) terms and conditions of subloans to the private sector and
farmers (paras. 6.06 and 6.07); (d) eligibility criteria for subproject to be financed of the private sector
(para. 5.06) and of farmers (para. 5.09); (e) eligibility criteria for PFI participation (para. 6.15); (f) the
content and form of Subsidiary Financing Agreements with PFIs (para. 6.02); (g) the apex arrangements
to implement the proposed Project (paras. 6.10-6.12); (h) procurement arrangements (paras. 6.21-6.22);
(i) disbursement arrangements and special accounts (paras. 6.23-6.25); (j) the content and schedule of
audit reports and on other reporting requirements (para. 6.27); (k) enviromnental review procedures
(para. 5.17); and () targeted commitment amount after the first year of implementation (para. 6.26).
8.02          Agreed Actions. At negotiations agreements were reached on the following:
(a)    Condition of Effectiveness, including: (i) signing of Subsidiary Financing Agreements
by at least two PFIs; and (ii) establishment of an apex unit for project implementation
satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b)    Implementation Performance Condition. The initial commitment cut-off date will be
September 30, 1997. At that time the Bank will review the implementation performance,
and, if satisfied, extend the loan commitment date to September 30, 1998.
8.03          Subject to the above agreements, the proposed Project constitutes a suitable basis for a
single currency loan to the Government of the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia in the amount
of DM 18.0 million at a Bank's standard variable interest rate for single currency loans for a period of
20 years, including five-year grace period, under terms and conditions outlined in Chapter VI.
m:\Asbb\mac\sr\grmar\April 17, 1996U3:40pm



- 29 -                                    Annex I
Page 1 of 6
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Procedure for Accreditation of Banks and
Criteria for Banks Oualification
1.           Application for Participation. An application for participation of a financial institution
in the intermediation of the World Bank financed credit lines shall be filed with the Department of Bank
Supervision, National Bank of Macedonia.
2.           Papers Required. An application for participation should be accompanied by: (a) a full
set of documents and tables as listed in Attachment 2 of this document; (b) an outline of operational
policies and guidelines as specified in Attachment 3; (c) a brief corporate strategy outline as explained
in Attachment 4; and (d) a statement, signed by the Chief Executive Officer, that the financial institution
agrees to be subject to the Bank's appraisal process.
3.           Screening.  Upon submission of the application supported by the above listed
documentation, the National Bank of Macedouia (NBM) will review the application. According to the
qualification criteria listed in Attachment 1, the NBM would decide whether a bank qualifies for full
appraisal or not. If the opinion is positive, both the World Bank and the applicant bank should be
notified. A bank, which, according to the opinion of the NBM, does not meet the qualification criteria
will be informed in writing, including specific reasons for refusal of their application and advice
regarding necessary improvements before it could re-apply.
4.           Appraisal. The World Bank would appraise only banks for which a positive opinion by
the NBM has been received. If the appraisal shows that the bank's financial condition and intermediation
capacity is satisfactory to the World Bank, the bank would be advised to submit the papers necessary for
accreditation. Otherwise, the bank would be informed in writing as to why it has not been able to
qualify.
5.           Accreditation. The accreditation would be effected upon presentation of the following
documents:
(a)    Board Resolution - A copy of the resolution of the Board of Directors of a bank
authorizing the bank to sign a Subsidiary Financing Agreement (i.e., agree to take
subloans financed by the World Bank to refinance credits that it has extended to eligible
borrowers for eligible projects and expenditures), and designating two authorized
signatories (at least one signatory shall have the rank of vice president or officer of
equivalent rank to sign on behalf of the PFI all papers pertaining to the subloans);
(b)    Letter of Understanding, accepting for the World Bank financed projects and transactions
to: (i) adhere to the Operating Policy guidelines for World Bank financed credit lines;
(ii) establish a unit or an identifiable group to be responsible for approval and supervision
of Bank financed projects; (iii) establish a Loan Review Committee; and (iv) provide
training for the unit or group staff as advised by the World Bank; and
(c)    Agreement for the World Bank financed projects and transactions to: (i) adhere to
procurement and disbursement procedures of the World Bank; (ii) maintain loan accounts
and documentation; and (iii) submit annually externally audited financial statements



- 30 -                         ~~~~~Annex I
- 30 -                                   Page 2 of 6
concerning the World Bank related portfolio for as long as the bank continues to
participate in the World Bank financed credit lines.
6.            Suspension/Termination of Accreditation. In case when a subsequent evaluation of the
eligibility of a participating financial institution (PFI) shows that the PFI has not maintained compliance
with the qualification and accreditation criteria and/or with the Operational Policy Guidelines applicable
for Bank financed credit lines, the PFI accreditation will be suspended. Once the reasons for suspension
have been satisfactorily addressed, the bank would be able to re-apply for participation.



Annex 1
- 31 -                                     Page 3 of 6
ATTACHMENT 1
Oualification Criteria
l.            A financial institution that seeks to participate in the Bank-financed credit lines should
be in a sound financial condition and have a satisfactory performance reflective of a healthy loan and
investment portfolio, and should adhere to sound operating policies and procedures. Specifically, a
financial institution must comply with the following qualification criteria:
(a)    The ratio of total capital to risk weighted assets should not be lower than 8
percent, of which minimum 4 percent should be primary capital.
(b)    It must have demonstrated satisfactory performance, including profitable
operations, for at least a year immediately preceding the date of application for
accreditation.
(c)    It must have satisfactory financial policies and operating procedures, including
satisfactory risk management, as a minimum including loan classification and
provisioning on an asset-by-asset basis, and diversified funding. Own funds,
including capital, should cover minimum 50 percent of the total loan portfolio.
(d)    It must be in compliance with the ceilings and limitations on loans to directors,
officers, stockholders, and related interests in accordance with the existing
regulations. A bank would be obliged to report to the National Bank of
Macedonia all assets where the exposure to a single borrower and affiliated
parties exceeds 10 percent of bank's capital.
(e)    The total past due loans must not exceed 15 percent of the total loan portfolio of
assets acquired after April 20, 1992. A financial institution whose level of
arrears exceeds the 15 percent ceiling may still apply for participation, providing
that the unimpaired capital and reserves are sufficient to meet the minimum
capital requirements. Appraisal of such a bank should finally determine whether
or not it will be allowed to participate.
(f)    It must have satisfactory credit appraisal policies and an organization,
management and staff with the requisite expertise to identify, appraise and
supervise the utilization of loans.
(g)    It must be in good standing with the National Bank of Macedonia, and be in
satisfactory compliance with all pertinent laws, rules and regulations to the
satisfaction of all regulatory authorities.
(h)    It must have a business strategy.



- 32 -                                   Annex 1
Page 4 of 6
ATTACHMENT 2
Documents and Data to be Provided with Application for Participation
I. Documents
1.    Financial statements for minimum two years immediately preceding the date of application,
including Balance Sheet, Income Statement and Sources and Uses of Funds Statement.
2.    Articles of Establishment and By-Laws.
3.    Number of branches/subsidiaries, their relationship with head office, their authorizations.
4.    List (including very short biography) of Board members and Senior Management.
5.    Manuals on different policies and procedures specifically including:  income accrual, loan
classification, provisioning, project appraisal, project supervision and risk exposure limits
6.    Two samples of project/credit appraisal.
7.    Business plan including assumptions of financial market demand.
8.    List of and exposure to 20 largest clients.
9.    Technical Assistance or staff capacity building program currently in progress or planned.
II. List of Tables
Table 1: Organizational Chart including number of professional staff
Table 2: Main Products. List of main products on- and off-balance sheet,
including loans (terms and interest rate) and other products
offered to clients
Table 3: Loan Classification, including net exposure and provisions
Loans in Arrears, including number, volume and age of arrears
(e.g., 1-3 months, 3-6 months, etc.)
Table 4: Funding Position, showing sources of funds
Table 5: Actual (2 years) and Projected (3 years) Income Statements
Table 6: Actual (2 years) and Projected (3 years) Balance Sheets
Table 7: Actual (2 years) and Projected (3 years) Cash Flow Statements
Table 8: Sources of Funding including average cost of funding for each
type of funding source



- 33 -                                     Annex 1
Page 5 of 6
ATTACHMENT 3
Outline of Policy Statements
1.    Institutional Policies
1.1    Portfolio quality
1.2    Appraisal standards
1.3    Exposure limits: single enterprise, industry/subsector, business groups, affiliates
1.4    Relationship vis-a-vis directors, officers, shareholders and related interests
2.    Asset-Liability Management Guidelines
2.1    Liquidity management
2.2    Currency matching
2.3    Maturity matching
2.4    Matching of variable vs. fixed rate assets and liabilities
3.    Rate of Return required for Loans to be extended by the Bank
4.    Borrower Creditworthiness Appraisal Guidelines
4.1    Minimum current ratio
4.2    Maximum debt/equity ratio
4.3    Minimum debt service coverage ratio
4.4    Profitability
4.5    Return on assets
5.    Financial Ratios/Guidelines for Risk Management
5.1    Capital adequacy
5.2    Adequacy of provisions
5.3    Rules to calculate net exposure
5.4    Minimum collection ratio
6.     Environmental Review Policies
7.    Relations with Branch Network
7.1    Nature of branch and quarters relationship
7.2    Lending authorities
8.    Internal Audit and Controls
8.1    Audit policies
8.2   Internal audit plan



Annex 1
Page 6 of 6
ATACHMENT 4
Outline of Corporate Strateay
1.    Relations with Corporate Sector, Financial Sector and Government
2.    Strategies to Strengthen the Balance Sheet
2.1   Portfolio quality
2.2    Capital adequacy
2.3    Balance sheet vs. off-balance-sheet growth
2.4    Diversification of asset mix and funding base
3.    Business Strategies
3.1   Product line development/diversification, including time-bound targets
3.2    Relative importance of various asset/liability product lines
3.3    Marketing strategies
3.4    Target market shares
4.    Re-source/Funding Strategies
5.    Operational Strategies
5.1   Improvements in internal control
5.2    MIS development
5.3    Automation
5.4   Planning and budgeting
5.5   Financial management systems
5.6   Project finance: appraisal and supervision standards and procedures
6.    Operations, Profitability and Balance Sheet Projections
6.1    Profitability of product lines, relative growth and importance over time
6.2    Relative contribution to profit by product lines
6.3    Relative magnitude and composition of assets and liabilities on the balance sheet
7.    Human Resource Development
7.1    Training policies and training programs
7.2   Promotion policies
7.3   Salaries and Incentives



- 35 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 7
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Participating Financial Institutions
1.     The proposed Project has generated a very strong interest in participation by banks in the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. The summary of banks and of their appraisal status is shown in Table
A2.1.
Table A2. 1: Financial Intermediaries
Bank                           Ownershi2            Interest 3/      Appraisal 4/      Comments
Komercijalna (KBS)              Mixed                Both             07/95            T/B Qualified
Makedonska (MBS)                Private 2/           Both             07/95            T/B Qualified
Stopanska, Skopje (SBS)         Mixed                Both             06/96            T/B  appraised  after  rehabilitation
completed
Balkanska (BBS)                 Mixed                Both             07/95            To submit asset portfolio audit
Invest (IBS)                    Mixed                SMA              01/96            To submit asset portfolio audit
Almako (ABS)                    Private 2/           SMA              01/96            To present external audit
Kreditna (KRS)                  Private 2/           SMA              01/96            To present external audit
Ohridska (OBO)                  Mixed                SMA              01/96            T/B appraised after settlement with STB
Stopanska, Bitola (SBB)         Mixed                SMA              01/96            T/B appraised after settlement with STB
Tetovska (TBT)                  Mixed                SMA              01/96            T/B appraised after settlement with STB
Notes:
1/     All banks are majority private owned. The ownership of 'mixed' banks includes certain percentage of shares of socially-owned
enterprises.
2/     Includes foreign capital.
3/      Bank has an interest to participate under the private sector component only (SMA); under both components or Both
4/      Scheduled appraisal.
2.      The qualification decision is based on the level of capitalization and capital adequacy, profitability
and general financial condition of a bank and using international standards as qualification criteria, and
on qualitative criteria. The description of the appraisal and qualification process and the details on
qualification criteria are provided in Annex 1. The following qualitative aspects are studied at appraisal
in detail:
-       quality of management, managerial structure and human resources;



- 36 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 7
general risk management - risk profile and exposure policies of the bank, policies and
methods used for asset/liability management, portfolio mismatches and gaps, funding
structure;
operationalization of risk management - existence of risk committee and loan committee,
their functions and responsibilities, rationale for and the disposition of lending authorities;
credit risk management - identification of risks, lending policies and procedures, asset
classification loan loss provisions, quality of credit appraisal;
information systems - data bases, computerization level and quality of management
information systems;
internal control and auditing systems;
- business strategy and future growth/diversification plans;
plans for external auditing (by international auditing firms) in the near future;
in the case of new private banks, their accumulated experience in banking business and
operations; and
staff training programs.
3.     For qualitative criteria, minimum standards acceptable to the Bank, rather than standards for
banks operating in developed market economies, are used. Quality of management is given major
importance at appraisal. Specific concerns include management appreciation of risks in the current
business environment and of financial market conditions, existence of a coherent growth and
diversification program, and management understanding of bank's major deficiencies and existence of
plans to address them. Staff skills and relevant experience are also appraised. However, because of the
developmental role of the proposed Project, willingness to develop such skills, if currently less than
satisfactory, is also acceptable for participation. Staff training and massive technical assistance would
be provided under the proposed Project and the proposed Private Farmers Support Project and supervised
by the PSD project team, to build the skill capacity to a fully satisfactory level. A summary of bank
appraisals is provided in Table A2.2



Table A2.2: Appraisal Summary
(As of June 30, 1995)
Criteria                        KBS        MBS         SBS 3/        BBS          IBS         ABS          KRS         OBO          SBB          TBT
Capital adequacy                Yes         Yes         No          TBD          TBD          Yes          Yes           [/           1/          [/
Fin. performance satisfactory
during lat two years            Yes         Yes         No           Yes          Yes         Yes          Yes         Yes 2        Yes V       Yes 2t
Fin. policies med minimum       Yes         Yes         Yes          Yes          Yes         Yes          Yes          Yes          Yes         Yes
standards 4/
Satisfactory loan classification  Yes       Yes         No          TBD          TBD          TBD          Yes          Yes          Yes         Yes
and provisioning I/                                                                                                                          I
Standard credit appraisal       Yes         Yes         Yes          LFS          LFS         TBD          Yes          Yes          Yes         LFS
policies
Skils sufficient for agriculture  Yes       LFS         Yes          LFS          LFS         N/A          N/A          N/A         N/A          N/A
finance
Good standing with NBM          Yes         Yes         No           Yes          Yea         Ycs          Yes         TBD          TBD          TBD
External audits 6/              Yes         Yes         Yes          LFS          LFS          No          No           No           No           No
Notes: YES means positive finding; NO means negative finding; TBD means to be determined; LPS means less than fuly satisfactory; N/A means not applicabk.
1/      Ohridska Banka (OBO), Stopanska Banka Bitola (SBB) and Tetovska Banka Tetovo (TBT) are new banks which were spun-off from Stopanska Banka Skopje under
the FESAC program. Their capital adequacy cannot be established until the issue of internal accounts with the core Stopanaka is fully resolved and replaced with formal
contractual obligations and until the issue of frozen foreign exchange deposits paid from banks own funds is satisfactorily resolved.
2/      OBO, SBB and TBT operated as an integrl part of Stopanska Banka Skopje. On a branch basis, the financial performance was adequate.
_/      Stopanska Banka Skopje (SBS) is currently undergoing financial restructuring under the FESAC progam. The bank wil be fully appraised after the progrmm is
completed.
4/      Financial policies were required to meet minimum standards. The banks will be provided technical assistance as described in Annex 5 to improve financal policies
and bring them to a fuiUy satisfactory level.
5/      Asset clasification and provisions as required by the applicable prudential regulations of the NBM. The regulations wil be brought to intenational standards as a
condition for the FESAC second tanche releaw and as a condition of effectiveness for the proposed Loan.
PFuU exernal audits by auditors satisfactory to the bank and by international auditing sandards. AU banks are required to prent aisctory external audits as a
condition for Bank appraisl to be finalized.



- 38 -
- 38 -                         ~~~~~~~Annex 2
Page 4 of 7
4.    One of the objectives of the proposed Project is to promote participation of new, smaller private
banks and be instrumental in increasing their institutional capacity. The banks which have applied for
participation, other than the core Stopanska, accounted as of December 31, 1995 for about 55 percent
of the total assets in the banking system, for about 75 percent of the total capital in the banking system,
for about 69 percent of the total commercial sector loans in the banking system, and for about 50 percent
of the total loans to households. The developmental objectives of the project will be measured against
selected development indicators, as explained in Annex 6.
Participating Banks
5.    Komerciaalna Banka, the second largest bank in FYR of Macedonia, has been established in 1992,
from the former Skopje branch of Stopanska Banka. Its capital amounted to US$165 million as of
December 31, 1995. The bank is now fully private with 11.2 percent of its capital owned by socially-
owned enterprises, about 56.4 percent owned by private enterprises, and the remainder by mixed
enterprises with majority private ownership. In terms of numbers, the banks ordinary stock is owned by
84 socially-owned enterprises, 179 mixed-ownership enterprises and 1,650 private shareholders. The
preferred stock is owned by 2,737 owners of which 2,663 are private. The total asset as of
December 31, 1995 amounted to US$419 million, of which about US$85 million is the loan portfolio.
The net profit before taxation as of end-September 1995 amounted to US$4.5 million. The interest
expense is about 22 percent of the interest income.
6.    The bank has experienced a very strong growth since its establishment. It has restructured its
portfolio over the past five years. In 1990, the bank's credit portfolio showed a 79 percent share for
manufacturing, 2 percent for agriculture and agroindustry, and 19 percent for other subsectors (trade,
handicrafts and others). In mid-1995, the portfolio mix showed a significantly different profile, with
agriculture and agroindustry accounting for 66 percent, manufacturing 27 percent, and other subsectors
7 percent. Komercijalna Banka has a tradition of extending funding for fixed investments and working
capital, accounting for 61 percent and 39 percent, respectively, the loan portfolio as of mid-1995. The
bank reports no export finance activity or loans in foreign currency.
7.    The bank was fully appraised in July 1995, after it has presented externally audited financial
statements by Coopers and Lybrand with a clean audit opinion. Its financial condition, assuming there
is a satisfactory resolution concerning frozen foreign currency deposit payments from bank's own funds
and the work-outs involving exposures to enterprises under the FESAC program, is fully satisfactory.
The bank is, therefore, deemed able to qualify as a PFI.
8.    Makedonska Banka, the third largest bank in FYR of Macedonia, has been established in 1992,
from the former branch of Ljubljanska Banka from Slovenia. Its total capital as of December 31, 1995
was US$29 million. Its share holders include Ljubljanska Banka for 51 percent, and the remaining 49
percent is held by domestic private enterprises and individuals. Ljubljanska Banka has recently
announced its intention to withdraw its ownership and its shares are now being offered to other investors.
The total assets as of December 31, 1995, amounted to US$490 million. Its net credit portfolio is
equivalent to US$43 million, with an orientation toward services (24 percent), manufacturing (20 percent)
and other subsectors (56 percent). The portfolio currently shows minimal exposure to agriculture and
agroindustry. The interest expense for the bank is 19.4 percent of interest income. The net profit before
taxation as of September 30, 1995 was about US$318,000.



- 39 -
Annex 2
Page 5 of 7
9.    The bank's credit portfolio is predominantly short-term in nature, the medium-term to 17 percent
of the total credit portfolio. The bank's operational emphasis is on export finance and working capital,
which represent 60 percent and 40 percent, respectively, of total portfolio. The bank has no outstanding
credits for fixed investments. It has a 44 percent-56 percent mix between foreign currency and local
currency loans. The loan portfolio is spread over small (57 percent), medium-sized (23 percent) and
large (20 percent) borrowers. The bank's management reports conservative leverage ratios prescribed
for borrowers, with average total debt/equity ratios of 1:2 and average long-term debt/equity ratios of
1:1.5 as of year-end 1994.
10.   The bank pursues very conservative lending policies. Its potential profitability is the highest in
the banking sector. The bank is regularly audited by foreign external auditors, and was able to get clean
audit opinions for 1993 and 1994. It will be appraised as soon as the end-1995 external audit is
completed. The bank is deemed able to meet the qualification criteria.
11.   Balkanska Banka is a new bank which is much smaller than Komercijalna Banka and Makedonska
Banka with the total capital of US$7.43 million as of December 31, 1995. The total assets amount to
about/US$15 million, and the loan portfolio to US$7.6 million with 55 percent trade, 34 percent
manufacturing, 4 percent agriculture and agroindustry and 7 percent other subsectors. The bank projects
a sustained build-up of its portfolio over the medium-term, with a balanced mix between agriculture and
agroindustry, manufacturing, and trade. The bank's short-term loans represent 97 percent of total credits,
with 3 percent having a medium-term maturity.
12.   All of Balkanska Banka's credits are for export finance, with no exposure in investment and
working capital loans. In mid-1995 portfolio indicated a 48 percent - 52 percent ratio between foreign
currency and denar loans. The concentration on export finance yielding high interest rates reflects the
bank's current strategy of financing trade. The borrowers of Balkanska Banka show a much higher
average leverage position compared to those of Makedonska Banka. Bankers explain the higher leverage
ratios for borrowers of newer banks as flowing from the observation that newer banks tend to cater to
new or less established entrepreneurs who generally have modest equity resources. In spite of relatively
higher risk profile compared to other banks, the level of provision is only about 4.7 percent of its total
loan portfolio.
13.   The bank was appraised in July 1995, but its audit report was not satisfactory to the Bank. It was
asked to provide a new audit which meets the Bank standards before it can be qualified.
14.   Invest Banka, with the total capital of US$6.9 million and total assets of US$20 million as of
December 31, 1995, has been in operation since the former Yugoslavia, but it has substantially changed
its profile since independence. The shareholders of Invest Banka consist of 113 legal entities and 60
individuals. The highest percentage of shares held by a single entity is 9.73 percent. The Board of
Directors consist of five members which represent either fully private enterprises (three members-
including the Chairman of the Board), or enterprises of which at least 70 percent of the ownership is
private. With the total loan portfolio of about US$6 million, the bank is predominantly oriented on
banking services and trade financing. Almost 95 percent of its credit operations consist of short-term
loans with a maturity of up to three months. As of end of 1994, more than 65 percent of its revenues
consist of income generated in the form of fees and commissions.



- 40 -
Annex 2
Page 6 of 7
15.   The bank is fairly small, and its business concentrates on off-balance sheet financial services,
possibly due to funding difficulties. The application for participation is an indication that its management
intends to position a bank on a higher growth path. The bank was appraised in July 1995, but the final
opinion was not reached because its capital adequacy is uncertain. The bank does not classify its assets,
and has no provisions. The appraisal will be finalized when the bank was able to provide a full review
by external auditors of its credit portfolio.
16.   Ohridska Banka has been established under the banking sector restructuring program undertaken
under the FESAC. It has operated as an independent bank in the 1979-1992 period, and was originally
specialized in the small scale private sector, and households finance and in deposit taking. During the
1980s it has also developed the capacity for working capital and investment finance in domestic currency
of larger socially-owned enterprises. In 1992, the bank was integrated with Stopanska Bank, albeit
keeping independent internal accounts. In order to reduce the market dominance of Stopanska, a decision
has been made to spin-off its larger branches which are able to operate as independent banks, if their
shareholders decide to exercise such a option. The Ohrid branch applied, and the NBM granted the
banking license in March 1995. The bank is currently owned by a large number of small owners and
about 100 somewhat larger enterprises. The Ohridska assets as of December 31, 1995 amounted to
US$37 million, making it the fifth largest bank in FYR of Macedonia, with a capital of about US$11
million. Its loan portfolio totalled about US$6.3 million. It has been originally appraised under the
FESAC, when assessing its capacity to operate independently. The bank has applied for participation,
but the formal appraisal is pending: (a) the satisfactory resolution of internal accounts with the ccre
Stopanska; (b) the resolution of the issue concerning the frozen foreign exchange deposits payments made
from bank's own funds; and (c) completion of the first external audit by auditors satisfactory to the Bank.
It is expected that the bank will be ready for formal appraisal by May 1996. The bank is expected to be
able to quality.
17.   Stopanska Banka. Bitola. The background of the Stopanska Bitola is the same as for Ohridska
Banka. The NBM license was issued in May 1995. The bank is now the fourth largest bank in FYR of
Macedonia with assets amounting to about US$58 million as of Decmeber 31, 1995, its capital to about
US$17.8 million, and the total loans US$18.2 million. It has applied for participation, but has not been
appraised due to the reasons also cited for Ohridska. The bank is expected to be ready for appraisal by
May 1996. It is expected to be able to qualify.
18.   Tetovska Banka. Tetovo. The bank has total assets of US$29 million as of end-1995, and capital
of US$10.6 million. It has received its license in May 1995. The background of this bank as well as
its appraisal prospects is the same as for Ohridska and Stopanska Bitola.
19.   Kreditna Banka, with the capital of US$10.3 million, as of December 31, 1995, is one of the
new private banks established after independence by a number of independent entrepreneurs and backed
by a single large foreign private shareholder. The bank's main business since its establishment is the
provision of off-balance sheet financial services to entrepreneurs and private sector enterprises. The fees
currently account for about two times the total interest income. Other main line of activity is deposit
taking; the bank is almost exclusively interested in foreign currency deposits (US$9.1 million). The total
assets amounted to US$22.4 million as of December 31, 1995, and its loan portfolio is small (US$5.7
million) and of recent origin. The bank aims to specialize in foreign currency banking activities, and
would like to become more serious in foreign currency lending. It has recently expressed interest to



- 41 -                                      Annex 2
Page 7 of 7
participate in the private sector finance component. Its appraisal will take place as soon as the bank is
able to present externally audited financial statements with clean audit opinion satisfactory to the Bank.
20.   Almaco Banka, with the total capital of US$11 million as of December 31, 1995, is one of the
new private banks established after independence with private MKD capital. Its assets totalled US$43.2
million as of December 31, 1995. The bank has initially focussed on off-balance sheet external trade
related services. It has changed its business policy in 1994, and is now aggressively trying to expand its
loan portfolio and specialize as a lender to small private businesses. With loan portfolio of about US$15
million, it is now the fifth largest competitor in the credit market. Successful realization of its business
policy critically depends on whether the bank is able to increase and diversify its funding sources. This
was the reason that the bank applied for participation. Its appraisal is pending completion of its first
external audit. The bank is expected to be ready for appraisal in May 1996, and it is expected to be able
to qualify.



- 42 -
Annex 3
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
Estimated Schedule
Calendar Year    Fiscal Year                          Cumulative                 % of
and Semester     and Semester       Amount             Amount                   Total
-     -----------DM Million----
1996  II         FY97  I                     1.0               1.0              5.55
1997  I          FY97  II                    1.5               2.5             13.88
1997  II         FY98  I                     2.5               5.0             27.77
1998  I          FY98  II                    4.0               9.0             50.00
1998  n          FY99  I                     6.0              15.0             83.33
1998  I          FY99  II                    3.0              18.0            100.00
The Loan is expected to be effective in the first quarter of FY97. The disbursement dynamics in FY97
and FY98 are expected to be dominated by the private enterprise investments. The disbursements in
FY99 include the tail of private enterprise investment component and mostly the private agrobusiness and
farmer investments.



- 43 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 2
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELAOPMENT PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
Approximate Dates                                  Expected SkilIReguirements   Staff Input
(Month/Year)               Activity                                            (Staff Weeks)
Supervision Mission
06/96                      Implementation
Launching Mission
Procurement Specialist
- Conduct Procurement   Disbursement Specialist    8
Seminar               Banking Specialist
- Conduct Disburse-
ment Seminar
09/96                      - Set Project Imple-
mentation Facilities/
Tools
Banking Specialist
- Accreditation of PFIs    Disbursement Specialist  10
- Review apex
arrangements          Procurement  Specialist
- Review PFI invest-    Engineer
ment appraisal
arrangements
- Project promotion
03/97                      Supervision Mission
- Accreditation of PFIs   Banking Specialist       10
- Review appraisal      Financial Specialist
procedures
- Review TA to PFIs     Engineer
09/97                      - Review investment     Financial Specialist        8
03/98                       pipelines              Engineer                    8
09/98                      - Review procurement/                               8
disbursement



- 44 -
Annex4
Page 2 of 2
Approximate Dates          Activity                Expected SkillRLguirements   Staff Input
(Month/Year)                                                                  (Staff Weeks)
Supervision Mission
Financial Specialist
03/99                      - Review investment     Economist                  8
pipelines
- Review Special
Accounts
- Review Procurement/
Disbursement
- Review outstanding
issues
- Agree on Project
closing date
06/99                      Project  Completion   Engineer                     8
Report                 Financial Specialist
Economist
Preparation of Project
Completion Report at
Headquarters
Total Missions         Total Staff Weeks
FY96  1                 8
FY97  2                20
FY98  2                 16
FY99  2                 16
PCR                     8
68



Annex-5
45 -                                  Page 1 of 9
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Operational Audits of Participating Banks
A.    BACKGROUND
l.    During the past year, the Government of Macedonia has instituted a number of economic reforms
aiming to reverse the economic decline. Although some of these measures are expected to yield positive
results in the short-term, their potential benefits in the medium- to long-term cannot be realized without
a strong and active financial system. At present FYR of Macedonia banking institutions still suffer from
distortions inherited from past policies and practices, in particular, a lack of autonomy, a general lack
of banking skills necessary in a market environment, and an inadequate financial structure. As one of
the initial steps for strengthening the financial sector, the Government has decided to undertake a program
for the strengthening of existing banks. The Government has also initiated a number of actions aiming
at strengthening the National Bank of Macedonia including its bank supervisory function, the drafting of
prudential regulations and the development of a new accounting plan for banks.
B.    OBJECTIVES
2.    The Operational Audits are expected to provide an accurate assessment of the financial condition
and operational capabilities of the audited banks, including the evaluation of their organization, policies
and procedures. These Operational Audits will serve as a basis for banks' strengthening programs
including their recapitalization to the level in accordance with sound international banking practice and
provision of technical assistance to improve their banking practices. The audits will also be used as a
background for the appraisal process to qualify banks for participation in the World Bank credit lines.
The audits should cover both financial and organizational aspects.
The financial aspect of the Operational Audit should cover:
(a)   the adjustment of the balance sheet as of December 31, of previous year (starting with
1995), and the related statements of operations for the year then ended to a format based
on Generally Accepted Accounting Principles for banks; and
(b)   the examination of financial data as specified.
The organizational aspect of the Operational Audit should cover:
(a)    assessment of the bank(s) present functioning. including:
(i)     internal organization;
(ii)     asset and credit management;
(iii)    resource mobilization and funding;



Annex I
Page 2 of 9
- 46 -
(iv)     treasury, and asset and liability management;
(v)      internal controls and internal audit; and
(vi)     management information systems.
(b)    assessment of the bank's future performance based on review of a strategic business
development plan prepared by banks' senior managements.
C.    SUBJECTS
3.    The operational audit will be applicable to commercial banks participating or interested in
participation in the Private Sector Development Project.
D.    ADJUSTMENT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Financial Aspect of the Operational Audit
4.    The FYR of Macedonia banks to be audited intend to convert their present accounting system to
a system based on internationally accepted standards in 1996. However, in 1995, the banks were still
using the old accounting model. For the year ended December 31, 1995, the auditor has to adjust the
annual financial statements in such a way as to establish the balance sheet as of December 31, 1995, and
the related statements of operations, retained earnings and changes in the financial position of the bank,
for the year ended, in a format which is in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Standards
for banks.
5.    Reports to be Provided.  The consolidated annual financial statements, after appropriate
adjustments, for the year ended December 31, 1995. This should include Balance Sheet, Profit and Loss
Statement, State of Changes in Shareholders' Equity, Statement of Sources and Application of Funds,
Statement of Provisions for Losses, Write-offs and Recoverables, and Statement of Past Due, Non-
performing and Renegotiated Loans and Advances. The accounts should be accompanied by notes,
explanations and back-up schedules. These working papers will be important for the bank in its
understanding of the process of international accounting and the adjustments made to the bank's own
accounts to achieve this.
E.    PORTFOLIO REVIEW AND DETERMINATION OF PROVISIONS
6.    To support an overall assessment of the current financial conditions of the credit portfolios and
projections regarding the extent of ultimate loss potential, detailed portfolio reviews are to be performed.
The portfolio reviews have to:
(a)    determine the credit quality of all major borrowers and debtors under loans, investments
and off-balance sheet commitments;
(b)    classify all significant loans, investments and off-balance sheet commitments, according
to established classification criteria based on repayment capacity and collateral; and



Annex 5
- 47                      ~                  Page 3 of9
(c)    determine the appropriate level of current provisions for all such assets based on
estimated loss potential.
7.     In devising the plan of work for the portfolio reviews, the auditors should take into consideration
the effectiveness and reliability of accounting and administrative systems and internal controls in order
to determine the degree of reliance to be placed upon them.
8.     The evaluation of asset quality should identify problems assets and classify them according to
criteria for substandard, doubtful and loss categories '/. All commercial extensions of credit 2/ exceeding
the cutoff amount are to be individually reviewed. The cutoff amount is defined as those extensions of
credit exceeding 0.5% of total assets or a sufficient number to encompass about 70% of the total amount
of commercial credits. Commercial credits below the cutoff amount are to be reviewed on a sample
basis. The sample should be of sufficient size to enable statistically valid statements regarding the below-
cutoff portfolio. Non-commercial extensions of credit (such as consumer loans and residential mortgages)
are to be reviewed based on a statistical sample of sufficient size to allow a valid audit opinion.
9.     The review of individual credits must entail an analysis of the obligor's capacity to service interest
payments at market interest rates based on existing levels of debt, and their capacity to repay principal,
under existing market conditions. For credits in amounts exceeding 5 % of the bank's equity, the analysis
requires an assessment of the obligor's business, plans, the potential for success of those plans, and their
potential consequences on debt service capacity and principal repayment.
10.    Based on the credit analysis and classification, the auditor should recommend an appropriate level
of provisions for losses. Estimates should be made for the specific reserves appropriate for each credit
reviewed. The analysis upon which these estimates are based should be included in the supporting
documentation.
11.    Reports to be Provided. At a minimum, the final report of the portfolio review should include
the following information. However, the auditor is encouraged to submit additional information relevant
to his findings which will serve to inform and educate the reader. All specified reports are due for the
December 31, 1995 audit.
(a)    A description of the lending authorities, a flow chart of the credit approval process, and
other information considered necessary to provide an understanding of the bank's credit,
appraisal and supervision process and lending activities.
(b)    A written assessment of lending activities based on your findings. This assessment
should address the following: (i) the quality of assets and its impact upon the soundness
of the institution; (ii) the quality of management with respect to the lending and
investment functions; (iii) the quality and effectiveness of loan and investment policies,
practices, procedures and internal controls; (iv) concentrations of credit; (v) loan pricing
policies; (vi) other matters of importance requiring attention such as foreign exchange,
1/     Definitions for these categories should follow internationaL standards.
V1     Defined as Loans, investments or off-balance sheet commitments to individual borrowers and their
related entities.



- 48 -                                         Annex 5
Page 4 of 9
liquidity, or interest rate risks; and (g) near term expectations concerning the quality and
administration of the loan and investment portfolios.
(c)    A statement describing the method by which the required classification criteria were
applied in the FYR of Macedonia context, including any unusual factors that served to
influence the classifications assigned, should be provided.
(d)    A summary schedule of the number and volume of credits reviewed individually and by
sample, expressed in nominal terms and as a percent of one and off-balance sheet credits
outstanding.
(e)    Summaries of criticized assets by: (i) category of classification; (ii) economic sector; and
(iii) currency (for those loans denominated in foreign currencies).
(f)    Written loan comments for all classified problem  assets with dues exceeding the
equivalent of 5 % of bank's equity. These written comments should provide a breakdown
of total extensions of credit to the enterprise and its related entities, indicating the amount
classified; a description of the credit including the history of the indebtedness, the
repayment plan and actual performance; a description of the collateral and/or guarantees
(if any); and the reasons for the chosen classification for the credit.
(g)    A summary statement of all past due, non-performing, and renegotiated credits, by
category or type of credit expressed: (i) in domestic currency; and (ii) as a percentage
of total outstanding credits in that category. The criteria to be used to determine past
due, non-performing, or renegotiated status should be clearly stated.
(h)    A listing of large 3/ past due, non-performing, and renegotiated loans. You should
indicate the name of the borrower, the amount outstanding, the number of days payments
are in arrears (if appropriate), and any other pertinent information.
(i)    A listing of loans not supported by current and satisfactory financial information or
lacking a satisfactory definition of the loan's purpose and repayment plan. The listing
should include the name of the borrower, the outstanding balance of the loan, and the
nature of the credit file exception.
(j)    A listing of loans not supported by complete collateral documentation. The listing should
include the name of the borrower, the outstanding balance of the loan, and the nature of
the collateral exception. This listing should also highlight collateral which is judged to
be worth less than its stated value, e.g. inventories of finished goods no longer saleable
in the new market economy.
12.    To the extent that other auditors are involved in the portfolio reviews of other FYR of Macedonia
financial institutions, you are required to coordinate your activities and agree upon standards, with NBM
consent, to be used in evaluating the quality of assets and in assessing the adequacy of services. In this
regard, it may be necessary to agree on common interpretations of the standard classification definitions
for the FYR of Macedonia context. For the purpose of credit classification, you should also agree on
3/     GeneraLLy, these wouLd include Loans which exceed to cut-off amount.



Annex5
- 49 -                                   Page 5 of 9
the treatment and handling to be accorded to: (i) guarantees and collateral; and (ii) debt which has been
rescheduled, rolled-over, extended, or otherwise refinanced to hide delinquency.
F.    EXAMINATION OF THE CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS
13.   The auditor is required to perform an examination of the consolidated accounts of the bank with
a view to expressing an opinion on the financial condition of the bank as at December 31, 1995.
14.   Reports to be Provided. The auditor has to provide reports as follows:
(a)    The opinion of the auditor on the financial statements.
(b)    A statement of commitments and contingencies itemizing and quantifying all contingent
liabilities, to include, inter alia, undrawn loan commitments, guarantees, documentary
and standby L/C's and forward foreign exchange contracts.
(c)    A report on all extensions of credit, loans, investments and commitments, consistent with
the portfolio review, indicating:
*     Breakdown of items on balance sheet as between local currency and foreign
currency
*     Breakdown of items off-balance sheet as between local currency and foreign
currency
*     Portion of each subcategory above which is Past Due, Non-Performing or
Renegotiated
c     Total of uncollected interest (if this calculation is feasible).
(d)    An opinion on the adequacy of the reserve for loan losses and all other reserves. In the
absence of loan loss reserves, recommendations should be made as to specific provisions
required, consistent with the findings of the portfolio review.
(e)    An enumeration and quantification of the adjustments considered necessary to fairly
present the financial statements.
(f)    The identification and quantification of concentration of credit and large exposures
defined as representing 25% or more of the bank's capital funds. These concentrations
may result from credit (in the form of loans, investments, or other instruments) extended
to a single borrower or related group or to an economic or industrial subsector, or assets
dependent upon a single factor that could affect repayment prospects for the entire group
of assets. It is recognized that in the FYR of Macedonia context, a large proportion of
the banks' portfolios will comprise loans to entities owned by the government and/or
guaranteed by the government, either explicitly or implicitly. An attempt should be made
to identify which loans are formally guaranteed by the government and which are covered
by informal arrangements.



- 50-                                     Annex 5
Page 6 of 9
(h)    An opinion on the adequacy of capital.
(i)    An opinion on the funding structure of the bank.
(j)    An opinion on the total risk exposure in FYR of Macedonia context.
15.   The following items should be specifically included:
(a)    notes on each item of the balance sheet and income statement, explaining its nature and
any clarifications considered useful;
(b)    a description of significant accounting policies, criteria and practices applied by the
auditors in preparation of the financial statements;
(c)   itemization of each adjustment and reclassification deemed necessary by the auditors;
(d)    a statement of the effects of non-application of any International Accounting standards
by the auditors;
(e)    a statement summarizing the major items which have contributed to the adjustment in
earnings and net worth of the bank in the international accounts when compared with the
bank's accounts;
(f)   itemization of all credit extended to the Members of the Board, Managers or other parties
connected with the bank; and
(g)    any significant events affecting the bank which occurred between the account date and
date of the audit report.
16.   It is recognized that owing to the precarious state of accounting in FYR of Macedonia, some of
the requirements under paragraphs 18 and 19 above will present the auditors with a difficult task. In such
cases the auditors should use their judgement and state clearly which items above cannot be satisfactorily
answered or addressed in this initial short audit.
G.    ASSESSMENT OF THE BANK'S PRESENT FUNCTIONING
The Organizational Aspect of the Operational Audit
17.   The auditor should analyze the present internal organization and functions of the bank, including
the internal control and internal auditing function and the quality of management reporting. The auditor
shall give his opinion on the accuracy and reliability of the present accounting system, and on the
adequacy of the bank's internal organization, controls and operating procedures. In undertaking the
analyses of the above mentioned present organizational aspects the auditors are expected to visit both the
head office of the bank and a number of representative branches and sub-branches.



-51 -                                    Annex S
Page 7 of 9
18.   Report to be Provided. The report on the present organization has to cover the following areas:
(a)    Asset and Credit Management. The auditors should review and comment on the bank's
objectives, strategy, operations and performance in the area of general asset management
and in particular credit management. The key results from the portfolio review and short
audits as at December 31, 1995 to be undertaken concurrently should be analyzed and
conmmented upon in the light of their strategic importance to the bank (in terms of size,
effect on earnings, etc.) and the underlying market fundamentals.
(b)    Treasury and Asset and Liability Management. The auditors should review and comment
on the bank's objectives, strategy, operations and performance in the areas of treasury,
and asset and liability management. The key results from the financial analysis of assets
and liabilities (both on- and off- balance sheet) undertaken in the portfolio review and
short audits as at December 31, 1995 should be analyzed and commented on in the light
of their strategic importance to the bank (in terms of size effect on earnings, etc.) and the
underlying market fundamentals. particular attention should be given to interest rate,
foreign exchange and maturity mismatches.
(c)    Resource Mobilization and Funding.  A review of the bank's plan, policies and
procedures for resource mobilization and funding should be included. The review should
examine whether the bank has and successfully operates a suitable resource mobilization
strategy and discuss implications of the current funding policy and structure on its risk
exposure and future growth perspectives. Recommendations for improvements should
be made.
(d)    Management Information System. The auditor should review the existing management
information system and indicate areas for possible improvements in order to enhance its
effectiveness as a tool for management.
(e)   Internal Audit Function. The auditor should review and give an opinion on internal
controls and procedures, which must be analyzed with a view to determine their
effectiveness in ensuring that the bank's assets are being safeguarded, transactions have
been executed in accordance with management's directives, and that transactions have
been adequately recorded to permit the timely preparation of the organization's financial
statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The study should
indicate whether the bank has a manual that incorporates sound audit policies and
practical audit procedures, and whether the level of audit skills needs to be upgraded and
expanded.
(f)    Organizational Review. The organizational structure of the bank should be reviewed to
determine whether it provides for effective and efficient realization of the bank's
objectives. The audit should take into account and comment on the grouping of main
functions, delegation of authority, clear definition of responsibilities and the relationship
of head-office with branch offices.
(g)    Financial performance and Management. The auditor should review and comment on the
financial performance of the bank in terms of the profitability of its overall operations,
its products, branches and departments and its financial strength.



- 52 -                                      Annex 5
Page 8 of 9
(h)    Training. The auditor should review and comment on whether the bank has defined
specific skill requirements for management, specialist and key clerical positions, assessed
and prioritized skills shortfalls, and developed practical plans to meet these shortfalls.
The auditor should recommend a training and other programs for skills enhancement.
(i)    Automation. The bank's systems of automation should be reviewed in the light of
requirements, and recommendations should be made as to the needs for improvement.
H.    BANK'S FUTURE PERFORMANCE
19.   The auditor should cover the following aspects in assessing the bank's strategic plan:
(a)    Review of the Bank's Present Strategic Plan. A review should be conducted to determine
whether the purpose for which the institution was established and the activities originally
set out in the enabling legislation remain realistic and relevant in the prevailing economic
environment. The review would determine and discuss if the bank has an adequate
strategic plan that discusses its objectives, target markets, products and services, the basic
strategies and actions it needs to take to meet these objectives, and an operational and
financial plan that projects resource requirements and financial outcomes of the strategic
plan.
(b)    Strategic Parameters and Options. From the previous analysis the auditor should review
and comment on the important strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats of the
bank. Based on their conclusions the auditor should examine and discuss the main
strategic options for the bank with the bank's management and staff and provide a brief
summary of the discussion.
(c)    Training. Based on this review and the Strategic Plan Review undertaken as part of this
assignment a training plan should be developed with the bank's management.
I.     COUNTERPARTS
20.   The banks undergoing operational audits will establish counterpart teams to work in close
collaboration with the auditors assigned to the task. The auditors will be expected to provide the staff
of the banks with on-the-job training in portfolio assessment, accounting and auditing techniques. The
objective is to use this initial operational audit at December 31, 1995, as a springboard to establish a
practice of yearly full audits. This will require an effective skills transfer from the external audit staff
to the banks' counterpart teams.
J.     CONFIDENTIALITY
21.   This exercise is being carried out primarily for the purpose of appraising the financial conditions
and developing a program for strengthening of the concerned banks. Accordingly, the auditors will
neither discuss with, nor distribute to parties outside the management of the relevant bank, the Banking
Supervision Department of the National Bank. of Macedonia and the World Bank, without their explicit
authorization, any aspects or details of their work ad findings.



Annex 5
- 53 -                                Page 9 of 9
Independence and Impartiality
22.   The consultants must be independent of any member of the Board of Directors, Executive Officer
or Senior Manager of the bank. Independence implies that the senior managing partner, other partner
or staff member who would be involved in the portfolio review and short audit, is neither serving as a
director of the bank nor has any personal, financial or close business relationship except as an
independent professional advisor during the course of an audit.
K.    STAFFING
23.   For carrying out the required tasks, the team must include banking auditors with international
experience. Given the importance of the task to be undertaken, it is anticipated that the audits would be
carried out by a reputable firm drawling on high-level staff with international experience and having a
suitable skills mix. The team would be expected to work with a small counterpart team from the bank
being audited.
24.   Curriculum vitae (CVs) of the principals who would be responsible for providing the opinions
and reports should be provided, together with the CVs of other personnel proposed for the audit. CVs
for audit personnel should include details on audits carried out by these staff, including ongoing
assignments.
25.   It is anticipated that an auditing firm would undertake the analysis of more than one bank, and
that the whole process could be carried out by about 2-3 auditing firms.



- 54 -                                    Annex6
Page 1 of 1
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Development Indicators
Objective                      Action                          Indicator
* Promote growth of the        * Improve access to             * Amount of credit
private sector including       investment and working          committed and disbursed.
farmers                        capital finance through
credit line intermediated by   * Increase in earning and
a number of participating      profitability of individual
banks                          final beneficiaries.
* Facilitate adoption of safe  * Training of participating     * Improved banks' risk
and sound banking practices    banks in asset/liabilities      profile
management and project
appraisal                      * Improved collection
performance
* Assistance in the use of
advanced project appraisal     * Improved asset quality
methods and computerized
appraisal tools
e Assistance in loan
administration
* Promote credit market        * Qualify smaller, new          * Increased participation of
competition                    private banks                   new, smaller private banks
in SME credit market
* Assist such banks in
meeting the qualification
criteria



- 55 -
Annex 7
Page 1 of 1
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
1.           FYRM, An Introductory Economic Report, No. 14576-MK, July 1995.
2.           FYRM, Agriculture and Private Sector Development Project. Review of Demand for
a Generalized Line of Credit, June 1995.
3.           Back-to-Office Reports, include Aide Memoires, when applicable, dated July 14 and
July 15, 1994, February 1995, July 1995 and January 1996.
4.           Update on Private Sector Development in FYRM, EBRD, September 1995.
5.           Stimulating Investment Activities in Macedonia: An Overview of Technical
Assistance Needs of the Government of FYRM, UNIDO, June 1995.
6.           Audited Financial Statements and External Audit Reports of various FYRM banks
which have applied for participation.
7.           Banking Statistics and Supervisory reports issued by National Bank of Macedonia in
1994 and 1995.
8.           Project Implementation Management System. System Documentation and Users
Manual. Developed in ECIIT, April 1996, Version 1.
9.           Subproject and Loan Appraisal Package, User Manual. Developed in ECIIT, April
1996, Version 1.
10.          Environmental Review Procedures, User Manual. Developed in EClIT with
assistance from EMTEN, January 1996.
11.          Prudential Regulations Applicable to Banks Participating in the Credit Line
Intermediation, National Bank of Macedonia, November-December 1995.



I



MAP NO. 27711






IBRD 27711
FED. REP. OF YUGOSLAVIA                                                                                          FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF
MACEDONIA
- _                                                  "..,.                  Presew at            t-             r ' '  --'                   0 Xe.                                                      PRIVATE SECTOR
IL\                                                        K,i-oIonk    \, - BULGARIA                                                  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
\  -        .tK                 3                                 rvcueshevo                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B U L G A R I A
;~ ,,.-<P;;   -   Blo  s    n LS~.. c! )t:                     :: +aMajor cities
*    Selected cities
-T7etovo                             SKOPJE-'~                                                                                                                                        National Capital
V-hi-L--
-0  A                                                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Primary roads
A~  2-2L B A  N I A  Korce   pI                                                      .       Koon                       N _                                                           .
_____  Secondary roads
Electrified railroads
i,cfa                                                                                                                                     Other railroads
Peshkopik-~ 5  Voklkooi
V.'    KAirports
J         Spat elevations in meters
Rivers
- ---  International boundaries
lop  T11kI`e                                                                      0                 1 5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  30 MILES
)                                                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TPn b-cc.6-oI,,   d--     -~d-y FAe.r.,,cY--
Libr..dor                                                                                                                                  o                                                  A.ny-1.,dg. -re V~ -.lycw , fcredo, , wb,eOldesel
-      SLOVAK REP 
It AUSTRIA  ;f- '~\
GREECE ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AHUNGARY                                                                       -
--.SCROATIA
Ed6..                                                                BO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1RSN.A*NO    -. 
'r  Fl-                                                                                                                             ERL~~~~~~~~~~~~~_  EGOZENIAN 
L  4  -    NJ            -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                  *,           P~~~~~~~~~~~~ED REP -
~./ YUG03LAVIA 
-J            V~~~~~g.w'd.                                                                                                                          BU~ ~ 4 ~   LLAPIA
I P'es                                                                               *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Thessalonikci  5,-
K.rC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~ITALY                                                                                                                i.        
A L BA NI A              Kc                                                                                                                                                                                 ALBANIAy
-   , -,  i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                           (                                                                  C ~~~~~~~~~~~GREECE      TRE
The-,aAkos
KrefpoL
MAY 1996









IMAGING
Report No:      15078 MK
Type: SAR



