Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20335
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(40150)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$12 MILLION
TO THE
FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
FOR A PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
June 14, 2000
Finance & Private Sector Development (ECSPF)
Europe & Central Asia Region (ECA)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CUltRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 13, 2000)
Currency Unit = Denar
1 Denar = US$ 0.0159
US$ 1 = 63.105
FISCAL YEAR
JANUARY I - DECEMBER 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS          -      Country Assistance Strategy
EBRD         -      European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
FESAC        -      Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Credit Project
FESAL II     -      Second Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan Project
FYROM        -      Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
ICR          -      Implementation Completion Report
IFC          -      International Finance Corporation
MOF          -      Ministry of Finance
NBM          -      National Bank of Macedonia
PFIs         -      Participating Financial Institutions
PSD          -      Private Sector Development Project
PSD 2        -      Second Private Sector Development Project
TA           -      Technical Assistance
ZPP          -      National Payment System
Vice President:   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:   Ajay Chhibber
Sector Director:   Paul Siegelbaum
Program Team Leader/Task Manager:    Marie-Renee Bakker/Paulo de Sa



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 7
6. Sustainability                                                                    10
7. Bank and Borrower Perfornance                                                     11
8. Lessons Learned                                                                   13
9. Partner Comments                                                                 145
10. Additional Information                                                           19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Framte Matrix                                29
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                 30
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                 32
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                 33
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                 34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                36
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                                  37
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                                50
This Implementation Completion Report is of the Intensive Learning Model (ILI). A Beneficiary Survey
was conducted between December 1999 and January 2000, and a Stakeholder Workshop to discuss the
results of the survey was held in Skopje, on February 3, 2000. The report was prepared by Paulo De Sa
(Task Team Leader) with the assistance of Jasmincka Varnalieva-Bidzovska (Skopje Office), and under the
supervision of Marie-Renee Bakker (Program Team Leader for Finance and Private Sector Development).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Prjet ID: P043447                                        Project Name: PRIVATE SECTOR DVPMT
TemLeader: Paulo De Sa                                   TL Unit: EMTIM
IC   Ip: 12itensive Learning Model (ILM) oj'ICR        Report Date: .1une 13, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: PRIVATE SECTOR DVPMT                            L/CITF Number: 40150
CountryIDepartnent: MACEDONIA, FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC                    Region: Europe and Central
OF                                                             Asia Region
Sector/subsector: FS - Financial Sector Development; IL - Small Scale
Enterprise
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  03/15/94                                 Effective:  12/20/96
Appraisal:  03/15/95                                   MTR: 04/16/98
Approval:  05/16/96                                 Closing. 06/30/99             10/31/99
B orrower/lmplementing Agency:  FYR MACEDONIA/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Other Partners:
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vic e President:     Johannes F. Linn                            Wilfred Thalwitz
Country Manager:      Ajay Chhibber                              Kenneth G. Lay
Sector lManager:      lliham Zurayk                              Franco Batzella
Teamn Leader at ICR:   Paulo De Sa                               Sonja Brajovic-Bratanovic
ICR Primary Author:   Paulo De Sa
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=] lighly Satisfactoiy, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely. HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Perjormance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
1.     The assessment of the development objectives of the Private Sector Development Project (PSD)
has to be put on the broader context of the private sector and financial reform programs supported by the
Bank in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.



2.     PSD was prepared in parallel with a US$85 million Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment
Credit (FESAC), approved in May 1995, which aimed to advance critical elements of market reform, with
focus on: (a) a comprehensive reform of the banking sector and banking markets, including: (i) the
recapitalization and privatization (51 percent) of Stopanska Banka, that dominated the banking system in
FYR Macedonia and was considered "too big to fail"; (ii) changes in the regulatory framework, including a
new banking law, a law on bankruptcy and other measures aimed at facilitating collection of collateral; (iii)
capacity building for the National Bank of Macedonia (NBM), with particular emphasis on institutional
strengthening for the supervision department and restructuring of the payment system (ZPP); (iv) entry of
new banks in Macedonia, including foreign banks; and (v) improvement of the institutional capacity of the
commercial banks in FYR Macedonia in areas like credit analysis and procedures, risk appraisal,
assets-liabilities management, etc.; (b) the isolation of the largest loss-making enterprises, including hard
budget constraints, leading to their privatization or liquidation; (c) a comprehensive privatization program;
and (d) a social safety net reform program.
3.     PSD was designed as a support to the reforms being undertaken under the adjustment operation.
While the FESAC was expected to address sector reforms, PSD was aimed at strengthening the
institutional development of FYR Macedonia's banking sector and increasing competition in the credit
market, while supporting post-privatization restructuring of socially-owned companies and the development
of the emerging private sector.
4.     The principal objectives of PSD were to: (i) promote growth of the private sector in the former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and create conditions for an effective supply response from viable private
enterprises and farmers; (ii) facilitate the introduction of safe and sound banking practices; and (iii)
facilitate institutional and structural transformation of the banking system and stimulate competition in the
credit market. These objectives were supposed to be attained in conjunction with sector reforms promoted
by FESAC and remained valid until project completion. They continue to be pursued under the follow-up
operations to both projects: PSD 2, approved by the Board on October 1997, and FESAL II, currently
under preparation.
5.     These objectives were clearly formulated and are in line with the Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) approved by the Board on May 16, 1995. Reference points for the overall Bank support to
the reform effort included: (i) facilitate and support structural reform and the transition to a market
economy; (ii) contribute to finance balance of payments requirements; (iii) support sector adjustment and
development efforts; and (iv) help mobilize resources from both official and private sources.
3.2 Revised Objective:
6.     The project objectives were not changed during implementation.
3.3 Original Comnponents:
7.     There were two original components: (i) Private Sector Finance to creditworthy private industrial
and agricultural enterprises to improve profitability by increasing output or improving efficiency: the DEM
14 million component was expected to mobilize financing of about DEM 45 million during the 20-year
maturity of the loan; and (ii) Private Farmer Finance to viable private farrners, to increase their output:
The DEM 4 million component was expected to mobilize financing of about DEM 25 million during the
20-year maturity of the loan.
-2 -



3.4 Revised Components:
N/A
3.5 Quality at Entry:
8.     Quality at entry is rated satisfactory. The project conformed to the Bank's CAS, as presented to
the Board in 1995, and responded to the Borrower's clearly defined development priorities. PSD's design
was straightforward and in line with similar credit lines through commercial banks (Participating Financial
Institutions or PFIs) being supported by the Bank in economies in transition.
9.     A Project Implementation Unit (or Apex Unit) was established in the International Department of
the NBM  with primary responsibility for the operational functions related to:  (i) appraisal and
prequalification of the PFIs; (ii) monitoring of PFIs to ensure their continued qualification, in close liaison
with NBM's Supervision Department; (iii) refinancing of PFI loans to final beneficiaries; (iv) monitoring
the use of Bank's funds, including procurement and disbursement; (v) administration of the disbursements
and collection of the funds advanced to or received from the PFIs (repayments); and (vi) reporting to the
Bank on all aspects of Project Implementation. During appraisal, it was agreed to establish the Apex Unit
as a separate entity from the Ministry of Finance in order to increase its operational efficiency. A margin
of 100 basis points to be charged to the PFIs was agreed during negotiations to cover the cost of
administration, including cost of apex operations, service fee for the maintenance of special accounts,
commitment fee, applicable interest charges and other charges.
10.    The project was designed while FYR Macedonia was suffering the impact of external shocks that
increased substantially the risks associated with its implementation. Because of the perceived systemic risk
in the banking sector during preparation, PSD was designed with a back-to-back repayment scheme under
which the repayment schedule of the subsidiary finance extended to the PFIs was to be repaid to the
Govemment under the same terms of conditions of the sub-loans extended by the PFIs to their clients.
After the first use of Bank flmds, financing to the private banks is being continued from a roll-over fund
established at the NBM with the resources generated by repayments of all sub-loans under the project.
These resources were made available to finance additional sub-projects under the same principles and
procedures of the PSD, or to service the Bank loan.
11.    Two issues can be raised in terms of project design and its impact on the achievement of PSD's
development objectives: (i) the strategic choice to foster competition in the banking sector through support
to the proliferation of small banks; and (ii) the lack of a technical assistance component.
12.    At project appraisal, the demand side of the credit market in FYR Macedonia was dominated by
the large formerly socially-owned enterprises that crowded out the market, while on the supply side 90
percent of the market was controlled by Stopanska Banka and two other large banks. Privatization created
a cross-shareholder structure between enterprises of banks that were forced to convert part of their
non-performing loans to socially-owned companies into shares and, in some cases, felt the "moral
obligation" to support the recently privatized companies with new loans. The structure of supply is much
less concentrated now. In an attempt to foster competition in the banking sector, NBM set minimum
capital requirements for the creation of new banks in FYR Macedonia at a very low level, while prudential
regulations were defined well below intemational standards, and their enforcement was somehow lax. With
the creation of too many small banks, FYR Macedonia's banking system soon became overcrowded (24
banks, of which 16 with license to operate with foreign transactions).
- 3 -



13.    PSD attempted to support the emergence of a "first tier" of stronger commercial banks that would
agree to comply with stricter eligibility criteria, including: (i) satisfactory financial position and capital
adequacy according to international accounting and auditing standards; (ii) full compliance with NBM
prudential regulations and other applicable legislation; (iii) satisfactory policies and operating procedures,
and adequate funding structure; (iv) adequate profitability and satisfactory operational performance; and
(v) satisfactory technical capacity to identify, appraise and supervise utilization of Bank funds.
14.    However, the PFI's eligibility criteria under PSD was defined very broadly and only in qualitative
terms. The legal responsibility for the appraisal and qualification of the PFIs and the periodic evaluation of
their eligibility belonged to the Apex Unit, in close cooperation with the Supervision Department of the
NBM. The latter, as part of the normal supervision process, was to continue to monitor the soundness of
PFIs and their compliance with prudential regulations, and inform the Bank on a regular basis of any
deterioration of their financial and operating conditions. Fearing the lack of institutional capacity of the
recently created Supervision Department, the Bank retained this function  throughout the entire
implementation of PSD. More intense supervision by NBM and more elaborate eligibility criteria for PFIs
would have been needed to ensure that only financially sound PFIs with the requisite levels of adequate
capital participated in the project.
15.    Another issue related to project design was the lack of a technical assistance component for the
major participants: NBM, the Apex Unit and the PFIs. The decision not to include such a component was
made during appraisal when a multi-donor program of US$1.25 million was identified, including TA to be
funded by: (i) the Bank, under the proposed Private Farmers Support Project ($300,000), to improve the
management information systems of PFIs; (ii) the U.S. Agency for International Development ($250,000),
to review pertinent regulations and court practices related to credit collateral and effectiveness of collection
of collateral; (iii) EU Phare Program, through the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
(EBRD) ($400,000), for training of banks in asset/liabilities management, risk management and credit
appraisal; (iv) U.K. Know-How Fund ($50,000), for training of banks in environmental appraisal of
projects and environmental review management; and (v) the Government of Netherlands ($250,000), for
external audits of banks.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
16.    The overall rating of achievement of project objectives is satisfactory, as the credit line has enjoyed
a fast disbursement of much needed funds into a cash-starved private sector, in part as a result of a
reasonable pipeline of projects built up before Board approval. The achievement of the other development
objectives is less spectacular, partly because of their over-ambition, as the approved lending amount per se
was clearly insufficient to achieve the institutional and structural transformation of the banking system in
Macedonia. But these objectives were meant to be achieved as part of an ongoing process and in
coordination with other sector reforms being supported by the Bank in FYR Macedonia. During the
negotiations of PSD, Bank management had already reaffirmed its intention to propose to the Board a
second operation after the DEM 15 million of PSD funds had been committed, provided that project
implementation was consistent with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. Similarly, the objectives of
FESAC are being extended through a follow-up operation in the broader context of Bank's policy dialogue
with the Government of Macedonia.
-4 -



17.    The Loan has been implemented at a very satisfactory pace.  During the utilization period
(December 22, 1996-October 31, 1999), a total of 81 sub-loans had been contracted, and a total of DEM
17,761,504.00 was disbursed, or about 98.7 percent of the Loan. One of the reasons for the fast
disbursement was undoubtedly the low-cost funds onlent by the PFIs to the private sector, which was set
below market rates; the Borrower onlent the Bank's loan at the cost of funds to itself plus 1 percent, and
the banks' onlending margin for final beneficiaries was kept around 3 percent, while interest rates for other
foreign currency loans was around LIBOR plus 5-8 percent.
18.    PSD has contributed to increase the competition in the banking sector and to reduce the cost of
funding in FYR Macedonia. A study by NBM on high interest rates in the credit markets, which was
identified as one of the critical causes for the somewhat slow supply response, concluded that the presence
of the Bank's credit line engaged under competitive terms introduced a pressure on domestic banks leading
to a fall in annual lending rates by an estimated 3-4 percent. However, many of the structural factors
reducing the efficiency of the banking sector in FYR Macedonia have not yet been removed, and much
more could have been achieved without them. The removal of fixed credit market shares, for instance,
could have added dramatically to the objective of decreasing interest rates. This remains a high priority in
the dialogue between the Government and the Bank.
19.    Summary of the effects on the beneficiaries (as measured by the results of the survey). The
sub-projects approved involved enterprises in 13 cities and concemed nine industrial and services
sub-sectors. No provision for the monitoring of outcome indicators was included in the project appraisal
document so the results outlined below are largely the result of the beneficiaries' survey. Sub-borrowers
consider that PSD had substantial or relevant impact on increasing sales and profitability, a large impact in
improving the procurement procedures and better marketing and export promotion, but marginal effect in
regardLs to the attraction of foreign partners, improving corporate strategy and accounting practices.
20.    For 11 surveyed companies, there was a total increase of sales of more than DEM 51.5 million
over the period, as a direct result of the project. However, increase in sales in the five largest companies
(more than DEM 5 million of annual sales) contributed to DEM 49.5 million, while in the six smaller
companies (DEM 600,000 of annual sales on average) amounted only to DEM 1.5 million. This represents
an average increase of sales of around DEM 10 million for the large companies, or 20 percent of their sales
before the investment, and DEM 270,000 for the small companies, equivalent to 45 percent of their sales
before the investment. Total increase of exports was DEM 18 million for 10 export-oriented enterprises,
with the four largest companies contributing with 96 percent of this total. In addition, there was also an
import substitution estimated at DEM 800,000 for two small companies. A great majority of the
companies surveyed declared that they would not have been able to develop their investment project without
the World Bank credit line.
21.    Effects on direct employment were modest, with only 222 new jobs created in 10 companies.
However, considering the problem of over employment existing in most large enterprises, evidence suggests
that the project had an indirect effect in reducing the number of redundant labor and in increasing
productivity of operations. Additional direct effects include: (i) new products created and access to new
markets; (ii) improved quality of final products; and (iii) access to working capital financing.
22.    Effects on the PFIs. Six banks were given the Participating Financial Intermediary status (PFI) -
Komercijalna Banka, Makedonska Banka, Rado Banka, and Tutunska Banka from Skopje, Stopanska
Banka from Bitola, and Ohridska Banka from Ohrid - although Makedonska Banka declined to use funds
from the credit line. When all the funding was virtually committed, two additional banks - Invest Banka
- 5-



and Komercijalna Investiciona Banka, Kumanovo - were appraised and qualified in order to operate under
the follow-up operation. Several other banks were appraised during project implementation, but were
found not to meet the eligibility criteria. The PFIs included two "old" banks, three banks which were
spun-off from Stopanska Banka's restructuring under FESAC, and three new banks established after
independence. Six PFIs had no previous experience in long term lending and were able through the PSD to
create special departments and develop their long-term lending activities step-by-step. The presence of
large banks as well as small regional banks enabled the credit line to reach a very broad spectrum of (large
and small) private sector enterprises in different parts of the country.
23.    PSD's most important contributions to the improvement of PFI's financial position and institutional
capacity include: (i) growth of total assets; (ii) improvement of the intemational visibility of a bank and its
access to new foreign credit lines available in FYR Macedonia; (iii) diversification of customer base and
opportunity to attract new clients; (iv) development of a long-term lending activity; (v) improvement of
balance sheet; (vi) access to TA; (vii) improved policies and procedures on credit risk management,
collection of arrears, procurement methods, etc.; and (viii) improvement in information technology and
management information systems.
24.    One of PSD's objectives was to improve the institutional capacity of participating banks by
encouraging a fairly rigorous appraisal of client creditworthiness and project financial viability. However,
there is no evidence to suggest that the capacity of the PFI's to judge the creditworthiness of their clients
was improved as a result of their participation in the PSD project, as the project did not improve the quality
of the PFI's portfolios. The loan portfolio quality under the PSD is actually marginally worse than the
average of the banking system: one third of the loans made under PSD were classified as "non performing"
at the end of 1999, compared to the average of the banking system of 28 percent. The reasons for that
include lending at the early stages of project implementation to former state-owned enterprises that
continued to experience financial difficulties during project implementation, and a worse than average
performance of the loans to private farmers.
25.    As PSD's implementation period was relatively short, monitoring in this area has to take into
account eventual progress recorded during the implementation of the follow-up operation. Although it is
still early to make a judgment about the quality of PSD 2's loans, as many are still in the grace period, at
the end of 1999 only 16 percent of PSD 2's portfolio was non performing which suggest a gradual increase
in the institutional capacity of PFIs to appraise credit.
4.2 Outputs by components:
26.    The total amount committed and disbursed under the Private Investment Component of PSD is
DEM 13.95 million. Of the 25 projects approved under the component, 24 were fully implemented. Under
the Private Farmers Component, 56 projects were approved, and DEM 3.8 million were committed, with no
outstanding balance undisbursed.
27.    The Private Investment component generated exceptional interest and had a fast realization. It was
implemented through 25 sub-projects, disbursing 100 percent of the available amount. The average size of
the sub-loans was DEM 560,000, with an average repayment period of six years. The funds were used to
finance private enterprises from 13 cities in FYR Macedonia. The private enterprises were mostly
industrial, coming from the food industry (production of meat, fish, milk, cereals, vegetables), textile
industry, graphical industry, wood industry, electrical appliances industry, as well as from tourism. Their
production was mostly aimed for the domestic market, i.e., used to substitute for certain imported products,
especially in the food industry, but some were also export oriented. All sub-projects were implemented on
- 6 -



schedule.
28.    The Private Farmers component had a much slower pace of realization. The PFIs had little
experience in financing in this area and it took some time to overcome the problem of finding adequate
collateral for the loans. It was implemented through 56 subprojects and 95 percent of the available funds
were diisbursed. Funds were approved to individual farmers on the whole territory of FYR Macedonia.
The purposes of the subprojects were mostly to equip barns, provide agricultural machinery, renew
livestock and poultry (cows, sheep, and chicken), build fish ponds and greenhouses, produce honey, and
purchase raw materials. The average size of the sub-loans was DEM 60,000, with an average repayment
period of four years.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
29.    Although much has been achieved at the individual level in terms of capacity building of the PFIs,
the project's overall institutional development impact on FYR Macedonia's banking system was limited.
Even discounting for the fact that the Implementatio Completion Report (ICR) evaluation at project closure
was dLone when the financial system was suffering from the impact of the Kosovo crisis, it is undeniable
that the asset quality of the banking system in Macedonia (PFIs and more so for non-PFIs) still needs
significant improvement. Although they have come a long way from where they stood at project approval,
most of the PFIs are only taking the preliminary steps for their eventual integration into the European
Union and would not be able to stand the competition on an open market.
30.    Much remains to be done to make the Central Bank an effective bank regulator and a more
independent and transparent institution. Further strengthening of bank supervision by the NBM and
entrance into the banking sector of foreign strategic investors, both being pursued under the proposed
FESAL II, would also facilitate faster improvement of the banking system, as well as faster development of
new high-quality financial services. The sale of Stopanska Banka, the country's largest bank accounting
for nearly 45 percent of total banking system assets, to the National Bank of Greece with the Intemational
Finance Corporation (IFC) and the EBRD participation in April 2000 is expected to provide a major boost
in this respect.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
31.    Although it is overall considered to be satisfactory, project implementation has been affected by
several factors outside the control of the Government, among which the most important are: (i) the adverse
impact of extemal shocks; (ii) a procurement investigation on possible fraud affecting the procurement of
equipment of a sub-project; and (iii) the random implementation of the technical assistance package
identified during project appraisal.
-7 -



32.   External shocks. During project implementation, FYR Macedonia was adversely affected by
several external shocks, like the war in the Balkans, trade embargoes with its major trade partners (Serbia
and Greece), financial crisis in neighboring countries (Albania, Bulgaria, and Romania), and the Kosovo
crises. The immediate impact of the Kosovo crises on the cash flow of the sub-borrowers and on the
liquidity of the banks was still being felt at project closure. A few loans were rescheduled because of a
perceived lack of capacity of certain sub-borrowers to service their debt. This difficult period was followed
by a sharp recovery in the business activity and in the liquidity of the banks after the end of the war, related
to the reconstruction of Kosovo. There are indications that the spike was short lived and that the economic
conditions have returned to more normal levels.
33.   Procurement investigation. The owner of PTP "Irena", one of the beneficiaries of PSD stated in a
letter to the Apex Unit and to the Bank that he had engaged in a deal with a supplier, whereby the supplier
refunded DEM 40,000 to the beneficiary of an advance payment of DEM 200,000, and that the refund was
due to pay overdue interest to Komercijalna Banka, at the request of the PFI. The DEM 1.5 million
sub-loan to PTP "Irena" was canceled, and Komercijalna returned the funding to the special account in
April 1998. The Bank asked the Government to hire a reputable external auditor to execute a complete and
detailed audit of all Komercijalna's projects under the credit line. The audit report was inconclusive
regarding the possibility of fraud, but pointed out several shortcomings in Komercijalna's credit department
and procedures. The PFI was temporarily suspended from participating in PSD during the audit, and
reinstated in December 1998 following the presentation of an action plan to improve operations, including a
strong external technical assistance component. Komercijalna's suspension from the project caused a
marked slow down in disbursements.
34.    Technical Assistance.  The multi-donor technical assistance program for the banking sector
identified during project appraisal was randomly implemented, and donors' coordination during project
implementation was not strong. Although the Bank provided substantial assistance and advice at early
stages of project preparation and implementation through intense supervision, external TA for the PFIs
funded by the Bank was limited to the preparation of credit applications. The proposed TA under the
Private Farmer Support Project never materialized because at the time it was scheduled the PFIs were still
reluctant to lend to farmers, due to inadequate arrangements for mortgage security. The TA component
was subsequently dropped from the project.  Training in environmental appraisal of projects and
environmental review management also failed to be provided, contributing to the non enforcement of the
environmental procedures prepared for the project. It should be noted, however, that USAID funded
valuable TA to private enterprises through the Macedonian Business Resource Center, as well as to banks
through the Macedonian Banking Operations Center.
35.   Overall, TA was provided on a somehow piece-meal basis, with relatively loose coordination
among donors and no particular link to the banks' corporate strategy or specific needs. The result was a
lack of timely technical assistance in key areas such as credit appraisal and bank supervision, which
affected the quality of the PFI's portfolio. There is still a substantial requirement for TA that has not been
addressed, namely to build institutional capacity in key areas like risk management, asset/liability
management, treasury and lending functions.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
36.   Achievement of project's objectives and outcome would have been dramatically improved had some
of the planned reforms under FESAC been executed on a timely fashion. These reforms relate to factors
affecting the efficiency of the banking sector in FYR Macedonia and the overall environment for the
- 8 -



development of the private sector in FYR Macedonia.
37.    Factors affecting efficiency of banking sector in FYR Macedonia. The banking environment in
FYR Macedonia remained difficult during project implementation. The problems relate to a less than
enabling policy environment and common institutional weaknesses of Macedonian banks. These problems
included, inter alia: (i) unsatisfactory banking law; (ii) the persistence of credit ceilings for individual
banks, which froze certain relationship in the credit market regardless of the efficiency of each bank,
slowing the development of competition; (iii) an unfavorable tax regime on the constitution of loan loss
reserves; (iv) an unsatisfactory collateral law and an inefficient judiciary system for the execution of
collateral; (v) lack of appropriate central register for all types of collateral; (vi) unsatisfactory bankruptcy
and accounting laws; and (vii) lack of adequate information of the creditworthiness of borrowers. In spite
of the large number of established banks, competition in FYR Macedonia's banking sector is limited by the
imposition of credit ceilings on individual banks, and by the fact that, until recently, foreign banks had yet
to establish their presence in FYR Macedonia. Restricted competition allowed interest rates and margins of
loans denominated in local currency to remain artificially high.
38.    The Government first attempted to address these issues in the context of FESAC, albeit rather
slowly due to the overall slowdown of the reform momentum resulting from the earlier mentioned severe
external shocks. These reforms continue to be pursued under the proposed FESAL II. The sale of
Stopanska Banka, the country's largest bank accounting for nearly 45 percent of total banking system
assets, to the National Bank of Greece with IFC and EBRD participation in April 2000 is also expected to
provide a major boost in this respect. Achieving major progress in these areas was clearly outside the
scope of the project.
39.    The business environment for the development of the private sector in FYR Macedonia also
remained difficult during the entire implementation of PSD. The main constraints are: (i) lack of business
premises; (ii) inadequate market information and rudimentary marketing techniques; (iii) skill deficiencies
concerning business planning and bookkeeping; and (iv) inadequate access to finance. Access to long-term
finance for private companies is limited as a result of the general unwillingness of banks to extend term
credit due to the perceived uncertainties in the economy.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
40.    Rather than being created as an independent entity, the Apex Unit was placed inside NBM's
International Department. Its staff was not allocated full time to the project but had to share the work
arising, from PSD implementation with normal tasks of the Department. Because of the lack of clear
institut[ional arrangements inside the NBM, the Apex Unit failed to build adequate skills in areas like risk
assessment and environmental screening of sub-projects, in spite of the best efforts of its staff.
41.    Staffing of the Apex Unit remained an issue during the entire project implementation. The NBM
considered that the initial staffing of two part-time employees to be satisfactory, while the Bank, based on
experiences in other countries, felt that the staff had too many assignments. The Bank insisted that the unit
should be strengthened and comprise four dedicated staff who should be able to devote full attention to the
promotion of the project.  During project appraisal, the Bank also recognized that an experienced
consultant, to be stationed in Skopje, should be engaged to provide the necessary assistance to the PFIs.
Agreement on the required staffing of the Apex Unit was only achieved during the negotiations of the
follow-up project, and as a condition of its effectiveness. The resident consultant was never hired. The
only external TA provided by the Bank for the Apex Unit related to the development of internal procedures
for project implementation (management of sub-project approval, procurement procedures, sub-loan
-9-



disbursement process, accounts management, etc.).
42.    As a result, the Apex Unit was kept understaffed during the first years of project implementation,
and this restrained its full operative capacity. This issue, that has been addressed as part of the overall
changes in PSD 2 implemented after the mid-term review, was particularly relevant in two areas: (i)
compliance with Bank's procedures for the environmental screening of sub-projects; and (ii) the project
reporting system.
43.    Environmental screening of sub-projects. All sub-projects approved under PSD are in compliance
with Macedonian Environmental Regulations, as certified by the relevant authorities, but these regulations
are below Bank standards. A manual for Environmental Review Procedures developed by the Government
in agreement with the Bank to be used by PFIs in the process of sub-project appraisal for screening
environmental issues was not enforced. Lack of appropriate TA in this area resulted in unsatisfactory
capacity building in the PFIs for environmental screening of projects.
44.    Project Reporting System. No formal arrangements were made during project appraisal to develop
a complete financial management system for PSD other than the independent audit of the operations of the
special account, as there were no mandatory requirements at the time of project approval. This resulted in
a poor reporting system and virtually no formal reporting requirements to the Bank other than information
obtained during the Supervision missions. Overall reporting problems during project implementation were
aggravated by two factors: (i) the requirement to submit to the Bank semi-annual reports on commitments,
disbursements, collections and arrears under the project was not enforced; and (ii) extemal audits of PFIs
accounts failed to systematically include a certification by the auditor of PFI compliance with the financial
covenants agreed under the project.
5.4 Costs and financing:
45.    No problems were registered in this area, although the PFIs' contribution to the overall funding of
the project was much smaller than anticipated. Only in a limited number of cases did the PFIs complement
Bank's financing through, for instance, short term credit for working capital purposes. The sub-borrower's
contribution was well above the minimum requirement of 20 percent of total project cost.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
46.    PSD assisted in building capacity in the Macedonian banking system and in increasing competition
in the credit market, thus making a contribution to reduce the very high level of interest rates in FYR
Macedonia. Failure to provide effective technical assistance slowed down the efforts to build strong
financial skills within the PFIs, as seen by the fact that most of them played only a limited role of
intermediaries of funds, rather than build long-term relationships with the private companies through
packages of financial services.
47.    PSD's ability to channel funds to a cash-starved private sector is unquestionable, but because
access to credit was provided at below market interest rates, sub-borrowers have not yet been fully exposed
to free credit market conditions. There is a risk, especially with regards to former state-owned enterprises,
that upon maturity of their PSD financed sub-loans, weaker sub-borrowers seeking new funding at market
interest rates may find their access to such finance limited by insufficient creditworthiness. To the extent
such sub-borrowers would not be able to renew their loans in the market and remain operational
- 10-



inefficiency of the PSD project in terms of effective credit allocation to the most viable private sector firms
would become apparent.
48.    Although still incomplete, institutional and legal reforms initiated with Bank support before and
during the project are contributing to improving the business environment of the banking system. Because
these reforms are likely to be implemented, the project can be considered sustainable. The sustainability of
PSD's results cannot be judged in isolation, but can be better assessed through the outcome of the second
generation of operations, PSD 2, and FESAL II.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
49.    The achievement of project objectives continues to be pursued through a follow-up operation, the
Second Private Sector Development Project and further reform of the private sector and financial sector
policy environment through the proposed FESAL II.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
50.    Bank performance in the identification, preparation and appraisal of the project was satisfactory.
The Bank identified an operation that was consistent with Government development priorities and
consistent with Bank's CAS for the country. The project has a classic design and was prepared very
quickly to respond to a pressing demand from Government. PSD was the second credit line in foreign
currenicy to be implemented in FYR Macedonia after independence, following a pioneering effort by
EBRD. A lot of effort was placed on the development of specific sub-project application guidelines and
appraisal procedures, perceived at the time of appraisal as the main constraints to a fast implementation.
Several consultants were engaged to assist the PFIs in the preparation of their pipeline of projects and in
the appraisal of sub-projects. By end-August 1996, just after project appraisal, about 10 eligible projects
had already been identified by the PFIs, and feasibility studies and sub-project appraisal was completed for
five sub-projects with the assistance of an extemal consultant funded by the Bank. This was achieved at a
cost, as the lack of timely technical assistance to the implementation agency prevented the Apex Unit from
fully developing the required operational skills of its staff.
7.2 Supervision:
51.    The relative institutional weakness of the implementation agency and the somewhat loose apex
arrangements were compensated by intense Bank supervision during the first two years of implementation
and the strong commitment of the Apex Unit's staff.  However, Bank supervision in the early stages
emphiasized flexibility and the pace of disbursements to the detriment of the strict implementation of Bank
procedures. The temporary suspension of Komercjialna Banka, the project's biggest PFI, frequent changes
in the Bank team after the mid-term review, leading to excessive long delays in obtaining Bank "no
objection" for proposed applications, and the temporary reduction of feasible lending opportunities that
resulted from the Kosovo crisis contributed to a marked slowdown in the pace of implementation during the
late stages of project implementation.
52.    A last supervision mission conducted in September 1999 by a new team (after a period of 18
months of less intensive supervision), in parallel with the mid-term review of PSD 2, downgraded project
component ratings from highly satisfactory to unsatisfactory, to reflect several issues related to project
- 11 -



implementation that were affecting the performance of the follow-up operation. As a result of this mission,
several changes were introduced in PSD 2, namely: (i) an amended and revised Loan Agreement
incorporating much stricter quantitative eligibility criteria for the qualification of PFIs; (ii) signing of a
Fiscal Agency Agreement between the Ministry of Finance (MOF) in its capacity as the Borrower and the
NBM in its capacity as the implementing agency, regulating the functions and operations of the Apex Unit;
(iii) the preparation of new Subsidiary Loan Agreements for PSD 2 reflecting an increase in on-lending
margins from 100 to 325 basis points; (iv) agreement with the Supervision Department of the NBM
regarding the implementation arrangements for the certification and monitoring of compliance of the PFIs
according to the new set of eligibility criteria for PFI qualification; (v) new guidelines for the preparation of
the PFI's annual audits; (vi) enforcement of ex-post review of the audits of the sub-borrowers; (vi) new
procedures for the project's financial management system and reporting arrangements; and (vii)
enforcement of Bank's environmental guidelines for credit line operations. At the same time, arrangements
from internal and external sources were made to provide formal training to the Apex Unit and the PFIs on:
(i) environmental screening and appraisal procedures; (ii) Bank procurement procedures; and (iii) financial
appraisal of projects.
53.   During an ICR mission conducted in February 2000 (that coincided with a PSD 2 supervision
mission), the project's performance ratings were reassessed based on the outcome and findings of the
project stakeholder questionnaire and workshop. Recent positive developments concerning PSD 2 were
also taken into account in this reassessment (the Revised and restated PSD 2 Loan Agreement with the new
provisions that restructure the project became effective, a Fiscal Agency Agreement between the MOF
representing the Borrower and the NBM representing the Implementing Agency was signed, and a resident
consultant funded by a Trust Fund was assigned to work in the Apex Unit).  Notwithstanding
unsatisfactory ratings assigned to the Project after the September 1999 initial ICR preparation mission, the
mission team considered that PSD had overall been more successful than previously thought, and both
achievement of the development objectives and implementation progress were rated as satisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bank pefformance:
54.   Bank performance has to be assessed in the broader context of its performance across the four
operations (the two structural adjustment loans and the two private sector development loans) and as part
of an on-going process of support to sector reform in FYR Macedonia. Although sometimes this
performance could be considered to be uneven, the overall outcome can be considered satisfactory. The
Bank showed flexibility in its dialogue with the Government of Macedonia and was proactive in trying to
find solutions to the problems as they came along. The problems that affected the implementation of both
credit lines were corrected after PSD 2's mid-term review and the project is now bound to be implemented
smoothly.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
55.   The Borrower showed early interest in the possibility of a World Bank project that would address
the weaknesses in the financial sector and the private companies' need for long term financing. It showed
strong commitment to the operation and agreed to basic reforms in the banking sector that paved the way
for project approval. Its contribution is rated satisfactory.
- 12 -



7.5 Government implementation performance:
56.    The Government implementation performance was on the whole satisfactory. The Government
remained consistent in its commitment to the project and PSD remained high in the priorities of the overall
economic policy. The Government facilitated the work of the Apex Unit and its relations with the PFIs and
the final beneficiaries. As previously stated, the pace of reform was sometimes delayed by changes in
Government.  A faster implementation pace of banking sector reform would have been required to
overcome the major blockages in terms of a more efficient functioning of the financial markets and a more
conducive environment for private sector investments. The Government remains, however, committed to
achieving progress in these areas, as seen by the recent agreements leading to the preparation of FESAL II.
7.6 ImplementingAgency:
57.     Because of the institutional arrangements made, the status of the Apex Unit was somewhere
between a regular department of the NBM  and an independent institution.  Moreover, the loose
implementation of the technical assistance program associated with the project resulted in not enough
institLtional strengthening being conveyed to the unit.  In spite of these limitations, the Apex Unit
contributed actively to accelerate project implementation through the timely approval of sub-projects and
the fast execution of disbursements. Its relationship with the PFIs and the beneficiaries was very
constructive and the quality of the service was appreciated by all. The overall performance of the Apex
Unit is thus rated satisfactory.
7.7 COverall Borrower performance:
58. Overall, Government performance was satisfactory. The Government remained consistent in its
commitment and objectives and managed the economic shocks and financial crisis much better than other
countries in the region. FYR Macedonia's banking system underwent a mild crisis in 1997 related to the
collapse of TAT, a savings and loans house, and suffered from the devaluation of the Denar in early 1998,
but survived without major failings the extemal shocks and the financial crises that affected neighboring
countries.
8. Lessons Learned
59.    Main lessons leamed relate to measures that could be adopted at project design to strengthen
project implementation  and  consolidate  strict implementation  arrangements.    They  include
recommendations regarding: (i) the inclusion of technical assistance components in the first credit lines
approved in economies in transition; (ii) the establishment of independent implementation units with a
formal agency arrangement; and (iii) whenever the structure of the banking system allows it, the choice of a
limited number of strong banking institutions to act as financial intermediaries.
60.   Lending through intermediaries should go side-by-side with intense technical assistance, especially
at the, initial stages of project implementation. It is difficult to introduce major policy changes and build
ownership without a substantial component of technical assistance. In order to achieve a sustainable
institutional development impact, donor's assistance should not be supply driven but coordinated and
integrated into a long-term strategic plan for the development of the commercial banks. The Bank and
other donors have made substantial steps in this direction, but more effort needs to be directed to this goal.
- 13 -



61.    The establishment of an independent Apex Unit with clear agency agreements, adequate funding,
staffing and training is of critical importance for successful implementation. A formal Fiscal Agency
Agreement regulating the relationship between the Borrower and the Implementing Agency with regards to
the project is essential to enhance Borrower discipline in compliance with the Loan Agreement's financial,
environmental and other applicable legal covenants. Early ownership and internalization of project design
and development objectives by the implementing agency and clear institutional arrangements facilitate the
building of adequate staff skills, and are instrumental in increasing the likelihood of success of the project.
63.    In promoting competition in the banking sector there is a trade-off between encouraging the
broadest possible participation of banks and the need to ensure that only strong financial institutions can
participate. Participation of small banks in PSD was quite significant, but such participation should be
viewed against the need - not always given enough attention during project implementation -- to ensure
that only financially and institutionally strong banks are allowed to participate. This means that there is an
inherent tension between the objective to include small banks and the objective to include only financially
strong banks, as small banks are often financially weak and sometimes not viable as independent financial
institutions. Project design can be enhanced by a strong focus on capacity building to a limited number of
stronger banks, and by a strict definition of quantitative indicators for the eligibility criteria.
64.    Back-to-back repayment schedules can limit project ownership by the PFIs.   When the overall
systemic risk of the banking sector in a given country is moderate or low, the need to keep the Apex Unit
operating for a long period after project closure, to extend credit line funds to the PFIs is questionable. The
motivation for the PFIs to use the funds can also be low, especially if there is a perception that the
onlending margins are not enough to cover the costs of the additional operations. Provided the PFIs
continued to clearly fulfill qualification criteria, an alternative would be to include provisions in project
design to, at some point of project implementation, allow the PFIs to use the credit line funds at their own
discretion, as an untied source of long-term financing.
- 14 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
NATIONAL BANK OF THE REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
P.O. Box 401, 91000 Skopje, Republic of Macedonia
Phones: +389 91 108-108 (Switch board); +389 91 108-259
Facsimile: +389 91 108-357 (Central); +389 91 108-355
Teleks 51415 NARBAM MB
FOREIGN RELATIONS DEPARTMENT
A'EX UNIT
DRAFT - REPORT
For the realization of the Private Sector Development Project
in the Republic of Macedonia - Loan No. 4015 MK
(part of the report of the World Bank for the realization of the Project)
During 1996 the Republic of Macedonia and the World Bank have commenced the negotiations for
the realization of the Private Sector Development Project as one of the complementary measures
undlertaken by the Government in this period, concerning the reform of the enterprises in the Republic of
Macedonia.
To support this Project the Republic of Macedonia has been approved a World Bank Loan, for
which a loan agreement has been contracted on September 24, 1996. The Loan was in the amnount of 18
millions DEM and was instantly allocated for different purposes, 14 million DEM of which for financing of
the private enterprises, and 4 million DEM for financing of the private farmers.
The basic objectives of the project were to create incentives and provide funds for the private
sector development including the individual farmers, financing of productive objectives and resources
wh.ich will contribute to the growth of exports and improve the competition and productivity of the
enterprises, stimulate the development and competition on the credit markets and lead to establishing a safe
and sound banking system.
The loan funds were supposed to provide sufficient supplementary funds for investment and
working capital of the private enterprises, including the agricultural sector. In a situation when the financial
- 15 -



markets in the Republic of Macedonia had a lack of medium and long term funds for financing of the
private sector, these funds should have been offered to the private enterprises under favorable terms, with
medium and long term periods of repayment and an interest rate lower than the existing on the financial
markets, in order to provide enhanced development. The funds should have been approved to relatively
strong private enterprises in order to improve their efficiency, profitability and their production.
Part of the loan funds were aimed for investments in the private farmers sector, as well, concerning
that they could hardly provide financial support for their production. These funds should finance the
working capital and investments regarding the production of wheat and cattle raising.
It is expected that the loan funds as a revolving fund will have at least three tumovers during the
term of repayment, which is twenty years.
The realization of the Loan was performed with the intermediation of the Realization Unit- The
Apex unit established at the National bank of the Republic of Macedonia as an agent of the Governnent
and the participating commercial banks in this Project.
There were eight participating banks involved in the realization of the project, which had to meet
the criteria given by the World Bank regarding: their financial position, capital adequacy, operating in full
compliance with the regulations, developed financial and credit policies and procedures, adequate portfolio
and adequate technical capacity, and professional staff.
Two of the qualified banks: Komercijalna banka a.d., Skopje and Makedonska banka a.d., Skopje
are banks inherited from the previous system i.e. banks that had previous experience with credit operations
- appraisal of investment projects, project risk analysis and appraisal. The other banks, three from which
are newly established banks - Tutunska banka a.d., Skopje, Rado banka a.d. Skopje and Invest banka a.d.
Skopje, and three from which were formed with separating from the system of Stopanska banka a.d.,
Skopje - Ohridska banka a.d., Ohrid, Stopanska banka a.d. Bitola and Komercijalno Investiciona banka
a.d., Kumanovo, were without any former experience in this field and with relatively confined financial
funds.
The PFIs responsibilities included also promotion and building of the project pipeline, appraisal of
subprojects and final beneficiaries, subloan administration, subproject performance supervision and
periodic reporting to the Apex unit.
The Loan has been realized at a relatively satisfactory pace, meaning that during the utilization
period (December 22, 1996-June 30, 1999) a total of 81 subloans for financing of 81 subprojects have been
contracted, and a total of DEM 17,761,504.00 have been engaged and withdrawn which is 98.68% of the
Loan.
Especially the part aimed for the private enterprises has risen exceptional interest and had a fast
realization. This part of the loan was realized through 25 subprojects in a 100% amount. The average
repayment period of the loans is 6 years with an average approved amount of DEM 560,000.
The loan funds were used to credit private enterprises from 13 cities in Macedonia. The private
enterprises are mostly industrial, coming from the food industry (production of meat, fish, milk, cereals,
vegetables), textile industry, graphical industry, wood industry, electrical appliances industry as well as
from the tourism area.
- 16-



The production of these private enterprises is mostly aimed for the domestic market i.e. used to
substitute certain imported products, especially in the food industry, but some are also export oriented.
The part aimed for the individual farmers had a much slower pace of realization. The major
reasons were that the PFIs had no experience in the financing in this field, as well as the difficulties they
had in overcoming the problem of adequate collateral for these loans.
During the utilization period this part of the loan was realized through 56 subprojects and 95.29%
have been engaged and withdrawn from the total.
Funds were approved to subprojects and individual farmers on the whole territory of the Republic
of Macedonia. The purposes of the subprojects of the individual farmers were mostly to equip barns,
provide agrotechnical machinery, renewing of the live stock and poultry - cows, sheep, chicken, equipping
of fish ponds, bee families, equipping of green houses and raw materials as food for the cattle and poultry.
The average repayment period of the loans was 4 years with an average approved amount of DEM
60,000.
The realizations of this Project and the results accomplished have confirmed the economic
justification and good timing of the project implementation.
The pace of utilizing the funds and the large number of financed subprojects, as well as those,
which couldn't be financed due to unavailability of funds, both point to the good estimation of the situation
and the needs of the private sector in the Republic of Macedonia.
Contributing to this were also the good credit terms, medium and long terms of repayment and the
lower cost of funds than the prevailing on the domestic market.
The realization of the Project has contributed to a quantitative and qualitative development of the
banks PFIs in this Project. Namely, in trying to follow the eligibility criteria for participation in this credit
line, the banks have improved their technical performances. Operating in compliance with the World Bank
rigid rules for project appraisal and financial analysis, subproject appliers and implementing the defined
procurement procedures, they have increased the degree of expertise of the staff in the assigned
departments working on this project.
In the newly established banks, PFIs in the Project, the participation in the credit line was a reason
to initiate the establishing and development of separate divisions, increasing the skills of the staff or
employing experts in this field. The experience gained in working under this project, was applied and
further developed by the banks when placing their own funds.
The successful realization of this Project-Loan, is certainly partly a merit of the Apex unit, as well,
by timely and correct instructions, monitoring and placement of the Loan funds, as well as inter mediation
in the contacts with the World Bank team.
The Project Team of the World Bank which established, developed and participated in the
realization of this Project contributed largely to it's good results. The change in the Team that the World
Bank has executed in the second part of the Project realization, and the insufficient engagement of the new
Team, had a negative impact on the final realization of the Project, i.e. it caused significant delays in the
- 17-



engaging of the funds, which is why the Project did not reach 100% utilization.
The positive results achieved with this Project, were the reason for the contracting and approval of
the Second Private Sector Development Project in the Republic of Macedonia in the amount of DEM 45
millions, contracted in 1997 currently still in the process of realization.
We suggest that in the future the World Bank's organization of similar projects should provide and
extend appropriate technical assistance to the Apex unit and the PFIs before the start of the realization of
the project, rather than during or at the end of the project.
The primary aim of the technical assistance should ensure that the project participants understand
and implement World Bank procedures in the following areas:
- establishment and organization of the APEX i.e PIU operations (if the World Bank has prescribed
procedure);
- procurement procedures;
- financial analysis and evaluation of the projects; and
- procedures for environmental assessment.
We also suggest that the World Bank should not change the project team which established the
project up to its final realization because every new team has own subjective way of interpretation of the
Loan Agreement provision and procedures determined by the World Bank, which confuses the Borrower
and has an impact on the delay of the realization of the Loan i.e. Project.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
- 18-



10. Additional Information
PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT I:
SURVEY OF PARTICIPATING BANKS
1. Name and Address:
Date of incorporation:
Size and total assets in 1998:
Foreign Shareholders:
*   Yes         _% of total equity
*   No
2. Please rate the contribution of the project to the improvement of the operational efficiency of your bank:
Rating
Lending policies                            I - substantial
2 - relevant
3 - limited
4 - marginal
Credit administration and risk management practices                    1      2       3       4
Overall quality of loan portfolio and risk profile of your bank        1      2       3       4
Overall efficiency or Credit Department                                1      2       3       4
Impiroved access to foreign commercial funding                         1      2       3       4
Accounting practices                                                   1      2       3       4
Forrnulation and implementation of corporate strategy                  1      2       3       4
Asset-liability management                                             1      2       3       4
Financial position                                                     1      2       3       4
Management Information System / Information Technology                 1      2       3       4
Internal controls and independent intemal audit                        1      2       3       4
Compliance with NBM's prudential regulations                           1      2       3       4
Impiroved Bank input to policy-making for the banking sector           1      2       3       4
- 19 -



Other (please list):
1                                                                     1      2       3      4
2                                                                     1      2       3      4
3. Contribution of the World Bank Project to the improvement of your bank's credit appraisal procedures and quality
of portfolio:
a) Do you use other LT credit appraisal procedures or techniques?
*   Yes        (list which ones)
*   No (Please explain why not?)
b) What is the probability of using similar procedures for LT credit appraisal after the closure of World Bank line
of credit?
*   Likely
*   Unlikely
c) How does the quality of your portfolio under PSD I compares with the quality of the overall portfolio of your
bank ?
*   Much better
*   Better
*   Equivalent
*   Slightly worse
*   Considerably worse
4. Based on your experience, how would you describe your relationship with the Apex Unit?
Rating
I - excellent    2 - very good
3 - good 4 - deficient     5 - poor
Staff Knowledgeable and helpful in providing advice and     1     2      3     4       5
guidance in the application of procedures
Consistence of advice and guidance                          1     2      3     4       5
Accessibility and responsiveness of senior officers on matters of  1  2  3     4       5
importance
Appropriate recommendations for action to correct problems  1     2      3     4       5
Responsiveness with a reasonable short time                 1     2      3     4       5
5. Average time from presenting project application to signature of sub-loan agreement is  months
6. Based on your experience, how would you describe the performance under the World Bank credit line?
- 20 -



Rating
I - excellent     2 - very good
3 - good 4 - deficient 5 - poor
Project overall design                                       1      2    3        4      5
Relevance of World Bank advice                               1       2    3       4       5
Efficiency of World Bank supervision                         1      2     3       4      5
Procurement procedures                                       1      2    3        4       5
Financial appraisal procedures                               1      2    3        4       5
Period incurred from project application until final approval  1    2    3        4       5
Quiclkness of disbursement of funds                          1      2    3        4       5
7. In your opinion what were the main constraints to a more efficient project implementation? Please List 5 more
importint factors:
2
3
4_
;8. What would you suggest to be done to improve future operations?
Please list:
3_
4
S
9. Whiat is in your opinion the contribution of the World Bank credit line for the overall economic development of the
country:
- 21 -



Rating
I - substantial
2 - relevant
3 - limited
4 - marginal
Increase in overall efficiency of the economy                          1       2       3       4
Reduction of unemployment                                              1       2       3       4
Improvement of trade opportunities                                     1       2       3       4
Increase in exports                                                    1       2       3       4
Improvement in confidence in financial institutions by the public      1       2       3       4
Improved lending policies and practices of participating banks         1       2       3       4
Improved institutional capacity of participating banks                1        2       3       4
Improved loan portfolio quality and risk profile of participating banks  1     2       3       4
Improved access to foreign commercial funding for participating banks  1       2       3       4
Increase in competition in the credit market and contribution to the   1       2       3       4
reduction of the cost of credit in Macedonia
Strengthened prudential regulations and better supervision by the Central  1   2       3       4
Bank
Improved World Bank input to policy making for the banking and enterprise   1  2       3       4
sectors
Improved abilities to present sound business plans and credit applications  1  2       3       4
Increase in lending to small and medium enterprises                    1       2       3       4
Positive spill-over on the economy                                     1       2       3       4
Other (please list)
I                                                                     1        2       3       4
2                                                                      1       2       3       4
-22-



10. Please rank the importance of remaining problems in banking sector environment in Macedonia:
Rating
I - substantial
2 - relevant
3 - limited
4 - marginal
Banking law                                                          1       2       3      4
Colilateral law                                                      1       2       3      4
Efficiency in the collection procedures                              1       2       3      4
Government imposed credit ceilings                                   1       2       3      4
Lack of adequate credit information on clients                       1       2       3      4
Registry of collateral                                               1       2       3      4
Minimum capital requirements                                         1       2       3      4
Unexpected changes in Government's rules, laws and policies          1       2       3      4
Sensibility of the economy to external shocks                        1       2       3      4
Strong and independent Banking Association / Banking Institute       1       2       3      4
Existence or operations of ZPP                                       1       2       3      4
Foreign currency regulations                                         1       2       3      4
Lack of sound business plans from loan applicants                    1       2       3      4
Bankruptcy law                                                       1       2       3      4
Other (please list):
1_                                                                   1       2       3      4
2                        _                                           1       2       3      4
- 23 -



PRIVATE SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT I:
SURVEY OF PRIVATE AND PRIVATIZED COMPANIES
1. General information
Company Name and Address:
Date of incorporation:
Size of Operation:
Sales in 1998:
Export in 1998:
Import in 1998:
Number of employees:
Foreign Shareholders:
X   Yes -         % of total equity
*   No
2. Please rate the contribution of the project to the improvement of the operational efficiency of your company:
Rating
I - substantial
2 - relevant
3 - limited
4 - marginal
Increase in sales                                                        1       2       3      4
Increase in profitability                                                1       2       3      4
Increase in exports                                                      1       2       3      4
Increase in employment                                                   1       2       3      4
Improvement in procurement policies and procedures                       1      2        3      4
Accounting practices                                                     1       2       3      4
Identifying and attracting potential foreign investors for joint-ventures  1     2       3      4
Improve formulation and implementation of corporate strategy             1       2       3      4
Better marketing and export promotion                                    1       2       3      4
Diversification of activities                                            1       2       3      4
- 24 -



Entering new sectors                                                  1      2       3      4
Entering new foreign markets                                          1      2       3      4
Other (please list):                                                  1
I                                                                     1      2       3      L
2                                                                     1      2       3      4
3. What are the most direct effects of the investment project measured in:
* Increase of sales (amount value in denars or DEM)
* Increase of exports (amount value in denars or DEM)
* Import substitution (amount value in denars or DEM)
*   New jobs created
e Other (please list):
l
2
4. When considering the investment project financing, did you explore other possibilities?
O Yes (list which ones)
o No (Please explain why not?)
5. Do you believe that the investment project would be developed without the World Bank credit lines?
O Likely
o Unlikely
6. How would you describe your relationship with the participating h'ink
Rating
I - excellent    2 - very good
3 - good 4 - deficient    5 -poor
Staff Knowledgeable and helpful in providing advice and     1    2     3      4       5
guidance in the application of procedures
Consistence of advice and guidance                          1    2    3       4       5
Accessibility and responsiveness of senior officers on matters of
importance                                                  1    2    3       4       5
Appropriate recommendations for action to correct problems  1    2    3       4      5
Responsiveness with a reasonable short time                 1    2     3      4      5
- 25 -



7. Based on your experience, how would you describe?
Rating
I - excellent     2 - very good
3 - good 4- deficient 5 -poor
Relations with Apex Unit                                     1   2        3       4       5
Timeliness and effectiveness of Apex intervention, support and  1   2     3       4       5
advice
Timeliness and effectiveness of PFIs intervention, support and  1   2     3       4       5
advice
Project overall design                                       1   2        3       4      5
Relevance of World Bank advice                               1   2        3       4      5
Efficiency of World Bank supervision                         1   2        3       4       5
Procurement procedures                                       1   2        3       4       5
Financial appraisal procedures                               1   2        3       4       5
Period incurred from project application until final approval  1   2      3       4       5
Quickness of disbursement of funds                           1   2        3       4       5
8. In your opinion what were the main constraints to a more efficient project implementation? Please List 5 more
important factors:
3
4
9. Average time from presenting project application to first disbursement is   -   months
10. What would you suggest to be done to improve future operations?
Please list:
-26-



1
2
3
4
5
11. What is in your opinion the contribution of the World Bank credit line for the overall economic development of the
country:
Rating
I - substantial 2 - relevant
3 - limited 4 - marginal
Increase in overall efficiency of the economy                        1    2       3       4
Reduction of unemployment                                            1    2       3       4
Improvement of trade opportunities                                   1    2       3       4
Increase in exports                                                  1    2       3       4
Improvement in confidence in financial institutions by the public    1    2       3       4
Improved lending policies and practices of participating banks       1    2       3       4
Improved institutional capacity of participating banks               1    2       3       4
Improved loan portfolio quality and risk profile of participating banks  1    2   3       4
Improved access to foreign commercial funding for participating banks  1    2     3       4
Increase in competition in the credit market and contribution to the  1    2      3       4
reduction of the cost of credit in Macedonia
Improved World Bank input to policy making for the banking and       1    2       3       4
enterprise sectors
Improved abilities to present sound business plans and credit applications    1    2  3   4
Increase in lending to small and medium enterprises                  1    2       3       4
Positive spill-over on the economy                                   1    2       3       4
Other (please list)
I_                                                                   1    2       3       4
2                        _                                           1    2       3       4
- 27 -



12. Please rank the importance of remaining problems in business sector environment in Macedonia:
Rating
I - substantial 2 - relevant
3 - limited     4- marginal
Regulations for starting new business                                 1        2       3       4
Regulation on foreign trade                                            1       2       3       4
Labor regulation                                                       1       2       3       4
Lack of strong and independent Business Association                    1       2       3       4
Difficult access to credit, especially to SME's                       1        2       3       4
Large amount of credit going to inefficient SOE's and privatized companies    1  2     3       4
High interest rates                                                    1       2       3       4
Poor skills of bank's credit officers                                  1       2       3       4
Lack of information on sources of financing available                  1       2       3       4
High fiscal burden                                                     1       2       3       4
Price controls                                                         1       2       3       4
Efficiency of the judiciary in executing collateral                    1       2       3       4
Registry of collateral                                                 1       2       3       4
Unexpected and often changes in Government's rules, laws and policies  1       2       3       4
External shocks                                                        1       2       3       4
Other (please list)
1                                                                     1        2       3       4
2                                                                      1       2       3       4
-28-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..          .   ...:.    ....... .                          . -  g............: -..::..
Increase in output, eamings, and profitability No numerical baseline and target values  Companies consider that PSD has had
o1 individual final beneficiaries     were set at the time of project initiaton;  substantial or relevant impact on increase in
results depending of survey           sales and profitability, improving the
procurement procedures and better
marketing and export promotion. while only
marginal effects have been achieved in
regards to the attraction of foreign partners,
improving corporate strategy and accounting
practices.
Improved banks' risk profile, loan colection   No up-to-date numerical information is  The PFIs consider that the most substantial
performance, asset quality            available at this time, but the broad evidence and relevant contribution of PSD was
suggests that asset quality of the banks  improved qualty of loan portfolio, credit
(PFIs and more so for non-PFIs) still needs  administration and risk management, credit
significant improvement               department efficiency and access to foreign
commercial funding. Slightly less relevant
contribution was achieved in the areas of
corporate strategy, asset4iability
management, financial positon, MIS and
prudential regulaton compliance.
Marginal effects are attained in the
accounting practices, intemal controls and
audits, and Bank input to policy making in
banking sector.
rIcreased participation of new smaller private 8 PFIs qualified, of which 5 are newly  8 PFIs qualified, of which 5 are newly
banks in the SME credit market        established banks                      established banks
Irnproved quality and availability of financial  Not enough progress achieved  Not enough progress achieved
services
Output Indicators:
.. 1.0    ...... .  .....    .   +      :::.... g         g  : ....:.g l
Amount of credit committed and disbursed   DEM 17.75 million; fast disbursement  DEM 17.75 million; fast disbursement
End of project
-29 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Pro ect Cost by Cor onent (in US$ million e uivalent)
Private Sector Finance                                 13.00            14.90           115
Private Fanner Finance                                  3.00            4.20            140
Total Baseline Cost                                    16.00           48.90
Total Project Costs               16.00            48.90
Total Financing Required                16.00           48.90
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                     0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00          0.00         12.00        4.00          16.00
((0.00)        .00)        12.00)       (0.00)      (12.00)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                     0.00          0.00         12.00         4.00         16.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (12.00)       (0.00)       (12 .00)
Proiect Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                     0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00          0.00         11.90        7.20          19.10
(0.00)       (0.00)       (1 1.90)      (0.00)      (1 1.90)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous             0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
-30 -



5. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00            0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00            0.00
_____________________         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)
Total                         0.00            0.00          11.90           7.20           19.10
___________________           .(0.00)         (0.00)         (1 1.90)       (0.00)         (I 1.90)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
21 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financin by Com onent (in US$ million e uivalent)
Private Sector Finance    9.00                 3.00      9.00                 6.00    100.0   0.0   200.0
Private Farmer Finance    3.00                 1.00      2.90                  1.20    96.7   0.0   120.0
0.0    0.0    0.0
- 31 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
- 32 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a)I Missions:
Stae of Project Cycle :No. of Persons and Specialty.                        Performan    ing
.(e.g. 2 Economists, t F.MS Detc.)  - -Implentatinn .evelopnent
Month/Year    Count       Speialty                                        ObjProgress  ective
Identification/Preparation
02/1994                      1   Financial                           S                 S
07/94                        2                                       S                 S
Appraisal/Negotiation
07/95                        2   Financial                           S                 S
04/96                        2   Financial                           S                 S
Supervision
09/96                         3  Financial                           S                 S
12/96                        2  Financial                            S                 S
05/97                         2  Financial                           S                 S
11/97                        2  Financial                            S                 S
4/98                          2  Financial                           S                 S
09/98                         2  Financial                           HS                S
09/99                         5  Financial, Procurement, FMS,        U                 U
Environment
ICR
09/99                        3   Financial, Procurement,             U                 U
FMs
01/2000                      3   Financial, Procurement, FMs         S                 S
(L) Staff:
r -    Stage offPtiectCycle                   Actua  at   sta
Identification/Preparation
_ Appraisal/Negotiation                                             192.2
Supervision                                                       294.5
ICR                                                                62.0
Total                                                             548.7
- 33 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H-High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
FMacro policies                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Sector Policies                           O H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
Z Physical                                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Z Financial                                O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
2 Institutional Development                0 H  O SU * M  0 N  0 NA
Environmental                             O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
Social
I Poverty Reduction                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
N Gender                            O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Other (Please specify)
 Private sector development               0 H  * SU O M  0 N  0 NA
 Public sector management                 0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
C Other (Please specify)
- 34 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U= Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                  Rating
El Lending                                           OHS OS  OU  OHU
O Supervision                                        OHS OS  OU   OHU
El Overall                                           O HS OS  O  U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
II Preparation                                       OHS OS  O  U  O HU
El Government implementation performance             0 HS O s   0 U  0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                  OHS OS   O U  O HU
E Overall                                            OHS OS O u O HU
- 35 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Private Sector Review, carried by UNIDO.
PSD 1 and PSD 2's aide-memoires and back-to-office reports
- 36 -



Anunex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
A) INTRODUCTION
The principal objectives of the Private Sector Development Project (PSD) were to: (i) promote growth of the
private sector in FYR Macedonia and create conditions for an effective supply response from viable private
enterprises and farmers; (ii) facilitate the introduction of safe and sound banking practices; and (iii) facilitate
institutional and structural transformation of the banking system and stimulate competition in the credit
market. These objectives remained valid until project completion, and continue to be pursued under the
follow-up operation, PSD II. The PSD I was closed on October 31, 1999. At the time of the project closure, a
total of DEM 17,761,504.00 have been disbursed, or 98.7 percent of the loan.
The total amount committed and disbursed under the Private Sector Component of PSD I is of DEM 13.95
million. Of the 25 projects approved, 24 have been fully implemented. Under the Private Farmers component
of PSD 1, 56 projects have been approved, and DEM 3.8 million have been committed, with no outstanding
balance undisbursed. The great majority of loans are serving their obligations on time.
Since the PSD project required a fairly rigorous appraisal of client creditworthiness and project financial
viability, with technical assistance provided as necessary, it contributed to improving the institutional capacity
of participating banks and to increasing competition in the credit markets. The presence of large Macedonian
banks as well as small regional banks enabled the credit line to reach a very broad spectrum of (large and
smal:l)  private sector enterprises in different parts of the country.  The sub-projects approved involve
enterprises in 13 cities and concern nine industrial and services sub-sectors.
Sector                                        Nb. Of projects        Percentage of disbursements
food industry                                        9                          34%
textile industry                                     5                          24%
wood processing                                     4                           14%
tourism                                              I                          11%
electrical appliances                                1                          6%
leather manufacturing                                1                          6%
graphic industry                                     2                          4%
paperboard                                           I                           1%
transport services                                   I                           1%
Total           25                         100%
In order to make assessment on the success of the implementation and overall effects of the PSD project, World
Bank conducted a survey of all participating banks and final beneficiaries of the project. A specially designed
questionnaire have been sent to all PFIs, to all beneficiaries from the Private investment component (24
beneficiaries) and to a sample of Private farmer component (sample of 12 beneficiaries throughout all regions
in FYR Macedonia, using different PFIs). The response of the surveyed parties was fairly good, i.e. all banks
responded to the questionnaire, 18 enterprise - beneficiaries out of 24 (75 percent), and four farmers out of the
- 37 -



total of 12 (30 percent).
B) RESULTS OF THE SURVEY OF PRIVATE AND PRIVATIZED ENTERPRISES
Structure of the enterprises-beneficiaries
From the surveyed companies that responded to the survey, seven were fairly small companies (up to 50
employees), three were medium size companies (up to 500 employees) and four were large companies (between
500 and 4500 employees). The remaining number of companies have not provided this information.
If one analyzes the size of company considering annual sales figures, three companies are very small with
annual sales of around DEM 100,000; three companies have DEM I M sales; four companies have DEM 5 to
10 million; three companies have sales between DEM 45 to 80 million. Out of the total number of companies,
five have a significant export contribution to the sales figures (more than 60 percent).
Main Effects
Q: Please rate the contribution of the project to the improvement of the operational efficiency of your
company
(Rating 1-4: Substantial - relevant - limited - marginal)
1        2         3        4
Increase in sales                                                 8         6         5       3
Increase in profitability                                         8         6         5       3
Increase in exports                                               5         3         2       8
Increase in employment                                            5         7         4       6
Improvement in procurement policies and procedures                3        10         3       3
Accounting practices                                              1         5         3       6
Identifying and attracting potential foreign investors for        4         3         3       11
joint-ventures                                                                          ;
Improve formulation and implementation of corporate strategy      4         4         5    7
Better marketing and export promotion                             8         6         3       4
Diversification of activities                                     1         5         5       5
Entering new sectors                                              6         2         6       6
Entering new foreign markets                                      1         7         6       4
Companies consider that PSD project has substantial or relevant impact on increase in sales and profitability,
large impact in improving the procurement procedures and better marketing and export promotion, while
marginal effects have been achieved in regards to the attraction of foreign partners, improving corporate
strategy and accounting practices.
- 38 -



Q: What are the most direct effects of the investment project measured
According to the final beneficiaries, some of the most direct effects of the investment project are as following:
Sales increase
For 11 surveyed companies there is a total increase of sales of DEM 51,025,000. However, increase in sales in
only five large companies contributes to DEM 49.5 million, while increase in six smaller companies amounts
to DEM 1.525 million, or average increase of sales per company is around DEM 10 M for large companies,
and around DEM 100,000 for small companies.
Exports increase, import substitution
Tota.l increase of exports for the export oriented companies is DEM 18.22 million for 10 enterprises. However,
the export increase is different for large compared to small companies, i.e. export increase for four large
companies contributes with DEM 17.46 million (95.82 percent), while export increase for six small companies
amounts to DEM 765,000. In addition to the export increase, there is also the import substitution of DEM
800,000 for two small companies.
New jobs creation
There was a total of 222 new jobs created in 10 different companies with the PSD project implementation.
However, one should consider the fact that some of the large enterprises had problems of over employment, so
that there is no direct new employment effect, but instead, there is an indirect effect of reducing the number of
over-employed.
Additional direct effects
*      New products are created and access to new markets enabled
*      Working capital problem solved
*      Increased productivity
Technology transfer
Improved quality of final products
Improved competitiveness
Q: When considering the investment project financing, did you explore other possibilities
When considering the project, 11 companies explored other possibilities (like self financing, other bank loans,
loans from other companies, government projects, etc), and seven did not look for other opportunities.
Q: Do you believe that the investment project would be developed without the World Bank credit lines?
Out of the 18 surveyed companies that responded, 15 do not believe that their investment project would have
been developed without World Bank credit lines, and three believe that it would have been possible. An
important fact is that the ones who believe their projects would have been possible, are large, viable, export
oriented enterprises, that would normally have easy access to other financial sources as well.
Relationships with project entities
Q: HIow would you describe your relationship with the participating bank?
- 39 -



The relationship of beneficiaries with participating bank have been rated as follows:
Rating 1-5: Excellent - very good - good - deficient - poor                1     2      3      4     5
Staff Knowledgeable and helpful in providing advice and guidance in the   12     2      5      I
application of procedures
Consistence of advice and guidance                                       I11     3      4      I     2
Accessibility and responsiveness of senior officers on matters of importance  10  7     3      1     0
Appropriate recommendations for action to correct problems                 9     4      5      1     2
Responsiveness with a reasonable short time                                7      5     4      3     2
In principal, enterprises are satisfied with all aspects of their relationship with their banks, highly ranking the
accessibility and responsiveness of senior officers, helpful and knowledgeable staff and consistent advice,
guidance and measures for problem solving. The biggest critiques are related to the time period within which
banks respond to their clients.
Q: Based on your experience, how would you describe the relationship with the World Bank and overall
project design as following:
Enterprises that used funds from PSD project line have rated the relationship with the World Bank and overall
project design as following:
(Rating 1-5: Excellent - very good - good - deficient - poor)              1      2     3      4     5
Relations with Apex Unit                                                   4      6     3      1     0
Timeliness and effectiveness of Apex intervention, support and advice      5      5     5      2      0
Timeliness and effectiveness of PFIs intervention, support and advice      4      6     4      2      0
Project overall design                                                     8      3     7      0     0
Relevance of World Bank advice                                             8      6     4      0     0
Efficiency of World Bank supervision                                       7      5     5      0      1
Procurement procedures                                                     4      6     7      0      1
Financial appraisal procedures                                             7      5     4      1     0
Period incurred from project application until final approval              3      1     7      7      1
Quickness of disbursement of funds                                         7      1     4      5      0
Basically, enterprises that used World Bank funds are satisfied with their relationship with the World Bank in
all aspects. Beneficiaries have given the lowest ranking in relation to procurement procedures and period
- 40 -



between project application and final approval, while the highest ranking is for World Bank advice, efficient
supervision and overall project design.
Project Implementation issues and recommendations
Q: I, your opinion what were the main constraints to a more efficient project implementation?
According to the beneficiaries, main constraints in the project implementation are within the area of terms of
the sub-loans, i.e., interest rate, grace period and request for collateral, in relation with the documents required
and time needed for approval of the loans, and procurement procedure.
Below are the constraints as listed by all beneficiaries:
Grace period
Decrease period needed for approval of funds
Established unnecessary procurement procedure- selection of suppliers
Speed of disbursement
Administration-loan approval
Bureaucracy
Too much documents required
Too long approval time
Foreign market research
Long time period
Expertise of bank employees
Inefficient legal framework
Too short grace period
Bureaucracy
Interest rates
Faster decision making for project approval
Procurement procedures
Too high costs for preparation and evaluation of projects and studies
Too long procedure
Too large documentation
Cooperation with foreign partners
Request for securities
Number of employees in the project
Very complex and inefficient procedure to approval, which causes delay in investments
Too short repayment period
Raw materials
Training of people who prepare and evaluate schemes
Grace period should be longer
Too high ratio loan-collateral 1:2
Too short grace period
Reduce indirect costs
Request for foreign exchange income of the projects
Purchasing power
Direct contacts with investors
Direct contacts with World Bank representatives in Macedonia
No grace period for interest payment
Closed markets
Lower interest rates
Required amount and approved amount discrepancy
Too large guarantees required
-41 -



Q: Average time from presenting project application to first disbursement is
Average time from presenting project application to first disbursement varies from 2 months (2 companies), 3 -
4 months (3 companies), 5-6 months (3 companies), 8-10 months (5 companies), 12-15 months (4 companies)
and 18 months (I company)
Q: What would you suggest be done to improve future operations
Beneficiaries suggest that the interest rate should be decreased, the grace and repayment period should be
extended, the time period for loan approvals be shortened, procurement rules be loosened up, and technical
assistance be provided both for enterprises and banks (for preparing and evaluating investment projects).
Below are the suggested actions as listed by beneficiaries:
*      Faster assessment of projects and creditworthiness of loan applicants
Bigger freedom when selecting the supplier
Timely disbursement for commodity purchases
Shorter period from loan application to loan approval
Fast privatization
*      Eliminate obstacles determined above
*      Lower interest rate
*      Professional staff
*      More efficient legal requirements (all necessary documents to be issued in less than 1 month)
*       iGrace period to be 2 years
*      Improved efforts form responsible authorities for better and more efficient production in all areas
Increasing time limits for supplying offers
*      Longer grace period
*      Longer payment period
Bigger number of employees working on the projects
*      Repayment period to be 10 years
Assistance in preparing schemes and analysis required by World Bank
*      Increased communication with World Bank representatives in Macedonia
-      Loan amount required not to be corrected
*      Assistance in locating new partners
*      Providing technical advice for investments
*      Faster disbursement
Contribution to economic development
Q: What is in your opinion the contribution of the World Bank credit line for the overall economic
development of the country:
Final beneficiaries have rated the contribution of World Bank credit line for overall economic development of
the country as following:
(Rating 1-4: Substantial - relevant - limited - marginal)              1        2       3        4
Increase in overall efficiency of the economy                         14        4       4        0
Reduction of unemployment                                             11        5       6        0
Improvement of trade opportunities                                    13        7        1
- 42 -



Increase in exports                                                   12       6        3        1
Improvement in confidence in financial institutions by the public    10        8        2        I
Improved lending policies and practices of participating banks        12       6        3        0
Improved institutional capacity of participating banks                 9      10        3        0
Improved loan portfolio quality and risk profile of participating banks  7    11        3
Improved access to foreign commercial funding for participating banks  8       8        4
Increase in competition in the credit market and contribution to the  10       8        2
recluction of the cost of credit in Macedonia
Improved World Bank input to policy making for the banking and        11       7        1        2
enterprise sectors
Improved abilities to present sound business plans and credit         12       7        2
applications
Increase in lending to small and medium enterprises                   12       4        5        1
Positive spill-over on the economy                                    14       5        2        1
According to the final beneficiaries, there is a big number of positive effects in the overall economic
development achieved with PSD. Highest ranking is related to accomplishments in the overall efficiency and
positive spill-over on the economy, as well as regarding the improved lending policies, loan portfolio and
institutional capacity of the participating banks, coupled with improved confidence in financial institutions.
The other highly ranked area achieved with this project is the improvement of trade opportunities, increase of
exports and improved abilities to present sound business plans and credit applications. The lowest ranking
effects achieved are related to the reduction of unemployment, increase of lending to small and medium
enterprises, and access to foreign commercial funding for participating banks.
Q: Please rank the importance of remaining problems in business sector environment in Macedonia:
The importance of remaining problems in business sector environment in Macedonia have been ranked as
following:
(Rating 1-4: Substantial - relevant - limited - marginal)              1       2        3        4
Regulations for starting new business                                  9       4        3        4
Regulation on foreign trade                                            4        7       5        5
Labor regulation                                                       6        5       5        4
Lack of strong and independent Business Association                    7        3       5        6
Difficult access to credit, especially to SME's                         1       2       6        4
- 43 -



Large amount of credit going to inefficient SOE's and privatized       5       4        7        6
companies
High interest rates                                                   11        5       1        4
Poor skills of bank's credit officers                                  4        7       5        6
Lack of information on sources of financing available                  5        8       5        4
High fiscal burden                                                     8        6       3        3
Price controls                                                         4       3        5        8
Efficiency of the judiciary in executing collateral                    8        4       5        4
Registry of collateral                                                 7        8        1       5
Unexpected and often changes in Government's rules, laws and policies  12       5        1       4
External shocks                                                       12       3        2        3
The enterprise sector is still facing a lot of challenges in the business environment, the most important being
the unexpected and often changes in government regulation, high interest rates, external shocks, problems with
collateral (both in regard with registering and efficiency of judiciary in executing it), high fiscal burden, new
business regulations, and difficult access to credit for SME's. Another area which calls for improvement is
foreign trade and labor regulation, lack of strong and independent business association, lack of information on
financial sources and poor skills of credit officers in the banks. It seems that the problems of price control and
credit going to inefficient SOE's are not the most significant issues, while they still need appropriate attention.
C) RESULTS OF THE SURVEY OF THE BANKING SYSTEM
Main Effects
Q: Please rate the contribution of the project to the improvement of the operational efficiency of your bank:
All five participating banks kindly responded to our questionnaire and this is what they believe the
contribution of the project to the improvement of the operational efficiency of the bank:
(Rating 1-4: Substantial - relevant - limited - marginal)              1        2       3        4
Credit administration and risk management practices                    1        3        1       0
Overall quality of loan portfolio and risk profile of your bank        0        4       0
Overall efficiency or Credit Department                                1        3        1       0
Improved access to foreign commercial funding                          1        3        1       0
Accounting practices                                                   0        2       3        0
Formulation and implementation of corporate strategy                   2         1      2        0
- 44 -



Asset-liability management                                              1       2        2        0
Financial position                                                      1       2        1
Management Information System/Information Technology                    1        2        1
Internal controls and independent internal audit                        I        1       3        0
Compliance with NBM's prudential regulations                            2        1        1        I
Improved Bank input to policy-making for the banking sector             1        1        2
The most substantial and relevant contribution of PSD project were accomplished in regards with improved
quality of loan portfolio, credit administration and risk management, credit department efficiency and access to
foreign commercial funding. Slightly less relevant contribution is achieved in the areas of corporate strategy,
asset-liability management, financial position, MIS and prudential regulation compliance. Marginal effects
were attained in the accounting practices, internal controls and audits, and Bank input to policy making in
banking sector.
Q: Contribution of the World Bank Project to the improvement of your bank's credit appraisal procedures and
quality of portfolio:
Four banks out of five use other credit appraisal procedures in addition to the World Bank procedures, and only
one does not. However, one important fact to be pointed out is that the World Bank PSD credit line was the
very first foreign, long term credit line, and banks' staff has been instructed and shaped in credit risk
assessment and investment evaluation, on-the-job, by implementing it.
Q: What is the probability of using similar procedures for LT credit appraisal after the closure of World Bank
line of credit?
All five banks consider it is possible that they will use similar procedures for credit appraisal after the closure
of World Bank credit line. Participating banks are satisfied with the World Bank credit appraisal procedures
and welcomed any technical assistance in this particular area.
Q: How does the quality of your portfolio under PSD I compares with the quality of the overall portfolio of
your bank ?
When comparing the credit portfolio under the PSD with the overall portfolio, two of the banks have
equivalent quality, one has better portfolio and one slightly worse.
Relationship with project entities
Q: Based on your experience, how would you describe your relationship with the Apex Unit
Participating banks rank the relationship with the Apex Unit as following:
- 45 -



(Rating 1-5: Excellent - very good - good - deficient - poor)              1    2    3    4    5
Staff Knowledgeable and helpful in providing advice and guidance in the    1    2    1    2    0
application of procedures
Consistence of advice and guidance                                         1    2    1    2    0
Accessibility and responsiveness of senior officers on matters of importance  3    1    0    2    0
Appropriate recommendations for action to correct problems                2    1    1    2    0
Responsiveness within a reasonably short time                              1    2    1    2    0
Note: When answering this question, one of the banks provided two answers, stating excellent rating for the
technical aspect, and deficient rating for the financial capabilities of the Apex Unit. Participating banks in
general consider that their relationship with the Apex Unit is very good, especially related to the accessibility
of the senior officers for the matters of importance. The lowest rating is linked with one particular bank which
does not seem to be satisfied with established cooperation with the Apex Unit.
Q: Average timefrom presenting project application to signature of sub-loan agreement
According to the participating banks, the average time from presenting project application to signature of
sub-loan agreement varies from one-two months to two-four months
Q: Based on your experience, how would you describe the performance under the World Bank credit line?
The performance under the World Bank credit line, is described as following:
(Rating 1-5: Excellent - very good - good - deficient - poor)              1    2    3    4    5
Project overall design                                                     1    3    0    1    0
Relevance of World Bank advice                                             0    4    0    1    0
Efficiency of World Bank supervision                                       1    3    0    1    0
Procurement procedures                                                     I    1    2    0    1
Financial appraisal procedures                                             1    2    1    0    0
Period incurred from project application until final approval              0    2    2    1    0
Quickness of disbursement of funds                                         1    2    1    1    0
Commercial banks seem to be very satisfied with the project overall design, World Bank advice and efficient
supervision, less satisfied with financial appraisal procedures, period needed for final approval and
disbursement and least satisfied with procurement procedures.
- 46 -



Implementation issues and recommendations
Q. 'n your opinion what were the main constraints to a more efficient project implementation?
According to the banks, the most important obstacles for efficient project implementation can be grouped in
two groups. One is in relation with the World Bank procedures (slow approval procedure, complicated
procurement and disbursement procedures) and lack of advice from the World Bank technical specialists. An
important remark is that several banks complain about the Bank's environmental requirements, which is not
relevant for PSD 1, but probably related with the implementation of PSD 11. The other group of issues is
related to the economic environment (instability, lack of reliable information, weaknesses in the judiciary)
All obstacles listed by banks are as following:
*      Insufficient presence of IBRD experts for consultations
*      Bad projects and low creditworthiness of loan applicants
Transition of the economic conditions of operating in the state
Insisting on full environmental assessment elaborate for projects where environmental issue is
insi gnificant
-      Lack of timely informing about changes in the procedures of funds usage
*      Inability to finance second hand repaired equipment
*      Instable economic environment influence successful completion of the projects
*      Slow project approval by World Bank
*      Non compliance of the environmental assessment procedure with the legal regulations in Macedonia
*      Complicated procurement procedures for small investments
*      Inefficient Court procedures for the Court cases submitted by the bank
*      Complicated procurement procedures
*      Big administration and low flexibility
*      Insufficient information system in the state
Insisting in all cases for receipt of goods documents before the goods are paid from the loan funds
Complicated disbursement procedures
*       .Long and complicated procedure for projects realization
Q: Jfhat would you suggest to be done to improve future operations?
Participating banks suggest that Bank procedures should be simplified, technical assistance to be provided and
free limit to be increased. In addition, they suggest that environmental screening of the projects should be
done by the competent technical staff in the Ministry of Environment.
Below are the actions needed to be taken as listed by the banks:
*      Removing previously listed obstacles
*      Simplify procurement procedures
*      More frequent visits of World Bank consultants are needed to accept economic positions of projects'
projections
Easier access to TA by World Bank and Apex Unit, especially in the early stages of the investment
projects review
*      Increase NBM free limit for loan approvals
*      If am is not feasible to discuss these conditions with NBM Apex Unit
*      Increase flexibility of Apex Unit
*      Selection of acceptable equipment supplier to be based on highest quality and latest equipment
supplier, instead of lowest cost equipment
*      Simplify disbursement procedures
*      Allow review and approval of projects up till certain amounts by NBM Apex only
*      Respect opinion of the Environmental Ministry on the environmental aspects of the projects
*      Environmental analysis of the projects for limited time period to be uncompleted, due to incomplete
- 47 -



functioning of the needs in this area in the state
Contribution to economic development
Q: What is in your opinion the contribution of the World Bank credit line for the overall economic
development of the country:
The contribution of the World Bank credit line for the overall economic development of the country is defined
by the banks as following:
(Rating 1-4: Substantial - relevant - limited - marginal               1        2       3        4
Increase in overall efficiency of the economy                          1        3        1       0
Reduction of unemployment                                              0        2       3        0
Improvement of trade opportunities                                     0        4       0
Increase in exports                                                    I        1       2
Improvement of public confidence in financial institutions by          2        2        1       0
Improved lending policies and practices of participating banks         1        3        1       0
Improved institutional capacity of participating banks                 0        4       0        0
Improved loan portfolio quality and risk profile of participating banks  0      3        1       1
Improved access to foreign commercial funding for participating banks  2        2        1       0
Increase in competition in the credit market and contribution to the   0        3       2        0
reduction of the cost of credit in Macedonia
Strengthened prudential regulations and better supervision by the      1        2        1       0
Central Bank
Improved World Bank input to policy making for the banking and         0        4        1       0
enterprise sectors
Improved abilities to present sound business plans and credit          2        3       0        0
applications
Increase in lending to small and medium enterprises                    2        3        0       0
Positive spill-over on the economy                                     1        4       0        0
According to the participating banks, the most substantial contribution of the credit line is achieved in the area
of improved abilities to present sound business plans, increased access to credit for SME's and positive
spill-over on the economy. Substantial and relevant contribution is achieved in regards to improved confidence
in banking system, improved access to foreign commercial funding, increased overall efficiency of the
economy, improved lending policies and institutional capacity in participating banks, and improvements in
trade opportunities.  Limited effects are related with improvements in the supervision and prudential
regulation, and reduction of cost of credits in FYR Macedonia, while marginal effects have been accomplished
- 48 -



in the reduction of unemployment, and increase in exports.
Q: Please rank the importance of remaining problems in banking sector environment in Macedonia:
The importance of the remaining problems in banking sector environment in Macedonia is ranked as
following:
Rating 1-4: Substantial - relevant - limited - marginal)           1       2       3        4
Banking law                                                        2       2        1       0
Collateral law                                                     3       1        1       0
Efficiency in the collection procedures                            5       0        0       0
Govemment imposed credit ceilings                                  3       1        1       0
Lack of adequate credit information on clients                     3       1        1       0
Registry of collateral                                             2       2        1       0
Minimum capital requirements                                       1       0        3       I
Unexpected changes in Government's rules, laws and policies        1       2       2        0
Sensibility of the economy to external shocks                      2       2        1       0
Strong and independent Banking Association/Banking Institute       3       0       2        0
Existence or operations of ZPP                                     1       3        1       0
Foreign currency regulations                                       1       1        3       0
Lack of sound business plans from loan applicants                  2       3       0        0
Bankruptcy law                                                     3       2       0        0
According to the survey, all participating banks agree that the biggest problem in the banking sector
environment is still the efficiency in the collection procedures, which is tightly linked with the collateral and
bankruptcy law. Also, despite the fact that big improvements have been achieved with respect to the sound
business plans of the client companies, this still remains a big problem for the banks. Banking law,
government imposed credit ceiling and ZPP operation are still significant problems in the sector. External
shockcs and unexpected changes in government rules create considerable problems as well. On the other hand,
minimum capital requirements and foreign currency regulation have limited impact on the banking sector
environment.
Report prepared by Jasminka Varnalieva-Bidzovska
- 49 -



Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
A one-day workshop to discuss the PSD I implementation track record was held in Skopje on February 3,
2000 and attended by approximately 30 people from all the PFIs, the Apex Unit and several beneficiaries.
The discussion focused on the relations between the beneficiaries, the PFIs, the Apex Unit and the Bank, in
order to improve the overall implementation efficiency of the on-going follow-up operation (PSD II). The
participants agreed that the results of the survey are representative as they show a relative consensus of
points of view both from the PFIs and the beneficiaries. All participants emphasized that, in spite of the
continuing difficulties in the economic environment, PSD I made a definite contribution to enhance credit
management skills of all PFIs, especially with regards to long term lending to small and medium
enterprises. Recommendations for future operations included the need to provide at the early stages of
project preparation intensive technical assistance to the Apex Unit, the PFIs and the beneficiaries, and to
make an assessment of private sector procurement practices in the country. An important part of the
meeting was also spent on the discussion of the recently-enforced environmental procedures for PSD 2.
- 50 -



