Page  1
                                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4015 MK
                              Loan Agreement
                    (Private Sector Development Project)
                                 between
                   FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF MACEDONIA
                               (the Borrower)
                                   and
                  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
                                 (the Bank)
                          Dated September 24, 1996
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 4015 MK
                                LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated September 24, 1996, between the Borrower and the
Bank.
     WHEREAS: the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and condi-
tions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Single Currency
Loan and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the
modifications set forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
Page  2
      (a) "Apex Unit" means the unit referred to in Section 5.01 (b) and
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this agreement;
     (b)  "Beneficiary" means any eligible private enterprise duly
established and operating under the laws and regulations of the Borrower,
or eligible individual farmer to which a Participating Financial
Institution proposes to make or has made a Sub-loan;
     (c)   "Deutsche Mark" and "DEM" mean the lawful currency of Germany,
but if such currency shall be replaced with the European Currency Unit,
then "Deutsche Mark" and "DEM" shall be replaced by "European Currency
Unit" and "ECU" for purposes of the Loan, at the ratio in effect as of
the date of such replacement;
     (d)  "NBM" means the National Bank of the Borrower;
     (e)  "Participating Financial Institutions" or "PFIs" means the
banks and other financial institutions established and operating
according to the applicable laws and regulations of the Borrower and
approved by the Bank for participation in the Project, with which the
Borrower, through the Apex Unit, has entered into a Subsidiary Financing
Agreement;
     (f)   "Private Enterprise" means any commercial entity registered
according to the applicable laws and regulations of the Borrower, in
which the management is not directly or indirectly controlled by the
Borrower, and more than 50% of the proprietary interest therein is
held by persons or entities other than the Borrower, the local
authorities or any subdivision thereof, or entities controlled by the
Borrower;
     (g)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (h)  "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by a PFI
out of the proceeds of the Loan to a Beneficiary for a Sub-project;
     (i)  "Sub-project" means a specific development project to be
carried out by a Beneficiary utilizing the proceeds of a Sub-loan; and
     (j)  "Subsidiary Financing Agreement" and "Subsidiary Finance"
mean, respectively, any agreement entered into between the Borrower,
through the Apex Unit, and a Participating Financial Institution pur-
suant to paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, and any
loan made pursuant to a Subsidiary Financing Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount
equal to eighteen million  Deutsche Mark (DEM18,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in Deutsche Mark a special deposit account in a bank, accept-
able to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify
the Borrower of such later date.
Page  3
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a
rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total
Spread.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means the initial period from and
               including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding,
               the first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter,
               and after the initial period, each period from and
               including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding
               the next following Interest Payment Date.
         (ii)  "Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in
               Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
        (iii)  "LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the
               LONDON interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in
               Deutsche Mark for value the first day of such Interest
               Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period,
               for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next
               preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as
               reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
               percentage per annum.
         (iv)  "LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period:
               (A) one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or
               plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest
               Period, below (or above) the LONDON interbank offered
               rates, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits,
               in respect of the Bank's outstanding borrowings or
               portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single
               currency loans or portions thereof made by it that
               include the Loan, as reasonably determined by the Bank
               and expressed as a percentage per annum.
     (c)  The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the
determination thereof.
     (d)  Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section
2.05, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers
as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the
interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest
rates applicable to amounts of the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not
less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower of the new basis.
The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to
the Loan.
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable January
15 and July 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
                               ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out or cause to be carried out the
Page  4
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, banking, economic, financial and technical
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  For the purpose of carrying out the Project, the Borrower
shall make available the equivalent of the proceeds of the Loan under
Subsidiary Financing Agreements acceptable to the Bank to be entered
into between the Borrower and each Participating Financial Institution,
respectively, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, and
which shall include, without limitations, those set forth in Schedule 5
of this Agreement.
     (c)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under a Subsidiary
Financing Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not
assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Subsidiary Financing Agreement or
any provision thereof.
     (d)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out or cause to be carried out the
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, Sub-loans will be made in accordance with the
procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (b)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to each
Subsidiary Financing Agreement in such manner as to: (i) protect the
interests of the Bank and the Borrower; (ii) comply with its obliga-
tions under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of the
Project.
     Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procure-
ment of the goods and consultants' services required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed
by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.04. For purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Condi-
tions, and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: (a) prepare,
on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the
Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
     (b)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower on said plan.
                                ARTICLE IV
                      Financial and Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expendi-
tures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section including those for the Special
               Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than six (6) months after the end of
Page  5
               each such year, the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
               shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, or cause to be retained until at least one (1)
               year after the Bank has received the audit report for
               the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
               Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account was
               made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
               receipts and other documents) evidencing such expendi-
               tures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
               the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
               Section and that the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
               year, together with the procedures and internal controls
               involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
               support the related withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall, through the Apex Unit, in respect of repayments of
principal of the portions of the Subsidiary Finances utilized in the
making of Sub-loans under Parts A  and B of the Project:
     (a)  open, by the date on which it shall receive the first such
repayment, and, thereafter, maintain, in a bank, acceptable to the
Bank, a separate account on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank; and
     (b)  upon receipt of each such repayment, credit the same to the
said separate account. All amounts to be so credited shall be utilized,
to the extent they are not yet required to meet the Borrower's repay-
ment obligations under this Agreement, exclusively to finance, through
the PFIs, specific projects on similar terms and conditions as those
applicable to the Sub-loans.
                                ARTICLE V
                       Effective Date; Termination
     Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  At least two Subsidiary Financing Agreements have been duly
executed on behalf of, and are legally binding upon, the parties thereto
in accordance with the terms thereof;
     (b)  The Apex Unit has been established by the Borrower with staff
and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank.
     Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
Page  6
                               ARTICLE VI
                  Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          Dame Gruev 14
          91 000 Skopje
                                        Telex:
                                        51119
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
           Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                248423 (RCA)
               Washington, D.C.          82987 (FTCC)
                                         64145 (WUI) or
                                        197688 (TRT)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                    THE BORROWER
                    By /s/ Ljubica Z. Acevska
                                              Authorized Representative
                    THE BANK
                    By /s/ Kenneth G. Lay
                                        Acting Regional Vice President
                                               Europe and Central Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
Page  7
to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                           (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              DEM Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Goods, consultants'      14,000,000        100% of foreign
     services and                               expenditures,
     training under Part A                      100% of local
     of the Project                             expenditures
                                                (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 80% of
                                                local expenditures
                                                for other items
                                                procured locally
                                                for goods, 100%
                                                of foreign expendi-
                                                tures for training
                                                and 100% for con-
                                                sultants' services
(2)  Goods under Part B        4,000,000        100% of foreign
     of the Project                             expenditures, 100%
                                                of local expendi-
                                                tures (ex-factory
                                                cost) and 80% of
                                                local expenditures
                                                forother items
                                                procured locally
                              __________
          TOTAL               18,000,000
                              ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made:
     (a)  in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement; and
     (b)  in respect of a Sub-loan unless the Sub-loan has been made
in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
4.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods
and training under contracts not exceeding DEM750,000 equivalent, for
contracts for the employment of consulting firms not exceeding
DEM150,000 equivalent, and for the employment of individual consultants
not exceeding DEM75,000 equivalent, under such terms and conditions as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to: (i) promote the growth of
the private sector, including private farmers, through financing such
productive facilities and resources as will contribute to increase
exports and improved enterprise productivity and competitiveness; and
Page  8
(ii) stimulate the development of competition in the credit market
and the introduction of safe and sound banking practices.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Private Investment Finance
     The establishment and operation of a credit facility for the
financing, through the provision of Sub-loans by PFIs to eligible
private enterprises, for Sub-projects, including technical assistance
associated with the implementation of Sub-projects.
Part B:   Private Farmers Finance
     The financing, through the provision of Sub-loans to farmers by
PFIs, for Sub-projects.
                                 * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.
                               SCHEDULE 3
                          Amortization Schedule
                                       Payment of Principal
     Date Payment Due              (expressed in Deutsche Mark)*
January 15, 2002                        445,000
July 15, 2002                           455,000
January 15, 2003                        465,000
July 15, 2003                           475,000
January 15, 2004                        485,000
July 15, 2004                           490,000
January 15, 2005                        500,000
July 15, 2005                           510,000
January 15, 2006                        520,000
July 15, 2006                           530,000
January 15, 2007                        540,000
July 15, 2007                           555,000
January 15, 2008                        565,000
July 15, 2008                           575,000
January 15, 2009                        585,000
July 15, 2009                           595,000
January 15, 2010                        610,000
July 15, 2010                           620,000
January 15, 2011                        635,000
July 15, 2011                           645,000
January 15, 2012                        660,000
July 15, 2012                           670,000
January 15, 2013                        685,000
July 15, 2013                           700,000
January 15, 2014                        710,000
July 15, 2014                           725,000
January 15, 2015                        740,000
July 15, 2015                           755,000
January 15, 2016                        770,000
July 15, 2016                           785,000
___________________________
*    The figures in this column represent the amount in Deutsche Mark to
     be repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General
     Conditions.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                 Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.    Procurement of Goods
Page  9
Part A:   General
     Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section
I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.   Grouping of Contracts
     To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped
into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of DEM750,000 or
more each.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   International Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost DEM1,500,000 equivalent or less per con-
tract and DEM8,000,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6
of the Guidelines.
2.   Local Commercial Practices
     Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than DEM150,000 per contract and DEM7,000,000
equivalent or less in the aggregate be awarded in accordance with
established commercial practices of the Beneficiary acceptable to
the Bank.
3.   Direct Contracting
     Goods which are of proprietary nature  may, with the Bank's prior
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods  shall be undertaken in accordance
with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of DEM750,000 or more, the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded
in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Page  10
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guide-
lines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be
based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued
by the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the
Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by
the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply
to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than DEM150,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than DEM75,000 equiva-
lent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply
to: (a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source
selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to DEM150,000
equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment
of individual consultants raising the contract value to DEM75,000 equi-
valent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                           Implementation Program
     The provision of this Schedule shall apply for the purposes of
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.
1.   Parts A and B of the Project shall be carried out by the Borrower
with the assistance of the NBM.  For this purpose, the Borrower shall
maintain or cause to be maintained: (a) a separate unit (the Apex Unit),
with staff and other resources and terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank, to be responsible for the carrying out of the said Parts; and
(b) arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with NBM pursuant to which
NBM shall continue to assist the Borrower in determining the compliance
by PFIs with the conditions set forth in Part B of the Annex to this
Schedule.
2.   For the purpose of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall
through the Apex Unit:
     (a)  relend to the PFIs the equivalent of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to Categories (1) and (2) of the table set
forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement under Subsidiary
Financing Agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and each
such PFI, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by
the Bank, and which shall include, without limitation, those set forth
in the Annex to this Schedule;
     (b)  monitor the overall execution of the Project and the carrying
out by the PFIs of their respective Subsidiary Financing Agreements in
accordance with policies and procedures satisfactory to the Bank;
     (c)  take or cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate
on its part to enable the PFIs to perform in accordance with the pro-
visions of their respective Subsidiary Financing Agreements all the
obligations of the PFIs therein set forth, and not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance;
and
     (d)  exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Financing Agreements
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower
and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any such
Agreement or any provision thereof.
                           ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 5
                  Principal Terms and Conditions of the
                     Subsidiary Financing Agreements
Page  11
     The principal terms and conditions set forth in this Schedule shall
apply for the purposes of paragraph 2 (a) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
A.   Terms:
1.   The principal amount to be relent out of the proceeds of the loan
to a PFI under its respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement shall be:
(a) denominated in Deutsche Mark in accordance with the applicable laws
and regulations of the Borrower; and (b) the equivalent of the aggregate
amount of the principal of all Sub-loans made out of the proceeds
thereof.
2.   The Subsidiary Finance shall be: (a) charged, on the principal
amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, interest,
during each three-month period commencing on January 15, April 15, July
15 and October 15 of each calendar year, at a rate equal to the rate
specified in Section 2.05 (a) of this Agreement  plus a margin, as shall
be calculated on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank; and (b)
repaid in accordance with an amortization schedule pursuant to which
each portion thereof utilized in the making of a Sub-loan shall have
a maturity calculated to conform to the amortization schedule applicable
to such Sub-loan.
3.   The right of a PFI to the use of the proceeds of its respective
Subsidiary Finance shall be: (a) suspended upon failure of such PFI to
perform any of its obligations under its respective Subsidiary Financing
Agreement or to continue to be in compliance with all legal and
regulatory requirements applicable to its operations; and (b) terminated
if such right shall have been suspended pursuant to subparagraph (a)
hereof for a continuous period of sixty (60) days.
B.   Conditions:
1.   A Subsidiary Financing Agreement may be entered into with a banking
institution, duly established and operating under the laws of the
Borrower, which the Borrower, with the assistance of NBM pursuant to the
arrangements referred to in paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 5 to this
Agreement, shall have determined, and the Bank shall have agreed, that
such banking institution:
     (a)  is in compliance with all legal and regulatory requirements
applicable to its operations;
     (b)  is operating pursuant to investment and lending policies and
procedures which the Bank and NBM pursuant to paragraph 2 (b) of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement shall have judged acceptable, and has
undertaken to maintain said policies and procedures;
     (c)  has a satisfactory financial structure, determined, inter alia,
on the basis of risk-based capital adequacy criteria satisfactory to the
Bank, policies and performance, and the organization, management, staff
and other resources required for the efficient carrying out of its
operations, including its activities to be undertaken under Parts A and
B of the Project; and
     (d)  has established a credit committee and a technical unit in
accordance with, and for the purposes set forth in paragraph 2 (c)
hereof.
2.   Each respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement shall contain
provisions pursuant to which each respective PFI shall undertake to:
     (a)  carry out its activities under Parts A and B of the Project
and conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with appropriate
financial standards and practices, with qualified management and staff
in adequate numbers, and in conformity with the investment and lending
policies and procedures referred to in paragraph 1 (b) hereof, and to
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose;
     (b)  (i) make Sub-loans to Beneficiaries on the terms and condi-
Page  12
tions set forth in the Attachment to this Annex; (ii) exercise its
rights in relation to each such Sub-loan in such manner as to protect
its interests and the interests of the Borrower and the Bank, comply
with its obligations under its respective Subsidiary Financing
Agreement and achieve the purposes of Parts A and B of the Project;
(iii) not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of its agreements
providing for Sub-loans, or any provision thereof, without prior
approval of the Borrower; and (iv) appraise Sub-projects and supervise,
monitor and report on the carrying out by Beneficiaries of Sub-projects,
in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower;
     (c)  maintain, with staff and other resources and terms of
reference, satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower: (i) a credit
committee to be responsible for the evaluation and approval of Sub-loan
applications; and (ii) a technical unit to be responsible for the
appraisal and supervision of the carrying out of Sub-projects;
     (d)  (i) exchange views with, and furnish all such information to
the Bank or the Apex Unit, as may be reasonably requested by the Bank,
the Borrower, or the Apex Unit, with regard to the progress of its
activities under Parts A and B of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under its respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement, and
other matters relating to the purposes of Parts B and C of the Project;
and (ii) promptly inform the Bank and the Apex Unit of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of its
activities under its respective Subsidiary Financing Agreement; and
     (e)  (i) maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect, in
accordance with sound accounting practices, its operations and financial
condition; (ii) have its financial statements (balance sheets, state-
ments of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(iii) furnish to the Bank, as soon as available, but in any case not
later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, certified
copies of said financial statements and accounts for such year as so
audited, and the report of such audit by said auditors in such scope
and detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iv)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records,
accounts and financial statements, as well as the audit thereof, as
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
                   ATTACHMENT TO THE ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 5
                   Terms and Conditions of the Sub-loans
     The provision of this Attachment shall for the purposes of para-
graph 2 (b) (i) of Part B of the Annex to Schedule 5 to this Agreement:
1.   The principal amount of each Sub-loan made out of the proceeds of
the Loan allocated from time to time to Categories (1) and (2) of the
table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement shall:
(a) be denominated in Deutsche Marks, in accordance with the applicable
laws and regulations of the Borrower; and be equivalent in Deutsche
Mark (determined as of the date or respective dates of withdrawal from
the Loan Account or payment out of the Special Account) of the value
of the currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out on account of
the cost of goods financed out of such proceeds for the Sub-project,
for Sub-loans under Parts A and B of the Project; and (b) unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree not to exceed the equivalent of: (i)
DEM800,000 in respect of a Sub-loan under Part A of the Project; and
(ii) DEM200,000 in respect of a Sub-loan under Part B of the Project.
2.   Each Sub-loan shall be: (a) charged interest, on the principal
amount thereof withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
determined by the PFI making such Sub-loan in accordance with its
investment and lending policies and practices referred to in paragraph
1 (b) of Part B of the Annex to Schedule 5 of this Agreement; and
(b) made for a period determined pursuant to said policies and
practices; and (i) in respect of a Sub-loan under Part A of the
Project, made for not less than one (1) and not more than ten (10)
years, inclusive of a grace period of up to three years; and (ii) in
Page  13
respect of a Sub-loan under Part B of the Project, made for up to
five (5) years, inclusive of a grace period of up to two (2) years.
3.   No expenditures for goods required for a Sub-project shall be
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the loan unless:
     (a)  the Sub-loan for such Sub-project shall have been approved
by the Bank and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier
than 180 days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received
the application and information required under paragraph 4 (a) of this
Attachment in respect of such Sub-loan, or
     (b)  the Sub-loan for such Sub-project shall have been a free-limit
Sub-loan (as hereinafter defined) for which the Bank shall have
authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account and such expenditures shall
have been made not earlier than 180 days prior to the date on which the
Bank shall have received the request and information required under
paragraph 4 (b) of this Attachment in respect of such free-limit Sub-
loan. For the purposes hereof, a free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan
for a Sub-project to be made by each respective PFI in an amount to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan which shall not exceed the
amount determined from time to time by the Bank and notified to the
Borrower and each such respective PFI.
4.   (a)  When presenting a Sub-loan, other than a free-limit Sub-loan
to the Bank for approval, the PFI shall furnish to the Bank, through
the Apex Unit, an application, in form satisfactory to the Bank,
together with: (i) a description of the Beneficiary; (ii) the appraisal
of the Sub-project, including a description of the expenditures proposed
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (iii) the proposed terms
and conditions of the Sub-loan, including the schedule of amortization
therefor; and (iv) any such other information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request.
     (b)  Each request for authorization to make withdrawals from the
Loan Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-loan shall contain: (i) a
summary description of the Beneficiary and the Sub-project, including
a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) the terms and conditions of the Sub-
loan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.
     (c)  Applications and requests made pursuant to the provisions
of subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be presented to
the Bank on or before September 30, 1998, or such later date as the
Bank shall establish, provided however, that such applications and
requests in respect of Sub-loans shall not be made after September
30, 1997, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, in case the aggre-
gate amount of Sub-loans authorized or approved pursuant to the
provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment shall be less than the
equivalent of DEM3,000,000.
5.   Sub-loans shall be made to Beneficiaries who each shall have
established to the satisfaction of the PFI making the Sub-loan, on
the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank that:
     (a)  in respect of Beneficiaries under Part A of the Project,
is a private enterprise, which shall have established  to the PFI,
based on guidelines acceptable to the Bank, that it is creditworthy,
and has a satisfactory financial structure and the organization,
management, staff and financial and other resources required for the
efficient carrying out of its operations; and
     (b)  in respect of Beneficiaries under Part B of the Project,
the Beneficiary is a private farmer, who shall have established to
the PFI, based on guidelines acceptable to the Bank, that is credit-
worthy, and has satisfactory financial and other resources required
for the efficient carrying out of farming activities.
6.   Sub-loans shall be made for Sub-projects which are each deter-
mined, on the basis of an appraisal carried out in accordance with
guidelines satisfactory to the Bank, to be:
Page  14
     (a)  technically feasible and economically, financially and
commercially viable, with expected financial rate of return of not
less than 15%;
     (b)  in conformity with the applicable environmental regulations
of the Borrower; and
     (c)  in respect of Sub-projects under Part A of the Project, with
satisfactory business plan, and financing plan covering the necessary
additional financing for the components not financed by a Sub-loan.
7.   Sub-loans shall be made on terms whereby the PFI making the Sub-
loan shall obtain, by written contract or other appropriate means,
rights adequate to protect its interest and those of the Borrower and
the Bank, including the right to:
     (a)  require the Beneficiary to carry out the Sub-project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
technical, economical, financial and commercial practices, to maintain
adequate records, and to provide, promptly as needed, the fund,
facilities and other resources required for the purpose;
     (b)  require that the goods to be financed out of the proceeds ofthe Loan to be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
4 to this Agreement, and use such goods exclusively in the carrying
out of the Sub-project;
     (c)  inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the
Bank, or the Apex Unit on behalf of the Borrower, if the Bank, the
Borrower, or the Apex Unit shall so request, the goods and the sites,
works, plans and construction included in the Sub-project, the
operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
     (d)  require that the Beneficiary shall take out and maintain
such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be
consistent with sound business practice, including such insurance
to cover hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made
payable in a currency freely usable by the Beneficiary to replace or
repair such goods;
     (e)  require each Beneficiary under Part A of the Project to: (i)
have its financial statements for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the PFI; and (ii) furnish to
the PFI, as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
(6) months after the end of each such year, certified copies of its
financial statements for such year as so audited, and the report of
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
PFI shall have reasonably requested;
     (f)  in respect of Beneficiaries under Part A of the Project,
require the Beneficiary to implement its business plan, referred to
in paragraph 5 (c) of this Attachment with due diligence and effi-
ciency and take all necessary action to achieve the objectives
thereof, and carry out and operate the Sub-project in accordance
with appropriate health, safety and environmental standards, satis-
factory to the Bank;
     (g)  obtain all such information as the Bank, the Borrower, or
the Apex Unit shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and
to the administration, operations and financial condition of the
Beneficiary and to the benefits to be derived from the Sub-project;
and
     (h)  suspend or terminate the right of the Beneficiary to the
use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Beneficiary to
perform its obligations under its contract with the PFI.
                                 SCHEDULE 6
Page  15
                               Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) and (2)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Parts A and B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
provided, however, that notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph
2 (b) of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, payments for expenditures to
be financed out of the proceeds of free limit Sub-loans may be made
out of the Special Account before the Bank shall have authorized
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect thereof. Such expendi-
tures, however, shall qualify as eligible expenditures only if the
Bank shall subsequently authorize such withdrawals; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to DEM1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited
in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
DEM750,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of DEM2,500,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into
               the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
               specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
               other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
               of which replenishment is requested.  On the basis of
               each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
               into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
               shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have been paid
               out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equi-
valent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that
Page  16
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agree-
ment; or
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining un-
withdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice
to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after
and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank:
(A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into
the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
                                SCHEDULE 7
                   Modifications of General Conditions
     For the purpose of this Agreement, the words "the Bank may, by
notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, terminate the right of the
Page  17
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount. Upon the
giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be canceled"
set forth at the end of Section 6.03 of the General Conditions are
deleted and the following is substituted therefor:
          "or (f) by the date specified in paragraph 4 (c) of the
          Attachment to the Annex to Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement,
          the Bank shall, in respect of any portion of the Loan: (i)
          have received no applications or requests under subpara-
          graphs (a) or (b) of said paragraph; or (ii) have denied
          any such applications or requests, the Bank may, by notice
          to the Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to
          submit such applications or requests or to make withdrawals
          from the Loan Account, as the case may be, with respect to
          such amount or portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such
          notice, such amount or portion of the Loan shall be
          canceled."
