Document of                   LE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repor No. P-2892-LBR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
FOR A
SMALL- AND MEDIUM-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
October 29, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit:     Liberian Dollar (L$)
US$1:     L$1
The US dollar is legal tender in Liberia.
FISCAL YEAR
Government:                    July 1   -   June 30
Financial Institutions:     January 1   -   December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ACDB         Agricultural and Cooperative Development Bank
FMO          Netherlands Finance Company for Developing Countries
IBRD         International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA          International Development Agency
IMF          International Monetary Fund
LAMCO        Liberian American Swedish Minerals Corporation
LBDI         Liberian Bank for Development and Investment
NBL          National Bank of Liberia
NHSB         National Housing and Savings Bank
NIC          National Investment Commission
OAU          Organization of African Unity
PfP          Partnership for Productivity
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
SME          Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
UNIDO        United Nations Industrial Development Organization
USAID        United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LIBERIA
SMALL- AND MEDIUM-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Republic of Liberia
Beneficiaries:         National Bank of Liberia (NBL) and National Investment
Commission (NIC).
Amount:                Special Drawing Rights 3.2 million (US$4.0 million)
Terms:                 Standard
Relending Terms:       US$3.4 million from the proceeds of the Credit would
be relent to NBL, the central bank, at 8.0 percent
per annum for fourteen years, including four years of
grace. NBL would relend these funds to participating
financial institutions at 9 percent for unguaranteed
loans or 10 percent for loans covered by NBL's Guarantee
Scheme. The participating financial institutions would
relend the funds to sub-borrowers for small- and medium-
scale enterprises (SMEs) at a rate of at least 13.5
percent per annum. The Government would bear the
foreign exchange risk. The balance of the proceeds of
the Credit (US$0.6 million) would be made available by
the Government to NIC as a grant to finance technical
assistance and studies.
Project                The Project would promote wider participation of Liberians
Description:           in the economy and stimulate outpue and employment by
providing: (a) term resources through NBL to existing
financial institutions to finance SMEs, and (b)
technical assistance to NIC to develop a capability to
promote and assist SMEs. Direct beneficiaries would
be small and medium Liberian entrepreneurs; lower
income groups would benefit from increased job opportu-
nities. Main risks stem from the as yet untested
capability of NIC and the unknown extent to which the
commercial banks will actually participate in the
program.
Estimated Costs:       The project cost is estimated at US$5.5 million
including US$0.5 million in taxes. Foreign costs
would be about US$3.5 million or 70 percent of total
project costs, net of taxes. Project costs and the
proposed financing plan are summarized in the following
tables:
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their ofricial duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Project Cost Estimates:
-------(US$000)--------
Local   Foreign    Total
(70%)
Investments
Small-scale enterprises                              330       770      1,100
Medium-scale enterprises                             900     2,100      3,000
Sub-total                                    1,230      2,870      4,100
Technical Assistance
Advisory Services (Extension Services)                47        144       191
Advisors (Project Promotion and                       78       248        326
Preparation)
Short-term consultants                                 9        32         41
Vehicles and Equipment                                44         72       116
Operating Costs                                      581       107        688
Sub-total                                      759        603      1,362
Total Cost including taxes                         1,989     3,473      5,462
Taxes                                                474        _         474
Total Cost net of Taxes                           1,515      3,473      4,988
Financing Plan:
-------…(US$ Million)--------
Local        Foreign        Total
Government                               0.7            __           0.7
IDA                                      0.5           3.5           4.0
Entrepreneurs                            0.8            --           0.8
Total (including Taxes)            2.0           3.5           5.5
Taxes                                    0.5           --            0.5
Total (net of Taxes)               1.5           3.5           5.0
Estimated Disbursements:
--------(US$ Million)---------
FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85
Annual                                        0.1    0.7    1.2    1.2    0.8
Cumulative                                    0.1    0.8    2.0    3.2    4.0
Appraisal Report No.: 2869a-LBR dated October 20, 1980.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF LIBERIA
FOR A SMALL- AND MEDIUM-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
1.        1 submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Liberia for the equivalent of SDR 3.2
million (US$4 million) on standard IDA terms to help finance a project to
assist small- and medium-scale enterprises. $3.4 million of the proceeds of
the Credit would be relent by the Government to the National Bank of Liberia
(NBL), the central bank, for 14 years, including four years of grace, at 8.0
percent per annum. The balance of the Credit would be made available by the
Government to the National Investment Commission (NIC) as a grant to finance
technical assistance.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A basic economic mission visited Liberia in March 1973.  Its
report, "Current Economic Position and Prospects of Liberia" (426a-LBR),
was distributed to the Executive Directors. An updating report, entitled
"Liberia: Current Economic Situation and Prospects" (No. 2662-LBR), was
also distributed to the Executive Directors on December 28, 1979. An
economic mission visited Liberia in June 1980 to review the current economic
situation and its principal findings are included in the following paragraphs.
Structural Characteristics
3.        The growth of Liberia's economy remains heavily dependent on the
performance of the enclave sector consisting mainly of: (a) iron ore mines,
(b) rubber plantations, and (c) forestry concessions. These enclaves are the
main source of export earnings. Iron ore mining is by far the largest single
activity in the enclave sector, accounting for about one-third of gross
domestic product at factor cost. There are only limited linkages between the
enclaves and the rest of the economy; as a result, the benefits of economic
growth have been unevenly distributed.
4.        Another dimension of structural imbalance is the disparity between
traditional agriculture and the monetized modern sector. Traditional agricul-
ture has minimal inter-action with the rest of the economy; however, it
supports the majority of the population--as much as 60 percent--who live at
or near subsistence level. With a population of about 1.7 million, average
per capita GNP in 1979 is estimated at US$500. While the enclave sector
yields a per capita GNP of about US$1,620 compared to US$780 for the rest of
the monetized economy, the great majority of the population which lives in the
traditional non-monetized sector has a per capita income of about US$160 per
annum.
1/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report for the Petroleum
Exploration Promotion Project dated September 18, 1980 (Report No.
P2703-LBR).



- 2 -
Development Plan and General Economic Policy
5.        Liberia's First Four-Year Development Plan, covered the period
July 1, 1976 to June 30, 1980. The Plan was prepared with the assis-
tance of a planning team financed jointly by the Bank, the United Nations
Development Program (UNDP), the United States Agency for International
Development (USAID) and the Government (Reference: President's Memorandum
to the Executive Directors, No. R74-61 dated March 25, 1974). The Plan was
intended as first of a series of multi-year investment programs aimed at
meeting the basic, long-term objectives of Liberia's socio-economic develop-
ment which were stated as: (a) diversification of production; (b) dispersion
of sustainable socio-economic activities throughout the country; (c) greater
involvement of Liberians in development activities; and (d) equitable dis-
tribution of the benefits of economic growth. The average annual growth
of real GDP during the Plan period was envisaged at around 6.8 percent.
However, because of delays in the implementation of expected investments in
iron ore mining and slackening in demand for the country's main exports, and
diversion of plan allocations towards non-productive projects, real growth
during the four-year period is unlikely to exceed 1-2 percent.
6.        Liberia has already embarked on three important agricultural
development projects in the Bong, Lofa and Nimba counties which are being
assisted by the Bank Group, USAID and the German Government. Other projects
in forestry and rubber are under way which will lead to greater participa-
tion of Liberians in the development of the country's principal agricultural
resources. At the same time, water supply and electric power utilities are
being expanded in both the urban and rural areas and there are plans further
to improve the road network, the inadequacy of which presently constitutes a
constraint to growth. However, the shortage of trained manpower at all
levels and the lack of adequate domestic resources are major constraints to
efforts to develop and diversify the economy. The shortage of skilled,
experienced and trained manpower has become more acute in recent months
following the change in government, as a result of migration abroad and
many former senior officials being held in detention.
7.        Total development expenditure in the original plan was projected at
US$415 million, of which US$251 million was to have been financed from foreign
sources and US$164 million domestically. The Plan was revised in early 1978
to take account of developments during the first two years. The revised
expenditure target was raised to $585 million to reflect increased costs and
to include additional projects. Preliminary estimates of the actual expendi-
ture indicate that although the revised target of $585 million has been
achieved the composition of investment has deviated significantly from the
planned allocations. Only 23 percent has gone to the productive sectors
(agriculture and manufacturing), about 30 percent to infrastructure, about 15
percent to social services and remaining 32 percent to general services and
miscellaneous projects. One-fourth of the total plan expenditure was allo-
cated to facilities and buildings for the OAU conference which took place in
July 1979.
8.        Preparation of the second development plan, covering the period
1980-84, was at an advanced stage when the previous Government was



overthrown. The new government will require more time to finalize the Plan
which is now scheduled for completion in July 1981. The general economic
policy statement issued by the Government of the People's Redemption Council
on June 5, 1980, however, sets out the broad objectives of the new regime.
The main thrust of the economic policy, according to the statement, is to
expand the country s productive capacity, especially in agriculture, and to
ensure that benefits from economic growth and development are enjoyed by a
large and increasing number of Liberians. To achieve this end the Govern-
ment intends to encourage local and foreign private investment and give
priority to labor intensive investments. The other significant measures
taken by the new Government since its assumption of office include deci-
sions: (a) to retain the Liberian dollar at par with the US dollar, which
remains legal tender in Liberia; (b) to honor all existing contractual
agreements with foreign private investors and to change such agreements
only through negotiations with all parties concerned; (c) to withdraw all
currency restrictions temporarily imposed and permit free flow of capital,
goods and services; and (d) to regulate labor relations by full protection
of rights of both workers and management.
Recent Economic Developments
9.        During 1973-75 Liberia, like most other developing countries,
was hit by higher import prices and international inflation. While strong
world demand for Liberia's major export, iron ore, brought large gains in
export prices in 1974, subsequent recession in the industrialized countries
significantly reduced the demand for the country-s most important export
commodities - iron ore, rubber and timber -- in the 1975-78 period. With
growth performance continuing to be largely a function of enclave activities,
growth of real GDP -- which averaged about 6.3 percent a year in the 1967-70
period and 4.2 percent a year in the 1970-74 period has slowed down signifi-
cantly and is estimated to be about 0.7 percent between 1974 and 1978.
10.       During the 1970-74 period, merchandise exports grew by 14 percent
and imports by about 18 percent annually in current prices. Thereafter,
during 1974-78, mostly reflecting accelerated international inflation,
imports rose by 14 percent annually, exceeding the 5 percent annual export
growth. Oil imports increased from US$15 million in 1973 to US$84 million
in 1978. Between 1975 and 1977 the decline in exports was partly offset by
favorable movement in the terms of trade but the trade surplus declined from
US$110 million in 1974 to a deficit of US$16 million in 1977, while the
current account deficit, reflecting substantial remittances of capital and
other factor income from enclave operations, increased to about US$100
million in 1978 as compared with US$30 million in 1974. The rising current
account deficits were financed mostly by private capital transactions, but
in the last two years, official capital inflows have risen substantially.
The situation improved in 1979 notwithstanding the large increase in oil
imports which reached $100 million. The higher prices of Liberia-s major
exports --iron ore and rubber--have helped in achieving a small trade
surplus of US$10.6 million. The growth in imports was relatively lower this
year primarily due to termination of OAU Conference related activities.
The increase in aggregate exports, in value terms, was about 10 percent
compared to 1978. The current account deficit was also down to $53.7 million
in 1979.



- 4 -
11.       Liberia has had a long history of sound fiscal management, and
public sector resources did not come under undue pressure until the mid-
1970's. A satisfactory growth in government revenues averaging about
13.5 percent per year from 1970-75 enabled the Government to finance in-
creasing expenditures. Recurrent expenditures during this period grew by
about 10 percent while development expenditures increased nearly fourfold.
However, public sector finances have come under increased pressure since
1974, and the Government has been facing a growing budgetary deficit. The
deficit in 1975 was only about US$4.0 million, but in FY1979 was US$161
million, or 79 percent of government revenues.
12.       The strain on public sector finances intensified in the fiscal
year 1979-80 and assumed serious proportions in the aftermath of April 12
coup. The decline in public revenues coupled with a decision to increase
the salaries of low-paid military personnel from $100 to $250 per month and
the payment of pending bills from the OAU Conference increased the overall
budgetary deficit from an estimated $56 million to $95 million (9 percent of
GDP) by the end of the fiscal year. The shortfall in revenues was caused
largely by lower import duty collection in the last quarter. The deficit
was mainly financed from IMF resources (about $48 million) under the existing
standby, Compensatory Financing Facility (CFF), Trust Fund arrangements and
heavy short-term internal borrowing. The Government was faced with a
serious liquidity crisis when it approached the IMF in May for further
assistance.
Relations with the IMF
13.       In March 1979, the previous Government had concluded a standby
arrangement with the IMF in the first credit tranche in an amount equivalent
to SDR 9.25 million. The supporting program included restraint in public
expenditure and restrictive credit expansion and external debt policies.
The targets in the program pertaining to revenue performance and the limits
on new public indebtedness were observed. However, the central objective of
moderating the rate of increase in government expenditures was not achieved.
14.       The new Government, after consultation with the IMF, in July 1980,
introduced a stabilization program to support a request for a standby
arrangement for a two-year period in the amount of SDR 65 million (about
US$85 million). In addition, following completion of preparation of a new
development plan, the Government may consider requesting Fund support from
the Extended Fund Facility to supersede the standby arrangement. Major
elements in the stabilization program include: (a) tighter fiscal policies
and stricter control of the financial operations of the public corporations;
(b) import surcharge and other new import duties; (c) sale of Government-
owned Boeing 737; (d) pass on of all future crude oil price increases to
consumers; (e) increase in the excise tax on petroleum products; (f) upward
revision of income tax and excise duty rates; (g) no further wage and salary
increases in 1980/81 beyond the increase for lower paid civil servants
introduced on July 1, 1980; (h) reduced recurrent expenditures; (i) postpone-
ment of a number of development projects; and (k) ban on extra-budgetary
expenditures. Limits would be placed on new borrowings with a maturity of
one to twelve years and on credit to the Government and public sector from



the banking system. The IMF Board approved this program in mid September. In
the meantime a consortium of U.S. commercial banks had provided bridge finan-
cing to enable the country to tide over its immediate cash flow problems; the
Government has also negotiated a roll-over in short-term credit availability
for oil imports during 1980-81.
Creditworthiness
15.       Liberia's external public debt outstanding and disbursed was
estimated at about US$454 million as of December 1979. The Bank Group
share of the public debt outstanding and disbursed is presently about 16
percent and is expected to increase to about 25 percent by 1984. As a
proportion of public debt servicing liability, the Bank Group share is
expected to increase from 14 percent to 18 percent over this period. Debt
service payments as a proportion of exports of goods and non-factor services
were estimated at about 10 percent in 1979 as compared to 5.7 and 7.7
percent for 1974 and 1972 respectively. Public debt service payments as a
percentage of Government revenues (a more meaningful indicator for Liberia
which uses the US dollar as a medium of exchange) declined from about 24
percent in 1972 and 21 percent in 1974 to 16.5 percent in 1978, but have
again gone up to 23 percent in 1980. This upsurge in debt servicing ratio
has occured primarily due to some short-maturity loans contracted by Liberia
in the last few years for financing OAU-related expenditure and meeting the
growing budgetary deficits. In the short run, this increase in debt ser-
vicing liability has created severe pressures on Liberia's public finances.
The Government plans therefore to seek the assistance of the Paris Club to
obtain debt rescheduling of US$20 million during the current fiscal year.
If this is granted the debt service as a ratio of budgetary revenue would
decline to 15 percent in 1980/81.
16.       Assuming a continuation of the recent low rate of growth in public
revenues and exports (7 percent and 5 percent per annum, respectively)
Liberia's debt service ratios are estimated to increase to about 25 percent
of public revenues and 12 percent of exports by 1985; whilst high, this debt
service burden would remain manageable. However, there should be an improve-
ment in the country's economic prospects over the next few years. The
growth in export earnings should be higher than in the immediate past as a
result of the recent strengthening in the demand for iron ore and an increase
in iron ore prices. Also the forecasts for natural rubber prices indicate a
consistently upward movement and Liberia may also expect higher yields from
the recently replanted acreage and new plantings of rubber. Other on-going
agriculture projects (particularly for coffee, cocoa, palm oil) and success-
ful exploration and development of other mining resources, including gold
and barite, will help diversify the economy and should result in an accelera-
tion in the rate of growth of exports during the next three to four years.
Public revenues will benefit from these increased export earnings. At the
same time, a reduction in the size of the Government budget deficit, re-
straints on new commercial borrowings, and increased mobilization of Govern-
ment revenues, may be expected as a result of implementation of the new
stabilization program. Thus, although Liberia has acute short-term liqui-
dity problems, the country's improved export and public finance prospects,
justify continued Bank lending combined with assistance from IDA.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN LIBERIA 1/
17.       The Bank has approved 20 loans (including one Third Window loan) for
projects in Liberia totalling US$135.7 million; there have been 8 IDA credits
totalling US$44 million and one technical assistance grant of US$200,000 for
development planning. IFC has made two equity investments totalling
US$550,000 in the share capital of the Liberian Bank for Development and
Investment (LBDI). The Bank Group assistance has been for roads, agriculture,
rural development, power, education, water supply, DFC and ports. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as
of August 31, 1980 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. Many of
the on-going Bank Group-financed projects were adversely affected in various
ways by the disruption which followed the overthrow of the previous Government;
however, there has been a continuing improvement in the situation.
18.       The objectives of Bank Group operations are:  (a) to help Liberians
take greater initiative in developing their own resources for the benefit
of their own people; (b) to support policies and programs leading to a
broader distribution of the benefits of economic growth; (c) to help the
Government in broadening the economic base and in overcoming infrastructural
constraints to growth; and (d) to assist the Government in mobilizing devel-
opment resources from other external agencies. In furthering these objec-
tives particular attention is being paid to (a) the need to expand the
supply of trained manpower so as to relieve this constraint to development;
and (b) measures to strengthen and improve the operations and finances of
the public corporations in Liberia.
19.       In support of the objectives of raising the standard of living
of lower income groups and broadening the productive base, the Bank Group
lending program is giving increasing emphasis to agricultural and rural
development. The Bank Group is co-financing with USAID two agricultural
projects currently under implementation in Bong and Lofa Counties. These
projects are designed to assist subsistence farmers to diversify their
production base and to increase their productivity and income through the
provision of support services and infrastructure and to help diversify the
country's export and revenue base. A rubber project, which is being
implemented with assistance from the Bank Group and Commonwealth Development
Corporation (CDC), will lead to expanded exports, increased productivity and
incomes for small and medium size farmers through strengthening credit and
extension services and promotion of greater Liberian participation in the
development of this subsector. The ongoing forestry project will strengthen
the Government's forest service, initiate an industrial plantation program
and help Liberia better manage and exploit its forestry resources. The
oil palm project, approved in October 1979, will help expand and diversify
the country's export and revenue base, provide employment, increase the
income level of rural families, and strengthen the institutional capability
of the country for oil palm development. Further Bank Group assistance to
the sector being considered would include a second phase of the Lofa County
project and a rural development project in the southeastern region of
Liberia which would help increase agricultural production, improve physical
1/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report for the Petroleum
Exploration Promotion Project dated September 18, 1980 (Report No.
P2703-LBR).



and social infrastructure in selected low income rural areas and strengthen
the local capability for planning and implementation of rural development
projects.
20.       In addition to its support for agriculture, the Bank Group is also
assisting the Government in its diversification efforts through existing lines
of credit to the Liberia Bank for Development and Investment (LBDI) for the
manufacturing sector. The proposesd small- and medium-scale enterprises
project would stimulate economic activity and employment by providing a line
of credit and technical assistance. A mining project is under preparation
involving the rehabilitation of the Mano River mine operated by the National
Iron Ore Company (NIOC) which is 50 percent owned by the Government of Liberia.
The preparation of this project is being financed under the Project Preparation
Facility. A petroleum exploration promotion project, approved in October 1980,
aims at attracting oil companies to take oil exploration permits in Liberia,
where no exploration has taken place since 1972, with a view to establishing
Liberia's hydrocarbon potential.
21.       In infrastructure, a water supply project was approved in December
1978 which is designed to help rehabilitate and expand the Monrovia water
supply system, extend water distribution to lower income groups in the
metropolitan areas, and strengthen the management, staffing, and finances of
the Liberian Water and Sewer Corporation. The feeder roads project, ap-
proved in February 1979, is designed to open up the agricultural hinterland
of Liberia in support of the ongoing and proposed agricultural and rural de-
velopment programs. A fifth highway project is under consideration to
improve the country's road maintenance capability and reconstruct sections
of main roads in the agricultural interior. In the power sector, a fourth
power project was approved in June 1978 which would expand the Liberia
Electricity Corporation's thermal power generating facilities to meet demand
until a new hydro-electricity generating facility has been constructed and
made operational in the late 1980s. The project also includes management and
training assistance to LEC and service connections to about 5,000 urban poor
households in Monrovia.
22.       In the social sectors, three education projects have been financed
by the Bank Group. The first two projects aimed at improving secondary
education, education planning and management, as well as extending the
educational system to rural areas through the provision of secondary schools
and 100 village community schools. The third project emphasizes vocational
and technical training. The Bank has recently undertaken a study of the
country's education, training and manpower planning needs and ways in which
to augment the supply of trained manpower. The results of this study will
form the basis for a proposed fourth education project which is currently
being prepared with financing under the Project Preparation Facility. This
project would improve facilities for manpower training and upgrade primary and
secondary education in the rural areas. Also in the social sectors, an urban
development project is under preparation which would upgrade low-income shelter
in the Monrovia area through improved infrastructure facilities and strengthen
local institutions for urban management.



PART III - INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL SECTORS
Manufacturing
23.       The Liberian manufacturing sector is small and centered on import-
substitution activities. Besides sawn timber and plywood, the only signifi-
cant manufactured export is explosives. Manufacturing investment grew at a
rapid rate in the late sixties and early seventies, with real growth of about
12 percent, but has been stagnant in recent years once financially attractive
import-substitution possiblities had been exhausted. Real output was US$26
million in 1974 and US$28.7 million in 1978, representing 6 percent of GDP.
Manufactured exports account for only about one percent of total exports.
Two-thirds of the value of manufacturing production originates in the refinery
and cement industries, and the balance is distributed among food, beverages,
and tobacco. Aside from the refinery, which is government-owned, the majority
of large-scale firms are foreign-owned and managed; and most manufacturing
activity occurs in Monrovia.
24.        A recent study of the structure and performance of the manufactur-
ing sector carried out by UNIDO concluded that industrial development thus far
has been confined largely to large enterprises. The study found industry
characterized by (a) high capital intensity (US$18,800 investment per job);
(b) low net value added ratio (14 percent); (c) high dependence on imports;
(d) insignificant intersectoral linkages; (e) production of primarily consumer
goods for the domestic market; (f) low rates of capacity utilization (less
than 50 percent); and (g) satisfactory profit rates. Industrialization in
Liberia has thus been essentially an import-substitution process, producing
light consumer goods by capital intensive techniques, catering to the tastes
and demand of high income groups. The skewed income distribution pattern,
reinforced in the past by Government industrial policies, encouraged the
growth of such a production pattern.
Manpower and Employment
25.       Both public and private investment in Liberia are hampered by the
problem of low absorptive capacity. An important feature of this poor
absorptive capacity is a shortage of trained manpower at all levels. Until
the April 1980 change of government, the need was met to some extent by
expatriates, especially in technical and professional occupations, where they
occupied 18 percent of total jobs, and in sales where they accounted for 37
percent of the total work force. While recent statistics are not available,
it is known that many skilled and professional Liberians and some foreign
nationals have left the country in the last few months. At the lower level,
many jobs are still filled by Africans from neighboring countries.
26.       The shortage of trained personnel coexists with high and increasing
rates of unemployment. The situation is particularly severe in Monrovia,
where open unemployment reaches 21 percent, according to the most conservative
estimates. Despite limited employment opportunities, and increasing Government
efforts to improve rural incomes, the rapid flow of migrants to the city
continues. For these reasons, the Government considers job creation and
upgrading of worker skills to be urgent priorities.



-9-
Industrial Policy
27.       The new Government has reaffirmed an "open door" policy to attract
foreign investment. In the past, the main tools of this policy were the
Development Plan and the Investment Code. In addition, Government initiatives
such as the Mano River Union, the Free Zone, and the Monrovia Industrial Park
were undertaken with a view toward promoting industrialization, especially by
broadening markets to compensate for the limited size of Liberia's domestic
market. Overall, the emphasis of Liberia's industrial policy was on larger
industrial enterprises, and comparatively little attention was paid to small-
and medium-scale enterprises (SMEs).
28.       Liberia's Investment Code of 1966, amended in 1973, provides
liberal investment incentives, including duty exemption on imported machinery,
equipment, and inputs; tax exemption; rebates on export duties, income, and
excise taxes on manufactured exports; and other miscellaneous benefits such
as accelerated depreciation.
29.       While, in principle, any manufacturing firm, regardless of size or
activity, could qualify under the Investment Code, in practice, most of the
50 manufacturing enterprises which have benefited are medium to large by
Liberian standards. Smaller firms have generally been deterred by the
cumbersome administrative procedures, and those which have obtained contracts
under the Code are unable fully to use duty exemptions because their import
requirements are too small and irregular. The Investment Code is presently
being reviewed and the proposed project would finance short-term consultant
services to assist in revision of the code with a view, in part, toward
improving access of SMEs to its benefits.
The SME Sector
30.       The encouragement of SMEs in Liberia is particularly appropriate
as such enterprises tend to be more labor intensive, their scale of operation
matches Liberia's market, and they can serve as a means to increase Liberian
participation in the manufacturing sector.
31.       The Importance of SMEs.  An extensive survey of the SME sector was
financed by the Bank as part of the preparatory work for the proposed project.
Carried out by a Liberian team from the University of Liberia, the survey
found that the largest number of SMEs in Liberia are involved in tailoring,
restaurants, carpentry, transportation and garages. Approximately 7,000
people are employed in these activities, where entry is relatively easy and
competition in the product market is intense. Product quality is poor, partly
as a result of low skill levels, and training is carried out on an apprentice-
ship basis. According to the survey, enterprises of this type have few fixed
assets, suffer from a lack of utilities, especially electricity and water,
have limited space, and have a distinct distrust of bureaucracy in the form of
government or banking institutions. In addition, the management of these
firms is deficient; there is a high failure rate--a common feature of this
subsector--and entrepreneurs are for the most part unaware of means to expand
their operations or improve their efficiency. Nearly half of the small-scale
enterprises identified in the survey are located in the Monrovia area, with a
significant number in Nimba and Lofa Counties. Liberian ownership is wide-
spread.



- 10 -
32.       Existing Support for SMEs.  In spite of a growing awareness of the
importance of SMEs, there was until recently no organization responsible for
their promotion nor a clear policy framework to encourage the establishment
and expansion of SMEs. As noted earlier, the industrial development strategy
outlined in the first development plan emphasized larger industrial units, and
SMEs have not generally benefitted from the Investment Code. Recognizing the
need for greater support for SMEs, the previous Government established the
National Investment Commission (NIC) in September 1979. The NIC has been
retained by the new Government and its mandate remains basically unchanged.
NIC was established to strengthen the coordination and promotion of domestic
and foreign investment of all sizes. An important NIC goal is the elimination
or reduction of the obstacles which are perceived as having discouraged
private investment in Liberia in recent years. To carry out this task, NIC
absorbed two existing government agencies--the autonomous Liberian Development
Corporation (LDC) and the Concessions Secretariat from the Ministry of Finance.
LDC had been in charge of investment promotion, but was ineffective due to a
lack of clear objectives and inadequate financial and staff resources. The
promotion of local SMEs is also viewed as a high priority and a separate SME
Department was established within NIC. The new Government has given strong
support to the SME function within NIC and has also formulated a policy
statement describing the new program of assistance to SMEs which would be
supported by the proposed project. The publication of this statement would
be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed project (draft Credit
Agreement, Section 5.01 (b)).
The Financial Sector
33.       The financial sector in Liberia consists of a central bank (National
Bank of Liberia), seven commercial banks, two wholly government-owned special-
ized financial institutions--The National Housing and Savings Bank (NHSB) and
the Agricultural Cooperative Development Bank (ACDB)--and a development bank,
the Liberian Bank for Development and Investment (LBDI).
34.       Central Bank.  The National Bank of Liberia (NBL), the central
bank, was established, with IMF assistance, in 1973 to supervise overall
banking activities, perform clearing house operations, extend credit to the
Government and banks, and regulate the supply of currency. However, the
scope of NBL's monetary policy has been restricted to date by the use of the
US dollar as the national currency and by its limited resources.
35.       Commercial Banks.  Five of the seven commercial banks in Liberia are
majority foreign owned and staffed by expatriates at the senior and middle
management levels. Although the commercial banks are the most important source
of credit in the country, they serve primarily the concession enclaves and
large wholesale and retail trade establishments to whom they extend short-term
credit which is frequently rolled over. Commercial banks have been reluctant
to lend to small entrepreneurs because of their weak management, poor project
preparation, and inadequate collateral. Moreover, the existence of adequate
business opportunities of a larger scale has in the past discouraged the banks
from taking measures of their own to overcome the problems of lending to small
business. The climate of uncertainty since the change of government has made
commercial banks even less willing to lend to SMEs.



- 11 -
36.       Liberian Bank for Development and Investment.   LBDI was established
in 1965 with the assistance of IFC, which subscribed 25 percent of the initial
US$1 million share capital. Since 1972 the Bank has extended three lines of
credit to LBDI totaling US$12 million. The assistance of the Bank Group has
contributed to the development of LBDI into a strong financial institution
which has played a significant role in financing enterprises of all sizes.
37.       As of September 30, 1980, less than half of the Bank's third line of
credit to LBDI had been committed. The slow rate of commitment was due in
part to the reduced rate of economic activity in Liberia, but also to the
reluctance of LBDI's borrowers to use Bank funds (for which they bear the
foreign exchange risk) during a time of volatile exchange rate fluctuations.
Small borrowers, in particular, have been deterred by the exchange risk.
38.       The Project Performance Audit report on the Bank's first line
of credit to LBDI (SecM78-581 of July 11, 1978) pointed out that LBDI had not
achieved the degree of industrial promotion and resource mobilization commonly
expected of development finance insitutions. The audit report suggested that
future Government policies and Bank projects ought to focus on improving the
environment for development finance activity. The proposed project would
respond directly to this recommendation through promotion of SMEs and through
provision of credit in a new and more accessible form.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       Preparation of the proposed project was initiated in 1978 by a
Government request to explore the possibility of establishing a technical and
financial assistance program for small- and medium-scale enterprises (SMEs).
A Bank industrial sector mission was followed by consultants' studies,
including a Bank-financed comprehensive survey of SMEs executed by a team
from the University of Liberia. The project was appraised in May 1979.
Following organizational changes in the Liberian Government, a brief post-
appraisal was required in December 1979. After the change of government
on April 12, 1980 a further review of institutional and sectoral conditions
affecting the project was made in June 1980. Loan negotiations were held in
Washington, April 21 to 25, 1980. The Liberian delegation was led by Hilary
Wilson of the National Investment Commission. Significant events and special
conditions are summarized in Annex III. The project is described in detail
in Staff Appraisal Report No. 2869a-LBR.
Objectives
40.       The project represents the first comprehensive effort in Liberia to
assist small- and medium-scale enterprises. It has two complementary objec-
tives: first, to develop a technically qualified institution to help such
entrepreneurs plan and manage their investments; and second, to encourage
local financial institutions to increase their support for such enterprises.
The project would thus directly support the new Government's efforts to



- 12 -
broaden the industrial base and increase local participation and employment.
Skills would be upgraded by expanded and improved on-the-job training oppor-
tunities.
Project Description
41.       To meet these objectives, the proposed project would finance term
loans to SMEs and would provide technical assistance to the newly created
National Investment Commission (NIC) to develop a capability to assist SMEs.
The project would be supported by a $4 million IDA credit to finance:
(a) credit for small-scale enterprises (US$1 million) and
medium-scale enterprises (US$2.4 million); and
(b) technical assistance to the SME Department of NIC
(US$0.6 million).
Enterprises benefitting from the project would be wholly Liberian-owned.
The project would be implemented over a three-year period.
Credit Component
42.       The credit component of $3.4 million would be relent by the Govern-
ment through the central bank, the National Bank of Liberia (NBL), to the
banking system.  Of this amount, US$1 million would finance loans to small-
scale enterprises and US$2.4 million would finance loans to medium-scale
enterprises.  Eligible financial institutions would include the Liberian Bank
for Development and Investment (LBDI), the National Housing and Savings Bank
(NHSB), the Agricultural Credit Development Bank (ACDB) and all seven commer-
cial banks. The variety of financial institutions represented, some with
branches outside Monrovia, would ensure broad sectoral and geographic distri-
bution of the loans. All enterprises except trade would be eligible for
financing. Typical activities would include wood and metal working, food
processing, building materials, tailoring, road transportation, repair and
maintenance. Both fixed investment and permanent working capital would be
financed.
43.       Small-Scale Enterprises would be defined as those with project
investment costs up to US$50,000, wholly owned by Liberian citizens, where
maximum fixed assets of the enterprise do not exceed US$50,000 at the time of
loan application. Participating banks would finance, and be fully reimbursed
from the IDA line of credit, up to 90 percent of the cost of the project.
Since the foreign cost of these projects is estimated at 70 percent, the IDA
credit would finance some local costs.
44.       Medium-Scale Enterprises would be defined as those with project
investment costs up to US$100,000, wholly-owned by Liberian citizens, where
the combined fixed assets of the firm do not exceed US$100,000 at the
time of loan application. Participating banks would finance, and could be
fully reimbursed from the IDA Credit, up to 80 percent of the cost of
these projects, slightly more than the foreign cost estimated at 70 percent.



- 13 -
There is some question whether a sufficient number of medium-scale firms
wholly-owned by Liberians will apply and qualify for loans. Therefore, it
was agreed during negotiations that the eligibility criteria for such loans
would be reviewed with IDA 18 months after Credit effectiveness to see, in
the light of project experience, whether minority foreign participation
should be permitted (draft Credit Agreement, Section 2.02 (e) and draft
Project Agreement, Section 2.01 (c)).
45.       Guarantee Scheme.  SMEs which qualify under NBL's Credit Guarantee
Scheme (i.e., individual Liberians or wholly Liberian-owned enterprises
requiring loans below US$100,00) would be eligible for the guarantee. This
guarantee currently covers two thirds of the amount of a loan in default,
but the Government has agreed to increase this percentage to a maximum of 80
percent to compensate the lenders more fully for the lack of collateral which
is a major obstacle to access to credit for small enterprises. Amendment of
the Scheme's regulations to this effect would be a condition of disbursement
of the subloan component of the IDA Credit (draft Credit Agreement, Section
2.02(a)). As is currently the case, NBL would charge for the guarantee
a fee of one percent per annum.
46.       Relending Terms and Conditions:
(a) Interest Rate. The credit component would be relent by the
Government to NBL at 8 percent per annum. NBL would relend
these funds to the participating financial institutions (commer-
cial banks, LBDI, NHSB, and ACDB) at a rate of 9 percent for
unguaranteed loans or 10 percent for loans covered by the
Guarantee Scheme. The one percent margin for all loans would
help compensate NBL for its additional administrative expenses.
The participating financial institutions would relend project
funds to all final borrowers at an interest rate of at least
13.5 percent. The participating banks would therefore receive a
margin of 3.5 percent on guaranteed loans and 4.5 percent on
non-guaranteed loans. Commercial banks currently extend almost no
medium-term credit; they charge between 13 and 15 percent for
revolving short-term credit and 18 to 23 percent for consumer
durable lending. LBDI currently charges a total interest rate
between 12 and 14 percent and passes the foreign exchange risk to
the final borrower. The average annual increase in consumer
prices during the past four years has been below 10 percent and is
expected to average about 12 percent over the next few years. The
final lending rate of 13.5 percent for the proposed project would
thus be positive and consistent with rates currently charged in
Liberia. These rates would be reviewed periodically and would be
changed by agreement between the Government and IDA in the light
of market conditions and inflation (draft Project Agreement,
Schedule).
(b) Commitment Fee; Service Charge. Since NBL would not make any
allocation of funds to the individual participating banks prior
to subloan disbursement, and in order to encourage the partici-
pation of the commercial banks in the new scheme, NBL would



- 14 -
not charge a commitment fee. Participating banks would, however,
charge their usual commitment fee to the final borrowers, which is
generally 1.5 percent. In addition, NIC or the banks promoting the
projects could charge a one time 1.5 percent service fee.
(c)  Term.  The term of the subloans to the final borrowers would
be flexible with a maximum of 10 years and a minimum of 30 months,
including a grace period of up to 24 months. The term is expected
to average 7 years including 18 months grace. The amortization
schedules from the participating banks to NBL would be based on the
aggregate repayment schedule of subloans approved by each partici-
pating bank. NBL would in turn repay the Government according to a
fixed amortization schedule over 14 years including a four-year
grace period.
(d)  Foreign Exchange Risk.  The Government would bear the foreign
exchange risk. This is considered appropriate in view of (a) the
small size of the enterprises and lack of financial sophistication
of the final borrowers, and (b) the desire to encourage commercial
banks and other financial institutions to participate in the program.
(e)  Free Limit.  The first five projects in each category, small and
medium, would be submitted to IDA for approval. Subsequently, there
would be an individual free limit of US$40,000 and an aggregate free
limit of US$500,000 for small-scale projects and an individual free
limit of US$70,000 and an aggregate free limit of US$1.2 million for
medium-scale projects (draft Credit Agreement, Section 2.02(b)).
(f)  Criteria for Subloans.  Subprojects financed under the line
of credit would encourage employment and give due consideration
to the use of appropriate technology. During negotiations it
was agreed that the analysis of all subprojects would include
the investment cost per job, the internal financial rate of
return and, for the medium-scale projects, the economic
rate of return, calculated in accordance with IDA guidelines
(draft Project Agreement, Section 2.02(b)).
47.       The signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government
and NBL specifying the relending conditions would be a condition of effec-
tiveness of the IDA Credit (draft Credit Agreement, Section 5.01). As a
condition of disbursement under the credit component, NBL would issue a
circular, satisfactory to IDA, to the participating financial institutions
describing in detail the eligibility criteria and relending conditions for
the proposed IDA line of credit (draft Credit Agreement, Section 2.02(a) and
draft Project Agreement, Section 2.01(b)).
Technical Assistance Component
48.       The main purpose of this component would be to strengthen the
capacity of the SME Department of NIC to provide promotion and advisory
services to small-and medium-scale enterprises. The SME Department consists



- 15 -
of a promotion and evaluation unit located in Monrovia and an extension
service with wider geographic coverage. The manager of the SME Department has
been appointed; his staff will be small and flexible and will emphasize
personalized service to existing and potential entrepreneurs, including
assistance in preparation of dossiers for sub-project financing. The IDA
Credit would finance two internationally recruited experts--an engineer and an
economist/marketing specialist--for two years each (48 man-months total) to
assist the staff in Monrovia. The average man-month cost for these advisors
(including salary, costs, fees, international travel, and subsistence) is
expected to be about US$6,700.
49.       Additional technical assistance to the SME Department would be
provided by Partnership for Productivity (PfP), a U.S. private, non-profit
agency, which has had some success in establishing an SME program in Nimba
County, Liberia. PfP's project in Liberia is today supported largely by
USAID, but was started by the LAMCO iron mining company in 1974 to generate
economic activity to replace the mining income of the local population when
the reserves run out. Under the proposed project, PfP would organize,
recruit, train, and supervise the extension staff; and it would provide
training at the Nimba County program for the project's professional staff who
will be based at the SME Department in Monrovia. The estimated cost of this
assistance to be funded from the IDA Credit is estimated at US$180,000.
50.       The remaining technical assistance component would include:
(a) two man-months of internationally recruited consultants (at about
US$10,000 per man-month including salary, costs, fees, international
travel and subsistence) to review the Liberian Investment Code and
recommend revision, in part, to increase the benefits for SMEs;
(b) a follow-up to the earlier SME survey in order to explore in depth
the constraints to SME-s and propose additional measures to
promote their development.
The Government would submit by June 30, 1981 to IDA for review and comment
the results of the review of the Investment Code (draft Credit Agreement,
Section 3.04). IDA would approve the qualifications, terms and conditions of
advisors and short-term consultants financed under the project (draft Credit
Agreement, Section 3.03).
Project Costs and Financing
51.       Total project cost is estimated at US$5.0 million, net of taxes, of
which US$3.5 million would be foreign costs. In addition, taxes would be
US$0.5 million. The proposed IDA credit of US$4.0 million would thus represent
80 percent of total project cost net-of-taxes, and would meet 100 percent of
foreign costs plus US$0.5 million of local expenditures (10 percent of
project cost net-of-taxes). Project costs and the proposed financing plan
are summarized in the project summary table.



- 16 -
Procurement
52.       The purchase of equipment and goods under the project is not
suitable for international competitive bidding given the specialized nature
and small size of goods and services to be procured. Participating institu-
tions would follow local procurement procedures, which are adequate to ensure
that goods and services are suitable and reasonably priced. The quantity of
equipment and vehicles required by NIC would be too small to attract inter-
national bidders and would be purchased according to Government procedures
satisfactory to IDA (draft Credit Agreement, Section 2.04).
Disbursement
53.       Disbursements would be made on the following basis:
(a) Credit subloans to: (i) small-scale enterprises: 100 percent
of participating banks subloans up to a maximum of 90 percent
of the total investment; (ii) medium-scale enterprises:
100 percent of participating banks subloans up to a maximum
of 80 percent of the total investment;
(b) Technical assistance: 100 percent of the total cost of
advisory services and foreign vehicles and equipment imported
directly or 80 percent (representing the estimated foreign cost
component) of expenditures on vehicles and equipment purchased
locally.
54.       All funds under the credit component of the project would be
disbursed through NBL.
Project Preparation Facility.
55.       In order to speed up the implementation of the technical assist-
ance component of this project, IDA approved an advance of US$200,000
under the Project Preparation Facility to cover initial expenditures before
credit effectiveness on: (1) recruitment costs and salaries of the two
internationally recruited advisors to the SME Department; (2) extension
services to be assisted by PfP; (3) vehicles and equipment for the SME
Department; and (4) short-term consultants to complete the revision of the
Investment Code. This amount would be refinanced under the proposed project.
Benefits and Risks
56.       By providing through NIC and the participating banks the necessary
technical and financial assistance to SMEs, the project would help increase
participation of local entrepreneurs in the industrial sector, and generate
employment. It is expected that, over three years, the proposed project would
assist about 40 small-scale enterprises with individual loans averaging
US$25,000, the bulk of these loans being in the US$5,000 to US$10,000 range,
and about 34 medium-scale enterprises with individual loans averaging
US$70,000. The project would help generate over US$4.2 million of investment



- 17 -
which in turn would create around 500 jobs at an average cost of about US$8,000
for medium-scale enterprises, and below US$5,000 for the small-scale enter-
prises. These figures are much lower than the present average cost per job in
Liberia. Probably the most important long-term project benefits, but also
those with which the greatest risks are associated, are the building up of
NIC's SME department into an effective promotion agency, and the expansion of
commercial bank participation in the financing of SMEs. The development of
NIC would be a complex task, but the strong commitment evident on the part of
the Government to the project would be invaluable in overcoming possible
difficulties. The commercial banks previously declared that they were willing
to participate in the scheme. However, they have adopted conservative lending
policies since the change of government and it is not known to what extent
they will actually participate. The high percentage of re-financing available
and the existence of NBL's Guarantee Scheme should encourage their support.
The performance of NIC and the quality of the project proposals produced will
also influence the extent of their participation. The size of this first
project has been kept small in view of the uncertain level of demand for SME
loans from entrepreneurs.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
57.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Liberia and the Association, the Draft Project Agreement between the Associa-
tion and the National Bank of Liberia, and the Recommendations of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the
Association are being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
58.       Special Conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
59.       Additional conditions of effectiveness of the IDA credit would
be:
(a) the signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between NBL and the
Government (para. 47); and
(b) publication of a policy statement on SMEs (para 32).
60.       Conditions of disbursement for the sub-loan component of the credit
would be:
(a)  issuance by the National Bank of Liberia of a circular to the
participating banks, specifying eligibility criteria and relending
conditions for the line of credit (para. 47), and
(b)  amendment of the Guarantee Scheme (para. 45).



- 18 -
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
October 29, 1980
Washington, D.C.



- 19 -                                                     ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
LIBERIA - soCIAL INDICATOIS DATA SHEET
LIBERIA                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV  ArES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                           - HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL             111.4
AGRICULTURAL        6.1                                 MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            NIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE lb   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA N CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   160.0       250.0      500.0                 726.2                   1384.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGEAMS OF GOAL EQUIVALENT)       86.0        454.0     395.0                 699.4                   1055.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)        1.0         1.3        1.7
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 20.5          26.2       31.6                 28.9                      63.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         3.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           9.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACRED                   2130
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 101.                        9.0         12.0      15.0                  61.7                     28.1
PER SQ. EN. AGRICULTURAL LAND    163.0         217.0     279.0                 126.0                     81.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          44.8         40.7      47.4                  45.5                     41.4
15-64 YRS.                          52.0         56.0      50.2                  51.6                     54.7
B5 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.2          3.3       2.4                   2.8                       3.9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               2.8          3.1       3.3                   2.7                       2.7
URBAU                                .           5.6       5.8                   4.9                       4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      51.0         50.0       51.0                  46.8                     34.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      25.0         20.0       18.0                  16.4                     8.9
GROSS EEPRODUCTION RATE                ..          2.6        3.4                  3.2                       2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..           ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           96.0        100.0      96.0                  94.0                    106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALOEIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    95.0         97.0     104.0                  92.7                    107.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           30.0         41.0      42.0                  53.0                     65.6
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         9.0         11.0      10.0                  15.6                     33.7
ChILD (AGES 1-4) NORTALITY RATE      36.0         29.0       23.0                  21.3                      8.4
HEALTh
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    40.0          43.0      48.0                  50.1                      63.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..       1S9.0         ..                   ..                      66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..      20.0                  31.0                     65.9
URBAN                                ..           ..      64.0                  66.8                     80.4
RURAL                                ..           ..       6.0                    ..                     44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TUTAL                                ..           ..      11.0                    ..                     62.3
URBAN                                                     35.0                    ..                     79.4
RURAL                                ..           ..       6.0                    ..                      29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          12267.0Oc   11381.0    9259.0                14508.2                    1849.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      5810.0f     9504.0    2904.0                3279.5                    1227.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             712.0        573.0     623.0                1141.5                    480.3
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAI                                ..           ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..        27.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..          ..
URBAN                                1.7/d        ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTkICITY (PERCE
OF L'WELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..
URBAN                                ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..          ..



- 20 -                                                 ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
TABLE 3A
LIBERIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LIBERIA                         REFERENCE GZOUPS (WEIGHTED AVE   ES
- MDST RECENT ESTIE-, a
MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMEhT RATIOS
PRIhARY:     TOTAL                 31.0         53.0      57.0                  61.7                     99.7
MALE                  45.0        72.0       74.0                  69.2                    101.0
FEMALE                18.0        35.0       40.0                  51.4                     99.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  2.0          9.0      14.0                  20.6                     34.4
MALE                   3.0        13.0       22.0                  29.2                     33.5
FEMALE                 1.0         4.0        7.0                  14.7                     34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (S OF SECONDARY)    ..           5.3       3.0                   7.0                     38.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            32.0         36.0      41.0                  36.6                     30.5
SECONDARY                          12.0         17.0         .                  24.3                     14.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         9.0/        15.0      30.0                     ..                    76:3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.0         11.0       8.1                  38.8                     43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         80.0        108.0     151.0                  83.5                    245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          1.5          4.3       5.1                                           84.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   0.8          6.0       7.6                  24.2                     63.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.6           0.6        ..                   0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL IABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       380.2        480.5     592.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   33.5         32.5      32.0                  38.1                     22.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              80.0         75.6      71.0                  54.3                     37.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  9.7         11.6      13.0                  17.8                     23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                42.3         39.8      38.3                  38.8                     31.5
MALE                                 56.6         54.4      52.7                  48.4                     48.9
FEMALE                               28.1         25.6      24.4                  29.4                     14.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.2          1.2       1.4                   1.3                      1.4
INCONE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         61.7f       .
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      .         72.6j       .
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ...3f
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       .         10.9/f      .
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                             . .     75.0                    ..                    190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 .           ..     137.0                    ..                    474.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     125.0                     .                    332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                                     23.0
RURAL                                ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
a    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
X    1964;   d City of Monrovia only;  /e 1962;  /f Population, higher incoie calculated as residual;
includes expatriates.
April, 1980



- 21 -                                                                             ANNEX I
DEFNITON   OFS___A TKICAOE                                                                Page    3   of    5   pages
A1ca: hinfcg  inn data are draw  iron na-c- generally judged the mast auth-itatice and re1iabla, it should si   he caned that they nay beat be inter-
nainl _.epran hensa  nO the lack nf snadardio-d defitnitionna and n..n.ept  u..ed by different e..ti Ianee   is cu1innit  nb  data.  The data are, none-
ricnas  tuf a  to0mmlAocndrs, nO ngnltude. indicate trends, and rbaraoei..ennreaie major differ.enne  beine   ontis
1kwre orencn. ... rcpsa    ho, nhc ua,e  onr7        nt      u   na1jec  coun.try and (2)I  a..astey geap  ithb nameh.  highe  acreagei-ous  than the cnannry grop
Itirsci nr nnnnrvlennptir 'Capta taryt_ Oityner"9gras  wher  "Middle Ianna  North Afric  adMddle Fs"is chosn  eaue  futns
onnc-calorclaifiitie)    I  the -ef-enran  tena  data the avrges are Pnpsstnn.  leigbted arismetic nen  Er eah  iniao   n   kw    sy  hbra
marc null ci the cnovtrioa or n group las dart ion abet irdinanve.   linac theh orner-age uf%,countries anong theIindicanoes_ dayend n on ,the availabilityynO
data and Ii1ntufr,  atacrn  besercIte  Inreaniagaeae    f anidstari                                       iert  Tb :e  vergesaeII         cca lin  np          blg rho valu
vl Icvo;di-anonIta  tiiaaamongthec-r.yandre-reaea  genyp.,
LAND0 Aiih (thousad sq.k..)                                                                   enoulItn   pe  lsuca     ivpai              -nde  ty ouste -      pratanan   pry-
Tnra1 - iccl v-race area  -oopti-ag land  -er  and inland ratrs,tl .'. q.a.  0 ..d  -ona mdicalscoo                                                   I nien tyleel
Igrorliurc  - dilman  vi  gnnlnlt..ra.. area tad tesparaIly or psrmasetly            Porula_ar  perusnaFnn-PoplatIon-  dinided by number dipatcn
oc- carps, pancren  sanrk Ide  kitcbhee g-riens .. an lie fiallo; 1977 data,                male atd fE.ale grad sateI...I nae   yracinaInurs, an..d ...nin-tnus.
100PlOilPll  100  - N?  er  apia elc  tcvcrnsarei   rirs,  al-   Prylonon  er  vuita] Bed -  .tal, orbo,     rural -  -PopultIon  (,tona,
GN    E   CPTy san  navr ioNP Pern-fon  as    manes                                        urban.andkoreal  divide  by their repe -lsehe  of hopitl1 beds
n-Iated                                  maieS -ie   t.   -W d   -ak crass ~1190b-7i  asi);  li,  ava ilable in Public an'd'pri_ae  .e..ral end spenialtied hospital and no-
1970, and 1910 data.                                                                          hubilint.Lincener         H apitola are esnab linhuenti pe_n-sly staffd
by at least ro  physinian.  Etntaliabhesta pen-lding priroipally cuatdial
lNtiiY IONSUMTPTIO  PER CAPITA - Amoral   casrapti-n of comerial energy (oval                    nre are nor inclu.ded.  israt boPitals, howeve, include health and   ediea1
ard li8coit, yntrnle      natural.  gas snd hydro-, c-nlnor and geohermal Cle-                renters ins prmnetly  tnotted by a phystesa-  (but by I nedto assat
tinIty)  In  iars tco qinalent per caPita: 1900,  970                  ard1                  nus,nditfe,  tc.)  hiebh offer in-patient arommdatr  and proidea
tdata                                                                                        limited rasge ot mdina1 fartlitien.  Foresnt.tainatl. p.rrp..e  arban hospi-
tLs" in-Ide WOOs yrinciPa1l genra -1ed syecisllend h-nlnts',anrua
FOPUOLATIONf AIM VITAL STATISTICS                                                                 nptl   oa   rrro    uptl   r   eia  rd tmaeenivnntr
Inral  vyalatov, Ol-soar  millien  -AI  vi July 0; 19b0, 1970. and 1978          Idmissos-e  Onpie ld- Ovral number  ft adeissin   tc yr dirabharges
dues                                                                                        fine hospinlsl divided by the veber aS beds.
UobunPvaso   (eprrenn t  tt             - nativ of sebur to rural popaartac;
dittfr-r  delrs-lins of urban areas ma.y             ..fni .aprability at dan"'ooo
cuties;16,1910, ard 1970  Aa-.loraneSlo   fluneadf assnrehoshldh    ril   eh                                                                              nder
Popalanton Prnjcnin,vs                                                A hosshai    .nnist  rIIagma find iviuaswh haae living q-as'erv
fouacnin year 2000 - Curen  Ppvylainnpnotin....I,,  are based on 1980                 aed their main mel. A hoarder or lodger may or may   t ho included in
to tal onpulati-n by age and. at    d thei  mortality andfrIInEy rates.                   the hb...sonld for statistina1 puryoses.
Projerti-n earneters fee  -ntin rI nt  orsyr.iteib          troe    lrlnnsr             Ivehernernfcrsnserloo-toal   rbo.ad  rrl -Avrage  u
_na lain eyptany ai bi-nh increas.ing usth -ostey's Par nop pita l            o           hrv   reosprra._calubn  adrnlr.ttdnnonna
local1, sod tamal  lif, onpenancy stabiliriog at 77.5 years.  The PaRe-                   dwellings, r-p-otirely.  DIsl11iags .eralde orpnantmrcrrad
meestr fnrtility rate alo  av  theIo . leel  assuing decline irdncuidprs
fertility acoarding n  inas lee  ard Pane fanily ploio.orossc.                          ces paildePtricty  lroto   welna      eol                           n   ua
iahcnar     .nte  assignd one at thes. rs..          mirair   v  sartality              CMretoa  delasaiheetiity %In ltvi   q-seer  a  yretsga
and fertility trends for p-ejeonin  purposes.                                             af . .anal  Irn  an  rra   weligsrspctvey
lnarirnanc  araetlo l - Inasnaianary population nhoe is aa growth since                    b1     b.,Rdrr1  .lig     lee',.
the hiith rat Iin equal no th  death rte,  and alan thn'g  atutree no-    EDUCATION
minsoeaat.This inahiedioyatrferiiyrte Idelis   e t                                    Adjusted Enralimen  Ratios
nbc replacement 1-1e of ..in net  prepeduanlon rate, ohen ea.h gene.ra-ier                Peimay school - tota,l,ml  angd tenn-lease  trial, mal  ead fnmal
ofs_en replso  itefoatly.  The etatinnay populenion  Jie. wa                              enoletaIi   gsa   h   rmrylvla   acaae   frsot
outlasted no the haId  dt the prnjncned caanrsisof the population                           primary e-h-l-aga popuiet...s; mamly incl"'deh rild-e  aged b-li
id the yrar 2000, and the rate at dec1ino of ie-tiiity rate is replace-                     years hat adjated toe diff-eret 1egths of primary eds..anion;fton
meet lenel.                                                                       cornTh.y  tries sub.. b   p..lti-it  =si-era  adsatiie   enolen   ay e e  100 percet
else Ian been reached.                                                                    peonar  shol   toa.al  n   eae-Ceptdsbv;erdr
Pryslasinr lenanty                                                      e~~~~~~~ds..anion requires an least fea  yae  n  approve  primary i tarectdos;
Per sq. b.-Mid-year poysl.isni  pea square bl.Itsenr (log hentarns) of                        peie    eea,vctsa,o   ece   riigiernio    n   ai
tota  area                                                                                   assl  u.f 12 no 17 peara of age: carrespeesecuse   r   oeal
noly.                                                                                     Voc..siomal -nellment leerrens ofVsnno                  ..cational i-stint.in-
Popnlat nin Age Str-o-e   (ecn)-Children  (0-14 year), w-rbing-age (15-                          inclade ne-ni-aI, Sedastrial, or other peegra  which operate idd.p.n-
64 yoars),adbretird             It yar  andave) an pocorna.go  of sid-year popr-              dently or as deeartmesnt  of  etondeec   mtitatiena.
Raln "qi,17,as 1908 dt.Pua1-t..iher ratio - prmry.- and secondary - Teisi studnets enroiled in
Pri1laion ireth_ Rat  (trerten) - btota  - iAesa1 genoeb rates of total mid-                     pir    .         .dt     -.d~ddb                bt    it..hIi    h
year populations far 1950-6O, 1960-71, and 1970-7B...primr,                                             n   eodr   eesdvddb   aaaa   ecesi   h
Pepolat.1i-niroth Rate (enot   ora-iua  froall.. t  rates vi urban Ppp-                        Ad.l  .inarrt ...e.             )-teaedae    abet  ra   ndwie
ltraIc10-60, 1960-7i, and 19)0-780b    t                                                                                itas retg    fttleutppltitan aged 11b yese  and ovedrit.
C_sr Bircth gate (per erhuasd) - Annual live birtha Pea thasand at mid-yearIpr..tg    ftt1dlpplti                                                   gd5
yrpalatiur; 1960, 197i, and 1978 data.                                                  CONSUMPTION
C-nde Drath Rate (per thousan.d) - Aerva1 deaths pro  tbouaand of mid-year                  Passes..or Cars (tro  thnssasd vpa      Pol -Feege  cascmriseeae
pnprlatimn; 1960, 170, and 1978 dasa.                                                       casnansglnsea  egt  essa   meaesaulne, hben.en andd
Crass eReitduati-nRiata - A-rge nmbnr of dasghnereaI   -   will hea  in. niiarteingeI..th eitI...; ed                                                b
her rorma  eaPradacti-  pevird it she osperte.c.. pree...toge-pecitin  Rreidia1 RIncie                             h ernb ad  -poe tlniar  - gllt typesfn s ..reciversfo:r.rdt
tiiyrtes  usually five-year avrges eding in 1960, 1970, and 19yp.                       bodss   ognrlpbi   e   buado   nsetn   mldsah
Pasily Planlna_ccetor. :Asnua1 (thb,asadd   - A-ma  number at scptars                          cenee d rtereiee  is. tonien and in years whee,g,           eaiaa  rdos
aS  ilhirbi..aldvIe  undr   epte  o  nusoma   -taly plming progran.                         sa   nefet   aa  e   eet  er   aymth  csael  sincmn
Family Flan.ring-_ern (porne- of maried s-o)- Fee...tnnag  of maried                           cstied  aboishedfo lieniu..ty- -                tb                   b    .
eaves of child-b eaing age(lj-i0  yearn) n. ac  bieth-nesnea1 devi.a. to                   oseeve   ernaas.saat    TV  eavr  foat broadcat tv
all  orrie   na  in same ago grasp,h..                                                                                       11  uto
genra  pulc  e  thassan d papaIation; ...laden uslicesn..d TOe  . recaiee
FOOD 150 goToiTliS                                                      ~~~~~~~~In   -tmmiee  mad in. year  when egietostier of TV non  .as in Iffet.
.d..  f Fod Prod                                                                              p,  t~~~~~~~~flamape  irslmin  am   isad. eeelatin   - the   ho  crg  ceaa
Inderof Fad Prdscirn Per Capits (1)9 97l1lll) - Inde  of per tapita anua                  eomefdily"gaselteeeans-sppe"  defined aaa                            dieo idta   pb-
proacin  ofil  tod  omodtie.   euIIane1rlde   ned sad feed sad                        liestism  devted primarily te -saordig geonr.  sane..  In is tona.idered
is on raleedar year bnnis.   Crumadinies curer primary geeda (e.g.                          beatae t  be 'daily" if it  ppass  nIsta tear .. slusan    kb
inseAdofnugr)  hib ae eile ad cutinctrine   (eg.  efae  nd          itnema A..-al Anttndeo eartees er Ya_e-Paced on the numbee of
narocaed ).  Aggregatto edrine rf each coansey is based den                           tiwbetn arid daring nba year, imldisg adaission  to driv-In  cinasas
ratona  avrag  poduer  ric  eights; 1901-h, 1970, and 197g dana.anmoteni.
energy eqaiv-et of net ford euppylie  available in e.ntnry per napita                 LABO  FOtRCE
Per daY.  Avoilalel  sppylies creprlce dn,-etio ,pendactrion,  mprete lens              TtlaorPteeuad)-iEetaly nsvproa,ircI.ding
enors,ad  hage   e  nak.Nt  ay1 c  ecln   nma  ted   ees,           sendt ure  soLsalae   a  eheudi"    bseei-es ep adera,   c
meets were estimated by FAG haaod   npysnaina  need  to  nrml_ct-                97idra
viny and health  ...sidaring eirrmentu  tmpraun,body aeights, agFeaelacn)-Pml   ao   orea   ernaeo   oa   se    ie
and nra dist ib-tint  rSpcsltic.ad a1lring 10 Poccn-   oconnIt                           ginu_n_r  (rercet  t  - labor f bre i  teemin, fcrnt ofotey,banIng and-
toebld  level   91t,17,od17   aa                                                       fishing us pcesnage It tre1 labor fo rce; I960, 1970 and 1970 deta
Per cap It suenlyfcrteig (rsper day) - yrrteitnbntnnet at Per aysta                        nutyInret   labor  Ieeinmnig  oni trcton,maafrtig
qniomt  n  iEdalnatinetbihdby00   nvd   r   ii                                            197  scd 1978 data
allssi  e  f o gam  o  na111 e.~1 1ta petanper day anod  0. dfoams rf animabn.atcpainit   rrce)-nnl   ai,adtnl-erilainc
ynsepetei   rf oIch t1 grasb iheud he  USAnia   -idIreic.Ths  stand                    aciIl    cty rts  r  re td  as. toal  male,t an  female labor  f            9r0e
anda are. l.fa  tha  nb-   af  75. gramsn ofr totly  proei  and2j  ram of -. .d           17    d'          I
Snrld Fre  Survey;  961-65   970 and 177-data.                       96 t, 197.tsd175dn.   hs atm1 "'l n0 f..s                  -atcptn Pratesreflecin
Per cac -ta rrlin  onlyb  1 Cra anml n  esan-PrIv   suppy.. food de                         ges     recor      pfthed Iolti, and.o  tns  trend, 5:_  tel ati
Chid fanaI-0     nthality. cane 5 (earthoand  -..  p-ota donha.  2 per-taan   in             tofb  nta  Ishne    rt. . E
nrieldat F.dertve   fr  life65 tables;  196,170 and. 1977 data.d 175d.t.Ih..tw Ip'.P.   .inianyitpreEl-in
lifIpelnyaBrt(yan -Avrg sPi"r o2F yers of pItfof feeoodu 5. petrnat, -tce-  10th pert. pslerast  21 prceti. arnd. p Ars  tO p-eic
an  irt; 160,197  ar  1970 data.       p""       19  15,17
Inan  Itrnae    Aat   (per .hecnnd  R- srua  detsclfansudo  one7 year. PSNtOois    SP
water supply  (tncladea treated  sarfaca asters or untreated bat rscvnnainared  affordable.he   J
locotaIn. o.r anudyfat  lcifdnr ae t        hen;190   2900- m 1ner  fdnchiun   mayM hrTIBJTO
consid.ered   y bein   withinreasoAbleg oncea         of  ythat  ofas if.tnrr iarea            5PeesnaliscIt of dbeoery                  20ba   leve  is t derud  teem-  40o pecral
oreanbieth  19c0eas woleipyd       hn  I d   aast otemes  tnb   oueol                     fanmnh   e..i..es  AalaePoetyheseLee1(rdn)-  na
tagllP'r  tasar reda.,   lt                                                               .it     b...P-t   eo.  ..   Ulpr:l:l                              F     .    . 
A.syr..    as  pecetaes o  necet         e  tire peplotir_s..Orenad         i-Iomi   n  Soc1 IalDt  Ditiisinc
tnia  maPpy irolude dth    t-letsdna   b sod ditotono      't vilc   Idhretnratsar,                        '          cYm Oayl   n  Poetoslpesn
cC lyman aoints snd  anto-erro  Ep ninortdcrna aisto-s yr..-- sea vi                                                               PFril  1980)-or.  .dr .
yihrtoc  t    imia -rsaliti-umP.i         T                IRp !,I   n hrd                                                                        '"'P b-it



-22-                                      ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 5 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS - LIBERIA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978                                     ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (70 1977 CONSTANT PRICES)
US$ Mln.        %                                    1974-77      1978
GNP at Market Prices           807.8       100.0                                     2.3        6.7
Gross Domestic Investment      253.0         31.3                                   13.7        6.8
Gross National Saving          101.7         12.6                                   -3.9       -9.2
Current Account Balance       -100.1         12.4
Exports of Goods, NFS          500.1        61.9                                    -6.6        8.0
Imports of Goods, NFS          544.6        67.4                                     4.3        9.9
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Value Added                    Labor rorcel/                  V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.         7%                 '000   X.                       US$          */
Agricultu e                   283.7            35.0             482.2    70.5                     588.3       49.6
Industry2/                    168.8            20.8              30.8     4.5                   5,480.5      462.8
Services                      358.5           44.2               73.8    10.8                   4,857.7      410.2
Unallocated                     ___                              92.2    14.2
Total/Average            810.0          100.0               68.0   100.0                   1,184.2      100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Govearmeat                    Central Govereament
(     Mln.)        % of GDP              (USS Mn;)    _        7 of GDP
197        197        196 -7         1979-80-       9-80          1975-78
Current Receipts                   ..          ..          ..          197.0          22.1          21.8
Current Expenditure                ..          ..          ..          174.2          19.6          14.1
Current Surplus                    ..          ..          ..           22.8           2.5           7.7
Capital Expenditure                ..          ..          ..          142.5          16.0           5.6
External Assistance (net)          ..          ..          ..           52.6           5.9           2.3
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1974          1975           1976           1977            1978
(Million US$      outstanding end perioa)
Money and Quasi Money
Bank Credit to Public Sector                      4.0           2.z            0.9             4.7             9.4
Bank Creait to Private Sector                    72.7          76.8          83.1            109.2           132.1
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as 7. of GDP3,                                                                            e
General Price Index (1963) = 100)3-
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                              19.5           13.6            6.0            5.8             8.6
Bank Credit to Public Sector                      ..           -45.0          -59.1          422.2           100.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector                     ..             5.6            8.2           31.4            20.9
NOTE:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/  Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.  "Unallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
2/  Over 80% is accounted for by iron ore.
3/ Consumer Price Index (Sept., Nov. 1964 - 100).
4/ 1979-80 revised estimates (preliminary)
5/ GDP estimates for 1979 are preliminary and subject to change.
not available.
not applicable.



23 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                              MERCHiANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1976-78)
1976    1977      1978                                          US$ Mln.       7.
(Millions US$)
Exports of Goods, NFS                467.1   458.0    500.1      iron Ore                              292.2       62.8
Imports of Goods, NFS               -443.5  -490.1   -544.6      Rubber                                 60.5       13.0
Resource Gap (deficit   -)            31.0   -32.1    -44.5      Diamonds                               22.7        4.9
Logs or Lumber                        29.5        6.3
Interest Payments (net)               -4.7    -6.7    -10.1      Coffee                                 25.0        5.3
Workers' Remittances                 -25.0   -27.5    -30.3      Palm Products                           3.7        0.8
Other Factor Payments (net)          -80.3   -68.0    -48.0      Cocoa                                   8.2        1.8
Net Transfers                         32.9    30.8      32.8     All Other Commodities                  13.1        2.8
Balance on Current Account           -45.7  -104.5   -100.1            Total                           464.9      100.0
Direct Foreign Investment             57.3     8.1    -10.5      EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1979
Net 14LT Borrowing                    19.4    38.3      58.3
Disbursements                       35.4    50.0      70.0                                                      US$ Mln.
Amortization                       -14.0   -13.7    -11.7
Sub-Total                     52.4   -19.8    -41.8       Public Debt, Incl. Guaranteed                     454.3
Capital Grants                          ..       ..       ..     Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Other Capital (net)                  -25.2   -35.3      33.7     Total Outstanding and Disbursed                   454.3
Other Items n.e.i.                     1.5    51.1       5.8                                  1/
Increase in Reserves (+)             -28.7     4.0       2.3     DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 19791-
Gross Reserves (end year)               ..       ..
NHet Reserve. (end year)..                        .
Public Debt, Incl. Guaranteed                     10.3
Fuel and Related Materials            59.5    68.8      84.6     Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                            -
Imports                                                        Total Outstanding and Disbursed                    10.3
of which: Petroleum
Exports                                                        IBRD/IDA LENDING, (DECEMBER 31, 1979) (MILLION US$):
of which: Petroleum
IBRD       IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Outstanding and-Disbursed --3 u36              - 18.0
Through - 1971                            Since                Undisbursed                           66.3        25.9
US$1.00 - 1.00                            US$1.00 = 1.00       Outstanding Incl. Undisbursed        119.9        43.9
1.00 = us$                                1.00 = US$
1/ Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
not available
not applicable
September 1980



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8 Pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN LIBERIA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of August 31, 1980)
Loan or                                                               Amount (US$ Million)
Credit                                                                 less cancellation
Number  Year  Borrower                  Purpose                 Bank      IDA/a    Undisbursed
Eight loans and three credits fully disbursed                   26.67    10.96
1055    1974  Liberian Bank  for       Second Development
Dev. and Investment    Finance                   4.0                    0.24
577    1975  Rep. of Liberia          Agriculture                          6.0         2.09
1150    1975  Liberia Electric Corp. Third Power                 1.8                    0.38
1156    1975  Rep. of Liberia          Third Road               27.5                    6.53
1266-T  1976  Rep. of Liberia          Second Education          4.0                    1.16
1323    1976  Liberian Bank for        Third Development
Dev. and Investment   Finance                    7.0                    4.47
700    1977  Rep. of Liberia          Agriculture                          7.0         4.42
1417    1977  Rep. of Liberia          Third Education           6.3                    4.43
786    1978  Rep. of Liberia          Rubber Development                   6.0         5.22
1544    1978  Rep. of Liberia          Rubber Development        7.0                    7.00
839    1978  Rep. of Liberia          Forestry
Development                        6.0         5.18
859    1978  Rep. of Liberia          Monrovia Water
Supply                             8.0         5.84
1573    1978  Rep. of Liberia          Fourth Highway           13.8                    8.64
1600    1978  Liberian Electric        Fourth Power             10.0                    1.35
Corporation
1644    1979  Rep. of Liberia          Feeder Roads             10.7                   10.03
1765b/  1979  Rep. of Liberia          Decoris Oil Palm         12.0                   12.00
Total                                          130.77c/    43.96        78.98
of which has been repaid                      12.60.        -
Total now outstanding                          118.17       43.96
Amounts sold                          0.41
of which repaid                     0.41       0.0
Total held by Bank and IDA                     118.17       43.96
Total undisbursed                               56.23       22.75       81.08
a/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
b/ Not effective.
c/ A loan of US$5.0 for a Petroleum Exploration Promotion project was approved
subsequent to the above date of Statement A; it is not yet signed.



- 25 -
Annex II
Page 2 of 8 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of August 31, 1980)
Fiscal
Year      Obligor                Type of Business      Loan     Equity      Total
1966       Liberian Bank for      Development
Development and        Finance
Investment            Company                          0.250      0.250
1977       Liberian Bank for      Development
Development and        Finance
Investment            Company                          0.306      0.306
0.556      0.556
Less Sold                                              0.001      0.001
Now Held                                               0.555      0.555



- 26 -
Annex II
Page 3 of 8 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan No. 1266T-LBR   Second Education Project:  US$4.0 Million Third Window
Loan of June 7, 1976; Effective Date: July 8, 1976;
Closing Date: August 31, 1982
Recent political events have had no adverse impact on project
implementation. Most project elements have been completed after initial
delays in civil works due primarily to shortages of construction materials
and unusually long rainy seasons. The extension of the Zorzor Rural Teacher
Training Institute has been completed on schedule and within appraisal cost
estimates. Eighty-five of the 100 planned community school units have also
been completed; the remaining fifteen units may not be constructed due to
costs which are higher than anticipated. The technical assistance program
has been completed and most of the fellowships have been awarded.   The
overall project is expected to be completed about two years behind the
original completion date but within appraisal cost estimates.
Loan No. 1417-LBR    Third Education Project:  US$6.3 Million Loan of
May 26, 1977; Effective Date: July 13, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Recent political events have had no adverse impact on project
implementation. Overall implementation continues to improve but is about
one year behind schedule due to the failure of one civil works contractor to
perform satisfactorily and delays in placing fellows. The Vocational
Training Center/Agricultural and Industrial Training Board, the Forestry
Training Institute and 3 of the 4 Science and Technology Centers will begin
operation at the start of the next school year in March 1981. The construc-
tion of the fourth Science and Technology Center will begin soon after one
year delay due to site problems. The technical assistance program is being
implemented as planned. The fellowship program for the Vocational Training
Center is being implemented satisfactorily but the remainder of the fellow-
ship program is about two years behind schedule. The project is expected to
be completed about one year behind the original completion date but within
appraisal cost estimates.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
Annex II
Page 4 of 8 pages
Credit No. 577-LBR    Agricultural Development (Lofa) Project:  US$6 Million
Credit of August 1, 1975; Effective Date:  May 26, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The Project is being managed satisfactorily by Liberian managers.
In 1979 the Project surpassed its swamp rice target (150%) attained 88% of
its upland rice target, while cocoa and coffee plantings were well below
appraised estimates, (42% and 34% respectively) because of serious shortage
of seedlings. The 1980 targets for cocoa and coffee have been reduced
because of a likely recurrence of poor seedlings supplies, but targets for
swamp and upland rice are likely to be reached. Substantial progress has
been achieved by Voinjama cooperative, while the remaining three coopera-
tives are in need of improvement. The Project has surpassed its well
construction target by more than 60%. Feeder roads construction is however
behind schedule.
Credit No. 700-LBR    Agricultural Development (Bong) Project:  US$7 Million
Credit of December 29, 1977; Effective Date: March 15,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation under the new Project Manager has improved.
The construction of the training center and workshop has been completed.
The Schistosomiasis laboratory has been completed and is now in use.
Construction of the office building is behind schedule mainly because of
shortage of building materials. Three agricultural service centers has been
constructed in the project area. Feeder road upland rice and coffee targets,
85% of the cocoa and some 33% upland rice targets. Supply of rice seeds and
cocoa and coffee seedlings is still a constraint. The project is now
establishing its own nurseries for cocoa and coffee seedlings. Equipment
for farm access tracks has already arrived and work on these tracks has
started. The village wells-program is underway and 30 wells are projected
to be constructed this fiscal year. A total of 85 Cooperative Service Units
have been established. Project operations were severely hampered by the
recent political upheaval, which was accompanied by industrial unrest. The
situation is gradually returning to normal.
Loan No. 1544-LBR       Rubber Development Project:  US$7 Million Loan and
US$6 Million Credit, both of April 21, 1978; Effective
Date: October 3, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Project performance continues to be poor. By end July 1980 only
2,240 acres of rubber would have been rehabilitated compared to appraisal
targets of 8,500 acres; about 800 acres of moribund rubber would have been
replanted compared to targets of 6,000 acres. Construction of headquarters
buildings, staff housing, the training center, garages and warehouses is one
year behind schedule. Only 80 people have been trained compared to appraisal
targets of over 2,000. Reasons for the project's poor performance include:
low quality senior expatriate management, failure on the part of the project
to recruit participants, failure to organize an effective training program,
difficulties on the part of farmers in attracting and keeping tapping labor,
problems in smallholder marketing and processing of rubber and increases in



- 28 -
Annex II
Page 5 of 8 pages
labor and equipment costs which combine to reduce the returns to farmers
below a profitable level, inadequate processing capacity in the project
area, unattractive factory-gate prices offered by the processors, inadequate
farm access roads for evacuation of project output. The last review mission
(June 1980) has resulted in a revision of the Project including rehabilita-
tion of 40,240 acres mature rubber (an upward revision) and replanting or
new planting of 25,800 acres (downward revision), reorganization and expan-
sion of the project unit (LRDU), organization of a project-run collection
service, construction of a rubber processing plant with an initial capacity of
5,000 mt per annum, incorporation of a Land Survey and Roads Unit into LRDU,
provision of funds for consultant services for redesigning the training
program, for assistance to the Agricultural Credit Bank (ACDB), and for a
follow-up project.
Credit No. 839-LBR    Forestry Project:  US$6 Million Credit of July 28, 1978;
Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The project includes strengthening the Forestry Development
Authority, establishing a 1,600 ha industrial plantation and technical
assistance, studies and training. Following the April change of government,
the Liberian Project Manager was removed and has not yet been replaced. In
the meantime, the project-financed FAO advisory team is managing the project
and plantation development is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1765-LBR
Special Action Credit No. 35-LBR
Decoris Oil Palm Project: US$12.0 Million Loan and
US$2.0 Million EEC Credit, both of December 21, 1979;
Effective Date:          ; Closing Date: December 31, 1987
Progress in meeting conditions of effectiveness has been delayed
due to change in government. The acquisition and leasing of the initial
8,350 ha from Government to Decoris Oil Palm Co. (DOPC) has been signed by
all parties involved and is now awaiting approval by the President. A DOPC
account has been opened with the Agricultural and Cooperative Development
Bank and the amount of $900,000 deposited in this account by Government.
The subsidiary financing agreement between Government and DOPC is expected
to be concluded soon. A management firm has been selected and the Agreement
is nearly complete.
Loan No. 1156-LBR      Third Highway Project:  US$27.5 Million Loan of
August 28, 1975; Effective Date: October 14, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The construction of a major bridge and an urban main road (5.4 mi)
in Monrovia was completed in 1979, and the completion of a main trunk road
(83 mi) is now expected in early 1981 after delays due to bad weather,
difficulties in the supply of materials and disturbances associated with the



- 29 -
Annex II
Page 6 of 8 pages
recent change in government (the Bank funded portion totalling 42 miles has
been completed). The feasibility studies of about 98 miles of main roads
and an urban transport study in Monrovia have been completed. The Lofa
County Feeder Road Unit, which became operatonal in January 1977, has
been transferred to the Feeder Road Project, (1664-LBR) after completion of
the three-year construction program. Technical assistance in building up
the Planning and Programming Division of the Ministry of Public Works is
proving fairly effective.
Loan 1573-LBR          Fourth Highway Project:  US$13.8 Million Loan of
June 2, 1978; Effective Date: September 11, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project includes reconstruction and improvement of the Paynes-
ville-Totota and Paynesville-Robertsfield road, technical assistance of road
maintenance and preinvestment studies. Reconstruction of the Paynesville-
Robertsfield road financed by the Kuwait fund is expected to be substan-
tially completed by October 1980. Rehabilitation of the Paynesville-Totoa
road started in October 1979, but was disrupted by the departure of consul-
tants following the change of Government. Detailed engineering of the
Ganta-Sanniquellie and Ganta-Tapeta roads was also delayed temporarily but
is now expected to be completed by December 1980. The full personnel
complement of the road maintenance advisory services is in the field.
Technical assistance positions have been filled. A project cost overrun of
about US$4.0 million is now expected due to implementation delays and higher
than expected construction costs. Consequently, the Government may propose
reducing the size of the project.
Loan No. 1664-LBR      Feeder Roads Project:  US$10.7 Million Loan of
April 4, 1979; Effective Date: April 30, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The project provides for the construction or improvement and main-
tenance of about 700 miles of feeder roads and for the maintenance of a
further 200 miles of feeder roads. The work will be undertaken by three bri-
gades operated by the Ministry of Public Works assisted by local contractors.
All contracts for procurement of equipment have been signed. Part of first
equipment tranche has been delivered and mobilized on site, the remaining
equipment delivery to be completed by October 1980. Design of roads to be
constructed by local contractors is in progress. A technical assistance team
for planning and execution of works and a technical expert to provide assist-
ance to the domestic contractors have been recruited.



- 30 -
Annex II
Page 7 of 8 pages
Loan No. 1055-LBR      Second Development Finance Company (LBDI) Project:
US$4 Million Loan of December 3, 1974; Effective
Date: January 3, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,1980;
and
Loan No. 1323-LBR      Third Development Finance Company (LBDI) Project:
US$7 Million Loan of October 7, 1976; Effective Date:
December 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1982;
Loan 1055-LBR is 98 percent committed and should be completed
shortly. Commitment of Loan 1323-LBR has been slower than anticipated
(by February 1980, 49 percent of the loan had been committed) owing to
slackening economic activity in Liberia and a downturn in business invest-
ment. Following the recent political changes, LBDI remains financially and
structurally sound and is concentrating its efforts on project follow-up and
loan recovery.
Loan No. 1150-LBR      Third Power Project:  US$1.8 Million Loan of
August 1, 1975; Effective Date: October 20, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project finances technical assistance for establishing a
long-range development plan and detailed investment program as well as for
strengthening the management of the Liberia Electricity Corporation (LEC)
and training of its staff. LEC's management continues to need external
support and the training program needs to be expanded to include practical
training for middle-level staff, all of which is being addressed under the
Fourth Power Project's Management Improvement Program. The LEC consultants,
Chas. T. Main (USA), have completed the pre-feasibility study of the hydro-
electric development of St. Paul River.
Loan No. 1600-LBR      Fourth Power Project:  US$10.0 Million Loan of
July 7, 1978; Effective Date: December 11, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project consists of expansion of thermal generating facilities
by 26 MW to meet demand up to 1985, power distribution to urban poor, rural
transmission studies and technical assistance for management and training.
Construction of the power plant is complete, the two diesel units are in
operation. LEC's financial performance has been severely affected by low
operating efficiency. A five-man managment support team started work at LEC
in July 1978 as a part of the Management Improvement Program instituted under
this Loan. Progress of this team is satisfactory.
Credit No. 859-LBR    Water Supply Project:  US$8 Million Credit of
January 8, 1979; Effective Date: April 2, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is designed to assist the Liberia Water and Sewer
Corporation in expanding Monrovia's water supply and distribution capacity,



- 31 -
Annex II
Page 8 of 8 pages
increasing access to service for the urban poor, and improving LWSC's man-
agerial efficiency, planning capacity and financial viability. The project
provides for a sector study as a basis for a sector development plan and
strategy, and provides training opportunities and facilities for LWSC's
Liberian staff. Except for the technical trainer, the other management
training personnel are on post, and Liberian counterparts have been assigned
to understudy them. A draft report on the management improvement programme
has been completed and reviewed and the finalized version is expected soon.



- 32 -
Annex III
LIBERIA
Small and Medium Scale Enterprise Project
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Project Identification:          July 1978
(b)  Appraisal Mission:               May 1979
(c)  Post-appraisal Mission:          December 1979
(d)  Negotiations:                    April 1980
(e)  Planned Date of Effectiveness: February 1981
Section II:    Special Implementation Action
An advance of US$200,000 under the Project Preparation Facility
was granted in August 1980 to make possible an early start to
the technical assistance to the National Investment Commission.
Section III:   Special Conditions
1. Special conditions in the Development Credit or Project
Agreements are:
(a)   Signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between NBL and
the Government (condition of effectiveness, para. 47);
(b)   Publication of policy statement on small- and medium-scale
enterprises (condition of effectiveness, para. 32);
(c)   Amendment of the Guarantee Scheme to increase the
maximum percentage of the loan covered from 66-2/3%
to 80% (condition of disbursement, para. 45);
(d)   Issuance of a circular by the National Bank of Liberia
(NBL) to the participating financial institutions des-
cribing the relending conditions of the IDA line of
credit (condition of disbursement, para. 47); and
(e)   Submission of consultants' recommendations on revision of
the Investment Code to IDA for comment (para. 50).



