Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No2869a-LBR
LIBERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SMALL- AND MEDIUM-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
October 20, 1980
Industrial Development and Finance Division
Western Africa Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit:      Liberian Dollar (L$)
US$1                L$l
FISCAL YEAR
Government: July 1 - June 30
Financial Institutions: January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
ACDB          Agricultural and Cooperative Development Bank
AITB          Agricultural and Industrial Training Board
BADEA         Banque Africaine pour le Developpement Economique
de l'Afrique
FM4O          Netherlands Finance Company for Developing Countries
IDA           International Development Agency
IMF           International Monetary Fund
LAMCO         Liberian American Swedish Minerals Corporation
LBDI          Liberian Bank for Development and Investment
LDC           Liberian Development Corporation
LFTC          Liberia Finance and Trust Corporation
LIFZA         Liberian Industrial Free Zone Authority
MIP           Monrovia Industrial Park
MRU           Mano River Union
NBL           National Bank of Liberia
NHSB          National Housing and Savings Bank
NIC           National Investment Commission
OAU           Organization of African Unity
PfP           Partnership for Productivity
SME           Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
UNIDO         United Nations Industrial Development Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LIBERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SMALL- AND MEDIUM-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.             THE SETTING  *...........***...  *..****..*........*               1
A.* The Economy ..................................                1
B.  The Manufacturing Sector                                      3
C.  Industrial Policy                                             4
D.  The SME Sector ...................                            7
{I.            THE FINANCIAL SECTOR .......................                      10
A.  Central Bank and Credit Policy .................             10
B *  The Commercial Banks ............................           11
C.  Specialized Financial Institutions  ............             13
De  Prospects                                                    14
III.           THE PROJECT                                                       15
A.  Origin and Objectives . ..... ....                           s15
B.  Project Description .........                                15
C.  Project Cost and Financing .....................             19
IV.            PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION . ........ ............. ... .....    - 23
A.  Subloan Approval Procedures           .....................  23
B*  Technical Assistance ... ...................... . ..         23
V.             BENEFITS AND RISKS .............. ....................            24
VI.            RECOMMENDATIONS .        ....................................     25
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






LIST OF ANNEXES
A.            THE SETTING
Annex I           Liberia: GDP by Sectoral Origin
Annex II          Employment in Liberia by Major Sectors
B.            THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
Annex III
Table 1:  NBL Balance Sheet, 1974-1978
Table 2:  Commercial Banks Aggregate Balance Sheet
Table 3:  Combined Income Statements of Commercial Banks
Table 4:  Commercial Banks' Profitability
Table 5:  Commercial Banks' Resources
Table 6:  Commercial Banks' Deposits
Annex IV
Table 1:  LBDI Balance Sheet
Table 2:  LBDI Income Statement
Table 3:  NHSB Balance Sheet
Table 4:  NHSB Income Statement
Table 5: *ACDB Balance Sheet
Table 6:  ACDB Income Statement
C.            THE PROJECT
Annex V           Study of Industrial Incentives in Liberia and
Revision of the Investment Code: Draft Terms
of Reference
Annex VI          Outline of PfP's Technical Assistance Program
to NIC
Annex VII         Credit Disbursement Schedule
Annex VIII        Selected Documents in Project File



I                                                                             



LIBERIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SMALL- AND MEDIUM-SCALE ENTERPRISE PROJECT
I. THE SETTING
A. The Economy
1.01          Liberia is a relatively small nation, well endowed with
natural resources, with a population of about 1.7 million, and an average
annual per capita income of about US$470 (1978). Income distribution is
highly skewed however, with 5% of the population accounting for 60% of
income. About 60% of the population are engaged in traditional farming
and the per capita income is US$100 or less.
1.02          Economic Structure.  Liberia has a highly dualistic economy.
A large agricultural sector co-exists with a foreign controlled enclave
sector dominated by iron ore mining. The enclave sector is export-
oriented and produces, besides iron ore, rubber and forest products. It
provides about 70% of export earnings, generates about 25% GDP, and 15%
of all Government revenues. Iron ore is the major export earner since the
major cash crops--rubber, coffee, and cocoa--contribute less than 10% to
GDP and only 15% to export earnings. A breakdown of the subsectors showing
the best estimates of employment and contribution to GDP is shown below:
Employment in 1978    GDP in 1977 l/(current prices)
'000        %      (US$ million)        %
Agriculture                          324.3       77.8        251.2           32.3
(Modern Agriculture)                 (61.7)    (14.8)      (155.0)         (19.9)
Mining                                13.9        3.3       144.4           18.6
Construction                           5.8        1.4        44.1            5.7
Manufacturing                          6.5        1.6         50.2            6.5
Utilities                              1.3        0.3          7.0            0.9
Government                            27.3        6.5         70.6            9.1
Commerce                              16.0        3.8        82.9           10.7
Transport and Communication            7.0        1.7        53.7             6.9
Business and Personal Services        14.8        3.6         76.2            9.8
1/ Last year for which data from all sectors are available.



- 2 -
1.03          Employment.  The modern sector employed about 37% of the
Liberian labor force of 417,000 in 1978, the remainder of which were em-
ployed in traditional agriculture and trade. The largest employers in the
modern sector are modern agriculture (13%), Government (6.5%), commerce
(3.8%), and mining and quarrying (3.3%). The manufacturing sector accounted
for only 1.6% of total employment.
1.04          The availability of trained personnel at all levels has
been inadequate to meet the demand from the public and private sectors.
This shortfall in appropriately trained manpower has been made up, where
possible, by the use of expatriate personnel. Foreigners, of whom 80% are
from other African countries, constitute about 14% of the wage labor force.
There is an especially high concentration of expatriates in the professional
and technical occupations (18% of the total in this occupational category),
administrative and managerial positions (19%) and sales workers (37%).
Open unemployment is high in Liberia, especially in Monrovia where it
reaches 21% according to conservative estimates. This situation is worsening
owing to a rapid flow of migrants into Monrovia while the employment
opportunities in the capital have remained limited. Thus, job creation is
an important consideration in formulating economic policy.
1.05          Performance.  Economic growth rates in the sixties and early
seventies were reasonable, ranging from 4 to 6%.  However, the recent years
have witnessed a weakening of Liberia's economic and financial position.
Economic growth has almost stagnated with per capita incomes actually de-
clining over the last five years.  Real GDP grew at an annual rate of 0.7%
between 1974 and 1978 compared with 4.2% between 1970 and 1974. The decline
in iron ore mining and rubber exports in the wake of recession in the indus-
trialized countries has had a profound effect on GDP, balance of trade,
public finances and the external debt situation of Liberia. As a small
country with heavy dependence on primary products sold in the international
markets it is particularly vulnerable to external factors; at the same time
the Liberian difficulties were further compounded by heavy public outlays
on buildings and other facilities constructed in connection with the 1979 OAU
conference at the expense of investment in other production activities.
Despite these serious strains the Liberian economy showed some resilience
in the agriculture sector. While real GDP growth was sluggish, the agri-
cultural sector continued to grow at an annual rate of 4.6%.  An increase
in investment in the non-enclave production sector would help to broaden
the economic base and moderate the effects of heavy dependence on the
enclave structure.
1.06          The outlook for the Liberian economy in the coming two years
appears less promising. The recent oil price increases and the continuing
worldwide recession, coupled with a slowdown in economic activity in Liberia
following the OAU Conference are likely to force a continuation of the recent
pattern. GDP growth in 1979 is unlikely to have been more than 1 to 2 percent.
The balance of trade is projected to be slightly negative. The overall
budgetary deficit for FY80 is estimated at between US$60-75 million, equivalent
to 30% of public revenue.



- 3 -
1.07          The consumer price index increased moderately during the last
two years (5.8% in 1977 and 7% in 1978) but the evidence available for the
first quarter of 1979 points to an annual rate of about 14%. This rate of
increase is expected to level off after the expansionary effects of con-
struction activity associated with the OAU Conference have subsided (see
para. 2.04)
B. The Manufacturing Sector
1.08          The manufacturing sector is small and centered around import-
substitution activities. Besides sawn timber and plywood, the only signif-
icant manufactured export is explosives. Manufacturing activity grew at a
rapid rate in the late sixties and early seventies with real growth of about
12% but has stagnated in recent years as import-substitution possibilities
have been fully exploited. Its real output was US$26 million in 1974 and
US$28.7 million in 1978, representing 6% of GDP. Manufactured exports account
for about 1% of the total exports. Two thirds of the value of manufacturing
production originate from the refinery and cement industries and the balance
is distributed among food, beverages and tobacco. Most of the large-scale
firms, except for the refinery which is Government owned are foreign-owned and
managed. The bulk of manufacturing activities occurs in Monrovia. There are
few large firms located up-country except for those associated with the
forestry and agricultural enclaves. Firms with more than 50 employees are
found mostly in the food, wood and furniture, and chemical industries (beer
and soft drinks, petroleum, cosmetics, industrial gases and soap).
1.09          The relative importance (in value of output) of various
manufacturing industries is reflected in the following table:
Value of Manufacturing Production (1975) _/
Value       %
(US$'000)
Food Products                          4,817        6.0
Beverages                              8,925        10.9
Cigarettes                               440        0.5
Cement, cement blocks                  5,199        6.4
Petroleum products                    54,752       67.1
Shoes                                    199        0.2
Chemical products                      4,661        5.7
Metal products                           634         0.8
Miscellaneous                          1,992         2.4
Total        81,619       100
1/ Source: Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs (MPEA), Quarterly
Statistical Bulletin of Liberia, 1976. (Most recent data
available; distribution is believed not to have changed
significantly.)



-4-
1.10      Structure.  The manufacturing sector is made up of three types
of enterprises:
(1) The few large manufacturing concerns (at most 40) are almost
exclusively centered on import substitution, with an annual turnover of
US$1-3 million per firm. They have 50-200 employees, with a relatively
high cost per Job of about US$27,000, and are primarily owned by for-
eigners and prominent Liberians. Such operations enjoy substantial incen-
tives through concessionary agreements and a liberal incentive code giving
tax holidays, exemption from import tariffs and protection from import
competition.
(2) The medium-scale enterprises have assets up to US$250,000 and
an annual turnover in the order of US$500,000. They employ between 10 and
20 persons at a cost per job of US$17,000. These firms are largely engaged
in the production of food and related items, household furniture and wood
work, block making and auto repair. Most of these enterprises do receive
or have received investment code incentives. Most of them are either
wholly foreign-owned or have a very limited Liberian participation.
(3) The small-scale enterprises, defined as having assets up to
US$55,000, cover virtually the full range of basic economic activities
for a large and very poor section of the population. They employ 1 to 10
people, many of whom are unpaid family members or apprentices at an average
cost per job of less than US$5,000. These enterprises are generally Liber-
ian owned and controlled, although African, Asian and Lebanese ownership
is frequent. Block making, garment making, carpentry and upholstery are
indicative of their range of activities. These enterprises largely escape
recognition and regulation by the Government.
1.11      A recent study of the structure and performance of the manufac-
turing industry carried out by UNIDO reveals that the industry was charac-
terized by (a) high capital intensity (US$18,800 per job); (b) low net
value added ratio (14%); (c) high dependence on imports; (d) insignificant
intersectoral linkages; (e) production of primarily consumer goods for the
domestic market; (f) low rates of capacity utilization (less than 50%);
and (g) satisfactory profit rates. Industrialization in Liberia has thus
been essentially an import substitution process producing light consumer
goods with capital intensive techniques catering to the tastes and demand of
high income groups. The skewed income distribution pattern favored the
growth of such a production pattern and the Government industrial policies
provided further impetus.
C. Industrial Policy
1.12      Liberia operates an "open door" policy to attract foreign
investment. The main tools of this policy have been the Development Plan and
the Investment Code. In addition, some recent policy developments such as the
Mano River Union, the Free Zone and the Monrovia Industrial Park have aimed
at promoting industrialization, especially by broadening markets to compensate



-5-
for the limited size of Liberia's domestic market. Overall, the emphasis
of Liberia's industrial policy is placed on larger industrial units. Small-
scale enterprises and employment generation have received little emphasis.
1.13      The First Development Plan (1976-1980).  Liberia's first socio-
economic development plan proposed an ambitious set of public Lnvestment
projects aimed at diversifying production, dispersing economic activities
throughout the country, encouraging greater participation of the population
in the development process, and providing an equitable distribution of the
benefit of growth. The industrial policy focus incorporated in the Plan
emphasizes the development of larger-scale industry through the facilities
of the Monrovia Industrial Park (see para. 1.19), the Liberian Industrial
Free Zone Authority (see para. 1.18) and Government investment in large-
scale export oriented activities with high local raw material content.
Projects which are given high priority for government financial participation
include those activities which (1) process local raw materials (logs, rubber,
sugarcane); (2) have an export orientation (wood products, sugar); or (3)
have an import substitution nature but with production on an efficient scale
(building materials). The need to develop small-scale industries is also
noted but since little is known about the sector the plan only proposes a
comprehensive survey to gather data concerning location, output, sales and
major problems of small-scale entrepreneurs. This survey was conducted as
part of the preparation of the proposed project (see para. 1.21).
1.14      The Investment Code.  Liberia's Investment Code of March 21, 1966,
as amended in March 1973, provides the following benefits: (a) a 90% duty
exemption on imported machinery, equipment and inputs; (b) complete tax
exemption on reinvested profits and a 50% exemption on remaining profits;
(c) rebates on export duties, income and excise taxes on manufactured exports;
(d) "reasonable tariff protection"; (e) other miscellaneous benefits such as
accelerated depreciation, lease of land at the Monrovia Industrial Park (see
para. 1.19), etc. Incentives cover a five-year period with possibility of a
two-year extension.
1.15      The code is written in broad language so that any manufacturing
firm can qualify, regardless of activity or size. The investment must,
however, fall within the priorities of the National Planning Council, and
in particular, ensure permanent emloyment of Liberians at all levels,
provide training to Liberians, leave options for Liberian ownership,
produce local value added of at least 25% of the value of gross output and
use local materials and inputs wherever feasible. The National Investment
Commission (NIC) is responsible for the administration of the Code.
1.16      Nearly 50 manufacturing enterprises, including all large firms,
are benefiting, or have benefited, from incentive or concession contracts.
Most of the enterprises which have benefited from the Investment Incentive
Code have been medium to large by Liberian standards. SMEs are often unable
to meet the requirements of the code, such as detailed feasibility studies and
to follow the Code's cumbersome administrative procedure. Moreover, smaller
firms with incentive contracts are often unable to fully use duty exemptions
because they require imports in too small a quantity and irregularly. As a



- 6 -
result, large firms, by and large, have greater access to incentive contracts
and utilize them more fully. The investment code is presently being reviewed
and the proposed project would finance short-term consultant services to
complete the revision of the code with the view toward improving access of
SMEs to its benefits (see terms of reference in Annex V). The recommendations
of this study would be discussed between the Government and IDA and appropriate
measures to implement these recommendations would be agreed to by IDA.
1.17      Mano River Union (MRU).  Liberia and Sierra Leone are the members
of MRU aimed at fostering economic cooperation and trade between the two
countries. The main features of the Union established in 1975 are tariff
and excise tax harmonization and the assignment of industries to each
member state. Because of its relative infancy, the MRU has realized few
achievements in the area of industrial policy. Trade between the two
countries is free of duty but subject to excise taxation to prevent revenue
loss. External tariffs have been nearly fully harmonized. Given the small
size of both markets, transportation difficulties, similar industrial bases
and lack of marketing contacts, there is presently little trade between the
two countries and it is doubtful that removal of trade barriers will stimulate
significantly greater trade. As to joint industrial projects, those presently
under consideration are large and therefore seem to indicate that opportuni-
ties for the SMEs within the MRU in the near future will be limited.
1.18      Liberian Industrial Free Zone Authority (LIFZA).  LIFZA was
created in mid-1975 in order to induce foreign investment for export manu-
facture. A 113-acre tract of land in the Monrovia Free Port area was
allocated to LIFZA and the project is financed by a loan from BADEA. Firms
qualifying for the Free Zone receive import duty and corporate income tax
exemption for five years with maximum rates thereafter equal to 50% of
those of other firms. Space is available for 70 firms which are expected to
employ from five to ten thousand workers. To date, no manufacturing firm
is operating there, although several applications have been received. In
any case, the minimum investment requirement of US$200,000 restricts the use
of these facilities to larger firms.
1.19      Monrovia Industrial Park (MIP).  The MIP was established in 1974 on
the outskirts of Monrovia by the former Liberian Development Corporation
(LDC) in order to attract import substitution activities by offering basic
infrastructure. The success of this project has been limited. Firms operating
in MIP have experienced difficulties with the provision of utilities, inadequate
site preparation, and the provision of transportation to their employees.
Recent construction work has, however, improved the situation.  So far, only
13 firms have settled in the Park. These firms are involved in the manufacture
of petroleum products, matches, biscuits, plastic products, rubber shoes and
sugar, as well as in construction and distribution activities. Although there
is no minimum investment requirement, firms locating in MIP are large and
either foreign or government owned. Given the orientation of the Park toward
larger firms and its location apart from the natural markets of most small
Liberian enterprises, a greater access of the park would not be of direct
benefit to SMEs.



-7-
D.   The SME Sector
1.20      The development of SMEs in Liberia seems particularly appro-
priate as such enterprises tend to be more labor intensive, their scale of
operation matches Liberia's limited market and they can serve as a means to
increase Libe tan paticipation in the economy.  However, the potential
of this sector has until recently been largely neglected.
1.21      The Importance of SME.  An extensive survey of the sector was
financed by the Bank as part of the preparatory work of the proposed project.
This survey was supplemented by a study on the Liberian construction industry
conducted by UNIDO. The SME survey was carried out by a Liberian team from
the University of Liberia and covered approximately 1,300 enterprises in 34
types of production and service activities, excluding trade, entertainment and
professional services. According to this survey, the largest number of SMEs in
Liberia are involved in tailoring, restaurants, carpentry, transportation and
garages. Approximately 7,000 people are involved in these activities, where
entry is relatively easy and competition in the product market is intense.
Product quality is poor, partly as a result of low skill levels, and training
is carried out on an apprenticeship basis. According to the University of
Liberia survey, enterprises of this type have few fixed assets (over 50%
of the small enterprises have fixed assets of less than US$1,000), suffer
intense competition, lack utilities, especially electricity (nearly 50%)
and water (about 90%), have limited space, and have a distinct distrust
of bureaucracy in the form of government or banking institutions. In addition,
the management of these firms is deficient; there is a high failure rate--a
common feature of these subsectors--and entrepreneurs are only at best vaguely
aware of means to expand their operations or improve their efficiency. Nearly
half of the small-scale enterprises identified in the survey are located in
Monrovia, with a significant number in Nimba and Lofa Counties. Liberian
ownership is widespread and in fact certain economic activities including
cement block manufacture, gas stations, cook shops, ice cream manufacture,
commercial printing, butcher shops and retail trade of food, clothes and
household items with an annual turnover of less than US$3,000 are by law
reserved solely for Liberians. The survey recognizes, however, that Liberians
often "front" for expatriate owners.
1.22      Existing Support for SME.  In spite of a growing awareness of
the importance of SMEs and policy statements encouraging their development,
there was until recently no organization responsible for their promotion
nor a clear policy framework directed towards them. As previously, the
development plan which outlines industrial development strategy essentially
emphasizes larger industrial units. Smaller firms are normally eligible for
the benefits of the investment code but often do not apply because of cumber-
some administrative procedures or if they do, are not able, because of their
size, to utilize fully all of these benefits. Smaller entrepreneurs generally
do not have access to loans from the commercial banks because of inadequate
project preparation, weak managerial capacity and therefore high probability
of default. As a result most of them have either to give up their projects or
to rely on the informal sources of credit characterized by very high interest
rates and very short repayment periods. Finally, there has been until recently
little local institutional support for the development of SMEs.



-8-
1.23      The National Investment Commission (NIC).  The National Investment
Commission (NIC) was created in September 1979 with the broad mandate to
coordinate the investment policies of Liberia and to encourage the development
of the free enterprise system. NIC has absorbed two existing agencies--the
Liberia Development Corporation (LDC) and the Concession and Investment
Commission. LDC was established in 1974 as an autonomous public corporation
in charge of coordinating the "execution of the total national development
strategy in all areas of human and economic profitability". Its numerous
responsibilities included promotion of SMEs and also various and sometimes
unrelated tasks such as the management of the tourist office, the ownership
and management of a number of Government enterprises, mostly unprofitable, the
supervision of the OAU Conference Center and the management of the Monrovia
Industrial Park. The lack of precise objectives for LDC coupled with a lack
of coordination between agencies engaged in related activities, and a lack of
financial support and adequate staffing explains to a large extent its poor
performance in particular in the field of promotion and assistance to SMEs.
This led the Government to dissolve LDC and to create within NIC a department
in charge of SMEs. The chairman of NIC is appointed by the President of the
Republic. NIC is organized into three main departments: the Investment
Promotion Department, in charge of reviewing and recommending approval of
applications for large new investments; the Finance and Administration Depart-
ment, and the Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise Department.
1.24      The Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprises Department of NIC.  In
contrast to the former LDC the SME Department of NIC appears better equipped
to deal with the problems of SMEs. Its objectives are limited to SMEs and the
Department is designed as a small staff, operations oriented, with flexible
methods of intervention and autonomous within NIC. It should therefore be more
responsive than LDC to the needs of SMEs. In its policy statement the SME
Department of NIC has established two major objectives: (1) strengthening the
capabilities of existing SMEs so as to increase their growth, enhance their
linkage with Government and large industries and develop their employment
capabilities; (2) increasing the rate of new enterprise formation, the rate of
employment generation and the share of GNP originating in the SME sector. To
accomplish these objectives, the Department undertakes (a) the promotion of
new enterprises by preparing investment dossiers to be presented for credit to
financial institutions and by conducting sectoral studies to identify project
opportunities; (b) assistance to the promoters in implementing their projects;
(c) technical and managerial assistance to new and existing enterprises.
Building up the staff of this Department and providing technical assistance to
the start up of its operations would be a major objective of the technical
assistance component of the proposed project. The SME Department is presently
headed by a Liberian professional who co-authored the Bank-financed survey of
SMEs in Liberia. He is assisted by two professionals who are respectively in
charge of project promotion and training and advisory services. Recruitment
of technical personnel and definition of sound operational procedures are
underway in consultation with IDA (see paras. 3.16 and 3.17). Training of
existing personnel and recruitment of external technical assistance would be
provided under the proposed project to help the SME Department meet its
objectives. Initially, the Department will limit its activities to the
greater Monrovia area and Lofa County but will aim at establishing a nation-
wide program by 1982.



- 9 -
1.25      Technical and Vocational Training.  There are a number of vocational
and technical education and training programs in Liberia. Under the Bank's
Third Education Project, an Agricultural and Industrial Training Board
(AITB) is being established to coordinate these programs. The Bank-s recent
education sector review in Liberia ranks assisting the Government to make
agricultural, vocational and technical education and training --re effective
as one priority for World Bank intervention. Assistance in these areas is
likely to be an important part of the proposed fourth education project.
The SME extension services that would be set up under the proposed project
would be an attempt to redress the lack of technical and managerial assistance
available to artisans and SMEs in Liberia. This would be a very modest
effort of a pilot nature, but, in order to coordinate ongoing training efforts,
a liaison would be established between NIC and AITB. NIC-s extension workers
will be kept aware of existing vocational training programs in order to be
able to identify potential training courses for small entrepreneurs.
1.26      International Programs.  Various multilateral and bilateral aid
agencies have recently shown interest in the Liberian SME sector. UNDP and
the FMO, the Dutch Development Financing Agency are proceeding to finalize
a limited program of technical and financial assistance to the woodworking
industry. These programs will be coordinated with the proposed project
through NIC. The only ongoing project for SME in Liberia is located in
Yekepa in Nimba County. Begun in 1974, it was conceived and heavily supported
by the LAMCO iron mining company and is administered by the Partnership for
Productivity (PfP), a private development agency. The goal of this project,
now supported by USAID is to develop a local economic base sufficient to
support the region once LAMCO leaves the area. To do this, PfP undertook to
(1) assist LAMCO in "spinning off" activities to local entrepreneurs (e.g.
transport services, furniture repair, construction); (2) generate new activi-
ties to service LAMCO's demands; (3) develop new experimental enterprises;
(4) train managerial personnel; and (5) create and assist enterprises un-
related to iron mining. After four years of operation, the project has
successfully assisted about 20 enterprises and has provided support to agri-
cultural development in the area. Its experience provides valuable informa-
tion to other potential programs in Liberia in terms of activities assisted,
problems faced and methods used to overcome these problems. Under the pro-
posed project, the new staff of NIC's SME Department would be trained in PfP
activities and methods. PfP would also assist the SME Department to develop
and implement the extension services component of the proposed project.
1.27      Prospects.  The previous Government had latterly demonstrated a
genuine interest in supporting SMEs, which has in particular been reflected in
the establishment of the SME department of NIC and the decision to revise the
investment code in favor of small Liberian enterprises. This interest has
been emphasized by the new Government and it forms the basis for tackling the
major constraints to development of SMEs, in particular access to credit and
technical assistance. The proposed project would help overcome some of these
constraints by making term resources and credit guarantees available to SMEs
and by building up NIC's SME Department's capability to provide adequate
technical and managerial assistance to small entrepreneurs.



- 10 -
II. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
2.01      The financial sector in Liberia consists of a Central Bank,
(National Bank of Liberia), seven commercial banks, two wholly Government
owned, specialized financial institutions (The National Housing and Savings
Bank (NHSB) and the Agricultural Cooperative Development Bank (ACDB) wand a
development bank, the Liberian Bank for Development and Investment (LBDI).
These financial institutions are concentrated in Monrovia but some of them
operate branches in the rest of the country.
A.  Central Bank and Credit Policy
2.02      The National Bank of Liberia (NBL) was established with DMF assis-
tance, in 1973 to supervise overall banking activities, perform clearing house
operations, extend credit to the Government and banks and regulate the supply
of currency. However, the scope of the National Bank's monetary policy has
been so far restricted by the use of the US dollar as the national currency
and by the fact that international capital flows freely in and out of the
country. In 1978, the National Bank introduced a number of measures designed
to absorb excess liquidity of commercial banks, encourage savings and reduce
the demand for credit. Legal minimum reserve requirements on deposits of
commercial banks were raised from 6 to 9% on demand deposits and from 3 to 6%
on time and savings deposits. In addition, commercial banks are now required
to maintain with the National Bank the entire amount of the required reserves,
instead of 80% previously. To increase the mobilization of savings by the
banking system, minimum interest rates payable on savings and time deposits
were raised from 5 to 8% and from 5.75 to 8.75% respectively. The National
Bank has also decided that the initial deposits required by the commercial
banks,' other than those engaged exclusively in corporate or wholesale banking,
to open a savings account, should not exceed $200 and that the minimum balance
required at all times should not exceed US$25. Finally, in an effort to
encourage commercial banks to lend to Liberian entrepreneurs, the Central Bank
created in 1978 a Credit Guarantee Scheme, the provisions of which would be a
key feature of the proposed project (see para. 3.05).
2.03      Interest Rates.  Until recently, interest rates were freely deter-
mined but subject to a ceiling of 12%, set by the Central Bank. This ceiling
was removed in early 1979. The usury rate however remains at 25%. Rates
currently charged by commercial banks are 13 to 15% for revolving short-term
credit (commercial banks extend almost no medium-term credit) and 18% to 23%
for consumer durables. LBDI's current interest rates range between 12 and
14%, the 'foreign exchange risk being borne by the final borrower.
2.04      The average annual increase in consumer prices during the past four
years has been below 10%. The rapid rise in current public and capital
expenditures and the slow growth of the directly productive sector have led
to a substantial price increase in 1979, with an annualized rate of 14% for
the first quarter of 1979. This rate of increase is, however, expected to



- 11 -
level off after the expansionary effects of construction activity associated
with the OAU Conference have subsided. Inflation is projected to remain
around 10% per year over the next three years. The final lending rate of
13.5% proposed under the project will therefore be positive and in line with
rates currently charged in Liberia. The adequacy of interest rates would be
reviewed by Lhe Government and IDA from time to time.
B. The Commercial Banks
2.05      The seven commercial banks currently operating in Liberia are in
order of size:
c
1) Bank of Liberia jointly owned by Liberian interests (51%) and
the Chemical Bank of New York. The Bank of Liberia engages
mainly in retail lending. It operates a branch in Grand Bassa
County.
2) Chase Manhattan Bank is a branch of Chase Manhattan New York
and is predominantly engaged in retail financing. It has a
branch in Marshall Territory.
3) Bank of Monrovia, a branch of Citibank New York, specializes
in corporate lending. It has a branch in Yekepa (Nimba County).
4) International Trust Company is a full service bank owned by
the International Bank of Washington, D.C. with a Liberian
minority participation. It operates a branch in Yekepa (Nimba
County).
5) The Liberian Trading and Development Bank is a subsidiary of
lMediobanca, Italy, mainly involved in trade financing.
6) The Bank of Credit and Commerce International (BCCI), an
affiliate of BCCI Holdings, Luxembourg, engages in trade
financing.
7) The Liberian Finance and Trust Company (LFTC) is 100% Liberian
owned and deals mainly in personal loans and loans to small
businesses.
Except for the Bank of Liberia and LFTC, the top and middle management of
these banks is expatriate.
2.06      The commercial banks are the most important source of funds in
Liberia. Total commercial bank loans and overdrafts to the private and
public sector have grown from US$75 million in December 1974 to US$185
million in September 1979, of which US$144 million went to the private
sector. The bulk of commercial bank lending has been directed to trade
financing (43%), credit to public corporations (22.4%) and agriculture
(rubber and forest plantations). The share of manufacturing in total credit
is only 5.7%. As of September 1979, the distribution of bank credit by
economic sector was as follows:



- 12 -
Distribution of Bank Credit
by Economic Sector
(September 1979)
(in %)
Agriculture                                  12.6
Rubber                                    (4.7)
Forestry                                  (5.2)
Other                                     (2.7)
Mining and Quarrying                          0.3
Manufacturing                                 5.7
Construction                                  7.2
Transportation Storage & Communication        1.2
Commerce                                     43.0
Services                                      0.3
Personal                                      7.3
Other (essentially Credit to Public
Corp.)                                    22.4
TOTAL           100.0
Commercial banks extend essentially short-term credits, up to 90 days, which
are rolled over for preferred customers. Commercial banks have been reluc-
tant to lend to small entrepreneurs because their management capacity is
generally weak, their projects are poorly prepared and because they lack
adequate collateral. Moreover, the existence of adequate business opportuni-
ties of a larger scale has discouraged the banks from taking measures of
their own to overcome the problems of lending to small businesses.
2.07      The resources of the commercial banks consist essentially of capital
funds, deposits and foreign borrowings. Deposits of residents and financial
institutions are the most important component of these resources. As of
September 1979, commercial bank resources amounted to $243.8 million of which
58.0% were accounted for by residents' deposits. Demand deposits represent
45.5% of the total deposits, time deposits 24.0% and savings deposits 30.5%.
Overall, the share of local resources was 66% as of September 1979.
2.08      The financial position of the commercial banks appears to be sound
since most of their loans are to preferred clients and are well secured.
Commercial banks often require collateral above 100% of their loans and most
personal loans are installment loans which are repaid by salary deduction.
Their experience has so far been very favorable, their losses very limited
and their profitability attractive. Financial statements of the commercial
banks are presented in Annex III.



- 13 -
C.   Specialized Financial Institutions
2.08      National Housing and Savings Bank (NHSB) started its operations in
1976 with a subscribed capital of $5.0 million held by the Government of
Liberia. Although it deals mainly in residential mortgages and personal
loans, NHSB's charter authorizes it to offer all normal commercial banking
services. At the end of 1978, NHSB's assets amounted to $31.5 million and
total loans outstanding stood at $26.4 million. A total of 359 mortgage
loans had been approved, the number of deposit accounts was over 15,000 and
deposits amounted to $16.5 million. NHSB charges an interest rate of 12% per
annum on its mortgage loans up to 20 years. A minimum balance of $25 is
required to open an account and interest of 8% is paid on all accounts with
balances of $100 or more. NHSB lends exclusively to Liberian nationals.
Besides its mortgage activities, NHSB has arranged credit facilities for the
Liberia Petroleum Refining Company and has participated in a loan syndication
for the Republic of Liberia. It has also extended time and term loans to
public corporations. NHSB has expressed interest in participating in the
proposed project and it appears well equipped to deal with small Liberian
promoters even though it has been operating for only three years. NHSB's
financial statements appear in Annex IV Tables 3 and 4.
2.09      Agricultural and Cooperative Development Bank (ACDB) was estab-
lished in November 1976: (a) to provide short-, medium- and long-term credit
to individual farmers, either directly or through cooperatives, (b) to promote
the development of agricultural enterprises, and rural industries and (c) to
provide technical advice and assistance to individual farmers and coopera-
tives. Its initial subscribed capital of $2.25 million, held by the Govern-
ment (95%) and the Liberian Produce Marketing Corporation (5%), is expected
to increase to $5.0 million by 1982. ACDB has its head office in Monrovia
and a branch in Gbarnga (Bong County). At the end of 1979, ACDB took over
LBDI-s subsidiary in Lofa County which had been established in 1977 to extend
credit under the Lofa Rural Development Project financed by the World Bank.
A new branch is to be opened in Nimba county during 1980. As of December
1978, ACDB's outstanding loan portfolio amounted to $514,000, and demand and
savings deposits stood at $401,000. Because of its presence in rural areas,
ACDB's participation in the proposed project would be important for the
development of rural industries.
2.10      Liberian Bank for Development and Investment (LBDI) was established
in 1965 with the assistance of IFC which subscribed 25% of the initial US$1.0
million share capital. LBDI's capital was increased from $1.0 million to
$5.0 million in 1976, of which $3.6 million was paid in as of December 1978.
The Liberian Government, IFC and a number of private Liberians together own
50.4% of LBDI's shares, the remaining being held by a number of private
foreign companies and financial institutions. Under its charter, LBDI
finances productive enterprises in manufacturing, agriculture, transporta-
tion, tourism and services. It can make loans, take equity participations,
issue guarantees and underwrite stock issues. Since 1972 the World Bank has
extended three lines of credit to LBDI totaling US$12 million. The assist-
ance of the Bank Group has contributed to the development of LBDI into a
strong and sound financial institution which now plays a major role in



- 14 -
financing enterprises of all sizes. The board of LBDI is chaired by the
Minister of Finance and consists of eight members, three representing Liber-
ian interests, one representing IFC and four representing foreign share-
holders. LBDI is organized into three main departments: Projects, Finance,
Internal Audit and Control. As of May 1979, LBDI's staff totaled 49 of which
27 were professionals. The staff is competent and experienced and the general
quality of LBDI-s project appraisal is satisfactory.
2.11      LBDI's operations have increased rapidly in recent years.  Net
approvals reached $7.5 million in 1978 against $2.7 million in 1975. Al-
though 85% by amount of LBDIs lending has gone to projects above $200,000,
the bulk of LBDI's loans by number has gone to small and medium enterprises,
majority Liberian owned. From a sectoral point of view about 26% of LBDI's
lending by amount is to timber and wood processing and agri-business. The
share of manufacturing is relatively small (10.5% of the amount of loans in
1978). LBDI has been very active in "other services", i.e., trade, restau-
rant, transportation, bakeries, garages, etc., which represent about 60% of
its lending by amount.
2.12      LBDI's investment and financial position are sound.  At the end of
1978, total assets reached $27.2 million. The loan portfolio outstanding was
$12.8 million. Equity participation, comprising investments in nine compan-
ies, was $0.7 million. The percentage of portfolio affected by arrears was
9.8% and the arrears represented only 4.1% of the outstanding portfolio.
Provisions stood at about 3.3% of outstanding portfolio, covering about 80%
of the arrears. As of December 1978, LBDI-s net resources available for
commitment amounted to $11.0 million including $7.7 million in foreign
exchange from IBRD, ADB and EIB. LBDI-s net profit after provisions exceeded
$780,000 in 1978, an increase of 27% over 1977, and represented an attractive
18.9% return on share capital. A cash dividend of 7.5% was declared for
1978. As of December 1978, LBDI's debt equity ratio stood at 3.3:1. Finan-
cial statements are presented in Annex IV, Tables 1 and 2.
2.13      As of March 1, 1980 less than half of IBRD's third line of credit to
LBDI, extended in September 1976, has been committed. This slow rate of
commitments is due to the slackening economic activity in Liberia and to the
Bank's previous policy of disbursing hard currencies for a project in which
the foreign exchange risk is borne entirely by the final borrowers. With the
new disbursement procedure for DFCs, half in dollars, half in other currencies,
commitments are expected to increase more rapidly.
D.   Prospects
2.14      So far, SMEs have had limited access to credit in Liberia.  Com-
mercial banks have been reluctant to lend to SMEs because they consider them
as poor credit risks. Although LBDI has made genuine efforts to help small-
and medium-scale entrepreneurs, these efforts have been hampered by the
nature of its resources, specifically the cost and foreign exchange risk of
its borrowings. The proposed project should enable LBDI, while using up its
third line of credit, to pursue a more aggressive promotion of SMEs by taking
advantage of foreign exchange risk-free resources. As for the commercial
banks, they should be more amenable than in the past to provide term financing



- 15 -
to SMEs since the preparation of credit dossiers by NIC will limit their
administrative burden and since the Guarantee Scheme will significantly limit
the credit risks. Indeed, they have already expressed, in writing, interest
in participating in the new SME financing scheme.
III. THE PROJECT
A.   Origin and Objectives
3.01      In 1978, at the request of the Government of Liberia, the Bank
agreed to explore the possibilities of establishing a technical and financial
assistance program for small- and medium-scale enterprises. A Bank industrial
sector mission was followed by consultants' studies, including a comprehensive
survey of SMEs in Liberia conducted by a Liberian team from the University
of Monrovia and financed by the Bank. The proposed project is the result
of this preparatory work, and its credit and technical assistance components
address several major constraints on small business development: foreign
exchange risk, inadequate collateral, and limited technical and management
capacity. The project would complement LBDI's Bank-supported assistance to
medium- and large-industrial projects by making available to LBDI and other
financial intermediaries financial and technical resources which are suited
to a clientele of smaller businesses.
3.02      Objectives.  The project has two primary objectives:  first, to
develop an appropriate institution that would provide the necessary assistance
to entrepreneurs in planning and managing their investments; second, to
encourage local financial institutions to increase their support of local
businesses. The project would thus support the Government's efforts to
broaden the industrial base and increase local participation and employment in
industrial activities in Liberia.
B.   Project Description
3.03      To achieve the above objectives, the project would consist in
the provision of term resources for the financing of small- and medium-scale
enterprises and in the delivery of technical assistance to NIC to build up
its capability in providing assistance to small- and medium-scale businesses.
The proposed project would be supported by a US$4.0 million IDA credit to
provide for:
(a) Credit for small-scale enterprises (US$1.0 million) and medium-scale
enterprises (US$2.4 million); and
(b) Technical assistance to the Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise
Department of NIC (US$0.6 million).
Enterprises benefitting from the project will be wholly Liberian
owned.  The project would be implemented over a three-year period.



- 16 -
The Credit Component
3.04      The project's credit component amounting to US$3.4 million would be
onlent by the Government to the banking system through the Central Bank (NBL).
Eligible banks would be LBDI, NHSB, ACDB and the commercial banks. The
variety of financial institutions involved, some having branches outside of
Monrovia, would ensure a broad sectoral and geographic distribution of the
loans. All projects in the secondary and tertiary sector except trade would
be eligible for financing. Typical sectors would include wood and metal
working, food processing, building materials, tailoring, road transportation,
repair and maintenance activities. Project promotion and follow up would
normally be provided by NIC which would also assist them in bookkeeping,                      4
general management and appropriate solutions to specific technical problems.
However, NIC sponsorship would not be mandatory and participating banks would
be able to promote their own projects provided these projects are financially
and economically sound, and meet the proposed eligibility criteria.
(a) Small-Scale Enterprises Component. Out of the proceeds of the IDA
line of credit, $1.0 million would provide medium- and long-term
financing for fixed investment and permanent working capital for
small-scale enterprises. For the purpose of this project, small-
scale enterprises would be defined as wholly Liberian-owned enter-
prises with maximum fixed assets of $50,000 at the time of loan
application and project investment costs of up to $50,000. There
would be no lower limit to the size of the projects. Participating
banks would finance up to 90% of the cost of these projects.
Although the foreign exchange cost of these projects is estimated at
70%, IDA would refinance 100% of loans in this category.
(b) Medium-Scale Enterprises Component. From the line of credit,
$2.4 million would finance capital investments and permanent working
capital of medium-scale enterprises, defined as wholly Liberian-
owned enterprises with maximum fixed assets of $100,000 at the time
of loan application and project investment costs of up to $100,000.
Participating banks would finance up to 80% of the cost of these
projects, slightly more than the foreign exchange cost estimated at
70%. IDA would refinance 100% of loans in this category.
3.05      Credit Guarantee.  Small- and medium-scale enterprises which qualify
under the National Bank of Liberia Credit Guarantee Scheme, i.e., individual
Liberians or wholly Liberian-owned enterprises requiring loans below $100,000
would be eligible for the guarantee. This guarantee presently covers 66.23%
of the amount of the loan in default, but the Government has agreed to increase
this percentage to a maximum of 80% to adequately compensate the lenders
for the lack of collateral which is a major obstacle to access to credit for
small enterprises. This increase would be a condition of effectiveness of the
proposed project. The guarantee would be granted by the Central Bank for a
fee of 1% per annum.



- 17 -
3.06      On-lending terms and conditions.
(a) Interest Rate. The credit component would be on-lent by the Govern-
ment to the Central Bank at 8% per annum. The Central Bank would on-
lend these funds to the participating financial institutions
(commercial banks, LBDI, NHSB and ACDB) at a rate of 9% plus 1% for
the loans eligible to the Guarantee Scheme. The 1% margin would
help compensate the Central Bank for its additional administrative
expenses. The participating financial institutions would on-lend
these funds to the final borrowers at an interest rate of 13.5%
per annum including the fee for guarantee. The participating banks
would therefore receive a margin of 3.5% on guaranteed loans and of
4.5% on non guaranteed loans which is adequate. Since the Central
Bank would not make any allocation of funds to the individual
participating banks prior to subloan disbursement, and in order to
encourage the participation of the commercial banks to the new
scheme, there would be no commitment fee charged by the Central
Bank. Participating banks, however, would charge their commitment
fee to the final borrowers, which is generally 1.5%. In addition
NIC or the banks promoting the projects would charge a one time 1.5%
service charge. The adequacy of the proposed interest rate would be
reviewed by the Government and IDA from time to time.
(b) Terms. The terms of the subloans to the final borrowers would
be flexible with a maximum of 10 years and a minimum of 30 months,
including a grace period of up to 24 months. Terms are expected to
average 7 years with 18 months of grace. The amortization schedules
from the commercial banks to the Central Bank would be determined on
the aggregate repayment schedule of subloans approved by each
commercial bank. The funds repaid to the Central Bank on the
initial loans made under the IDA line of credit would be repaid to
the Government over 14 years including a four-year grace period.
(c) Foreign Exchange Risk. The foreign exchange risk would be borne by
the Government without a fee.
(d) Free Limit. The first five projects in each category, small and
medium, would be submitted to IDA for approval. Subsequently,
there would be an individual free limit of $40,000 and an aggregate
free limit of $500,000 for small projects and an individual free
limit of $70,000 and an aggregate free limit of $1.2 million for
medium-scale projects. These amounts will be reviewed from time to
time by IDA.
(e) The analysis of all subprojects would include the investment
cost per job, the internal financial rate of return, and for the
medium-scale projects, the economic rate of return. During
negotiations, it was agreed that all subprojects financed under
the line of credit would: (i) encourage employment creation;
and (b) give due consideration to the use of appropriate technology.



- 18 -
3.07      Conditions.  The above conditions would be specified in a Project
Agreement to be signed between IDA and the Central Bank. The signing of a
subsidiary loan agreement between the Central Bank and the Government specify-
ing the on-lending conditions would be a condition of effectiveness of the
line of credit. In addition the Government would issue through the media a
policy statement describing the new program of technical and financial assist-
ance to SMEs. A draft of this statement has been reviewed and agreed to by
IDA. The Central Bank would issue a circular satisfactory to IDA to the
participating financial institutions detailing the on-lending conditions of
the IDA line of credit. Finally the Central Bank would appoint a qualified
professional to manage the line of credit. This professional participated in
the negotiations of the proposed project.
3.08      Subproject Financing Plan.  The financing plan expected for the
subprojects financed under the line of credit is presented below:
Subproject Financing Plan
Small-Scale                Medium-Scale
Enterprises                Enterprises
US$ 000   %                US$ 000    %
Average total investment                   27.8   100                   87.5   100
Average bank financing                     25.0    90                   70.0    80
Owners' contribution                        2.8    10                   17.5    20
Number of projects                              40                           34
Total cost of projects                  1,100.0   100                2,975.0   100
of which IDA                          1,000.0    90                2,380.0    80
Technical Assistance Component
3.09      This component would focus primarily on strengthening the capacity
of the SME Department of NIC to offer effective promotion and advisory
services to small- and medium-scale enterprises. Government's selection of an
independent agency to perform these functions is predicated on its desire to
foster widespread participation of financial institutions in SME development,
and on the fact that the necessary level of assistance would constitute an
inordinate drain on banks' resources were they individually to assume this
responsibility.  The technical assistance would be delivered through a project
promotion and evaluation unit located in Monrovia within NIC's SME Department
and through extension services which would have a wider geographic coverage.
Because of PfP's experience with SMEs in Liberia, NIC has selected, with IDA's
agreement, PfP to implement these extension services. An outline of PfP's
proposal appears in Annex VI. PfP's contract would include the recruitment
training and field organization of six to eight extension officers, the
training of NIC's SME Department's new staff, the organization of workshops
for small entrepreneurs and the development of a monitoring system for the NIC



- 19 -
field program. The project cost would include the capital and operating
budget of the Department for a period of three years, estimated at US$1.3
million net of taxes. Out of the proceeds of the IDA line of credit, US$0.6
million would be passed to NIC by the Government as a grant to finance:
(i) Technical assistance for the NIC's SME Department
Project Promotion and Preparation Unit (4 man years)   $310,000
(ii)  Recruitment and training costs for extension
workers and for extension services (see Annex VI)         $180,000
(iii)  Vehicles and equipment                                      $90,000
(iv)  Short-term consultants.  (a) Two man-months to             $40,000
complete the revision of the Investment Code
in view of allowing SMEs to benefit from
investment incentives, (b) three man-months
to follow up on the survey of SMEs, and
(c) one man-month contingency.
Total:                        US$620,000
Remaining costs would be met by Government through annual budgeting appropria-
tions to NIC.
C.   Project Costs and Financing
3.10      Total project cost is estimated at $5.0 million net-of-taxes of
which $3.5 million would be foreign cost. In addition, taxes would be US$0.5
million.  The proposed IDA credit of $4.0 million would thus represent 73% of
total project cost and would meet 100% of total foreign cost plus $0.5 million
of local expenditure (10% of project cost net of taxes) in line with IDA-s
policy of promoting SME entrepreneurship. Project costs and the proposed
financing plan are summarized in the following tables:



- 20 -
LIBERIA
SME Project
Project Cost Estimates
($'000)
Local      Foreign    Total
(70%)
Investments
Small-scale enterprises                            330         770       1,100
Medium-scale enterprises                            900      2,100        3,000
Sub-total                                   1,230       2,870       4,100
Technical Assistance
Advisory Services (Extension Services)               47        144          191
Advisors (Project Promotion and                      78         248         326
Preparation)
Short-term consultants                                9          32          41
Vehicles and Equipment                               44          72         116
Operating Costs                                    581          107         688
Sub-total                                     759         603       1,362
Total Cost including Taxes                  1,989       3,473       5,462
Taxes                                         474           -         474
TOTAL COST NET OF TAXES                     1,515       3,473       4,988



- 21 -
LIBERIA
SME Project
Proposed Project Financing Plan
(US$'000)
IDA     Entrepreneurs      Government/NIC       Total
Investments
Small-scale Enterprises   1,000             100                  -            1,100
Medium-scale Enterprises  2,380             620                  -            3,000
Sub-total             3,380           720                   -            4,100
Technical Assistance
Advisory Services             180             -                 11              191
(Extension Services)
Advisors (Project             310             -                 16               326
Promotion and Preparation)
Short-term consultants         40             -                  1               41
Vehicles and Equipment         90             -                 26               116
Operating Costs                 -             -                688              688
Sub-total               620             -                 742            1,362
TOTAL                 4.000           720                 742            5,462



- 22 -
3.11      Procurement.  The purchase of equipment and goods under the project
is not suitable for international competitive bidding given the nature and
small size of subprojects to be financed and goods and services to be pro-
cured. Participating institutions would follow usual DFC procurement proce-
dures, which are adequate, to ensure that goods and services are suitable and
reasonably priced. The amount of equipment and vehicles to be purchased by
NIC would be too small to attract international bidders and would be conducted
through normal Government procedures i.e. quotations which are satisfactory.
3.12      Consultants.  IDA would approve the qualifications, terms and
conditions of advisors and short-term consultants financed under the project.
Provision has been made to finance four man years of advisors to NIC's SME
Department and six man-months of short-term consultants to complete studies
on the investment code and the SME sector. The average expatriate man-month
cost for the advisors (including salary, costs, fees, international travel and
subsistence) is expected to be about $6,700. As for the studies, the
average expatriate man-month cost (including salary, costs, fees, interna-
tional travel and subsistence) is expected to be about $10,000 and the
average local man-month cost is about $3,300.
3.13      Disbursement.  Disbursements would be made on the following basis:
(a) Subloans to: (i) small-scale enterprises: 100% of participating
banks' subloans up to a maximum of 90% of the investment amount;
(ii) medium-scale enterprises 100% of participating banks' subloans
up to a maximum of 80% of total investment amounts;
(b) Technical assistance: 100% of advisory services costs and 80%
(representing foreign exchange component) of total costs of vehicles
and equipment.
3.14      All funds under the credit component of the project would be
disbursed through the Central Bank which would follow regular DFC procedures.
Disbursements would be fully documented. However, after a certain number
of claims have been submitted, the Association will review its disbursement
procedures and could allow the Central Bank to claim reimbursement against
a certified statement of expenditure, the supporting documentation being
retained by the Central Bank for inspection by Project supervision missions.
3.15      Accounting, Audit and Subproject Data.  The Central Bank and NIC
would prepare a quarterly report on their activities which would be sent
to IDA. There would be no need to require auditing from participating banks
since this is a normal requirement of the Central Bank. The Central Bank
would prepare and send regularly to IDA detailed subproject data reporting
questionnaires in the form recently introduced for all Bank-Group financed
DFCs. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the conditions described
in this paragraph would be observed.



- 23 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Subloan Approval Procedures
4.01      The credit requests prepared with or without NIC's help will be
presented by the promoter to the bank of his choice. But, as necessary, NIC
would help promoters locate the most appropriate source of financing for their
projects. Credit approval would be the responsibility of the accepting bank
following their own internal procedures, although this approval will be
conditional on Central Bank granting its guarantee and on refinancing approval
by IDA. In practice, the accepting banks would forward the credit dossiers to
the Central Bank for guarantee. In order to speed up the implementation of
the projects, this procedure would be on a no objection basis within 15 days.
The Central Bank would ensure that the eligibility criteria established under
the project (citizenship, size of assets and loans, ...) are fulfilled in the
proposals. The Central Bank will then forward the dossiers to IDA for approval
and would be responsible for informing the banks of this approval. In case of
queries on the dossiers, IDA will seek clarification directly with NIC, or the
Central Bank as appropriate. Disbursement requests will be screened by the
Central Bank, to ensure that the documentation is complete and acceptable to
IDA. Actual IDA disbursements will be made through the Central Bank. The
Central Bank would designate a qualified professional to manage the line of
credit. This professional took part in the negotiations of the proposed
project.
B.   Technical Assistance
4.02      The head of the Project Promotion and Preparation Unit will be
assisted by two professionals. These three professionals will together cover
the following disciplines: engineering, financial analysis, economics and
marketing. The financial analyst and the engineer will appraise the projects
and prepare the credit applications. They will also be expected to provide
technical and financial advice to the entrepreneurs. The economist/marketing
specialist will study the marketing aspects of the projects, identify sub-
sectors offering a good potential for SMEs and provide the economic analysis
of medium-scale projects. Our assessment confirms the view of NIC and the
Government, that local expertise is not adequate for the engineer and the
economist/marketing positions, and that these positions should therefore be
filled by internationally recruited experts who will have Liberian counter-
parts. The professional staff of the division will undergo short-term train-
ing with PfP in Yekepa where, as mentioned earlier, PfP operates a comprehen-
sive technical assistance program for SMEs. The purpose of this training will
be to familiarize NIC's new staff with the SME environment in Liberia and with
methods to be used in assisting entrepreneurs.
4.03      Extension Services.  In addition, an extension service unit would
be established under the authority of the manager of the SME Department. The
main functions of this unit will be to bring technical and managerial assis-
tance to small-scale enterprises in the Monrovia area (Montserrado County)
and Lofa County. Extension workers would be trained in identifying projects



- 24 -
and preparing credit requests. These requests would be presented to
the local branches of financial institutions where they exist or they would
be sent to NIC in Monrovia for submission to banks. The extension services
would also help organize artisans and small enterprises into groups or
cooperatives in order to improve their technical and business skills and to
strengthen their input purchasing and contract tendering positions. The
unit's staff is expected to spend most of their time in the field. Because
of its experience in Yekepa, PfP has been chosen by NIC, with the agreement
of the Bank, to finalize and implement this program and will submit to IDA a
detailed plan of action before negotiations. This plan will include recruit-
ment training, field organization and supervision of six extension workers
who will be based in Monrovia and in Montserrado and Lofa counties (see
Annex VI).
4.04      Assistance to Liberian Contractors.  As mentioned earlier, during
the preparation of the proposed project, a study was made by UNIDO on the
Liberian local construction industry. The preliminary conclusions of this
study indicate that the main problem of the local construction industry is a
lack of construction management expertise in addition to financial con-
straints. To assist this sector, two sets of measures have been envisaged in
the proposed project. First, local contractors will be eligible for bank
financing on the same footing as SMEs under the credit scheme. Second, an
expert to be financed under the recently approved Bank Feeder Road Project,
to develop appraisal criteria for local contractors and to provide them with
managerial assistance will be appointed; located in LBDI, he will nevertheless
work in close cooperation with NIC.
4.05      Project Preparation Facility.  In order to speed up the implementa-
tion of the technical assistance component of this project, the Government has
requested and IDA has agreed to the use of the Project Preparation Facility
(PPF) to cover between July 1980 and project effectiveness projected in
January 1981: (1) the recruitment costs and the salaries of the two interna-
tionally recruited experts for the SME Department; (2) the initial implementa-
tion costs of the extension service by PfP; and (3) vehicles and equipment.
Total costs to be financed under the PPF would be approximately $200,000.
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
5.01      By providing through NIC and the banks the necessary technical
and financial assistance to SMEs, the project would help increase participa-
tion of local entrepreneurs in the industrial sector, reduce Liberia's depen-
dence on the enclave sector and promote employment generation. It is expected
that, over three years, the proposed project would assist about 40 small-scale
enterprises with individual loans averaging $25,000, the bulk of these loans
being in the $5,000 to $10,000 range, and, about 34 medium-scale enterprises
with individual loans averaging $70,000. The project would help generate over
$4.2 million of investments which in turn would create around 500 jobs at an
average cost of about $8,000, and below $5,000 for the small-scale enterprises.



- 25 -
These figures are much lower than the present average cost per job in Liberia.
Probably the most important long-term project benefits, but also those with
which the greatest risks are the building up of NIC-s SME department into an
effective promotion agency, and the expansion of commercial bank participation
in the financing of SMEs. The development of NIC would be a complex task and
for that reason there is the possibility that NIC may not develop as quickly
as anticipated; nevertheless the strong commitment evident on the part of the
Government to the project would be invaluable in overcoming possible difficul-
ties.  Assurances have been given by the Government and the Chairman of NIC
that the SME Department would enjoy the necessary autonomy to fulfill its
operational responsibilities. The Government has invited the commercial banks
to indicate in writing their interest in the scheme and they have declared
that they were willing to participate. Nevertheless, their actual participa-
tion in implementation will depend to a great extent upon the performance of
NIC and the quality of the dossiers produced and the actual demand for loans
which may vary depending on macro-economic conditions.
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      An IDA credit of US$4.0 million to the Republic of Liberia is
recommended for this project. The Government would pass on to NIC as a grant
US$0.6 million to finance technical assistance. The remaining US$3.4 million
would be onlent by the Government to the National Bank of Liberia at an interest
of 8%. The National Bank of Liberia would relend these funds to participating
financial institutions at an interest rate of 9% plus 1% for the loans eligible
to the Guarantee Scheme.
(1) During negotiations, assurances have been received on the following
points:
(a)  onlending terms and conditions (para. 3.06);
(b)  recruitment by NIC of professionals acceptable to IDA,
for the new SME Department (paras. 3.09, 3.12);
(c)  Government to provide its share of the technical
assistance costs (para. 3.09);
(d)  Government to keep IDA informed of the revision
of the Investment Code (para. 3.09);
(e)  subloan approval procedures (para. 4.01).
In addition the operational procedures and the organization chart
of NIC-s SME Department have been agreed to by IDA (paras. 3.17,
3.18).
(2) The following would be conditions of effectiveness:



- 26 -
(a) Issuance by the Government of a policy statement
detailing the technical and financial assistance
program for SMEs (para. 3.07);
(b) signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between the
Central Bank and the Government (para. 3.07);
(3) The following would be conditions of disbursement:
(a) Issuance by the National Bank of Liberia of a Circular
to the participating financial institutions, specifying
eligibility criteria and onlending conditions for the
line of credit (para. 3.07);
(b) Amendment to the Guarantee Scheme (para. 3.05).
With the above conditions fulfilled the proposed project would
be suitable for a credit of US$4.0 million.



LIBERIA
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT BY SECTORAL ORIGIN
(In $ million curretnt prices)
1970          1971         1972         1973         1974         1975         1976        1977         1978&
..  Agr-culture                                    40.4          40.2         38.2         57.4         73.5         62.6          78.2        96.2        113.7
ribber                                       23.0          24.0         24.1         37.1        (47.9)       (29.6)       (39.5)       (40.2)       (42.0)
Forestry                                      4.1           6.4          6.4          6.0        ( 6.4)       (13.8)       (18.2)       (25.0)       (35.0)
Othcr                                        13.3           9.8          7.7         14.3        (19.2)       (19.2)       (20.5)      (31.0)        (36.7)
2.  Mining                                        120.3         124.8        142.1        129.8        159.0        231.8         182.6       144.4        117.6
Iron Ore                                    109.3         113.7        117.6        110.9       (147.5)      (224.7)      (176.3)     (136.1)      (105.0)
Other                                        11.0          11.1         12.4         18.9       ( 11.5)       ( 7.1)       ( 6.3)       (8.3)       ( 12.6)
3.  Manufacturing                                   15.2          17.1         18.0        22.6         34.6          36.3         45.2       50.2          51.2
4.  Construction                                   16.2           14.4         17.6         15.0        21.4          28.8         37.9       44.1           *
5.  ^'olesale 6 Retail Trade,
H{otels and Restaurants                      42.5          45.6         49.4         35.0         43.4         49.2         54.5       8 .9            *
6.  Electricity and Water                           5.5           5.8           7.1         6.1           7.2          8.5         10.4        7.0           7.8
7.  Treisport, Storage and
CommunicatiOn                                31.8          34.7         36,3         32.5         32.5         40.7         45.1       53.7             *
8.  Fi-a.cial institutions, Realestate
,& Business Services                         23.7          24.7         27.3         33.1         35.4         40.2         45.5        49.3            *
9.  Cornunity, Soctal & Personal
Services                                     12.4          11.6         13.0         16.7         21.8         21.9         24.4       26.9             *
10.  Pra,ducers of C.ovnrnwent Services             23.0          27.0          26.7        31.2          36.0         43.8         51.5       70.6          82.0
L;.  Imputed Batik Charges                         - 3.4         - 3.4        - 3.5        - 4.2        - 5.1        - 4.7         - 6.7      - 3.8            *
12.  Monetary  GDP(at factor cost)                 323.1         342.5        372.2        375.2        459.7        559.1         568.f      621.5         640.G
13.  Traditional Economy                            55.3          57.5         58.9          78.2       110.6         117.3        130.2      155.0         170.0
14.  Total GDP (F.C.)                              378.4         400.0        431.1        453.2        570.3         676.4        698.8      776.5         81n.0
'5.  indirect taxes (net)                           30.0           29.9         35.4         39.4         47.5         50.5         63.0       84.7         103.0
16.  Total GDP (m.p.)                              408.4         429.9        466.5        492.6         617.8        726.9        -(1.8      861.2         913.0
?re !Minarv estimates                                       MIT0E:  The above estimates are based on a nev series of national accounts originated by
a..iilable                                                     the Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs recently end are therefore different
* s No, a:ailable                                                   from those'reported in Report No. 1642a-LBR kFeb. 28, 1978)
Source:  Ministry of Planning & Economic Affairs



EMPLOYMENT IN LIBERIA BY MAJOR SECTORS 1977 AND 1978
1977             PercentagRL         1978              Percentage
TOTAL EMPLOYMENT                                        408,250              100.0            417,046                 -
Agriculture                                             310,150                76.0           315,379                75.6
Montary Agriculture2/                                    46,000               11.3             46,966                11.3
Non-Monetary Agriculture (Subsistence
Farming)3/                                          256,800                62.9           260,909                62.6
Forestry                                               5,000                1.2             5,105                 1.2
Fishing                                               2,350                 0.6             2,399                 0.6
Industry                                                 35,650                8.7             36,457                8.7
Mining                                               14,200              -  3.5            13,916                 3.3
Construction                                           5,500                1.4             5,830                 1.4
Manufacturing                                          6,200                1.5             6,510                 1.6
Arts and Crafts                                        8,500                2.1              8,925                2.1
Electricity, Gas and Water                             1,250                0.3             1,276                 0.3
Services                                                 62,450               15.3             65,210               15.6
Government, Public Services                          25,500                 6.3            27,285                 6.5
Commerce                                             15,600                 3.8            15,928                 3.8
Transports                                            6,850                 1.7             6,994                 1.7
Business                                              1,400                 0.3             1,429                 0.3
Hotels and Restaurants                                   700                0.2                715                0.2
Community and Personal Services                       8,400                 2.1             8,576                 2.1
Household Services                                     4,000                1.0              4,084                1.0
Note:   The average annual growth rates of employment in the monetary, economy were 2.1%; in subsistence economy 1.62.   H
1/      Percentages may not add to 100 because of rounding.
2/      Concessions and Liberian Commercial farming including small-scale commercial farming and public corporations.
3/      Subsistence Agriculture employment, with productivity at 45% of potential productivity.
Source: Ministry of Planning and Economic Affairs.



LIBERIA - NATIONAL BANK OF LIBERIA Balance Sheets 1974-1978
------------------------- (US$ Million) ------------------------------------
1974             1975            1976              1977             1978
ASSETS                                    35.39            39.86            46.09            57.71             45.09
External Assets (net)                    11.84            13.90.           13,56            26.40             13.00
External Assets                       (11.87)          (13.93)           17.17            27.34            1Q.03
US currency                           (2.49)           (0.95)           (5.43)           (4.97)            (4.10)
Balances with banks abroad            (5.49)           (7.50)           (7.65)          (18.33)            (9.56)
Holdings of SDR's                     (3.89)           (3.39)           (4.09)           (4.04)            (4.37)
IMF Gold Tranche      :                (-)             (2.09)             -                -                _
External Liabilities                    0.03             0.03             3.61             0.94             .5.03
Balances with Banks                     2.69             3.90             4.65             3.72              3.01
GOL Securities                         20.26            19.99            25.48            24.51             26.63
Advances                                 _               0.88             0.48             0.46              0.27
GOL                                    ()               (-)               -                - 
Banks                                  (H) (-)                            _                -
Others                                 (-)             (0.88)           (0.48)           (0.46)            (0.27)
Other Assets                            0.60             1.19             1.92             2.62              2.18
LIABILITIES                               35.39            39.86            46.09             57.71            45.09
Paid-up Capital                           5.00             5.00             5.08             5.34              5.34
General Reserve                           0.01             0.32              _                                  -
Liberian coins in circulation             8.80             8.41             8.90              9.87            10.68
Deposits                                  9.44            11,53            19.50            28.51             14.47
GOL                                   (5.84)           (6.81)          (12.93)          (19.85)           (-7.64)
Banks                                 (3.17)           (4.40)           (6.09)            (7.92)          (18.84)
Other                                 (0.43)           (0.32)           (0.48)            (0.74)           (3.27)
Allocation of SDRs                       11.68            11.17            11.08             11.58            12.42
Other Liabilities                         0.46             3.43              1.54             2.41             2.18           X
Source: National Bank of Liberia



LIBERIA
SME Project
Commercial Banks' Aggregate Balance Sheet
($000's)
1974       1975        1976        1977       1978        1979
ASSETS                                                                                                     (as of Sep. 30)
Cash and balances with Central Banks
and Local Banks                                8,372      11,170     16,500      27,490      31,666      30,974
Balances with Banks Abroad                      19,702      12,885      32,359     18,886      19,122      22,826
Credit                                          75,061      78,874      82,698    112,794    150,686    185,199
(G.O.L.)                                      (3,789)    (2,114)       (884)    (4,671)    (9,413)    (3,310)
(Public Corp.)                                  (339)    (1,793)       (684)    (1,138)   (11,334)   (37,727)
(Companies & Individuals)                    (69,988)   (73,968)   (75,676)  (106,985)  (129,932)  (143,876)         
Fixed Assets                                     5,192       2,110       2,326      2,545       3,363       4,349
Other Assets                                    19,009      30,097      30,642     27,026      24,593      41,426
TOTAL     127,336    135,136    165,525    188,741    229,430    284,776
LIABILITIES
Balances due to Banks Abroad                    25,184      22,053     15,733      17,338      26,177      61,200
Balances due to Central Banks and
and Local Banks                                4,511       7,880     15,298      26,385      15,860      19,357
Non-resident deposits                            1,245       3,979       3,022      2,973       3,402       3,539     t H
Resident Deposits                               68,863      65,841      96,798    103,139    133,405    141,610
G.O.L. Deposits                                  2,861       4,199       1,000        800           -           -
Acceptances in favor of banks abroad            10,199      16,832      18,573     13,532      10,191       9,285
Other Liabilities                                5,583       8,576       6,305     10,094      23,235      31,670
Capital                                          5,100       1,750       2,250      7,500       7,500       7,500
Reserves                                         3,790       4,006       6,546      6,980       9,660      10,615
TOTAL     127,336    135,136    165,525    188,741    229,430    284,776



ANNEX III
- 31 -                     Table 3
LIBERIA
SME Project
Combined Income Statements of Commercial Banks
(June 1978)
$ 000
A. Income
1.  Interest on loans & advances                       12,101
2.  Interest on balances with banks                     1,251
3.  Foreign exchange transactions                       1,321
4.  Service charges & fees                              3,355
5.  Other income                                        2,290
6.  Total current operating income                     20,318
B. Expenses
1.  Salaries & related payments                         3,482
2.  Interest paid on deposits                           4,196
3.  Interest to banks & other interest                  2,571
4.  Other current operating expenses                    5,879
.5.  Total current operating expenses                  16,128
C. Profit
1.  Profit from current operations (before taxes)   4,190
2.  Profit from current operations (after taxes)    2,261
3. Profit including extraordinary profit
and recoveries                                   2,096



ANNEX III
-32-                      Table 4
LIBERIA
SME Project
Commercial Banks Profitability
(As of December 31, 1978)
($'000's)
Assets l/                                      212,430
Capital and Reserves 1/                         15,866
Operating Income                                20,318
Operating Expenses                              18,057
Operating Profit (before tax)                    4,190
Operating Profit (after tax)                     2,261
Net Profit                                       2,096
Pre-tax Profit as percentage of:
Total Assets                                    2.0
Capital and Reserves                           26.4
Operating Income                               20.6
After tax Profit as percentage of:
Total Assets                                    1.1
Capital and Reserves                           14.3
Operating Income                               11.1
1/ Yearly Average.



ANNEX III
- 33~ -Table 5
LIBERIA
SME Project
Commercial Banks Resources
($000's)
1974               1979
(September 30)
Deposits of Residents                         68,913              141,610
Demand                                   38,772               64,379
Time                                     13,390               34,007
Savings                                  16,751               43,224
Deposits of Financial Institutions
and Monetary Authorities                    4,511               19,357
National Bank                             2,545                1,441
Commercial Banks                          1,966               12,772
Other Financial Institutions                   -              64,739
Foreign Resources                             27,379               64,739
Balances due Banks Abroad                26,134               61,200
Non-Resident Deposits                     1,245                3,539
Capital and Reserves                           8,890              18,115
TOTAL       109,693              243,821



ANNEX III
- 34 -                       Table 6
LIBERIA
SME Project
Structure of Banks' Deposits
1974     1975      1976      1977     1978      1979
(Sept. 30)
Personal Deposits
Demand                         7,427    7,829    7,900    6,410    8,319    9,022
Time                           3,483    4,367    5,258   10,452    8,296    7,705
Savings                       14,135   17,906   23,088   30,857   39,257   40,608
Total                       25,045   30,102   36,246   47,719   55,872   57,335
Public Corporation Deposits
Demand                         1,566    3,772    6,050    7,950    8,293   10,846
Time                           4,260    4,035    6,713    6,933    6,943   14,394
Savings                          706       848      219       268       938       340
Total                        6,532    8,655   12,982   15,151   16,174   25,580
Other Corporation Deposits
Demand                        29,779   21,710   39,419   35,986   46,589   44,511
Time                           5,597    4,252    6,916    3,125   12,709   11,908
Savings                        1,910    1,122    1,235    1,158    2,061    2,276
Total                       37,286   27,804   47,570   40,269   61,359   58,695
GRAND TOTAL                     68,863   65,841   96,798  103,139  133,405  141,610



ANNEX IV
- 35 -                     Table 1
LIBERIA
Liberian Bank for Development and Investment
Balance Sheet - December 31, 1978 (audited)
(US$)
Assets
Current Assets
Time deposits                                            5,900,000
Current maturities of portfolio loans                    4,949,988
Government of Liberia notes discounted                      827,304
Current portion of Government of Liberia promissory
notes                                                    400,000
Accrued income                                             801,544
Prepaid expenses and miscellaneous debit balances           362,933
13,241,769
Portfolio Investments
Loans                                                   12,769,132
Less:  Current maturities of portfolio loans             4,949,988
7,819,144
Equity investments at cost                                 705,897
8,525,041
Less:  provisions for possible losses on portfolio
investments                                        _0,042
Portfolio investment (net)                               8,104,999
Government of Liberia Promissory Notes                   5,200,000
Deferred staff development expenditure                      80,904
Property and equipment (net)                               565,207
27,192,879
Liabilities
Current Liabilities
Cash and bank balances on current account (net)            190,478
Short-term borrowings                                    2,850,000
Accrued expenses                                           202,251
Accounts payable and other credit balances                 487,874
Current maturities of long-term debt                       957,000
Proposed dividend                                          265,381
Total Current Liabilities                          4,952,984
Long-term Debt                                                 18,557,992
Less:  current maturities of long-term debt                 957,000
Total Long-term debt                                    17,600,992
Shareholders' Equity                                           4,638,903
Total Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity              27,192,879



ANNEX IV
Table 2
LIBERIA
Liberian Bank for Development and Investment
Income Statement - Decemher 31, 1978 (audited)
(US$)
Income
Income from loans, guarantees and underwriting commitments
commitments:
Loan interest                                            1,252,468
Commission, on guarantees                                   55,072
Service charges on loans                                   153,964
Commission, underwriting and commitment fees                70,410
Income from Government of Liberia
Promissory notes                                            55,260
Interest on notes discounted                                63,618
Interest on time deposits                                  475,531
Dividends on investments                                    78,085
Rental income                                               60,545
Other income                                                89,584
Gross income                           2,354,537
Expenses
Charges on borrowings                                          981,983
Compensation  - officers and employees                         353,643
Directors fees                                                   8,152
Professional services                                           16,393
Travel                                                          30,714
Rent                                                             7,333
Depreciation and amortisation                                   37,511
Other                                                          137,713
591,459
Total Expenses                         1,573,442
781,095
Provision for losses in portfolio investments                 (100,000)
Net profit for the year                                          681,095
Proposed Dividend                                                265,381
Net surplus for the year transferred to unappropriated
earnings                                                       415,714



ANNEX IV
- 37 -                    Table 3
LIBERIA
National Housing & Savings Bank
Balance Sheet as of December 31, 1978 & 1977 (audited)
(US$)
Assets
Cash                                                      382,699
Current accounts balances with banks                    2,068,623
Interest-bearing time deposits with banks                 951,900
Loans and advances                                     26,419,703
Accrued interest receivable                               380,424
Sundry debit balances                                      37,900
Preliminary expenses                                      107,055
Fixed assets                                            1,166,021
31,514,325
Liabilities
Demand deposits                                         6,480,883
Savings deposits                                        5,003,380
Time deposits                                           4,726,317
Accrued expenses                                          336,339
Sundry credit balances                                  2,377,197
Funds borrowed from other banks                         7,604,095
26,528,211
Surplus of shareholders' funds                          4,986,114
31,514,325



ANNEX IV
- 38 -                     Table 4
LIBERIA
National Housing & Savings Bank
Income Statement as of December 31, 1978 (audited)
(US$)
Interest Income
Interest on loans and advances                           1,269,807
Interest on time deposits                                  345,861
1,615,668
Interest Expenses
Interest on savings deposits                               259,837
Interest on time deposits                                  221,731
Interest on funds borrowed                                  37,102
518,670
Net interest income                                         1,096,998
Other Operating Income
Commissions and fees                                       107,891
Foreign exchange gains                                      13,475
Rents received                                              11,896
Net interest income and other operating income                  1,230,260
Operating Expenses
Rumuneration - officers and staff                          410,341
Maintenance of premises and equipment                        40,702
Depreciation and amortisation                                71,405
Rents paid                                                    9,500
Other expenses                                             246,416
778,364
Net profit (loss) for the year tranferred to retained
earnings                                                        451,896



ANNEX IV
- 39 -                      Table 5
LIBERIA
Agricultural and Cooperative Development Bank
Balance Sheet - December 31, 1978 (audited)
(US$)
Assets
Cash                                                     282,915
Balances with banks on current account                   377,719
Call deposits with banks                               1,000,000
Loans and advances                                       514,174
Other assets                                              94,869
2.,269,677
Pre-operational expenses                                 158,159
Premises and equipment                                   172,192
2,600,028
Liabilities
Deposits                                                 308,336
Savings                                                   92,883
401,219
Other liabilities                                         99,271
Total liabilities                                        500,490
Stockholders? equity                                         2,099,538
2,600,028



ANNEX IV
- 40 -                      Table 6
LIBERIA
Agricultural and Cooperative Development Bank
Income Statement June 30, 1978 to December 31, 1978 (audited)
(US$)
Interest Income
Interest and fees on loans                                16,379
Interest on call deposits                                 54,000
70,379
Interest Expenses
Interest on deposits                                       1,176
Net Interest Income                                             69,203
Other Operating Revenue
Miscellaneous commissions and fees                            39
Net Interest and other Operating Revenue                        69,242
Other Operating Expenses
Directors fees                                               395
Remuneration - officers and staff                        118,472
118,867
Rent                                                       9,700
Depreciation                                              18,269
Pre-operational expenses write off                        17,573
Other expenses                                            64,642
229,051
Net Loss from Operations                                      (159,809)
Capital Assets Donated by Ministry of Agriculture                9,347
Net Loss for Period Transferred to Retained Earnings         $(150,462)



- 41 -                    ANNEX V
Study of Industrial Incentives in Liberia
and
Revision of the Investment Code:
Draft Terms of Reference
(a)  Measure "Net Incentives" to Liberian industries allowed under the
provisions of the existing Industrial Incentives Code taking into
account the effect of tax holidays, credit preferences, quantita-
tive restrictions, tariff exemptions and related subsidy policies
on the profitability of enterprises.
(b) Review the past structure of industrial investment in Liberia in
response to available incentives and analyse the impact of these
industries on: (i) domestic and national value added; (ii) em-
ployment of skilled and unskilled workers; (iii) balance of pay-
ments; (iv) regional development; (v) transfer of technology.
(c) Estimate the nominal protection coefficients (NPC) effective
protection coefficients (EPC), effective subsidy coefficients
(ESC) and domestic resource costs (DRC), in different Liberian
industrial groups to facilitate analysis of the social efficiency
of Liberian industries.
(d) Determine to what extent the existing incentive structure favors
or discriminates against: (i) small-scale enterprises (defined in
terms of both value of fixed assets and employment level); (ii)
geographic locations outside Monrovia; (iii) labor intensive
enterprises; (iv) domestic raw material processing industries.
(e) Recommend changes and modifications, if required, in the existing
Code with a view to define a structure of industrial incentives
consistent with the economic objectives of Liberia as enunciated
in its Development Plan.
(f) Assist the National Investment Commission (NIC) in elaborating
incentive and promotional packages to be granted to preidentified
categores of industrial activity ranked in order of priority and
based on the development objectives of the Government.
(g) Recommend a simplified administrative procedure to facilitate
access of SMEs to the benefits of the Code.



ANNEX VI
-42 -                     Page 1 of 2
Outline of Proposed PfP Program of Technical Assistance to NIC
A. Overall Program Objectives
During the first three year period the objectives of PfP's involvement
in NIC's Program of Assistance to Small and Medium Scale Enterprise in Liberia
would be:  1) to test out and refine methodologies and approaches to
assisting SMEs in Liberia; and 2) to develop the capacity in the NIC to
provide such assistance to SMEs on an ongoing basis.
B. Services to be provided to NIC
1.   Pre-implementation.  Assistance in the develop of the Program
Design, in particular in the areas of Management and Technical Assistance
methodologies and Credit Program strategies.
Assist in negotiating working agreements with banks for Credit Program
Assist in the review of the organizational structure of NIC to
ensure appropriateness for providing services as outlined in the Program Design.
Coordinate and conduct a thorough orientation of NIC staff to the
PfP programs and development strategies in Nimba County.
Assist in the development of evaluation and monitoring systems for
the NIC field program.
2.   Implementation.  PfP would provide a Senior Advisor and Assistant
to perform the following functions:
- Adapt the PfP Rural Enterprise Extension Service training materials
to the needs of NIC Project Developers, Extension Officers and
Survey Assistants.
- Training of initial group of Project Developers, Extension Officers,
and Survey Assistants as per the description in the attached
program proposal.
- Developing system of on-going training of field staff together
with the Project Developers and the Chief for Field Supervision
and assisting in the implementation of this system.
- Assisting in the development of a series of workshop/seminars to
be given to groups of businesspersons and related to problem
solving for small and medium scale businesses.
- Assist NIC staff in the development and implementation of the
Credit/Credit Guarantee/ Equipment Purchasing portion of the
small and medium scale business program.



ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 2
- Conduct initial evaluation of field program, assessing the impact
of the program and the appropriateness of the services being
provided by NIC to meeting the needs of small-scale business.
- Revising training materials and format according to the results
from the evaluation.
- Conduct, together with NIC staff final evaluation of first phase
of NIC Program of Assistance to Small and Medium- Business and
make suggestions for on-going program format based upon the results
of that evaluation.
3.        In addition, PfP will provide assistance in the performing of the
following functions:
- Recruitment of qualified technicians specialized in Industrial
Engineering, Financial Analysis, and Economics/Marketing.
- Developing Technical Advisory Extension service in NIC.
- Training of Technical Aides and their supervisors as per des-
cription of attached program proposal.
- Developing list of potential Technical Advisors with apecialized
capabilities who could be contracted to, or might on a voluntary
basis, assist NIC client businesses in solving certain technical
problems.
- Channeling information about the technological developments at
the PfP Appropriate Technology Center to field staff of NIC.
4.        Estimated Budget (24 months) in US$
Senior Advisor                      86.000
Technology Advisor                   13,000
Technical Training Staff              7,500
Secretarial Services                 4,000
Equipment                            13,000
Operating Costs                     39,000
Overhead                             17,500
Total       180,000



- 44 -                 ANNEX VII
LIBERIA
Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise Project
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US $000)
Fiscal Year (Ending June 30)                    Disbursement    Cumulative
1981
Fourth Quarter                                      100             100
1982
First Quarter                                       100             200
Second Quarter                                      160             360
Third Quarter                                       200             560
Fourth Quarter                                      240             800
1983
First Quarter                                       280           1,080
Second Quarter                                      280           1,360
Third Quarter                                       300           1,660a
Fourth Quarter                                      300           1,960
1984
First Quarter                                       300           2,260
Second Quarter                                      300           2,560
Third Quarter                                       350           2,910
Fourth Quarter                                      300           3,210
1985
First Quarter                                       300           3,510
Second Quarter                                      250           3,760
Third Quarter                                       240           4,000



- 45 -                    ANNEX VIII
LIBERIA
SME PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available
in the Project File
SME Sector
- Review of the Small Scale Enterprise Sector
T. Monson, September 1978
- Small Scale Enterprises in Liberia -- A preliminary Assessment.
A. Sawyer and D. Mayson, University of Liberia, April 1979
- The Building Construction Industry in Liberia
UNIDO, Vienna, June 1979
Financial Sector
- National Bank of Liberia Financial Reports
- LBDI Financial Reports
- NHSB Financial Reports
- ACDB Financial Reports
- National Bank of Liberia Statistical Reports
-  National Bank of Liberia Credit Guarantee Scheme



