CREDIT NUMBER 1076-LBR
Project Agreement
(Small and Medium Scale Enterprise Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
NATIONAL BANK OF LIBERIA
Dated    4 kw<                      1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1076-LBR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      4t4",       O          , 1981, between
the  INTERNATIONAL DEVELUPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called
the Association) and the NATIONAL BANK OF LIBERIA (hereinafter
called NBL), a body corporate established under the National Bank
of Liberia Act, 1974 as amended by an Act of the Republic of
Liberia approved on November 7, 1977;
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Liberia (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to lend
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
three million two hundred thousand Special Draing Rights (SDR
3,200,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement, but only on condition that NBL agrees to
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are herein-
after set forth;
WHEREAS three million three hundred and eighty thousand
dollars ($3,380,000) equivalent or such other amount as shall be
allocated to Categories (1) and (2) in the Schedule to the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement will be relent out of the proceeds of the
Credit by the Borrower to NBL for use by NBL in carrying out
Part A of the Project; and
WHEREAS NBL, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFOEE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01 Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project;
Management and Operations of NBL
Section 2.01. (a) NBL shall through the participating banks
carry out Part A of the Project described in Section 3.01 of the
Development Credit Agreement and conduct its operations and
affairs, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate economic, financial and investment standards and
practices, with qualified and experienced management and in
accordance with its Statutes.
(b) NBL shall for the purpose of Part A of the Project
prepare and send to the Association, a circular satisfactory to
the Association which NBL shall issue to participating banks and
which shall set out NBL's policy and procedures for the carrying
out of that Part of the Project, the eligibility criteria, on-
lending conditions and other terms and conditions (including those
set out in the Schedule hereto) to be observed by the partici-
pating banks.
(c) NBL and the Association shall, no later than eighteen
months after the date of this Agreement, review with the Borrower
the definition of MSE set out in Section 1.02 of the Development
Credit Agreement to decide whether or not the said definition need
to be modified in the light of project experience.
Section 2.02. (a) In accordance with and subject to the
provisions of the Development Credit Agreement, NBL shall send
Investment Projects received from participating banks to the
Association for approval or for authorization for withdrawals to
be made from the Credit Account.
(b) (i) When sending a Sub-loan (other than a free-limit
Sub-loan) to the Association for approv:al, NBL shall furnish to
the Association an application, in form satisfactory to the
Association, together with a description of the Investment Enter-
prise and the Investment Project to be financed thereunder
(including a description of the expenditures for such Investment
Project proposed to be financed by the participating bank and an
appraisal of the Investment Project furnished by the participating
bank and approved by NBL) and the proposed terms and conditions of


﻿the Sub-loan including the schedule of amortization of the Sub-
loan and such other information as the Association shall reason-
ably request; and (ii) such appraisals will include the investment
cost per job, a calculation of the internal financial rate of
return and, in cases of MSE Investment Projects, an evaluation of
the economic rate of return, established in accordance with
guidelines satisfactory to the Association. Such economic rate
of return shall be at least 10%, unless the Association shall
otherwise agree.
(c) Each request by NBL for authorization to make with-
drawals from the Credit Account in respect of a free-limit Sub-
loan shall contain a summary description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment Project (including a descrip-
tion of the expenditures proposed to be financed by the partici-
pating bank out of the proceeds of the Credit) and the terms and
conditions of such free-limit Sub-loan, including the schedule of
amortization therefor.
(d) The amortization schedule applicable to each Investment
Project shall provide for an appropriate period of grace, and,
unless the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree: (i)
shall not extend beyond ten years from the date of approval by the
Association of such Investment Project or of authorization by the
Association to make withdrawals from the Credit Account in respect
of such Investment Project; and (ii) shall provide for approxi-
mately equal semiannual, or more frequent, aggregate payments of
principal and interest or approximately equal semiannual, or more
frequent, payments of principal.
(e) Except as the Association and NBL shall otherwise agree,
NBL shall furnish applications for approval of Investment Projects
pursuant to the provisions of paragragh (b) of this Section and
requests for authorizations to withdraw from the Credit Account
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section on or
before June 30, 1983.
Section 2.03. (a) NBL undertakes that unless the Association
shall otherwise agree, any Sub-loan will be made on terms whereby
the participating bank shall obtain, by written agreement or other
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests
of the Association, NBL and the participating bank, such as:
(i) the right to require the Investment Enterprise to carry out
and operate the Investment Project with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in accordance with sound technical, financial and


﻿-4-
managerial standards and to maintain adequate records; (ii) the
right to require that the goods and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Sub-loan be used exclusively in the
carrying out of the Investment Project; (iii) the right of the
Association, NBL and the participating bank to inspect such goods
and the sites, works, plants and construction included in the
Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents; (iv) the right to require that the Invest-
ment Enterprise take out and maintain such insurance, against such
risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
business practice and that, without any limitation upon the
foregoing, such insurance cover hazards incident to the acquisi-
tion, transportation and delivery of the goods financed out of the
proceeds of the Sub-loan to the place of use or installation, and
that any indemnity thereunder be payable in a currency freely
usable by the Investment Enterprise to replace or repair such
goods; (v) the right to obtain all such information as the Asso-
ciation, NBL or the participating bank shall reasonably request
relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations
and financial condition of the Investment Enterprise and the
benefits to be derived from the Investment Project and (vi) the
right of the participating bank to suspend or terminate the right
of the Investment Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the
Sub-loan upon failure by such Investment Enterprise to perform its
obligations under its agreement with the participating bank.
(b) NBL shall exercise its rights and shall ensure that the
participating banks exercise their rights in relation to each
Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests
of the Association, NBL and the participating banks; (ii) comply
with NBL's obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes of Part A of the
Project.
Section 2.04. NBL shall furnish to the Association all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning
Part A of the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Sub-loans, including the Investment Enterprises, the Investment
Projects and the Sub-loans.
Section 2.05. NBL shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan. Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, NBL shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating
or waiving any provision of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿-5-
Section 2.06. NBL shall not amend the circular referred to in
Section 2.01 (b) above except in agreement wtth the Association,
and shall exchange views with the Association on any proposal to
modify its Statutes.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. NBL shall maintain records adequate to record
the progress of Part A of the Project and of each Investment
Project (including the cost thereof) and to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations and financial condition in respect of such Part of the
Project and shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine such records.
Section 3.02. NBL shall: (i) maintain separate and identifi-
able accounts and financial statements for Part A of the Project
and shall have such accounts and financial statements for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accept-
able to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon
as available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of.the financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of suzh
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to
the Association such other information concerning the said
accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. (a) The Association and NBL shall cooperate
fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomp-
lished. To that end, the Association and NBL shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through their
representatives With regard to the progress of Part A of the
Project, the performance by NBL of its obligations under this
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, NBL's administration,
operations and financial condition in respect of such Part of the
Project and other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit.


﻿-6-
(b) NBL shall furnish to the Association quarterly all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning
the expenditures of the proceeds of the Credit, Part A of the
Project, the Investment Enterprises, the Investment Projects, the
Sub-loans and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from
the foregoing.
(c) Within six months following the last withdrawal from the
Credit Account, NBL shall prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Investment Projects, their costs and the benefits derived and to
be derived from them, the performance by NBL and the Association
of their respective obligations under this Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 4.02. NBL shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere
with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the
maintenance of the service thereof or the performance by NBL of
its obligations under this Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 4.03. NBL shall enable the Association's representa-
tives to inspect the records referred to in Section 3.01 of this
Agreement and any relevant documents.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of NBL thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate; or
(ii) a date fourteen years after the date of this
Agreement.


﻿-7-
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before
the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify NBL of this event, and upon the
giving of such notice, this Agreement ard all obligations of the
parties thereunder shall forthwith terminate.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under Article VI of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The address so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For NBL:
National Bank of Liberia
P.O. Box 2048
Monrovia
Liberia


﻿-8-
Cable address:
NATBANK
Liberia
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement or under Section 2.03 of the Development Credit
Agreement on behalf of or by NBL may be taken or executed by its
Governor, or by such other person or persons as such Governor
shall designate in writing, and NBL shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation sufficient evidence of the authority and the authen-
ticated specimen signature of each such person.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
94 1Regional Vice President
Western Africa
NATIONAL BANK OF LIBERIA
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE
I.   Onlending Terms and Conditions for Sub-loans
A.   NBL to Participating Banks
1.   Interest rate shall be at least 9% per annum plus
1% for Sub-loans eligible for guarantee under NBL's
Credit Guarantee Scheme. Interest rates shall be
subject to -eview from time to time by the Borrower.
and the Association and shall, with respect to any
Sub-loans not yet made, be adjusted in the light of
market conditions and inflation.
2.   NBL Shall not chArge any commitment fees.
3.   Amortization schedules shall be determined on
the aggregate repayment schedule of Sub-loans
approved by the participating banks.
4.   Any foreign exchange risk shall be borne by the
Borrower.
B.   Participating Banks to Investment Enterprises
1.   Interest rate shall be at least 13.5% per annum
including the fee for guarantee under the Guarantee
Scheme. Interest rates shall be subject to review
from time to time by the Borrower and the Associa-
tion and shall, with respect to any Sub-loans not
yet made, be adjusted in the light of market
conditions and inflation.
2.   Participating banks may charge commitment fees
on the undisbursed amount of Sub-loans.
3.   NIC or participating banks may charge a one-time
service charge of 1.5%.
4.   Repayment of principal shall be in not more
than 10 years or less than 30 months including a
grace period of up to 24 months.
5*   Investment Enterprises shall not bear any foreign
exchange risk.


﻿- 10 -
II. Sub-loan Approval Procedures
1.   The promoter of an Investment Project shall present
its Sub-loan request to the participating bank of
its choice. Approval of the request shall rest with
the participating bank, subject however to the
grant of NBL's approval and the Association's
refinancing approval.
2.   NBL shall ensure that only Sub-loan proposals
meeting eligibility criteria established under the
Project are approved.
3.   NBL shall furnish the Association with the informa-
required by the Association to approve a Sub-loan
proposal and shall be responsible for informing the
participating banks of this approval.
4.   NBL shall also screen disbursement requests to
ensure that documentation is complete and accept-
able to the Association.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of #aA     ,
198 L.
FOR SECRETARY


