                                        Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                                     Report No: 29589

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                             (CPL-28540 SCL-2854A SCPD-2854S)

                                            ON A

                                           LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$276 MILLION

                                          TO THE

                                   ARGENTINE REPUBLIC

                                          FOR A

                               SEGBA V Power Distribution Project




                                       October 15, 2004




ESSD Sector Management Unit
Argentina, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective September 14, 2002)

                              Currency Unit = Argentine Pesos
                                  US$ 1.00 = 0.33 Pesos

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1 - December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EA             Environmental Assessment
EBY            Entidad Binacional Yacyretá, or Yacyretá Binational Entity
EMP            Resettlement and Environmental Management Plan
ERR            Economic Rate of Return
GOA            Government of Argentina
GOP            Government of Paraguay
Ha             Hectares
IDB            Inter-American Development Bank
LRMC           Long-Run Marginal Cost
Masl           Meters above sea level
MWh            Megawatt-Hour
NGOs           Non-Governmental Organization
NIS            National Interconnected System
PARR           Plan de Acción para Reasentamiento y Rehabilitación, or Resettlement and
               Rehabilitation Action Plan (component of the EMP)
PDA            Programa Desborde de Arroyos, or Urban Creeks Program
Plan A         Pending Actions Program (1996)
Plan B         Base Program (1997)
PMMA           Plan de Manejo de Medio Ambiente, or Environmental Management Plan
               (component of the EMP)
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SEGBA          Servicios Electricos del Gran Buenos Aires,electric utility serving Buenos Aires
               area

                            Vice President:    David de Ferranti
                         Country Director:     Axel van Trotsenburg
                           Sector Manager:     Abel Mejia
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Ernesto Sanchez-Triana

                                        ARGENTINA
                            SEGBA V Power Distribution Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
6. Sustainability                                                                16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 17
8. Lessons Learned                                                               22
9. Partner Comments                                                              25
10. Additional Information                                                       35
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             36
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             41
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             42
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             43
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             48
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                49
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            50
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                              52
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                            55
Annex 10. Borrower's ICR                                                         57
Map

Project ID: P005968                                                  Project Name: AR SEGBA V
Team Leader: Ernesto Sanchez-Triana                                  TL Unit: LCSEN
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR                      Report Date: October 15, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: AR SEGBA V                                               L/C/TF Number: CPL-28540; SCL-2854A;
                                                                                                     SCPD-2854S
   Country/Department: ARGENTINA                                                          Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Power (100%)
                  Theme: Climate change (P); Other urban development (P); Law reform (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 08/29/1986                                     Effective:                           09/30/1988
     Appraisal: 01/26/1987                                         MTR:
      Approval: 06/23/1987                                      Closing: 06/30/1994                 09/14/2002



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          SEGBA/REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA/EBY/SEGBA
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:               Axel van Trotsenburg                           Pieter Bottelier
Sector Manager:                 John Redwood                                   Rafael Moscote
Team Leader at ICR:             Ernesto Sanchez-Triana                         Hernan Garcia
ICR Primary Author:             Angela Armstrong


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The SEGBA V Project was the eighth World Bank power sector operation in Argentina and the
fifth loan provided to Servicios Eléctricos del Gran Buenos Aires (SEGBA), the largest power
utility in Argentina in the mid 1980s, responsible for generation, subtransmission, and distribution
in the capital region. The project supported the Argentine Government's efforts to improve the
reliability of electricity services, ensure energy is used efficiently, and address poor financial
performance of its utilities, particularly the deficiencies of the country's largest utility. As such,
the project's original objective was to support the 1988-1992 portion of the Borrower's
(SEGBA's) expansion program by (a) reducing distribution losses and improving SEGBA's
operational efficiency, (b) ensuring adequate energy supply in the Buenos Aires area for economic
growth requirements, and (c) supporting the rehabilitation of Argentina's electric power sector
finances.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The SEGBA power utility was restructured as a result of the power sector reform carried out in
Argentina during the early 1990s and its business units were privatized in 1993. Following
SEGBA's privatization, the Argentine Republic assumed all of the entity's rights and obligations
under the Loan Agreement through a Loan Assumption Agreement dated August 19, 1994,
entered into between the Bank, the Argentine Republic (the Borrower), and SEGBA. Pursuant to
the terms of this agreement, it was established that the undisbursed amounts of the loan, totaling
approximately US$135 million, would support the Second Yacyretá Hydroeletric Project. At the
time of this agreement, the Second Yacyretá Project, approved by the Board in September 1992
and declared effective in January 1993, had been under implementation for almost two years. The
objectives of the SEGBA V Project were expanded to include, in addition to parts (a), (b) and (c)
above, two further objectives: (d) putting into operation the first six generating units of the
Yacyretá power plant, in order to ensure the supply of the required energy in the Borrower's
territory starting in the mid-nineties; and (e) ensuring an appropriate environmental protection and
the efficient handling of the social aspects related to the construction and operation of the
Yacyretá power plant.

3.3 Original Components:
Table 1. Costs by Project Components
                                                                          Costs (US$ million)
                                                                 At appraisal               At closing
Component                                                           (1987)                    (2002)
Part A: Efficiency and Operations Improvement                                 19.7                      9.1
   (a) Loss reduction program                                                 15.5                      1.7
   (b) Computer facilities and management information                          3.5                      0.4
        system
   (c) Studies                                                                 0.7                      7.0
Part B: Rehabilitation and Expansion of SEGBA's                              609.8                    119.8
Networks
   (a) Transmission and subtransmission                                      125.9                     22.7
   (b) Distribution works                                                    394.7                     94.8
   (c) Communications telecontrol and general plant                           89.2                      2.3



                                                   - 2 -

Part C: Training                                                                8.0                       0.6
Part D: EBY                                                                                          1,912.6
   (a) Yacyretá Power Plant                                                                          1,664.6
   (b) Resettlement and Environmental Mitigation                                                       248.0

          Total Base Line Cost                                               637.5
          Physical Contingencies                                              50.9
           Price Contingencies                                                64.2
          Total                                                              752.6                   2,042.1


The cost differences between appraisal and the closing date for components A, B, and C reflect the decision
to privatize SEGBA in 1993. The costs of Part D reflect total expenditures for this component at loan
closing in 2002.

3.4 Revised Components:
In August 1991, the Loan Agreement was amended to include the carrying out of studies related
to the privatization of SEGBA under the project's Efficiency and Operations Improvement
component (Part A). Following SEGBA's privatization in 1993, the project was restructured
under a Loan Assumption Agreement dated August 19, 1994. Under this agreement, the
project's training component (Part C) was replaced by a technical assistance component to assist
the Secretary of Energy in completing the process of power sector reform. In addition, this
restructuring introduced a new component (Part D) to support the Yacyretá Binational Entity
(EBY) in carrying out civil works for the Yacyretá power plant and in implementing its
resettlement and environmental management programs. Undisbursed proceeds in the amount of
US$135 million were reallocated to support this component with the bulk of these funds, $55
million and $65 million, respectively, earmarked to finance environmental activities as well as civil
works already approved under the Second Yacyretá Project. Under the same agreement, the
project closing date was extended to December 31, 1999. Three subsequent reallocations of
proceeds were requested and approved by the Bank in amendments to the Loan Agreement in
1995, 1997 and 2000, which helped to compensate for reductions in counterpart financing. The
1997 amendment provided increased financial support for resettlement and environmental
operations, funding these activities while the dam was being operated for a prolonged period at 76
meters above sea level (masl). The 2000 amendment extended the closing date to October 30,
2002, and reallocated proceeds to provide additional support to development activities for the
Pindó indigenous community in Paraguay, as well as the construction of new fish transfer facilities
and baffle plates in the main spillway.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
PHASE ONE (Original SEGBA V Objectives)
The original SEGBA V Project was identified during the implementation of the Fourth SEGBA
Project (Loan No. 1330-AR). The GOA requested the Bank's assistance for the project in 1984,
shortly after the fourth project's closure. However, in view of the financial difficulties faced by
the power sector, project preparation was held in abeyance until renegotiation of the financial
covenants under the Yacyreta I Loan (Loan No. 1761-AR) was completed. The power sector's
financial problems had adversely affected SEGBA's performance in the past, and created a
potential risk for counterpart funding shortages during implementation due to shortfalls in



                                                   - 3 -

electrical funds collections (funds derived from taxes on electricity and on fuel sales and
distributed to utilities based on their needs). With the Bank's assistance, the Government
prepared a program for the sector's financial rehabilitation, and preparation of the SEGBA V
Project was completed in 1986. The project was approved in June 1987 and became effective in
September of the following year.

As reflected in the SEGBA V Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the project was designed to support
the Argentine Government's efforts to improve public sector efficiency, addressing the problem of
SEGBA's growing distribution losses and providing support for the improvement of SEGBA's
organization, management, and operations. During project preparation, the government's
financial rehabilitation program was designed to address the project's financial risks, in which it
was agreed to increase the internal cash generation of the sector, determine a prudent mix of self
financing and external borrowing, revise the financing plan for Yacyretá, and establish financial
targets for the national utilities. Although the project's financial risks were identified during
preparation and both the Bank's and Government's planning included needed steps to alleviate
these risks, the Bank, in hindsight, may have been optimistic in its assessment.

PHASE TWO (Additional Objectives following Project Restructuring)
With the restructuring of the SEGBA V Project in 1994, the project assumed an implementation
strategy that had been designed almost two years previously under the Second Yacyretá
Hydroelectric Project. This implementation strategy, as indicated in the project's SAR, had aimed
to counteract Yacyretá's past problems and risks, including "constant uncertainties of assurance
and levels of future funding...and a not fully satisfactory design of the resettlement and
environment protection plan, as well as its slow implementation." As part of these corrective
measures and given the serious difficulties the Argentine Government had faced in obtaining
financing to complete the Yacyretá Project, the Governments of Argentina and Paraguay had
agreed to a phased implementation of Yacyretá. Under this agreement, the reservoir level would
be raised to 76 meters above sea level (masl) in 1994, to 78 masl in 1995, and to its final height of
83 masl in 1998. In addition, implementation of social investments and environmental mitigation
requirements would be sequenced according to this timetable. It was intended that the initial
operation of the reservoir at a reduced level would allow the postponement of a substantial
amount of investment in resettlement, infrastructure, environmental mitigation, and land
acquisition, and that the income produced by the sale of energy generated with the reservoir at a
reduced level would help finance the deferred investment.

An aspect that needed more attention during the Second Yacyretá Project's preparation, as well
as during the restructuring of the SEGBA V Project, was a more thorough analysis of this
implementation strategy, and in particular the implications and risks of phasing investments in
resettlement and land acquisition. During the early stages of the project's implementation, priority
had been placed on implementing the project's civil works and associated environmental
investments. In addition, of the funds reallocated under the SEGBA V loan to support the project
($135 million), the lion's share, $65 million and $55 million, respectively, were earmarked to
finance civil works that had been already approved under the Second Yacyretá Project, as well as
environmental activities. None of the loan proceeds were allocated specifically for resettlement.
Despite the fact that EBY had contracted experienced social scientists who had identified the



                                                  - 4 -

required social investments, their recommendations were not given sufficient priority in terms of
budget allocation and timing within the implementation plan. Had these investments, such as
resettlement and land purchase, been designed as upfront activities and given the requisite support
by the two governments, the project could have avoided difficulties that later occurred due to
carrying out resettlement in stages (e.g., disrupting social ties by separating family and community
members under a phased resettlement approach) and that were further aggravated by
implementation delays.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
PHASE ONE
Supporting SEGBA in reducing distribution losses and improving its operational efficiency,
ensuring adequate energy supply, and improving its financial performance
This objective was partially achieved. The SEGBA V project was originally intended to help the
utility reduce electricity losses, rehabilitate and expand its networks, ensure electricity supply in
the Buenos Aires area for economic growth requirements, and improve its power sector finances.
However, from the outset the project faced macroeconomic and sector difficulties, in which the
Argentine power sector was marred by recurrent hyperinflation, deep recession and other
destabilizing events. The financial performance of Argentina's power utilities deteriorated. Tariff
levels became insufficient to generate adequate funds, even for routine maintenance, causing a
slowdown of investments. SEGBA was not spared in this regard. Although the project was
helpful in advancing the expansion and rehabilitation of vital parts of the transmission system and
distribution network, SEGBA's progress towards the originally defined objectives was limited.

In the early 1990s, in an effort to improve the power sector's financial situation, the Government
established an environment of open competition and equal opportunity for private and public
companies alike. To support this process, the Loan Agreement was amended in 1991 and
proceeds were redirected to provide technical assistance to facilitate SEGBA's privatization. The
loan provided assistance in transforming SEGBA into separate distribution and generation units.
These units were successfully sold to joint ventures of foreign and local enterprises, in part with
the support of technical assistance funds provided under the loan.

PHASE TWO
Putting into operation the first six generating units of the Yacyretá power plant
This objective was achieved. The government had opted to install the project's twenty
turbine-generating units in two stages. Under the first stage, the first six units would be
commissioned by 1994 to allow EBY to start generating revenues. An agreement between the
Bank and EBY in 1992 to raise the reservoir incrementally over three phases (to 76, 78, and 83
masl, respectively) would permit advancing the commissioning and operation of the dam.
However, an important commitment made as part of this strategy was that a series of resettlement
and environmental measures to protect affected people and areas would be carried out before
each phase. The installation of the remaining generating units was planned under a second stage,
in which the commissioning of the final (twentieth) unit would coincide with the raising of the
reservoir to its final height of 83 masl.




                                                   - 5 -

At project restructuring, assembly of the first six generating units was almost complete. The first
turbine-generating unit was commissioned and began to supply energy on schedule in September
1994. The second to sixth generating units were commissioned ahead of schedule, as were the
seventh through twentieth units. The last (twentieth) turbine generating unit began operating in
July 1998. Although the reservoir was raised to 76 masl in 1994, the phased reservoir filling did
not progress as planned and operation still continues at 76 masl. At this level, the turbine
generating units are delivering about 60 percent of their design capacity, and currently produce
approximately 15 percent of the energy consumed in Argentina.

Ensuring an appropriate environmental protection and efficient handling of social aspects
related to construction and operation of the Yacyretá power plant
This objective was only partially met. In 1992, as part of the preparation of the Second Yacyretá
Project, a Resettlement and Environmental Management Plan (EMP)1 was approved by the Bank
and adopted by EBY to guide the project's environmental mitigation and resettlement activities
necessary for incrementally raising the reservoir to 76, 78 and 83 masl. However, implementation
of the EMP has lagged considerably behind the original schedule.

Environmental Management
Under the project's Environmental Management Plan (PMMA, a component of the EMP), the
project's environmental protection investments required for operation at 76 masl were carried out
successfully--albeit with delays. These investments included a network of compensatory
protected areas--five in total--in both Argentina and Paraguay, which have successfully
mitigated the loss of natural habitats due to reservoir inundation. The PMMA's programs have
ensured environmentally sound management of water quality, water levels and releases, public
health measures and vector monitoring, as well as cultural property. In addition, the PMMA's
programs have represented state-of-the-art techniques for environmental management. One
example is the retrofitting of deflectors on the main branch and Aña Cuá spillways, as well as the
establishment of spillway opening and closing procedures, which minimize fish mortality due to
gas over-saturation. These achievements are summarized in Annex 1. The project has also
supported the strengthening of EBY's environmental unit which competently manages both
anticipated and unanticipated environmental impacts, as well as the updating of the PMMA in
consultation with civil society, NGOs, and government authorities at the national and local levels.

Resettlement and Rehabilitation
Management of the project's social aspects was guided by a Resettlement and Rehabilitation
Action Plan (PARR, also a component of the EMP) that included the provision of land, housing,
and social and economic rehabilitation for those households and businesses registered in a 1990
census. This census had originally identified 9,476 families in Argentina and Paraguay, located
between 74 and 84 masl, that required resettlement. EBY carried out the resettlement necessary
for operation at 76 masl on schedule by 1994. However, the project's subsequent resettlement
advanced only slowly. Resettlement of families located up to 78 masl was not completed until


1The EMP was comprised of both a Resettlement and Rehabilitation Action Plan (PARR) and an Environmental
Action Plan (PMMA).




                                                  - 6 -

2000. To date, a total of 7,267 families have been resettled (4,851 families in Argentina and 2,416
families in Paraguay), leaving an apparent balance remaining to be resettled of only 2,209 families.
There are now an estimated total of 9,203 families waiting to resettled--a number which is much
higher than suggested by the 1990 census, due to the implementing agency's inability to prevent
new families from settling in the affected area. In addition, extensive resettlement of nearly a
thousand commercial/industrial properties is still required.

Resettlement delays can be attributed to the project's faulty design and implementation
plan--driven mainly by engineering and economic considerations--where resettlement programs
should have been designed as a major activity of the project and planned for execution at a much
faster pace. Another factor contributing to these delays has been EBY's organizational
weaknesses, in which project management has been centralized in Buenos Aires and Asunción and
inter- and intra-institutional coordination has been inadequate. Although the project was
successful in supporting EBY in addressing environmental actions that had been delayed at the
project's outset, the inability to get social actions on track still jeopardizes both the current and
future operation of the project.

4.2 Outputs by components:
PHASE ONE
Part A: SEGBA's Efficiency and Operations Improvement
This component was intended to improve SEGBA's efficiency and operations, by carrying out an
electricity loss reduction program, implementing a management information system for SEGBA's
operations, and carrying out the final design studies for the rehabilitation of SEGBA's thermal
plants. By 1991, the implementation of this component had been delayed by approximately two
years, primarily due to a lack of counterpart funds. Losses had increased to about 24.8 percent, of
which 16.7 percent corresponded to non-technical losses. These difficulties were due to the
inability of company management to reach a consensus on how to confront its problems,
difficulties in commercial and administrative management, insufficient investment to satisfy new
consumption, and lack of an adequate legislation to penalize electricity theft. SEGBA initiated an
emergency plan in 1991 and by 1992 had reduced non-technical losses by 5 percent. To further
efforts at reducing theft, an information system to combat electricity fraud was implemented in
1992 and SEGBA increased its efforts to publicly report fraudulent users.

To support the Argentine Government's power sector reform efforts in the early 1990s, this
component was restructured in 1991 to include the carrying out of studies related to SEGBA's
privatization. The component was successful in supporting these privatization efforts and on
August 31, 1992, two distribution units, EDENOR and EDESUR, were officially transferred to
new private owners. The privatization of SEGBA's generation and distribution units was
completed in 1993 and contributed to achieving the project's original objective of reducing
distribution losses and ensuring adequate energy supply in the Buenos Aires area.

Part B: Rehabilitation and Expansion of SEGBA's Networks
This component included the construction of new, and the expansion of existing, transmission and
subtransmission works, the construction of distribution works, as well as improvements in
SEGBA's communications and general plant. From 1989 ­ 1991, the country's hyperinflation,
coupled with a decrease in tariff levels, severely handicapped the execution of the works planned


                                                   - 7 -

under this component as contracts were paralyzed and the options for alternate financing sources
were almost nonexistent. Costs were stabilized in mid 1991 though late 1992, enabling SEGBA to
prioritize works required in the short and medium term. With the privatization process underway,
it was agreed that the future concessionaire would reprogram the long-term investment plan in
accordance with the concession contract. SEGBA carried out distribution works to upgrade low
tension lines, which had experienced a high degree of failures and were also needed to serve new
clients. In addition, works were carried out to upgrade medium tension lines to increase
substation loads. Although the majority of transmission works planned under the component were
not carried out, due in part to a lack of counterpart funds, both 220 kv and 132 kv transmission
lines were upgraded.

Part C: Training
Under the project, this training component was originally intended for SEGBA staff to attend
training courses in the country and abroad. It was designed to complement SEGBA's 1988-1992
Master Training Program for which SEGBA had been unable to obtain the required foreign
exchange. However, in light of the privatization process that was underway, it was instead
directed toward supporting a staff re-training program in 1991. Training was provided to a total
of 532 staff. In addition, training in new technologies and information systems was provided to
various company departments.

PHASE TWO
Part C: Technical Assistance
This component supported the Secretariat of Energy's efforts to assist provincial power utilities in
the implementation of power sector reforms and privatization, including preparatory work for a
possible Bank project, and in strengthening regulatory agencies. During the course of the project,
14 provincial firms were privatized. Under the component, a power sector information system
was developed, which updated statistical registers on the electricity and fuel sectors and
incorporated this data into a website for the Secretariat. In addition, evaluations were carried out
that proposed organizational alternatives for the nuclear power sector, resulting in the proposal
and passing of a nuclear energy law, and that also assessed the Secretariat's policies with respect
to the power sector. For example, a water resources policy review was conducted, resulting in
the development of guidelines for the authorization of hydroelectric concessions. The component
was successfully completed in December 1997.

Part D:
EBY - Carrying out of the civil works for the construction of the Yacyretá power plant
When the SEGBA V loan was amended in August 1994 to incorporate this component into the
project, the main civil works associated with the construction of the Yacyretá power plant--an
earth dam about 65 kilometers long, a powerhouse, and a navigation lock--were complete and
the first four turbine-generating units had been assembled. The amended loan helped to shore up
the Second Yacyretá Project's financing plan by allocating more resources to the civil works
component already being financed by the Bank. This component included civil works for the
installation and operation of the plant's first six generating units, which were 85 percent complete
at the time of project restructuring. The first turbine-generating unit was put into operation in
September 1994 and the sixth unit was installed in July 1995. Although not financed under this



                                                   - 8 -

loan, the remaining fourteen generating units continued to be installed according to schedule
(most ahead of schedule), and the last was commissioned in July 1998.

EBY - Implementation of Yacyretá's Resettlement and Environmental Management Programs
This component aimed to implement resettlement and environmental management programs
required for the construction of the Yacyretá project. The resettlement program was guided by a
1992 Resettlement and Rehabilitation Plan (PARR), which included the provision of land,
housing, support for relocation, and a program for social and economic rehabilitation. The
environmental program was shaped by an Environmental Management Plan (PMMA), also
approved in 1992. Both the PARR and PMMA are part of the EMP. The PMMA intended to
mitigate and monitor the project's adverse impacts. These impacts were related to flooding
107,600 ha of sparsely populated grasslands, wetlands and riverine and other forests. The EA
found that this flooding would have an impact on: (i) flora and fauna in the affected area; (ii)
water quality conditions in and around urban areas; (iii) human health, associated with worsening
water quality conditions in urban lateral bays; and (iv) urban infrastructure and the need for
resettlement of people living in the flood plain. The environmental scoping process also
determined that impacts related to the complementary infrastructure investments (e.g., the
relocation of small bridges, urban roads, buildings, construction of piped networks for water
supply and sewerage, and resettlement housing programs) were unlikely to cause significant
environmental impacts. Consequently, these items were not accorded a Category A-level
evaluation of impacts, and not analyzed in detail in the 1992 EA.

The PARR and PMMA provided a framework for environmental and resettlement actions up to a
reservoir level of 83 meters above sea level (masl).2 The Bank and EBY had agreed that
implementation of the PARR and PMMA would be sequenced according to an incremental
reservoir-filling scheme (to 76 masl in 1994, 78 masl in 1995, and 83 masl in 1998). It was
intended that this phased approach would allow for the postponement of a substantial amount of
the investment in resettlement, infrastructure, environmental mitigation, and land acquisition, thus
facilitating the commissioning of the plant in 1994 without these investments having been carried
out.

In 1994, the Bank agreed to the raising of the reservoir level to 76 masl and the SEGBA V
Project was restructured in support of Yacyretá shortly thereafter. However, the phased reservoir
filling did not progress as planned and not all elements of the resettlement and environmental
management programs were completed by EBY. The reasons for the delay included (i) project
design and the PARR framework, which did not adequately prioritize the project's social
(resettlement and land purchase) investments, as well as (ii) EBY's organizational weaknesses,
particularly with respect to social management, and its lack of commitment to the project's social
aspects. Also, the Bank could have taken a more proactive stance at the time of project
restructuring to ensure that social investments were given the requisite priority. Following
discussions begun in 1995, Bank management agreed with EBY and the Argentine and


2At the dam's full capacity, the water level in the reservoir would reach 83 masl. Raising the reservoir to that
level would require resettlement of all affected populations to sites above 84 masl.




                                                         - 9 -

Paraguayan authorities on two action plans (Plan A and Plan B) designed to address outstanding
resettlement and environmental issues. Plan A aimed at completing some actions that were not
finished prior to the raising of the reservoir to 76 masl. Plan B aimed at addressing problems that
surfaced because of the prolonged duration of the reservoir water level at 76 masl. While many of
the activities under both Plans have now been completed, work remains to be done in several
important areas, such as the signing of legal agreements transferring responsibility for all works
and services to the appropriate governmental entities, implementation of a social communication
program, and the relocation of the Encarnación municipal slaughterhouse.

In addition, difficult social actions and further environmental measures are required to raise the
level of the reservoir beyond 76 masl. Among the requirements to raise the reservoir level to 78
masl, as established in the project's legal agreements, are the resettlement of urban and rural
populations affected by the elevation of the reservoir, maintaining a security zone of 1 to 2 meters
above the new operating level, the construction of the sewerage collection and treatment system
in Encarnación, and the consolidation of the network of compensatory nature reserves of at least
64,000 hectares.

Implementation of the Resettlement Program (PARR)
The implementation of the PARR has progressed slowly due to administrative bottlenecks, as well
as the lack of priority placed on this component--both in terms of financial resources and EBY's
own organizational structure. The long waiting period has had a serious effect on affected
families. At the project's outset, 9,476 families (4,588 in Argentina and 4,888 Paraguay), located
between 74 and 84 masl, had been identified as requiring resettlement. To date, 2,416 families in
Paraguay and 4,851 families in Argentina have been resettled, with a further 9,203 families in both
countries still pending resettlement (including 5,769 families in Paraguay and 3,434 in Argentina).
In addition to this residential resettlement task, the resettlement of hundreds of commercial
establishments located in what is today Encarnación's commercial center remains to be done
before the level of reservoir can be further raised.

Despite the historic delays in residential resettlement, according to independent, ex-post
evaluations of resettlement sites, the living standards for the majority of resettled urban and rural
families have improved. These families--the vast majority of whom inhabited high risk flood
plains prior to resettlement--have been relocated above natural flood levels and provided with
adequate housing and greater access to infrastructure and public services.3 Urban families
relocated in close proximity to workplaces have generally recovered their former levels of income,
while some of those who were relocated farther from the urban centers have experienced
difficulties in restoring their pre-settlement levels of income. In total, EBY has constructed eight




3All urban and rural families received new houses, equipped with basic services including running water, sewers
and electricity. Additionally resettlement sites are equipped with community infrastructure such as schools,
child-care centers for preschoolers, health centers, church, recreational centers, and police stations. Most also
possess titles to their land and houses for the first time.



                                                          - 10 -

resettlement areas in Posadas and Encarnación, and nine in rural areas. In addition, rehabilitation
programs have been carried out to assist relocated families in adapting to new homes and
neighborhoods, and also provide health and education services, strengthen community
organizations, and help to reestablish families' former levels of income.

In addition to the resettlement of families, EBY has also relocated or compensated brick and
roof-tile enterprises. Although only a small proportion of these enterprises was affected by the
filling of the reservoir to 76 masl, EBY decided to compensate, all at once, all those that would be
affected if the reservoir were raised to 83 masl (e.g., 524 small brick-making businesses and 103
medium or large-sized roof-tile industries in Paraguay). As for the hundreds of commercial
businesses located in Encarnación and affected by the raising of the reservoir level, the majority
have yet to be resettled since they are located above 78 masl (only 12 businesses located at 78
masl have been compensated to date).

Implementation of the Environmental Management Program (PMMA)
Most of the project's environmental management programs were carried out by the project's
closing date. Programs implemented under the PMMA included the establishment of a network of
compensatory protected areas in both countries, representing ecosystems similar to those
originally affected, to mitigate the loss of natural habitats due to reservoir inundation. Five
protected areas totaling 61,600 hectares (ha)--Rincon Santa María (2,500 ha; AR); Galarza
(20,000 ha; AR); Isla Apipé Grande (30,000 ha; AR); Isla Yacyretá (9,000 ha; PA); and Atingi
(100 ha)--were established and continue to be funded by EBY and managed with participation of
NGOs and local environmental institutions. In addition, since the dam posed a barrier to fish
migration, the project constructed fish transfer stations to provide for sufficient fish passage
upriver to maintain diversity of the fish genetic pool.

Other programs carried out under the PMMA include: reorganization of EBY's environmental
unit; endangered species studies and management programs (including a species of snail first
identified as a result of project investigations); the development of operational guidelines for the
reservoir that emphasize environmental sustainability; definition and maintenance of a minimum
ecological flow of 1,500 m3/s in the Aña Cuá Branch (see Map) to prevent fish mortality, harm to
adjacent wetlands and riparian forests, and adverse public health impacts; archaeological
investigation and salvage in all islands to be flooded; and selective biomass removal in areas to be
flooded near population centers, along navigation channels, and in areas of low circulation in the
reservoir. Construction also was initiated for works such as potable water and sewerage systems
in Encarnación and Posadas. Gas over-saturation, an unforeseen impact on fish that came about
after the start of operation, was addressed though research and modeling that led to retrofitting of
deflectors on the main branch and Aña Cuá spillways and establishment of spillway opening and
closing procedures, thus minimizing fish mortality. Ongoing environmental monitoring programs
address water quality, public health and disease vectors, fish migration, groundwater levels of
downstream wetlands, and urban groundwater levels and quality. The PMMA's programs
addressed the Project's significant environmental impacts and represented state-of-the-art
techniques for environmental management.

In order to assess and mitigate potential impacts of non-dam-related civil works, including



                                                  - 11 -

resettlement sites, in 1995 EBY formalized environmental screening criteria and procedures under
the Bank's supervision. These EA screening criteria and procedures have been applied by EBY to
all non-dam-related infrastructure works--including resettlement sites--necessary to fill the
reservoir to 83 masl. In addition, EBY has also developed and implemented a comprehensive
engineering and construction quality control system for all non-dam-related infrastructure works.
This system requires that (i) civil works contracts include clauses and insurance policies to ensure
quality of works prior to acceptance by EBY; (ii) supervision engineering firms control quality
and enforce standards; (iii) a set of environmental specifications for construction is included in
bidding documents and construction contracts; and (iv) contractors fix any deficiencies for up to
one year after completion of construction.

Starting in 1999, the PMMA was updated through a three-year public process that involved civil
society, more than 100 NGOs, and national, provincial and local authorities. EBY's Executive
Committee and Administrative Council formed oversight committees to supervise its
implementation as well as to assist in its periodic updating. The updated PMMA is based on the
lessons learned after seven years of operation and gives special attention to the management of
urban impacts. In addition, the screening criteria and procedures formalized in 1995 were included
in this updated Plan. After a satisfactory assessment of these revisions, the Bank provided its no
objection to the updated PMMA in June 2001.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
During the preparation of the Second Yacyretá Project, the Economic Rate of Return (ERR) was
calculated based on the following set of assumptions (i) that past investments already made in
Yacyretá (over US$5 billion) were sunk costs; and (ii) only investments made from 1992
onward--considered to be part of a minimum-cost expansion plan--would be included in the
analysis.4 The estimated economic generation cost of Yacyretá was US$17.6/MWh, which
compared favorably with the long-run marginal cost (LRMC) for the National Interconnected
System (NIS) of US$45/MWh. The project ERR was estimated under different scenarios
including a less favorable `base' case in which Yacyretá would be limited to only six units (out of
20) and would operate at a sub-optimal reservoir level of 78 masl. The different analyses carried
out led to the conclusion that the Yacyretá investment was economically feasible even under very
unfavorable circumstances.

Two different approaches were used to estimate costs and benefits: supply at grid level and supply
to final consumers. In addition, other project schemes were analyzed and presented in a sensitivity
analysis. In the project's appraisal report, the NIS LRMC at the grid was estimated at US$45
/MWh, of which approximately US$40/MWh was estimated for generation. The latter value was
used as the economic value of the electricity generated by the project. Under these conditions a
13.3% ERR was calculated. Under the second approach, transmission and distribution costs were
included, and the revenues from the sale of energy to the final consumer were calculated at the




4At the Board presentation for the Second Yacyretá Project several Executive Directors questioned the economic
methodology used in the Staff Appraisal Report.




                                                     - 12 -

rate of US$85/MWh--a lower bound for the consumers' willingness to pay. The resulting rate of
return for this case is 17%. The project's economic benefits were also examined in the so-called
"ultimate Yacyretá configuration" i.e., full completion of the Yacyretá scheme involving
installation of 20 units and operation of the reservoir at 83m. In this scenario, using the two
approaches referred to above, the ERRs were 24% and 27.6% respectively.

An updated ERR was recently calculated using EBY's investment reports and the cost of
electricity delivered to the grid. Many parameters and assumptions have changed since the
appraisal of the Second Yacyretá Project. The more relevant of these include: (i) all 20 generating
units have been installed and are in operation, even though the maximum reservoir operation level
has remained at 76 masl; (ii) a political decision has been made to complete the project by
financing the remaining US$560 million in investment costs and raising the level to 83m within the
next 4 years. Thus, the updated economic analysis includes all investments since 1992 and the
estimated investments to complete the project over a period of seven years from 2004 to 2010;
(iii) new LRMC for electricity delivered to the NIS is estimated at US$27.36/MWh, including
energy and power considerations; and (iv) the open market structure adopted for the electricity
sector in Argentina produces prices balancing supply and demand. These prices have been used to
estimate the benefits of the project. Future prices tend towards the LRMC, which is assumed to
be reached by 2010.

This updated ERR calculation indicates that, under the assumption of treating investments prior to
1993 as sunk costs, Yacyretá should be part of the minimum-cost expansion plan for Argentina.
This conclusion is confirmed since the estimated cost of electricity is US$20.2/MWh, i.e., below
LRMC for grid supply of US$27.36/MWh. The updated expected ERR is estimated at 7.62%,
below the previous estimate of 13.3%. The lower ERR is a consequence of high upfront
investment costs, especially in civil works, as well as the market price for electricity in Argentina
over the past decade, during which the average selling price for electric energy to the
interconnected grid has remained at 50% of the expected LRMC.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable; a financial rate of return was not calculated during the appraisal of either this
project nor of the Second Yacyretá Hydroelectric Project upon which Phase II of this project was
based.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project has made contributions toward improving EBY's organization, decentralization, and
internal controls, as well as towards providing training on technical and environmental matters.
Although EBY has been beset with organizational weaknesses, particularly with respect to the
management of the project's social aspects, the SEGBA V Project from 1994 through 2002
supported EBY in developing competent technical and environmental management units. EBY's
technical units ensure adequate operation and maintenance of the hydroelectric plant and a
high-level environmental unit ably manages both forecasted and unforecasted environmental
impacts. This unit has the in-house capacity to manage a wide range of environmental issues,
such as water quality, protection of natural resources, as well as the recuperation of areas of
economic and cultural value. As for EBY's ability to implement the PARR, the project has not
significantly improved problems such as slow and complicated procedures; excessive



                                                 - 13 -

centralization in Buenos Aires and Asunción; weak inter- and intra-institutional coordination;
insufficient transparency of operations; and political interference in decision making.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Economic situation. The magnitude of the economic crisis in Argentina, and to a lesser extent in
Paraguay, increased the severity of the social impacts identified in the PARR, and created
unanticipated impacts as well. Following the economic crisis in 1994/5 ("tequila effect"), GOA
reduced its contribution to the project's 1995 budget and did not contribute to the 1996 budget
(other than debt servicing). As a result, EBY's electricity sales were its sole source of funds, and
these were insufficient to meet the financial requirements of resettlement, environmental, and
infrastructure works which have not been completed to date. Thus, EBY has been unable to
complete important complementary works and land purchases. Although operation at 76 masl was
supposed to be a short-term transitional situation, it has lasted over a decade, up to the present.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Commercial and guardian responsibilities placed within the same entity ­ EBY. A single
company, whether public or privately owned, should not be responsible for the provision of basic
community services provided elsewhere by the state. In the case of the Yacyretá project, EBY
was created as a binational institution with strong government backing, at a time when the
institutional framework for public responsibilities related to environment and social services was
either weak or nonexistent at the local (and even at the county) level in Argentina and Paraguay.
As a result, EBY came to be looked upon as not only a profit-seeking investor, but also a
basic-services provider of social and sanitation investments.

Counterpart funding. Major shortfalls in counterpart funding delayed project implementation.
GOA reduced its counterpart funding by 50 percent in 1995 and reduced its contribution entirely
in 1996. These reductions compounded the delays in carrying out pending resettlement and
environmental management actions for reservoir elevation at 76 masl.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Lack of communication strategy. Although it was agreed that EBY would implement a
communication program to inform beneficiaries and affected persons of the timetable for
resettlement works, as well as to inform the general public with respect to the progress and results
of the project's resettlement and environmental management programs, EBY did not develop such
a program. EBY lost credibility among the local population, because of its failure to inform them
effectively about the progress of the project. A review by an International Panel of Experts in
1997 found that the lack of participation of affected people and local authorities in project-related
activities may have been at the root of many of the problems.

Design of Project's Resettlement Plan. When the project's PARR was designed in 1992, its
planned compensation measures for the affected population were not based upon a baseline of the
socio-economic conditions of this population. As a result, it was not possible for EBY to
adequately assess whether the livelihoods and standards of living of those displaced by the project
were restored, once compensated, to pre-displacement levels. In addition, EBY was unable to


                                                     - 14 -

adequately assess the validity of claims it received from those asserting that they had suffered
losses and hardships due to the project.

Delays in execution of Project's Resettlement Plan. The PARR suffered from a lack of budgetary
support. As a result, 24 years after the first project census, resettlement of the affected
population has still not been completed. This delay has facilitated an influx of families who have
settled in the affected area, led to an increase in tensions and conflicts, and ultimately increased
the costs for completing the project.

Inflow of new people to the affected areas not adequately controlled. Resettlement requirements
doubled during project implementation. The settlement of new families in the affected areas was
not adequately prevented, with 6,824 new families registered in the affected zones between 1990
and 2000. EBY has conducted resettlement independently from its purchase of lands in the
affected area. Because it did not acquire these lands, EBY had no legal grounds to prevent
families from moving into the affected area. In addition, the provision of free housing to all
families located in the affected area--regardless of land tenure status or the date that families
moved into the area--has been an added incentive for the influx of new families.

Inadequate procedures for stakeholder participation. Procedures for identifying stakeholders,
determining eligibility for resettlement and compensation, and for resolving conflicts were often
ad hoc and responsive more to crises rather than being proactive. EBY has made progress in
providing information to stakeholders; it has established public documentation centers and made
reports and its plans publicly available. However, its approach to participation has not been
guided by clear and proactive procedures.

Management authority structures. EBY's layered decision-making structure, which involved
approvals of even minor contracts being made by officials based in Buenos Aires and Asunción
(far from the project area), in addition to EBY's local offices in Posadas and Encarnación,
produced long delays in implementing resettlement measures. These administrative bottlenecks
virtually halted implementation of complementary works for over two years.

Compliance with Covenants. Although, over the past few years, the implementing agency has
complied with the majority of the Loan Agreement's covenants, there were some covenants that
had been only partially complied with at the project's closure. Areas where the Borrower's full
compliance was still pending include: (i) the undertaking of measures to prevent additional
families in the reservoir area; (ii) acceptance of the transfer by EBY of resettlement and
environmental works; and (iii) the completion of the Base Program (Plan B). In addition, the
Inspection Panel found during their investigation of the project from 2002 through 2004 that the
power plant often operated under conditions that produced a water level in excess of 76 masl at
Encarnación, Paraguay and thus, it had not always been operated in compliance with the water
elevation levels set forth in the project's Loan Agreement, particularly after 2001. However, the
Panel also found that the water level "has not yet had any serious direct consequences for the
Project."

5.4 Costs and financing:
Counterpart financing was often not provided in a timely manner during project implementation,


                                                  - 15 -

particularly during 1994 through 1996 when Argentina's economic crisis placed constraints on
EBY's own financial resources, resulting in delays in project implementation.

Financial Audits. The Borrower has submitted to the Bank audits of all the required financial
statements of EBY as well as Bank-financed projects up to December 31, 2003. The auditors in
their review of both the implementing agency's and the project's financial statements have not
raised any internal control or significant financial accountability issues.

Dramatic decrease in project investments after 1996. As shown in the table below, the project's
investments have declined drastically in the last years, where those activities financed have
primarily included the project's resettlement and environmental management components.
Although the environmental investments required for operation at 76 masl have been completed,
the project's resettlement programs have been delayed. The project's completion costs (for
complementary works required to raise the water level to 83 masl) are estimated at $564 million.


                                                   Entidad Binacional Yacyretá
                                              Annual Investment 1975 - 2002
                                                            (millions of USD)



            500

            400

            300

            200

            100

              0

                   1975  1977    1979    1981  1983     1985      1987   1989    1991    1993    1995    1997    1999  2001

                  Engineeringdesign,preliminary      Construction of main civil works
                         works & camps

                                                                              Purchase & installation of electro-
                                                                                     mechanical equipment


                                                                                        Resettlement and Environmental
                                                                                               ManagementPlan



6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the Yacyretá Project, rated as "Likely", is based on the following considerations.
EBY has the technical and managerial competence to ensure the adequate operation and
maintenance of the hydroelectric plant and its revenues from electricity sales fully cover its
operation and maintenance costs. Moreover, there are strong economic incentives to raise the
operating level of the reservoir to an optimum of 83 masl, since the modest, remaining investment
needed to achieve this level, i.e., $560 million, would result in a one-third increase in overall
electricity generation capacity of the reservoir. In terms of environmental sustainability, a
significant part of the environmental management plan has already been implemented and EBY



                                                                  - 16 -

has the capacity, funding, and commitment to manage the project's remaining environmental
impacts. The greatest risk lies in the implementation of the project's remaining resettlement and
rehabilitation investments. However, EBY has prepared a plan for the project's completion,
backed with Argentine government funds, that provides a time-bound implementation plan for
these outstanding social investments.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
EBY has recently prepared an action plan for the Yacyretá Project's completion that follows on a
December 2003 Joint Declaration by the Governments of Argentina and Paraguay, in which the
governments reconfirmed their interest to complete the project's pending works. The
Governments have stressed that this plan is different from previous completion plans (such as
EBY's 2002 Strategic Plan), as it will be financially backed by the Argentine Government. In May
2004, the Government of Argentina presented its National Energy Plan (2004-2008) in which it
plans to invest $11 billion in the energy sector in the next five years. Of this amount,
approximately $564 million would be earmarked for this Completion Plan. The Completion Plan
calls for the raising of the reservoir level to its final design level of 83 masl in four years by
carrying out the following investments: (i) required social and environmental investments,
including expropriation, resettlement of population and commercial activities, socio-economic
rehabilitation, protection works for the Aguapey channel, and the Encarnación wastewater
treatment and sewerage system; (ii) infrastructure replacement works, such as roads, bridges,
ports, railroad tracks and transmission lines; and (iii) renovating the urban development plans for
Encarnación and Posadas. Among these investments, EBY considers that the emancipation of
areas to be flooded will be the most difficult to execute. As such, it will prioritize the updating of
the PARR, require an updated census of the affected population, and ensure eligibility
entitlements are clearly defined according to specific categories that characterize the affected
population (e.g., urban families, rural families, industries, etc.). The Plan also considers that these
investments will require an adequate social communication program and fair and transparent
dispute procedures.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Overall, Bank preparation of the project, i.e., Phases I and II, is considered Unsatisfactory. Bank
preparation performance in each phase is discussed below.

Bank Preparation of Phase I: Satisfactory
The SEGBA V Project was identified in 1984 as part of the Bank's discussions with the Energy
Secretariat to develop a power engineering project, aimed at improving the country's electricity
distribution. SEGBA, the country's largest utility, had chronic financial difficulties and its service
was unreliable, and it was intended that the Bank's involvement would serve as an effective
vehicle for strengthening the company's finances and improving its operational efficiency. The
project formed part of the Bank's larger assistance strategy in support of the Argentine power
sector, aimed at improving public sector efficiency and financial rehabilitation, and at the time,
was the largest project investment loan signed with the GOA. Although the Bank was committed
to working with the Government to develop a financial rehabilitation program for the power


                                                    - 17 -

sector during preparation, in hindsight, it may have been optimistic with respect to the project's
financial risks. The project was appraised in January and February 1987 and approved in June
1987.

Bank Preparation of Phase II: Unsatisfactory
Because of the importance placed on Yacyretá's EMP requirements, Bank management endorsed
during the preparation of the Second Yacyretá Project in 1992 the reallocation of undisbursed
proceeds from the SEGBA V Loan in support of the EMP, as well as the works necessary for the
completion of Yacyretá. However, during the SEGBA V project's restructuring in 1994, none of
the reallocated loan proceeds earmarked to support the EMP were directly assigned to
resettlement. At this time, it was recognized that "Yacyretá's initial operation at the lower
reservoir levels permits postponement of a substantial amount of investments in resettlement,
environmental mitigation and land acquisition" that would have to be completed to operate the
dam beyond 78 masl. It was also recognized that there were some investments "being postponed
because of financial constraints, which would entail clear social benefits if executed more
promptly." To help ensure that the priority resettlement activities moved ahead, a mid-term
review was planned for May or June 1994 for the Second Yacyretá Project and hence, to
determine if social and environment requirements had been met to raise the reservoir from 74 to
76 masl.

The Bank amended the SEGBA V Loan in August 1994 in support of Yacyretá, shortly after
providing its no objection to raising the reservoir level. However, a mid-term review was not
conducted, nor were all of the environmental and social actions required for 76 masl elevation
carried out prior to raising the reservoir level. In hindsight, had a mid-term review been carried
out it could have provided opportune feedback to Bank management and the Borrower on the
stock of problems, as well as recommendations to address them. In addition, because social
investments were not prioritized during project restructuring, the estimated cost of
resettlement--compared with the cost originally forecast during appraisal of the Second Yacyretá
Project--has more than doubled, although the final cost remains to be seen.

7.2 Supervision:
Overall, Bank supervision of the project, i.e., Phases I and II, is considered Unsatisfactory. Bank
supervision performance in each phase is discussed below.

Bank Supervision of Phase I: Satisfactory
The Bank was a committed partner in supporting Argentina's power sector reforms. While Bank
projects had been successful in the past in meeting physical objectives, the Bank had been less
successful in supporting other areas, particularly financial performance. The Bank hoped to
improve upon the pasts uneven results. Although, the first years of the project were difficult given
the macroeconomic problems, by the early 1990s the Bank had strengthened its policy dialogue
with the Argentine government on energy planning. The Bank played an important role in
supporting sector reforms to both improve efficiency and reduce the financing gap and Bank
technical assistance funds assisted the government in completing the privatization and
restructuring of national utilities.




                                                  - 18 -

Bank Supervision of Phase II: Unsatisfactory
Although the Bank's public consultation efforts were a positive step, the initial approach
adopted led to misunderstandings. Following the Inspection Panel's submission of its first report
on the Project in 1996, the Bank undertook a number of positive steps to improve project
implementation. These actions included amending the Loan Agreement in 1997 to increase the
funds available for environmental and social investments, and committing EBY to strengthen its
resettlement and environmental management units by contracting specialized, international and
local specialists. The Bank also increased its consultations with the affected population. However,
the implementing agency did not take part in initial consultations, which led to a false perception
among affected parties that the Bank, rather than EBY, was responsible for implementing
solutions under the project. In addition, these consultations did not result in actions to address the
problems presented by the affected population. Starting in 2002, however, the Bank did take steps
to ensure that EBY participated in consultations with affected parties.

Initially, from 1994 through 1996, the frequency of supervision missions was erratic and there was
a high turn-over in task management, affecting continuity and the relationship between the Bank
and the implementing agency. In addition, the Bank did not place adequate priority on the
project's social aspects: a Resettlement Specialist participated in three missions during this
timeframe, while a Social Specialist participated in only one. From 1997 onwards, the Bank
supervised the project intensively (see Annex 3), maintained its engagement, and continued its
financing, all in an effort to promote compliance by the relevant local authorities with pending
environmental and social obligations. A marked increase in supervision intensity took place in
1997 in terms of project budget allocations and the number of field visits and formal visits (33 in
total during FY00 and FY01 alone), which evolved into a comprehensive and systematic approach
during the past years. This supervision process was strongly supported by senior management,
which shifted Bank supervision to a decentralized Country Management Unit from 1998 to
project closure in 2002; and a social expert based in Asunción was also contracted. In addition,
given the complexity of the project, supervision missions--particularly during the last two
years--have included a number of lead specialists in the fields of environment, social science,
engineering, dam safety, communications, as well as other fields. Half of the missions have been
undertaken jointly with IDB, which also included social specialists on the team.

In recent years, Bank actively worked with EBY and Government to address environmental and
social requirements. The Bank has taken a large number of technical steps over the years to
work more closely with EBY to improve its adherence to environmental and social requirements.
This has taken the form of helping EBY to improve its environmental screening procedures to
more accurately identify affected peoples and possible impacts. The Bank has also pressed EBY
to strengthen the process by which aggrieved parties make claims, and to improve the selection
criteria to ensure the equity and adequacy of compensation to affected peoples. Finally, the Bank
has worked closely with EBY to improve the evaluation and supervision of those families which
have been resettled to ensure that living standards do not suffer. Ultimately, however, the level of
supervision has not always been commensurate with project requirements.


7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Unsatisfactory.


                                                - 19 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Overall, Borrower preparation of the project, i.e., Phases I and II, is considered Unsatisfactory.

Borrower Preparation of Phase I: Satisfactory
The government was committed to improving the efficiency of the power sector and reducing
losses in Argentina's largest electricity market--with a view to improving SEGBA's finances so
that it would not have to rely on the government's budget allocations. During preparation and
appraisal, the Borrower (SEGBA) worked with the Bank to define realistic tariff adjustment
targets under the project. In carrying out this exercise, SEGBA defined a program to counteract
tariff distortions, while balancing the constraints imposed by the country's stabilization program
and public inflation expectations.

Borrower Preparation of Phase II: Unsatisfactory
At the time of project restructuring, there were a number of outstanding social issues that
jeopardized the success of the Yacyretá Project (e.g., absence of a proposal for the resettlement
of people who moved to the area after the 89/90 census, delays in opening resettlement offices in
the affected area, delays in implementing a social communication program, failures to contract
works related to housing and infrastructure). At this time, the main focus of the Borrower (GOA)
and the implementing agency (EBY) was on the engineering and construction of the dam.
Insufficient attention and commitment were given to the important resettlement impacts of the
investment, in which social activities--resettlement and land acquisition--would be sequenced
according to the timetable for raising the reservoir level. By phasing social investments, problems
associated with their implementation have escalated. The inability of the Borrower (as well as the
Bank) to anticipate these needs at an earlier stage has had a detrimental impact on both the
financing and longer-term success of the overall investment.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Overall, Government implementation of the project, i.e., Phases I and II, is considered
Unsatisfactory.

Government Implementation of Phase I: Satisfactory.
During the project's initial years, the government responded quickly to the power sector's
difficulties: first, carrying out studies on sector organization and efficiency in the late 1980s
(under the Bank's Electric Power Sector Project, Loan 2998-AR) and second, incorporating the
studies' recommendations into new reform policies, aimed at reducing its investment and
increasing sector efficiency. Under these reforms, the government established an environment of
open competition and divested important public assets in favor of private operation. To support
its reform efforts, the government requested that the project's loan be amended in 1991 so that
technical assistance funds could support the privatization process. With this support, SEGBA's
distribution and generation units were separated to facilitate privatization and were successfully
sold to joint ventures of foreign and local enterprises.

Government Implementation of Phase II: Unsatisfactory.
The Argentine Government's cancellation of project financing and postponement of



                                                   - 20 -

implementation of the PARR and PMMA from 1995 through 1997, created severe delays in
project implementation. These actions further weakened Argentina's legal position before the
GOP to request the timely resolution of issues falling under the responsibility of the GOP.

The project remained in non-compliance due to GOP's not meeting its obligations under a Third
Owner's Agreement, under which, in December 1997, it agreed to resettle additional families,
prevent the settlement of new families, and in the event of failure to prevent the influx of new
families, to carry out a resettlement program for them. This Agreement also called for the GOP to
approve an Expropriation Law to acquire lands in the project's affected area. However, this law
was not approved until 2001, adding to resettlement delays and bottlenecks in Paraguay. In
addition, GOP's delay in the construction and relocation of a municipal market in Encarnación, as
well as relocation of a municipal slaughterhouse, has both delayed and jeopardized the completion
of Plan B.

Both Governments have shown little commitment to the resettlement process, which has added to
the emergence of social conflicts and made the implementation of the resettlement program more
difficult. The financial cost of operating the hydroelectric plant at a mere 60% of capacity ­
necessitated by the lack of progress on resettlement ­ has been enormous, with an opportunity
cost of over US$210 million per year.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Overall, implementing agency performance under the project, i.e., Phases I and II, is considered
Unsatisfactory.

Implementing Agency Implementation of Phase I: Partially satisfactory.
SEGBA's performance during the project's initial years was hampered by the country's
macroeconomic and sector difficulties. In this environment, SEGBA suffered from poor
management of pricing, power demand, and financial controls, in which its tariff levels were
insufficient to generate adequate funds, even for routine maintenance. As such, SEGBA was only
able to achieve limited accomplishments during these years. However, in the early 1990s, the
government initiated broad sector reforms that successfully counteracted these difficulties and was
able to support the country's privatization goals within a short time frame.

Implementing Agency Implementation of Phase II: Unsatisfactory.
The entity created by the Governments of Argentina and Paraguay to construct and operate
Yacyretá, EBY, has completed an impressive civil works and hydroelectric infrastructure that it
competently operates. However, EBY did not have the institutional capacity (or management
commitment) to deal with growing social obligations which have changed in nature, extent and
expectation during the course of the project. In recent years, EBY's compensatory actions
responding to claims have lacked transparency, and have often been quickly addressed without
clear criteria with respect to validity. For example, EBY, against the Bank's advice, offered cash
compensations for loss of income to some groups (e.g., fishermen and washerwomen) without
defining clear eligibility criteria and procedures for assessing claims. In addition, compensation
solutions were provided to brick makers without taking into consideration available technical
background studies, a factor that led to some of the first conflicts between this group and the
implementing agency. Because solutions have not been carried out in a consistent and transparent


                                                 - 21 -

manner, there has been a surge in claims from opportunistic groups. One of the remaining serious
problems facing EBY is the backlog of thousands of claims that have been received but not
resolved.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Unsatisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Institutional Arrangements
-       An implementing agency must be accountable to some form of governing body and
have a clear and transparent organizational structure. Although EBY's legal framework (the
Binational Treaty, signed in 1973) provides for an Executive Board to govern the project, this
framework also provides EBY excessive autonomy, without effective oversight from the GOP or
GOA. This management structure has lessened its credibility among the communities on both
sides of the reservoir.

-       Local institutions need to play major role in the decision-making process and in
implementing relevant mitigatory measures. Without local support for measures that have
significant impacts on local populations -- even when there are economic benefits and multiplier
effects attributable to the project as well -- undue delays and costs will mount. While there are
many aspects of achieving local buy-in and participation, and there is no one single way to best
achieve this, local support is essential.

Project Design
-       Environmental management plans, and more importantly resettlement plans, need
to be considered an investment priority and implemented in coordination with the
construction phase of the main civil works in order to mitigate potential future conflicts.
To achieve this, Bank financing needs to be provided upfront for these plans. Because of
long-standing delays in completing the land purchase, resettlement activities, and other peripheral
infrastructure improvements required to complete the project, financial over-runs far in excess of
the cost of such actions are being incurred. Addressing the complexity of completing involuntary
resettlement early in the project cycle, therefore, is good business practice for reducing risk.

-       Also, Bank loans should be better allocated to finance critical project components which
are at risk of not being completed in a timely manner given a shortage of counterpart funds. Up
to 1994, only counterpart funds had been allocated to finance the project's resettlement and
environment components. Scarcity of counterpart funds (compounded with other factors) has
impeded raising the reservoir beyond 76m.

-       The complexity and management commitment required to manage Involuntary
Resettlement is often underestimated. EBY has completed an impressive civil works and
hydroelectric infrastructure that it competently operates. However, EBY initially did not have the
management commitment nor institutional capacity to deal with the project's large social and
environmental obligations. In addition, the extent of required social and environment-related
project measures grew during the course of the project. Although EBY was able to adapt and



                                                  - 22 -

strengthen its environmental management capacity, the management of social issues has not
received the same degree of support and commitment.

-       Environmental management and resettlement/rehabilitation plans should be
immediately updated when unforeseen delays and situations arise. Long delays in
implementing the resettlement plan has generated increasing resettlement requirements as well as
costs, conflicts and discontent. These complications need to be evaluated quickly in order to
better understand the potential longer-term implications.

Technical Aspects
-       Siting of hydroelectric dams is the single most important decision shaping
environmental and social issues. The selection of the dam site ­ as long ago as 1958 -- in a
flood plain triggered urban resettlement and had important conservation impacts on wetlands,
which greatly complicated project implementation and increased overall costs. Under today's
environmental, ecological, and resettlement standards, the site likely would not have been chosen
given its unfavorable characteristics (e.g., large reservoir surface area, threats to aquatic
biodiversity, potential problems with floating aquatic weeds, and densely settled area).

Resettlement and Social Safeguards
-       A good communications program is critical. The project's overall activities, and its
specific social and environmental programs have not been adequately communicated to
stakeholders. This lack of transparency and information dissemination has led the affected
communities and NGOs to raise questions, and has led to EBY losing credibility. For example,
the criteria and procedures for settling claims has never been well understood by affected parties.
Similarly, the reasons and extent of project delays has not been understood by affected parties.
The Bank has stressed the need for EBY to implement a stronger social communications program,
involving both the Governments of Argentina and Paraguay, but there was a lack of leadership to
do so.

-       Importance of adequate baseline information. Due to a lack of sufficient baseline
information, EBY has repeatedly been unable to respond properly to claims as they arise, which
has resulted in increased social conflicts. This has also led to opportunistic behaviors by
"community leaders" to make claims often for impacts not associated with the project.

-       Land acquisition and resettlement must be linked. Resettlement was planned and
carried out independently from the land acquisition program. EBY resettled families residing in
affected areas but was unable to purchase the lands from the owners, which meant EBY had no
legal basis to prevent new families from settling in the affected areas. This fact, coupled with
inadequate control of the affected areas, created a strong incentive for new families to settle in the
affected areas. Then, to resolve the situation, by offering free housing to all families included in
the census regardless of land tenure status, EBY has significantly increased its resettlement
obligations and its costs.

-       Phased resettlement, in addition to adding costs, also incurs greater social
disruption. Because resettlement investments were not prioritized and carried out at the



                                                 - 23 -

project's outset, the resettlement plan was sequenced in accordance with the filling of the
reservoir. This phased approach has led to social difficulties, since those located between the 76 ­
78m land strip have been resettled without consideration of their ties to the community and family
members located at higher elevations (between 78 ­ 84 m). The Bank should have not acquiesced
in the decision to purchase the areas between 74 and 84 masl in stages ­ stages that have been
separated by many years. Experience from many other resettlement projects in developing
countries shows that rent-seeking behavior is very common by persons who hope to become
project beneficiaries and political support for such claims is often forthcoming.

Project Supervision
-       Bank supervision requirements of complex projects. Complex infrastructure projects
such as Yacyretá, require higher levels of supervision than normal projects, and sustained frequent
and regular site visits. In addition, assuming there are large environmental and social impacts, they
require a more highly specialized task team comprising specialists in the fields of communications,
social science, environment, energy, engineering, financial management, urban planning, law, and
ecology. The lesson is that complex projects of this kind should have a clear supervision plan
prepared before implementation starts, with details of staffing (both at headquarters and in the
field), as well as supervision budget needs.




                                                 - 24 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:




                                     - 25 -

- 26 -

- 27 -

- 28 -

- 29 -

- 30 -

- 31 -

- 32 -

- 33 -

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):




                                             - 34 -

10. Additional Information

N.A.




                              - 35 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Output Indicators for Part D     5




                      Component                                                   Results
D.1 Civil Works for Construction of Yacyretá Power Plant
Installation and operation of the plant's first six      - The first turbine-generating unit was put into
generating units.                                        operation in September 1994 and the sixth unit was
                                                         installed in July 1995.
D.2 Implementation of the Environmental Management Plan
Construction of urban and rural resettlement sites       - A total of four urban and one rural resettlement sites
(housing and infrastructure)                             have been built in Argentina and five urban and seven
                                                         rural resettlement sites have been built in Paraguay.
                                                         These sites have permitted the resettlement of all
                                                         affected people residing at or below 78 masl and a
                                                         portion of the affected population residing between 78
                                                         and 84 masl. Each resettlement site is adequately
                                                         equipped with basic services (water, sanitation and
                                                         electricity) and community infrastructure, such as
                                                         school, health center, church, and recreational center.
                                                         - Two additional sites (one in each margin) were
                                                         constructed to permit the relocation of brick making
                                                         operations.
                                                         - The main actions still pending concern the
                                                         construction of additional facilities for population,
                                                         currently residing between 78 and 84 masl, that is
                                                         pending resettlement and the signature of legal
                                                         agreements transferring responsibility for all works and
                                                         services completed by EBY to the relevant government
                                                         entities.
Relocation of urban infrastructure affected by the       - Under Loan 2854, to satisfy the requirements of Plan
Project.                                                 B, EBY is responsible for the construction of a new
                                                         municipal market in Encarnación and the relocation of
                                                         the slaughterhouse in Encarnación.
                                                         - The construction of the municipal market in
                                                         Encarnación has been completed; it will be put into
                                                         operation once an agreement is reached with the
                                                         municipality concerning the market's administration.
                                                         - The new slaughterhouse has been constructed, but still
                                                         requires equipment. This work has also not yet been
                                                         transferred to the Municipality.
                                                         - In addition, EBY is responsible for the replacement of
                                                         roads, highways, bridges, railroad lines and other
                                                         affected civil works in Argentina and Paraguay, prior to
                                                         raising the reservoir level beyond 76 masl. This has
                                                         been partially completed under the Urban Creeks
                                                         Program (PDA) and full completion depends on the
                                                         decision to elevate the reservoir level.
Protection of natural habitats through the creation of   The main achievements include:
compensatory protected areas, totaling no less than      - A network of compensatory protected areas has been
64,000 hectares; the establishment of minimum            established in both countries, representing ecosystems
ecological flows; the installation of a fish transfer    similar to those originally affected, to mitigate the loss



                                                      - 36 -

system; and special programs for endangered species.   of natural habitats due to reservoir inundation. The five
                                                       established protected areas (three in Argentina and two
                                                       in Paraguay) cover a total of 61,600 ha. and meet
                                                       requirements under Plan B; they continue to be funded
                                                       by EBY and managed with the participation of NGOs
                                                       and local environmental institutions.
                                                       - A minimum ecological flow of 1,500 m3/s was
                                                       established in the Aña Cuá Branch to prevent fish
                                                       mortality, harm to adjacent wetlands and riparian
                                                       forests, and adverse public health impacts. The
                                                       operational guidelines were adjusted accordingly.
                                                       - The Project constructed fish transfer stations to
                                                       provide for sufficient fish passage upriver to maintain
                                                       diversity of the fish genetic pool.
                                                       - The Project carried out endangered species studies
                                                       and management programs (Aylacostoma snails and
                                                       Chopi Say'ju).
                                                       - Prior to raising the reservoir above 76 masl, EBY is
                                                       required to establish additional protected areas, to reach
                                                       the required minimum of 64,000 hectares.
Water quality and public health                        - EBY is responsible for the construction of sewage
                                                       collection and treatment systems in Posadas and
                                                       Encarnación prior to raising the reservoir to 78 masl.
                                                       These systems are required to avoid water quality
                                                       problems and to mitigate public health risks caused by
                                                       the creation of lateral bays.
                                                       - Sewage collection and treatment system has been
                                                       completed in Posadas. In Encarnación, construction of
                                                       treatement system is underway and contract for
                                                       construction of Southern zone sewage networks has
                                                       been awarded and will be financed with IDB resources.
                                                       Works corresponding to the Northern zone have been
                                                       designed, but are still pending financing for the bidding
                                                       process to begin.
                                                       - Gas over-saturation, an unforeseen impact that arose,
                                                       was addressed through the retrofitting of deflectors on
                                                       the main branch and the Aña Cuá spillways, as well as
                                                       the establishment of spillway opening and closing
                                                       procedures in the operational guidelines.
                                                       - Ongoing environmental monitoring programs address
                                                       water quality, disease vectors and public health, fish
                                                       migration, groundwater levels of downstream wetlands,
                                                       and urban groundwater levels and quality.
Special studies                                        - Hydrogeological, topographical and geotechnical
                                                       study conducted for Encarnación, Garupá and Posadas
                                                       (May 2000). Conclusions indicate that the water table in
                                                       all the regions is of low potency and very low
                                                       transmissibility. Thus, the water table is drained by the
                                                       bordering creeks and rivers. This demonstrates that the
                                                       reservoir does not affect the water table beyond the area
                                                       of initial contact. The study enabled the design of
                                                       coastal protection works in Posadas and will be used for
                                                       works to be carried out in Encarnación. Results of study



                                                    - 37 -

                                                           will also be used to define buffer zones for intermediate
                                                           levels of operation. The study recommended a
                                                           monitoring program for groundwater levels and quality,
                                                           which is carried out in Posadas and Encarnación.
                                                           - Sedimentation study of reservoir completed in June
                                                           2002. The report establishes as useful life of the
                                                           reservoir, approximately 1,400 years given the processes
                                                           of sedimentation that are produced above Yacyretá.
Independent Evaluations of Environmental                   - Independent evaluations carried out from 1997
Management Plan                                            through 2002.
D.3 Implementation of the Resettlement and Rehabilitation Action Plan
Resettlement and Socioeconomic rehabilitation of           - Resettlement has generally been carried out since
Project affected people and issuance of property titles.   1992, under the policies and guidelines established in
                                                           the Resettlement and Rehabilitation Action Plan
                                                           (PARR), designed to benefit affected people registered
                                                           in the 1989/90 census (9,086 families). Governments of
                                                           Argentina and Paraguay are responsible for the
                                                           resettlement of people who have moved into the Project
                                                           affected area since 1990.
                                                           - EBY has resettled a total of 7,267 families (2,416 in
                                                           Paraguay and 4,851in Argentina). Resettlement of
                                                           affected population residing at or below 76 masl was
                                                           completed prior to filling the reservoir in 1994. Since
                                                           1994, EBY has completed the resettlement of families
                                                           between 76 and 78 masl and has partially resettled
                                                           people residing between 78 and 84 masl, through the
                                                           implementation of the Urban Creeks Program.
                                                           - Families have received new housing, access to basic
                                                           and community infrastructure and, in the case of people
                                                           resettled in rural and brick making sites, land for
                                                           productive activities. Approximately 79% of resettled
                                                           people have been issued property titles to date in
                                                           Argentina and 54% in Paraguay.
                                                           - On the basis of the latest census carried out in 2000,
                                                           there remain a total of 9,203 families pending
                                                           resettlement (5,769 in Paraguay and 3,434 in
                                                           Argentina). Since EBY has not determined a final
                                                           cut-off date, the total number of affected families may
                                                           increase even further.
Socioeconomic Rehabilitation Programs for resettled        In all resettlement sites, families were included in
population                                                 integrated socioeconomic rehabilitation programs
                                                           designed to restore income-earning capacity, ensure
                                                           access to health and education services and to
                                                           strengthen the social organizations of the resettled
                                                           communities.
Relocation / compensation of industries and businesses     - Many of the affected enterprises are brick and roof-tile
                                                           makers. Although only a small proportion of these
                                                           enterprises was affected by the filling of the reservoir up
                                                           to 76 masl, EBY compensated all such enterprises that
                                                           would be affected if the reservoir were raised to 83 masl.
                                                           Some enterprises required compensation only for the
                                                           loss of access to clay deposits, while others required
                                                           relocation or compensation for their property and assets.



                                                        - 38 -

                           - In Paraguay, EBY has relocated 97 small brick
                           makers and has facilitated the self-relocation of 53
                           roof-tile makers. Compensation has been awarded to
                           268 brick makers who chose to change their economic
                           activity and 1 roof-tile industry received
                           indemnification. In addition, 159 brick makers and 49
                           roof-tile makers, all located above 84 masl, received
                           compensation for loss (actual or potential) of clay
                           deposits.
                           - In Argentina, EBY relocated 94 brick-making
                           enterprises and compensated an additional 331
                           businesses.
                           - The 1990 census registered 560 commercial businesses
                           requiring relocation in Encarnación. To date, only 12 of
                           these businesses, located at 78 masl, have been
                           compensated. The majority have not yet been resettled,
                           since they are located above 78 masl. In accordance
                           with the 2000 census, the number of commercial
                           businesses in Encarnación increased to 807 and is likely
                           to have grown since then.
Communication              - EBY established neighborhood offices in
                           project-affected communities and in the new
                           resettlement sites in order to inform and assist families
                           before, during and after resettlement. Through these
                           offices, EBY's trained social team has been able to
                           provide personalized attention to families and to handle
                           questions, claims and complaints related to the timing
                           or quality of resettlement in an opportune fashion.
                           - Despite improvements in EBY's provision of
                           information on the Project, significant communications
                           challenges remain, such as the need for EBY to (i)
                           clarify the compensation schemes available to the
                           affected community; (ii) dispel the expectation that
                           opportunistic behaviors will be rewarded; (iii) reduce
                           the uncertainty among people awaiting resettlement; (iv)
                           establish a system of two-way communications, in
                           which people can both obtain information in an
                           adequate format and express their concerns; and (v)
                           provide information about the Project beyond
                           resettlement-related topics, such as the plans for
                           constructing the sewerage and wastewater treatment
                           facilities, and for raising water levels in the future.
                           - The Bank has stressed the need for EBY to develop
                           and implement a comprehensive social communication
                           program to comply with Plan B. In the development of
                           the porgram, the objectives, primary and secondary
                           audiences, and channels and messages used to convey
                           information to each of the target audiences should be
                           defined. In addition, the program needs to involve the
                           Governments of Argentina and Paraguay.
Grievance procedures       - EBY has procedures in place to receive and respond
                           to resettlement-related claims. These can be filed at any
                           of EBY's field offices, located in affected neighborhoods



                        - 39 -

                                                        and resettlement sites. When the grievance cannot be
                                                        addressed directly by the local office, it is forwarded to
                                                        the proper department within EBY in order to determine
                                                        the appropriate action. EBY has improved its practice of
                                                        providing the claimant with a written response
                                                        concerning the decision made.
                                                        - Another important group of claims, which began to
                                                        arise in 1998, are those requesting cash compensation
                                                        for economic losses. These initial compensation awards
                                                        led to a significant increase in the number of claims
                                                        filed by different groups and individuals. When the new
                                                        cases were denied, this generated a high degree of
                                                        dissatisfaction.
 Independent monitoring and evaluations of resettlement - A total of 16 independent ex-post evaluations were
 and rehabilitation programs                            carried out between 1995 and 2000 in urban, rural, and
                                                        brick-making resettlement sites.




5The ICR's annexes center on results and outcomes pertaining to Part D of the Project, as project
supervision since 1994 has been focused on this component.




                                                    - 40 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Table 1: Project Cost by Component (US$ million equivalent)
                 Appraisal Estimate                      Actual/Latest Estimate (Phases I and II)
Component                                US$ million Component                               US$ million
A. Efficiency and Operations                         A. Efficiency and Operations
Improvement:                                         Improvement:
   1. Loss Reduction Program                  15.5      1. Loss Reduction Program                    1.7
   2. Computer Facilities and Management       3.5      2. Computer Facilities and                   0.4
   Information System                                   Management Information System
   3. Studies                                  0.7      3. Studies                                   7.0
B. Rehabilitation and Expansion of                   B. Rehabilitation and Expansion of
SEGBA's Networks:                                    SEGBA's Networks:
   1. Transmission and Subtransmission       125.9      1. Transmission, Subtransmission            22.7
   2. Distribution Works                     394.7      2. Distribution Works                       94.8
   3. Communications, Telecontrol and         89.2      3. Communications, Telecontrol and           2.3
   General Plant                                        General Plant
C. Training:                                         C. Technical Assistance:
   1. Training                                 8.0      1. Studies                                   0.6
                                                     D. EBY:
                                                        1. Yacyreta Power Plant                  1,664.6
                                                        2. Resettlement and Environmental          248.0
                                                        Mitigation
Total Baseline Cost                          637.5
Contingencies                                115.1
                       Total Project Cost    752.6                         Total Project Cost    2,042.1




Table 2: Part D Financing by Category (US$ million equivalent)
Category                                                               Actual/Latest Estimate
                                                                   Bank                     Govt.
Equipment and Materials                                                  6.00                  917.10
Civil Works                                                             74.20                  125.40
Resettlement and Environmental Protection                               30.00                  218.00
Engineering, Supervision, Administration                                 9.20                  529.00
Interest                                                                 3.70
                                                   Total              123.10                 1,789.50




                                                - 41 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


Economic Evaluation of Yacyretá Capacity Expansion
                                              Energy      Market                 Net
   Year    Investments           O&M                              Revenues
                                             production   price                 Benefits
           US$ million        US$ million GWh            US$/MWh  US$ million  US$ million

     1992            378.3                                                         -378.3
     1993            369.5           35.2                                          -404.7
     1994            407.4           48.6         0.355     16.48          5.9     -450.1
     1995            271.1           44.9         3.783     16.48        62.3      -253.7
     1996            238.8           51.0         6.331     15.43        97.7      -192.1
     1997            111.9           62.3        10.061     13.00      130.8        -43.4
     1998             84.6           64.2        11.617     14.18      164.7         15.9
     1999             39.4           64.4        11.834     15.76      186.5         82.7
     2000             48.0           74.8         11.86     18.26      216.6         93.8
     2001             53.0           70.5        11.422     13.73      156.8         33.3
     2002             36.7           49.0        12.287      5.89        72.4       -13.3
     2003             94.3           53.3        12.031      6.76        81.3       -66.3
     2004             63.8           58.3        11.974     13.45      161.0         38.9
     2005            207.2           58.3        12.878     15.69      202.0        -63.5
     2006            183.2           58.3        12.878     18.33      236.0          -5.5
     2007            117.5           58.3         15.12     19.31      292.0        116.2
     2008             56.9           58.3        18.665     19.82      370.0        254.8
     2009             17.4           58.3        19.623     21.86      429.0        353.3
     2010               7.3          58.3        19.623     26.75      525.0        459.4
     2011                            58.3        19.623     26.86      527.0        468.7
     2012                            58.3        19.623     26.86      527.1        468.8
     2013                            58.3        19.623     26.86      527.1        468.8
     2014                            58.3        19.623     26.86      527.1        468.8
     2015                            58.3        19.623     26.86      527.1        468.8
     2016                            58.3        19.623     26.86      527.1        468.8
     2017                            58.3        19.623     26.86      527.1        468.8
     2018                            58.3        19.623     26.86      527.1        468.8
     2019                            58.3        19.623     26.86      527.1        468.8
     2020                            58.3        19.623     26.86      527.1        468.8
     2021                            58.3        19.623     26.86      527.1        468.8
     2022                            58.3        19.623     26.86      527.1        468.8
     2023                            58.3        19.623     26.86      527.1        468.8
     2024                            58.3        19.623     26.86      527.1        468.8
     2025                            58.3        19.623     26.86      527.1        468.8
Total               2786.3         1900.8                            11296.0       6608.9
PV (10%)       $1,655.52        $530.31                            $2,018.46    ($469.46)

                                                                  ERR              7.62%
Note: Shaded area represents historical data.




                                                  - 42 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Supervision
              November 1988             1    Principal Power Engineer
              February ­ March          2    Principal Power Engineer, Sr.
              1991                           Financial Analyst)
              July ­ August             2    Principal Power Engineer, Sr.
              1991                           Financial Analyst
              August ­                  1    Principal Power Engineer
              September 1992
              May 1994                  5    Principal Power Engineer, Chief,
                                             Resettlement Specialist, Water
                                             Pollution Specialist, Ecologist
              July 1994                 1    Principal Power Engineer               S               S
              August 1994               2    Principal Power Engineer, Sr.          S               S
                                             Financial Analyst
              March 1995                3    Principal Power Engineer, Sr.          S               S
                                             Power Engineer, Sr. Financial
                                             Analyst
              July 1995                 6    Sr. Power Engineer, Sr.                S               S
                                             Financial Analyst, Chief ,
                                             Resettlement Specialist, Water
                                             Pollution Specialist, Ecologist
              October 1995              2    Principal Power Engineer, Sr.          S               S
                                             Financial Analyst
              December 1995             7    Sr. Power Engineer, Sr.                S              HS
                                             Financial Analyst, Consultant,
                                             Unit Chief, Resettlement
                                             Specialist, Water Pollution
                                             Specialist, Environmental
                                             Specialist
              March 1996                1    Sr. Financial Analyst                  U               S
              May 1996                  3    Portfolio Manager, Sr. Power           U               S
                                             Engineer, Sr. Financial Analyst
              September 1996            1    Sr. Power Engineer                     U               S
              October 1996              1    Sr. Financial Analyst                  U               U
              November 1996             6    Sr. Power Engineer, Sr. Social         U               S
                                             Specialist, Sr. Financial Analyst,
                                             Resettlement Specialist, Water
                                             Pollution Specialist, Ecologist
              April 1997                8    Division Chief, Sr. Power              U               S
                                             Engineer, Sr. Financial Analyst,
                                             Environmental Unit Chief, Water
                                             Pollution Specialist, Ecologist,
                                             Sr. Counsel, Resettlement
                                             Specialist




                                              - 43 -

continued...
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective
              June 1997                 6    Sr. Power Engineer, Sr.                S               S
                                             Financial Analyst, Resettlement
                                             Specialist, Water Pollution
                                             Specialist, Ecologist, Consultant
              August 1997               5    Sr. Power Engineer, Sr.                S               S
                                             Financial Analyst, Resettlement
                                             Specialist, Sr. Counsel, Water
                                             Pollution Specialist
              March 1998                5    Sr. Power Engineer, Sector             S               S
                                             Leader, Sr. Financial Analyst,
                                             Water Pollution Specialist,
                                             Environmental Specialist
              June 1998                 9    LCRVP, Sector Director,
                                             Country Director, Director-CMU,
                                             Sector Leader, Consultant-EXT,
                                             Resident Rep, Consultant, Team
                                             Assistant
              September 1998            6    Sector Leader, Resident Rep, Sr.       U             HU
                                             Environmental Specialist,
                                             Resettlement Specialist, Sr.
                                             Financial Analyst, Sr. Ecologist.
              April 1999                6    Interim Task Manager, Water            U               U
                                             Pollution Specialist, Resettlement
                                             Specialist, Environmental
                                             Specialist, Social Specialist,
                                             Consultant
              July 1999                 1    Consultant-Civil Society Liaison       U               U
              July 1999                 1    Task Manager                           U               U
              July 1999                 2    Task Manager, Consultant-Civil         U               U
                                             Society Liaison
              August 1999               2    Task Manager, Consultant-Civil         U               U
                                             Society Liaison
              August 1999               2    Task Manager, Consultant-Civil         U               U
                                             Society Liaison
              September 1999            1    Task Manager                           U               U
              September 1999            1    Consultant-Civil Society Liaison       U               U




                                              - 44 -

continued...
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                    (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                  Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective
              September 1999           6    Task Manager, Consultant-Civil         U               U
                                            Society Liaison, Sr. Water &
                                            Sanitation Specialist, Consultants
              November 1999            6    Task Manager, Consultant,              U               U
                                            Water Pollution Specialist,
                                            Environmental Specialist, Sr.
                                            Environmental Specialist,
                                            Resettlement Specialist
              December 1999            1    Task Manager                           U               U
              January 2000             1    Consultant-Civil Society Liaison       U               U
              January 2000             2    Task Manager, Consultant-Civil         U               U
                                            Society Liaison
              February 2000            1    Task Manager                           U               U
              March 2000               2    Task Manager, Consultant-Civil         U               U
                                            Society Liaison
              March 2000               1    Consultant-Civil Society Liaison       U               U
              March 2000               1    Financial Specialist                   U               U
              April 2000               5    Task Manager, Consultant-Civil         U               U
                                            Society Liaison, Environmental
                                            Specialist, Sr. Ecologist,
                                            Resettlement Specialist
              April 2000               2    Task Manager, Consultant-Civil         U               U
                                            Society Liaison
              April 2000               1    Task Manager                           U               U
              June 2000                1    Task Manager                           U               U
              June 2000                1    Task Manager                           U               U
              August 2000              1    Task Manager                           U               U
              August 2000              1    Consultant-Civil Society Liaison       U               U
              September 2000           2    Task Manager, Consultant-Civil         U               U
                                            Society Liaison
              September 2000           2    Task Manager, Consultant-Civil         U               U
                                            Society Liaison
              October 2000             6    Task Manager, Financial                U               U
                                            Analyst, Environmental
                                            Specialist, Sr. Ecologist,
                                            Resettlement Specialist,
              December 2000            2    Consultant-Civil Society Liaison       U               U
                                            Task Manager, Consultant-Civil
              February 2001            2    Society Liaison                        U               U
                                            Task Manager, Consultant-Civil
                                            Society Liaison




                                             - 45 -

continued...
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty                   Performance Rating
                                    (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)           Implementation Development
                  Month/Year  Count           Specialty                          Progress       Objective
              May 2001                 1    Consultant-Civil Society Liaison        U               U
              June 2001                2    Task Manager, Consultant-Civil          U               U
                                            Society Liaison
              September 2001           3    Task Manager, Resettlement              U               U
                                            Specialist, Sr. Environ. Specialist
              October 2001             1    Task Manager                            U               U
              May 2002                 5    Task Manager, Resettlement              U               U
                                            Specialist, Sr. Ecologist, Sr.
                                            Environmental Engineer,
                                            Consultant
              October 2002            10    Sector Director, Financial              U               U
                                            Management Analyst, Lead
                                            Country Officer, Sector Leader,
                                            Communications Officer,
                                            Program Assistant, Resettlement
                                            Specialist, Environmental
                                            Specialist, Sr. Ecologist, Sr.
                                            Environmental Engineer
              October 2003             6    Environmental Specialist,               U               U
                                            Resettlement Specialist, Lead
                                            Sociologist, Operations Analyst,
                                            Sr. Environmental Engineer,
                                            Consultant
              March 2004               6    Environmental Specialist,               U               U
                                            Resettlement Specialist,
                                            Communications Associate,
                                            Communications Officer, Sr.
                                            Environmental Engineer,
                                            Consultant
              June 2004                6    Sector Leader, Resettlement             U               U
                                            Specialist, Lead Anthropologist,
                                            Communications Officer, Social
                                            Development and Civil Society
                                            Specialist, Consultant
              ICR
              February 2003            8    Lead Counsel, Resettlement              U               U
                                            Specialist, Lead Dam Specialist,
                                            Environmental Specialist,
                                            Communications Associate,
                                            Operations Analyst, Sr.
                                            Environmental Engineer,
                                            Consultant




                                             - 46 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Supervision                          520.8                        1,470.3
                                 (ICR)    8.0                  (ICR)   24.9
  Total                                528.8                        1,495.2




                                            - 47 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
        Resettlement
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 48 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 49 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Aide Memoires and Project Status Reports.

Argentina: Second Yacyreta Hydroelectric Project Status of Action Program. April 21, 1998.

De Francesco, Fernando and Juan Schnack. El Proyecto Hidroeléctrico Yacyretá: Evaluación
Ambiental Ex Post del Préstamo 2854-AR (SEGBA V). Noviembre, 2003.

Ebrahim, Alnoor. Effectiveness of Stakeholder Participation Processes: Yacyretá Hydroelectric
Project. September 2003.

Entidad Binacional Yacyretá. Informe de Evaluación Ambiental Proyecto Hidroeléctrico
Yacyretá. Mayo, 1992.

Entidad Binacional Yacyretá. Plan de Infraestructura Social y Medioambiental para Culminar el
Llenado del Embalse (PISMA). Febrero, 2001.

Entidad Binacional Yacyretá. Plan de Manejo de Medio Ambiente. Febrero, 2001.

Entidad Binacional Yacyretá. Plan de Reasentamiento Proyecto Hidroeléctrico Yacyretá. Julio,
1992.

Entidad Binacional Yacyretá. Plan de Terminación Yacyretá (PTY). Mayo, 2004.

Entidad Binacional Yacyretá. Plan Estratégico Yacyretá (PEY). Julio, 2002.

Entidad Binacional Yacyretá. Proyecto Hidroeléctrico Yacyretá: Revisión del Proyecto desde la
Perspectiva del Prestatario. Marzo, 2003.

The Inspection Panel: Investigation Report for Paraguay ­ Reform Project for the Water and
Telecommunications Sectors (Loan No. 3842-PA); Argentina ­ SEGBA V Distribution Project
(Loan No. 2854-AR). February 24, 2004.

The Inspection Panel: Review of Problems and Assessment of Action Plans. September 16,
1997.

Internal Auditing Department. Details of Findings of an Audit of the Bank's Oversight of the
Yacyretá II Hydroelectric Project. Report No. IBRD FY99-00. June 2, 1999.

International Advisory Panel: Report on the Argentina ­ Paraguay Yacyretá Hydroelectric
Project. October 1999.

Management Report and Recommendation in Response to the Inspection Panel Investigation
Report: Paraguay ­ Reform Project for the Water and Telecommunications Sectors (Loan No.



                                              - 50 -

3842-PA); Argentina ­ SEGBA V Distribution Project (Loan No. 2854-AR). April 6, 2004.

Mercados Energéticos. Actualización y Análisis de los Escenarios de Inversión y Periódos de
Repago de Diferentes Elevaciones de Cotas de Yacyretá. Octubre, 2003.

Valdés, Juan B. Statistical Analysis of Elevations and Discharges in the Yacyretá Region of the
Paraná River, May 2004.

World Bank. Implementation Completion Report for the Argentina Yacyretá Hydroelectric
Project II. Report No. 22489. June 28, 2001.

World Bank. Staff Appraisal Report for the Argentina SEGBA V Project. Report No. 6758-AR.
June 3, 1987.

World Bank. Staff Appraisal Report for the Argentina Yacyretá Hydroelectric Project II. Report
No. 10696-AR. August 31, 1992.




                                               - 51 -

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results

Throughout the Project's implementation, but more intensively since 1997, the Bank's supervision
efforts have included numerous consultations with groups of stakeholders in both Argentina and
Paraguay. These consultations include formal meetings with specific groups of affected population
during Bank supervision missions as well as interviews during visits to resettlement sites and
project affected neighborhoods.

In addition, in 1999, the Bank funded an independent analysis of the Project's social and
environmental impact and the claims filed by civil society. The analysis and conclusions were
partially based on more than 20 in-depth interviews with community leaders, civil society
representatives, government officials, judiciary officials, members of Congress, and local
authorities. Later, in 2000, the Bank contracted two NGOs (in Argentina and Paraguay) in order
to carry out a consultation with affected population concerning the completion of the Yacyretá
Project. The consultation in Paraguay was held with 41 representatives of affected population
groups ­ as selected by the NGO ­ as well as with eight local authorities and four NGOs. In
Argentina, in-depth interviews were held with 25 affected people and seven organizations (one
organization of affected people, four NGOs, a representative of the Catholic Church and one
government authority). Whereas these studies reach some qualitative conclusions as to how
stakeholders perceive EBY, the two development Banks more generally, and the implementation
of the resettlement programs in particular, these conclusions must be treated with caution, given
the limited size and representativeness of the respondent groups.

The most extensive stakeholder consultation conducted during the project supervision was the
survey carried out from February through April 2003 in order to assess stakeholder perceptions
on the Yacyretá Project in general and the resettlement plan in particular. The survey was based
on a questionnaire jointly developed by Bank task team staff, EBY social specialists, and an
independent consultant, and was administered to a random sample of 367 people in the cities of
Posadas, Argentina and Encarnación, Paraguay. The survey was given to a random sample of
people from the following groups: (i) resettled population; (ii) population to be resettled; (iii)
brick makers who had been either relocated or compensated for change of economic activity; as
well as (iv) a subset of people living in Posadas and Encarnación not directly affected by the
Project and not receiving benefits under the project's Resettlement and Rehabilitation Action Plan
(PARR). The study design allowed for an analysis of results according to stakeholder group by
country. The study's primary conclusions are presented below.

Knowledge of the Yacyretá Project and of EBY: All surveyed groups proved to either be
uninformed or possess incorrect information about the Project and its objectives. Paraguayans
were more apt to have no information concerning the Project's objectives (40%), while
Argentines were more likely to identify the Project's objectives incorrectly (43%). Only 38% of
all survey respondents correctly identified the Project's objective as energy generation (40% in
Argentina, 36% in Paraguay), while 30% gave no response, and another 32% identified incorrect
objectives, such as housing construction. Among the groups surveyed, the general population
(those with no direct connection to the PARR or any other project-sponsored activity) had a more
thorough and accurate understanding of the project than the groups of affected population.




                                                - 52 -

Similarly, all stakeholder groups had limited knowledge about EBY, its objectives and/or its
activities. In fact, 71% of respondents had not read a single publication by EBY. Of those who
had read information prepared by EBY, 71% of those in Paraguay found it useful, compared to
only 39% of those in Argentina. Of those to be resettled, 60% had no knowledge of EBY's other
programs within the same area. In general, the respondents had no knowledge of EBY's main
activities, such as those related to environmental protection. Among the population to be
resettled, in spite of the fact that everyone had been informed of their pending resettlement at least
five years ago (and some as long as ten years ago), 75% did not know when they would be moved
and almost half (48%) did not know where they would be moved.

The Yacyreta Project and its Local Consequences: Generally speaking, the interviewed
population from both countries perceived the Project as having been responsible for more
negative than positive outcomes (82% identified negative consequences vs. 56% that identified
positive ones). Moreover, 38% responded that the Project was not responsible for a single
positive outcome, while only 11% stated that the Project was not responsible for any negative
outcomes.

The perceptions varied by stakeholder group, although all groups perceived more negative than
positive outcomes. The group that most strongly perceived the Project's outcomes as negative
was the brick makers, of which 93% identified one or more negative outcomes and 47% identified
one or more positive outcomes. The non-affected general population stakeholder group that most
identified the positive consequences (67%); notwithstanding, 89% of the same group identified
one or more negative outcomes.

The positive consequences that were identified include the provision of housing (28%), generation
of power (14%) and the construction of infrastructure (5%). The main negative consequence, as
identified by 24% of all respondents (32% of Paraguayan respondents), was the occurrence of
flooding, which has been shown to be caused by factors other than the Project. Other negative
outcomes identified by the respondents include the displacement of population (20%), loss of
sources of income (14%) and harm to the environment (9%).

Resettlement Plan: Stakeholder perceptions regarding the Project's Resettlement Plan differed by
country: 47% of resettled Argentines were "very satisfied" or "satisfied" and 8% were
"unsatisfied" or "very unsatisfied," while 35% of resettled Paraguayans were "very satisfied" or
"satisfied" and 39% were "unsatisfied" or "very unsatisfied." While resettled stakeholders valued
their housing (especially in Argentina), they also identified negative impacts such as the increased
distance from their workplaces, and identified many resettlement-related issues that were as yet
unresolved by EBY.

Stakeholder perceptions varied according to the time that has elapsed since their resettlement.
Newly resettled persons (those resettled less than a year ago) and those resettled the longest
(more than ten years ago) expressed high levels of satisfaction with the resettlement program,
while those who had been resettled for one to ten years were substantially less satisfied.

Brickmakers who had been relocated or compensated manifested a very low level of satisfaction,



                                                 - 53 -

and the majority felt that the resettlement/indemnification experience had not produced any
positive outcomes. Brickmakers who had chosen cash compensation regretted their choice,
stating that their situation had worsened thereafter.

The population awaiting resettlement felt that they had been "on hold" for too long. Of the 190
stakeholders interviewed in this group, 72% had been waiting more than five years to move, and
39% had been waiting more than ten years. Those surveyed felt that this delay constituted a
negative impact for themselves and their communities, inasmuch as they perceive a deterioration
of their houses, streets, and public services, as well as increased risk of flooding.

EBY's Management of Resettlement: Only 36% of those interviewed perceived EBY's
performance in the resettlement process as "very good" or "good," and 28% felt it was "poor" or
"very poor." The most frequent response was "average" (36.5%). In general, Argentines
responded more favorably about EBY's performance.

Those who considered EBY's participation in resettlement to be positive did so primarily on the
basis of the provision of housing. Those who qualified EBY's involvement as negative believe
that EBY has not fulfilled its promises, suffers from corrupt practices and/or a general lack of
interest and effort. Others (35%) mentioned a lack of control and information, unequal treatment
of groups of affected people and the political handling of the situation.

Opinions about EBY's role in the resettlement process varied among the different stakeholder
groups. The general population (those who received no project-related benefits) had a more
positive perception than the other groups. Brick makers were equally divided among those with
positive, neutral and negative opinions. While both the population to be resettled and already
resettled tended to qualify EBY's role as "average," these beneficiaries maintained hope for the
future, as more than half (53%) responded that they believed EBY would undertake the actions
necessary to complete the project.6 The reasons they gave for this belief were the visibility of
several ongoing resettlement-related activities and the perception by some that EBY's existing
commitments were contractual obligations. Others believed the project would never be finished;
citing delays, lies, alleged corruption associated with the project, general lack of trust, and EBY's
perceived lack of interest.

Financing Entities: Slightly more than half (53%) of the population identified the relationship
between the Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) with the Project, with slight
differences between the two countries. However, while the population easily identified the
Bank's role in Project financing, they were not able to identify the role of other financing sources,
including the GOA and the IDB. The respondents were not aware of the Bank's supervisory role,
and those same stakeholders considered it important that the Banks assume that responsibility. In
general, the stakeholders considered the role of the Banks to be positive.


6Argentine stakeholders were more positive than their Paraguayan counterparts in this respect.




                                                      - 54 -

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results

  WORKSHOP ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE YACYRETA HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
                          February 19 - 20, 2003 - Ituzaingo and Posadas, Argentina

                                                   SUMMARY

I. Background
Professionals from the private and public sectors, academia, and civil society met on February 19, 2003 in
Ituzaingo, Argentina to reflect on the implementation of the Yacyretá Hydroelectric Project and the
project's compliance with the Bank's safeguard policies. During the workshop, presentations were given by
officials from EBY's technical, environmental and social departments, university professors, as well as
Bank mission members. The conclusions of the day's discussions were shared with a wider civil society
and academic audience on February 20, 2003 in Posadas, Argentina. A summary of the key conclusions
from the meetings and a listing of workshop participants are presented below.

II. Environmental Management
On February 19, 2003, two environmental specialists, Fernando de Francesco and Juan Schnack
(professors from the Universidad de La Plata), provided an overview of the project's successes and
limitations with respect to environmental management. Overall they found that the EIA developed for the
project in 1992 had properly identified the project's potential environmental impacts, and that these impacts
were well managed by the project's implementing agency, EBY, in accordance with the project's
Environmental Management Plan (PMMA). Discussions of their analysis highlighted that (i)
environmental investments could not be implemented independently, such as those linked directly with
social aspects (resettlement and sanitation) and (ii) the PMMA's successes were not adequately shared with
civil society in order to foster their participation in the implementation of environmental actions. The two
specialists also found the sustainability of the PMMA's future implementation likely, given EBY's technical
and managerial competence. However, they recommended that EBY improve its communications with civil
society to encourage both NGO and government support for environmental mitigation investments. With
respect to the Bank's performance, the specialists attributed EBY's compliance with the Bank's
environmental policies to the guidance and recommendations provided by the Bank's technical staff
throughout project implementation.

On February 20, 2003, these conclusions were shared with a wider audience, who agreed that (i) the
importance of implementing environmental investments simultaneously with the social activities linked to
these investments, as well as (ii) the importance of disseminating the PMMA's successes with civil society
to promote their participation in implementing PMMA activites were the most important lessons learned in
carrying out the project's environmental management component. The participants also agreed that the
PMMA had adapted well to changing conditions in the affected areas and had been an important tool in
managing environmental impacts associated with the construction of civil works and the reservoir.

III. Dam Safety
On February 19, 2003, the Bank's Lead Dam Specialist addressed dam safety management throughout all
phases of the project cycle, as well as the project's compliance with the Bank's dam safety policies. He
noted that dam safety was given a high priority during the design phase of the project's works, and added
that this priority is maintained today. The hydroelectric plant is operated by staff with a high level of
technical expertise. Although there have been no significant variations in the dam's structural or
geotechnical aspects from the original design phase to present, the introduction of deflectors to prevent fish
mortality from gas oversaturation has created a risk of impairing the hydraulic performance of the plant's



                                                        - 55 -

energy dissipation system. However, the dam specialist noted that EBY has been closely monitoring this
system's performance. He concluded that the project has complied with the provisions of the Bank's
safeguard policies on dam safety, in which an independent Panel of Experts since 1983 has monitored the
design and construction of works, and safety plans have been designed and implemented (including
supervision and quality control plans and an emergency action plan).

IV. Workshop Participants

Aves Argentinas
Andrés Bosso

Caritas Diocesana - Argentina
Juan Carlos Belgrano

EBY
Regina Muz, Blas Cristaldo Sosa, Osvaldo Nuñez, Alba Forcadell, Carlos A. Fulco, Héctor Russo, Raúl
Armando Leyton, Nelson Simoes, Mauricio Perayre, Juan Estigarribia, Alberto Escobar, Magdalena
Cubas, Jorge Alonso, Dario Nuñez, Antonia Megarejo, Carlos Basaldría, Marta Simon, Alicia Karasawa,
Alicia Delpiano, Lisandro Cardinale, Juan Carlos Lancioni, Diego Carlos Perez, Armando Cornazzani,
Walter Rolando Jócabo, Luis Haurón, Ramón Mallén, Carmen Páez

Fundación Moisés Bertoni
Lucía Bartrina Scura, Cirilo Benítez

Jardín de los Niños - Argentina
María V. de Cabrera, Emilio Marchi

Kuña Roga - Paraguay
Juana Cañete, Alicia Stumpfs

Ministerio de Salud Pública Misiones
José Armando Zarate, Blanco Cousiño

Universidad Católica de Encarnación
Victoriano Vásquez

Universidad de La Plata
Fernando de Francesco, Juan Schnack

Universidad Nacional de Asunción
Edgar Bolbuena, Mario Insaurralde

Universidad Nacional de Misiones
Leopoldo Bartolomé, Roberto Balmaceda, Fernando Lockett,

World Bank
Ernesto Sanchez-Triana, Juan David Quintero, Elena Correa, Alessandro Palmieri, Charles Di Leva,
Emanuele Santi, Angela Armstrong, Ann Jeannette Glauber




                                                   - 56 -

Additional Annex 10. Borrower's ICR




                                     - 57 -

- 58 -

- 59 -

- 60 -

- 61 -

- 62 -

- 63 -

- 64 -

- 65 -

- 66 -

- 67 -

- 68 -

