                              PARAGUAY
REFORMPROJECT FORTHE WATER AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTORS
                           (LOANNO. 3842-PA)

                             ARGENTINA
     SEGBA V POWERDISTRIBUTIONPROJECT (LOANNO. 2854-AR)




                             FollowUpto the
      Meetingof the ExecutiveDirectorsof the WorldBank (May 6,2004)
        onthe InspectionPanelInvestigationReportNo. 27995 and
                 ManagementReportand Recommendation




             PROGRESSREPORTONIMPLEMENTATION

                                OFTHE

      MANAGEMENTRECOMMENDATIONSAND ACTION PLAN




                             August 6,2004


                                                             CONTENTS
Acronyms and Abbreviations ........................................................................................................              i v
Background......................................................................................................................................   1
I.   Introduction.............................................................................................................................    2
I1 Updateon the YacyretA Project..............................................................................................
 .                                                                                                                                                2
I11. Additional Measures Identified .............................................................................................. 3
     Progress on Implementation of the Management Action Plan and

Iv.  Progress inEstablishinga Grievance Mechanism..................................................................                               7
V.   Collaborationbetween the World Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank ...........8
VI.  Monitoring of the Reservoir Level ......................................................................................... 9
VI1 Conclusions andNext Steps ................................................................................................. 10
    .

Annexes

Annex 1. Overview of World Bank Support for Yacyretii ...............................................................                            11
Annex 2: Annotated Matrix of the Management Action Plan and Progress to Date ..................12


Map       IBRD33553 . Hydroelectric Project
                                 YacyretA

            ACRONYMSAND ABBREVIATIONS

BP         Bank Procedure
CDD        Community Driven Development
CPES       Centro Paraguay0 de Estudios Sociol6gicos
EBY        EntidadBinacional Yacyreti
EMP        Resettlement and EnvironmentalManagement Plan
FEDAYIM    Federacihde Afectados por Yacyreti de Itap6ay Misiones
IDA        InternationalDevelopment Association
IDB        Inter-AmericanDevelopment Bank
m3/s       Cubic meters per second
mas1       Meters above sea level
NGO        Non-GovernmentalOrganization
OP         Operational Policy
PARR       Plan de Acci6n para el Reasentamiento y la Rehabilitacih
           (Resettlement and RehabilitationAction Plan, component of the
           EMP)
PMMA       Plan de Manejo del Medio Ambiente (Environmental Management
           Plan, component of the EMP)
PRODECO    Pilot Community Development Project
SEGBA      Servicios Ele'ctricos del Gran Buenos Aires, S.A.
UNLP       University of L a Plata
USD        United States Dollars




                        i v

                                            BACKGROUND

 YacyretA i s a multi-billion U S dollar hydroelectric facility constructed on the ParanARiver, along
the border between Argentina and Paraguay. The YacyretA Hydroelectric Project (hereafter
referred to as the "Project") i s the result of a joint venture established in a 1973 treaty between
Argentina and Paraguay. To implement the Project, a binational entity, Entidad Binacional
YacyretA (EBY), was created with equal representation of the two countries on its Board of
Directors. The Project includes construction of an earth dam about 65 kilometers long with
ancillary hydraulic works, a powerhouse containing twenty turbines with the capacity to generate
3,100 MW of electricity, a navigation lock, and a fish passage facility. The dam was designed
and built to operate at full capacity at a level of 83 meters above sea level (masl). However, since
various resettlement, environmental and other complementary civil works have not been
completed, the reservoir level was filled in 1994, as agreed, only to the level of 76 masl. With the
requisite works still not completed, the hydroelectric plant has been operating at only 60 percent
of its capacity ever since.

The Project has been partly financed by several Bank loans (see Annex 1): the Argentina
YacyretA Hydroelectric Project (Loan 1761-AR, 1979), the Argentina Electric Power Sector I
Project (Loan 2998-AR, 1988), the Argentina Second YacyretA Hydroelectric Project (Loan
3520-AR, 1992), and the Argentina SEGBA V Power Distribution Project (Loan 2854-AR, as
amended in 1994). The Paraguay Reform Project for the Water and Telecommunications Sectors
(originally called the Asunci6n Sewerage Project, Loan 3842-AR, 1995) financed the
infrastructure works for the benefit of about 3,000 people resettled inEncarnacibn, Paraguay.

On May 30, 2002, the Inspection Panel registered a Request for Inspection concerning the
Project, linked to Loans 3520-AR and 3842-PA. The Executive Directors authorized a full
Inspection Panel investigation on September 9, 2002. The Executive Directors considered the
InspectionPanel Report and the Management Response and Recommendations on May 6,2004.
At the closure of their discussion, the Executive Directors approved the Management Action
Plan and requested that Management explore further measures to address the issues that had been
identified and report progress to the Executive Directors in90 days.

                                           I.INTRODUCTION

 1.      On May 6, 2004, the Executive Directors of the World Bank discussed the Inspection
 Panel Report, "Paraguay: Reform Project for the Water and Telecommunication Sectors and
 Argentina: SEGBA V Power Distribution Project" (dated February 24, 2004), as well as the
 "Management Report and Recommendations in Response to the Inspection Panel Investigation
 Report" (dated April 6, 2004). During the Board meeting, the Executive Directors approved the
 Management Action Plan and requested that Management investigate additional measures to
 address the issues identified by the Panel and report to the Board in 90 days on progress made.
 The Board requested that the Report include progress and updates in the following areas: (a)
 implementation of the Bank's Action Plan and additional measures identified by Management
 with respect to the affected parties (including the 2,416 families already relocated and the
 estimated 6,000 families to be relocated in Paraguay prior to completion of the Project); (b)
 grievance procedures for resolving claims related to the Project; (c) the activities of the Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB) in the Project, and how the IDB and the Bank have been
collaborating on issues identified during the Inspection; and (d) decisions taken with respect to
the reservoir's water level and potential impacts.

2.       This report is organized in seven sections. Following this Introduction, Section I1
provides an update on recent events concerning the Project. Section I11summarizes progress to
date on the implementation of key components of the Action Plan and provides further details on
the measures being taken to address the issues that have been identified. Section IV summarizes
progress in establishing grievance procedures. Section V provides an update on the collaboration
between the Bank and IDB. Section VI provides an update on decisions concerning the
reservoir's water level, and Section VI1 presents the conclusions. Annex 1 provides a brief
description of Bank loans in support of the Project. Annex 2 provides a more detailed
presentation of implementation progress on the Management Action Plan, in the form of an
annotated matrix. A map of the Project area i s also attached.

                              11.UPDATEONTHEYACYRETA PROJECT

3.       Status ofthe Project. On June 4, 2004, EBY (the implementing agency) submitted a
formal Project Completion Plan to the Bank and the IDB. This Plan, prepared by EBY and the
Governments of Argentina and Paraguay, indicates the readiness of both the Governments and
EBY to undertake a broad range of environmental and social measures in completing the
Project.' The major expenditure items in the Project Completion Plan include the purchase of
land that would be flooded by raising the reservoir to 83 mad; resettlement and rehabilitation of
families on both sides of the river; relocation of parts of downtown Encarnaci6n; relocation and
construction of municipal infrastructure in Encarnacibn, including roads, bridges, and other
municipal works; and completion of a sewerage and water treatment system in Encarnacih. The
Plan estimates the cost of completing the Project at USD653.4 million - USD 65.4 million for
activities that are currently underway, USD 563.7 million for additional investments to raise the
reservoir level to 83 mad, and USD 24.3 million for follow-on investments after the reservoir i s


 The Plan was approved by EBY's governing board on May 27,2004 (ResolutionNo. 1530/04).

                                                2

raised to its final level. The Project Completion Plan proposes that the investments be financed
by the Government of Argentina (USD 563.7 million) and the remaining proceeds of an existing
IDBloan (USD 90 million).

4.      The Project Completion Plan differs from earlier plans in three ways:2 it has a detailed
financing scheme; it i s prepared at a time when Argentina i s facing an energy crisis (and
therefore has a greater need to complete the Project than duringthe past ten years); and it directly
addresses the various implementation issues that have been identified, including by the World
Bank. The Project Completion Plan includes a timetable for completing the environmental and
social resettlement aspects of the Project and takes into account the provisions in the Legal
Agreements with the World Bank on raising the reservoir above the current level. Under this
plan, Project completion with the reservoir levelraised to 83 mas1at Encarnacih (Paraguay) and
Posadas (Argentina) would occur by October 2008.

5.      Duringthe coming months, the Governments of Argentina and Paraguay are expected to
negotiate modifications to the financial cost-sharing and other agreements contained in the
YacyretA Treaty. The Governments have also requested a "High Level Meeting" involving the
two governments, the two Banks, and EBY to negotiate details of Project completion with the
Bank and IDB, and to seek remaining IDB funding. The latter would involve an extension of an
existing IDB loan to use the outstanding balance. The High Level Meeting i s tentatively
scheduled for the fall inWashington, DC, to be hosted by IDB.

6.      Two joint IDB and World Bank missions in June and July, and dialogue with the two
governments and EBY at a time of an impending energy crisis in Argentina, have provided
opportunities for discussion of the issues addressed in the World Bank Management Response
and Action Plan, During the July mission EBY agreed, in a signed Aide Memoire, to undertake
key social and environmental elements inthe Bank's Action Plan; the highlights are summarized
inthe remainder of this report.

        111.PROGRESSONIMPLEMENTATIONOFTHEMANAGEMENT PLANAND              ACTION
                                ADDITIONAL MEASURES      IDENTIFIED

7.      Current Progress on Key Measures of the Action Plan. Inits response to the Inspection
Panel's Investigation Report, Management committed the Bank to a set of measures to help
achieve desired outcomes. Management distinguished between actions directly under
Management control and actions over which the Bank has no direct control, although
Management will use all means at its disposal to help secure their implementation. Annex 2
provides a summary of the progress since the May 2004 Board meeting in implementing the
actions proposed by the Bank, as part of its Management Response. This progress i s also
summarized below.

8.      Environmental Issues.With respect to the Project's environmentalmanagement:

        o The Bank has assisted EBY in updating the screening procedures used for assessing
            the environmental impact of infrastructure and resettlement-related works. EBY's

 PreviousProjectcompletionplansincludeones submittedby EBY to the World Bankand IDB in2001and 2002,
althoughneither were implementeddue to lack of financing.

                                                  3

               governing board has requested its management to submit for approval a draft of the
              updated screening procedures. The updated procedures aim at enhancements in
               design, construction, and quality assurance of remaining civil works at existing and
               future resettlement sites;

          o Based on terms of reference discussed with the Inspection Panel's hydrology
              consultant3, the Bank has retained the University of L a Plata (Argentina) to initiate
              independent monitoring of the reservoir water level (see Section VI, below). EBY i s
              expected to provide financing by the end of 2004 for a similar independent
              verification mechanism to monitor the reservoir level;

          o EBY has earmarked financing in its Project Completion Plan for the long-term
              financing of the Project's environmental management;

          o Construction of the sewerage system in Encarnacih's southern zone with IDB
              funding is underway, with completiontentatively planned for 2006; and

          o Construction of a wastewater treatment plant for the city of Encarnaci6n with IDB
              fundingis underway, with completiontentatively plannedfor 2006.

 9.       Regarding the financing of household connections city-wide, and the financing of
 sewerage infrastructure in the northern zone of Encarnacidn, the Bank i s insisting that EBY and
 the Paraguayan authorities resolve this issue. The Bank has also continued urging the IDB to
 finance the remaining sewerage investments. At the same time, recognizing the risk that such
 financing may not materialize as planned, EBY i s also exploring alternative technical and
 financial options.

 10.      Regarding specific issues identified by the Panel in the Arroyo Por6 resettlement site, in
 addition to recommending general improvements in EBY's infrastructure design and
implementation procedures, the Bank has both met with affected parties and insisted on several
 occasions (including in writing) that EBY management do everything possible to resolve a
pending drainage-related problem involving several host population families as quickly as
possible.

 11.     Social Issues. With respect to social issues, the Bank has assisted EBY in the design of a
social communications program. A Bank communication specialist and a consultant worked with
EBY in June and July 2004 to develop a framework, options, and content for a social
communications program to reach all affected groups. The communication consultant has also
recommended an organizational change within EBY to facilitate effective planning,
implementation, and monitoring of communication activities. EBY plans to submit the social
communications programfor approval to its governingboard duringthe last quarter of 2004.

12.      The social communications program that EBY i s developing i s intended to cover the
various aspects of the resettlement and rehabilitation activities in the Project Completion Plan. It
i s expected to inform the general public about the Project, including infrastructure works and
related actions included in the Project Completion Plan, and specifically to inform the affected


  This discussion took place with the assent of the Inspection Panel.

                                                      4

 population about criteria and procedures to be used to confirm beneficiary status and the
 timetable for implementing the Project's Resettlement and Rehabilitation Plan (PARR). This
 would include, for example, continuing efforts to buildand maintain awareness among brick and
 tile makers of the procedures for access to clay deposits on EBY's property.

 13.     EBY has agreed to update the PARR within the next eight months, as confirmed in the
 Aide Memoire of the July 2004 mission. A tentative timetable and methodology for the update
 have been agreed with EBY, recognizing that the forthcoming resettlement activities on the
 Paraguayan side will be complex. Large numbers of families and commercial properties remain
 to be resettled. Duringthe second semester of 2004, EBY i s expected to hire international staff to
 oversee the preparation and implementation of the updated PARR. The Bank's next resettlement
 supervision mission, currently planned for the last quarter of 2004, i s expected to focus, inter
 alia, on this process.

         o EBY has agreed that the methodology for the updated PARR will use up-to-date
             technology (including a geo-referenced database), techniques and procedures to
             ascertain the status of the population to be resettled.

         o The update of the PARR will entail updating of the Project's socioeconomic baseline
             information in order to better design different resettlement altematives and
             rehabilitation programs for families, businesses and industries being relocated, and
             programs to integrate resettled populations with host communities.

        o The updated PARR is also expected to tackle the complex issue of urban redesign,
             especially in downtown Encarnacih, where accommodation of the planned larger
             future reservoir i s expected to involve significant redesign. As part of the ongoing
             discussion concerning the possible extension of the IDB loan-and         as a possible
             condition for such an extension-the     IDB and EBY have discussed allocating part of
             the remaining funds to technical assistance in support of this activity.

At EBY's request, the Bank plans to provide training before the end of 2004 to the Governments
of Argentina and Paraguay and to EBY in developing resettlement and rehabilitation plans. The
Bank has also consulted with local and regional officials in Paraguay about means to stem the
flow of new settlers into the areas to be flooded. EBY i s expected to examine alternative
measures to control such migration, with a view to agreeing with the Government regarding the
design and implementationof such measures over the next year.

14.     Project Supervision. In its Action Plan, Bank Management committed to enhanced
supervision to better monitor progress in addressing the issues that hadbeen identified. Two field
missions to the Project site have taken place since May 2004, and supervision will continue to be
intensive. The recent supervision missions have given special attention to: (a) the social
communications program; (b) grievance resolutionprocedures; (c) independent monitoring of the
water level in the Yacyreth reservoir; (d) methodology, procedures, and timetable to update the
PARR; and (e) infrastructure design and implementation problems at or near existing
resettlement sites in Encarnaci6n. The Bank's Task Team carrying out these missions has been
reinforced accordingly, by including experienced staff in the areas of resettlement and related
grievance and compensation mechanisms, social communication, and civil society relations. As
stated in the Action Plan, the Bank has hired a civil society specialist based in the Bank's

                                               5

Asuncidn, Paraguay office. Also, an architecthrban planner (with experience in environmental
 and social assessments) hasjoined the Bank Task Team to supervise the Project's infrastructure
 and housingconstruction.

 15.      Additional Measures to Address Issues Identified by the Panel. As noted above
 (paragraph 3), the two governments and EBY have agreed on a financing plan to carry out
 activities to address the Project's potential negative impacts and to meet their legal obligations.
The Governments of Argentina and Paraguay and EBY's governing board have approved the
Project CompletionPlan, which earmarks fundingfor these activities.

 16.      As Management indicated during the Board discussion of May 6, 2004, two additional
measures are being developed by the Government of Paraguay and EBY to assist with the
handling of claims by offering funds for community driven development (CDD) type local
investments. These are: (a) a fund created by the Government of Paraguay to support productive
projects for people who were affected when the reservoir was filled to 76 mas1 but were not
included in the PARR (the Productive Fund); and (b) a fund set up by EBY and managed by an
NGO to implement rehabilitation programs in the resettlement sites (the Social Investment
Fund).

 17.      The Productive Fund, with USD 3.7 million in funding remaining available for Project-
affected people, has potential for addressing social needs by financing eligible productive
investments in the Project area, but implementation problems remain. The Paraguayan Congress
established the Fund in 2001 through legislation that specifically named 1,941 initial
beneficiaries. EBY has completed a review of both the beneficiaries named in the legislation and
the claimants with claims on file with EBY, and has found differences. As a result,
implementation progress of the Productive Fund i s delayed, pending a likely complex and
drawn-out process (with partisan interests and stakeholders at the local and national level in
Paraguay) of finalizing the list of eligible parties. The Bank has raised its concerns about the
Fund's implementation with the Government of Paraguay and will continue to do so at the
upcoming HighLevel Meeting.

18.       The Social Investment Fund has USD 500,000 to provide CDD-type support to
productive projects for resettled families as part of the rehabilitation programs included in the
PARR, The Fund is modeled on a successful social investment fund program (FOPAR)
implemented in Argentina in the 1990s, and i s being managed by the Asunci6n-based CPES
(Centro Paraguay0 de Estudios Sociol6gicos). This year, the first set of grants benefiting
approximately thirty families i s being funded. B y statute the Fund i s limited to those families
preparing collective proposals for productive activities, and i s not available for compensation. In
addition, eligibility i s limited to resettled families who were registered inthe c e n ~ u s . ~

19.       In parallel, the World Bank-funded Pilot Community Development Project, or
PRODECO (Loan 7109-PA, USD9,000,000, approved on March 21, 2002), makes CDD
resources available to communities in three departments, including Itapda where YacyretA-
affected communities are located. So far, PRODECO has financed some twenty subprojects,


 EBYis seeking the approval of the Government of Paraguay to include families who moved to the affected area
after the 1990census ("extra censales") and were resettled. So far, this proposed expansion o f eligibility has not
been approved because of its expected budgetary costs.

                                                    6

 several of which are in the Itapda department. PRODECO i s strictly targeted on the extreme
poor, and it has a funding limit of USD 1,750 per family. For this reason, only the poorest among
 YacyretB-affected families meet PRODECO's eligibility criteria, most of whom appear to be
waiting for potentially higher levels of compensation from the Productive Fund than are
 available through PRODECO.

20.     A fourth additional measure is being developed to help address potential adverse effects
of the Project. World Bank and IDB staff have proposed that EBY and local municipalities
 strengthen their institutional links to better integrate Project planning and investments with
municipal management on either side of the river. During the joint July 2004 supervision
mission, EBY agreed to submit to IDB and the World Bank duringthe last quarter of 2004 terms
of reference for the provision of technical assistance to municipalities in preparing urban
development plans.

                   Iv.PROGRESS     INESTABLISHINGGRIEVANCE
                                                     A               MECHANISM

21.     Since early May, progress has been made toward establishment of a grievance resolution
mechanism in three ways. First, EBY now agrees with the urgent need to improve its own
grievance resolution mechanism, in order to settle both the backlog of existing claims and
address possible future claims effectively. To support this effort, the Bank has retained a law
firm and an information technology consultant to help EBY organize its system for processing
claims and grievances. Improving EBY's system i s expected to be all the more important as the
next resettlement phase on the Paraguayan side will involve more families than have been
resettled to date in the Project, and EBY needs to be prepared for the possibility of a significant
number of future claims.

22.     Second, the IDB has agreed to finance, through its ongoing project, the cost of improving
EBY's grievance resolution mechanism, includingexpert advice, computer systems, and training
(this would not include the actual payment of claims adjudicated as valid). EBY is setting up a
financial reserve fund as part of its Project Completion Planto finance awards that may come out
of these processes. EBY i s expected to finalize details on this fund inthe last quarter of 2004.

23.     Third, the Bank has commissioned a study about possible options for independent
grievance resolution mechanisms. For this purpose, the Bank has retained a lawyer with
experience in arbitration, mediation and conciliation. The analytical work toward establishing
such a mechanism i s currently expected to be completed before the end of 2004. The ongoing
analysis places priority on establishing a firm legal basis for any proposed arbitration,
conciliation, or mediation mechanism in Argentine and Paraguayan law, as well as developing a
credible and transparent process.

24.     As is almost always the case with dispute resolution mechanisms, new grievance
procedures, even when combined with an effective outreach program, will not necessarily
resolve all pending claims and satisfy all demands. The Bank understands that EBY recognizes
the need for a strategy to address grievances of the affected population in a consistent manner.
Addressing grievances consistently will likely be a complex process.




                                              7

                      v. COLLABORATIONBETWEENTHE                WORLD BANKAND THE
                                 INTER-AMERICANDEVELOPMENT              BANK

  25.     Since the Board discussion inMay 2004, two World Bank missions have been conducted
 jointly with the IDB to supervise the implementation of the social and environmental aspects of
 the Project, and to consider any conditions surrounding the approval of possible additional IDB
 financing of the Project. During the joint missions, Bank and IDB staff articulated a unified,
 common position on these issues.

 26.      Available IDB financing for the Project (undisbursed funds from the ongoing Yacyretii
 Environment and Social Resettlement Project) includes resources for environmental works and
 resettlement activities integral to Project completion. While the current IDB loan for the Project
 was scheduled to close on July 26, 2004, a grace period of three months has been granted to
 allow the IDB and EBY to agree fully on the financing terms and conditions for a possible longer
 extension to finance key social and environmental elements of the Project Completion Plan.

 27.      One topic flagged by the Bank to both EBY and the IDB i s the importance of completing
 the sewerage system in the city of Encarnaci6n in order to avoid potentially significant adverse
 health effects stemming from water quality deterioration in urban lateral bays if and when the
 reservoir level i s raised (see also paragraph 9 above). The IDB and EBY are already financing:
 (a) the sewerage collection system in the southern and central parts of the city; and (b) a
 wastewater treatment plant with sufficient capacity to serve the entire city. So far, neither EBY
 nor the municipality of Encarnaci6n have near-term plans for financing the completion of the
 household connections and construction of sewerage collection lines in the northern part of the
 city, and it i s not clear whether IDB funds will be available to cover the necessary remaining
 investments. Without resolution of the modalities and timing for completing remaining sewerage
 investments, overall Project completion would likely be delayed further. As mentioned above,
 the Bank has therefore continued to urge the IDB to finance the remaining sewerage investments;
 at the same time, EBY i s also exploring alternative financial and technical options.

 28.     The IDB has had its own independent investigation of the Yacyretii Project, and the IDB
 Board and Management are still discussing those findings and its Management Re~ponse.~                  As
part of those discussions, on July 13, 2004, the World Bank was invited to brief the IDB Board
 on the World Bank Inspection Panel Investigation Report, Management Report and
Recommendation and associated Action Plan. World Bank staff presented a summary of these
documents. The IDB Board expressed its appreciation for the briefing.




  The IDB Independent Investigation Mechanism received a request for investigation on May 16, 2002 from
FEDAYIM(Federacibn de Afectados por Yacyreti de Itapda y Misiones -- the same NGO that brought the World
Bank IP complaint). IDB Management responded on February 14, 2003, and the IDB Board authorized an
investigation on July 9, 2003. That investigation and the IDB Management Response are now complete and under
discussion by the IDB Board and Management. As o f August 6, 2004, no documents associated with this IDB
Inspection Mechanismcase have been made public.

                                                    8

                              VI. MONITORINGTHERESERVOIRLEVEL
                                                   OF

 29.      The YacyretB Power Plant Operational Manual, updated in 1998,6 set forth the
 operational rules for the dam to maintain water levels in Encarnaci6n and Posadas, 100
 kilometers upstream. Reservoir operating rules are a complex set of procedures, particularly
 since water passing Encarnaci6n-Posadas takes between five and six days to reach the dam
 under most conditions. The Operational Manual established that the power plant would be
 operated in such a way that, for a flow up to 13,000 m3/s, the expected water levels at
 Encarnacih-Posadas would be maintained at no more than 76 masl. Water levels above 76 masl
 at Encarnacih-Posadas are to be expected for flows above 13,000 m3/sand are consistent with
 operating procedures for such higher flows. At river flows above 45,000 m3/s,Encarnacih-
 Posadas are in a state of natural flooding where the downstream dam has no impact. Prediction
 of water flows involves data transfer from upstream dams in Brazil (Itaipu and others) as well as
 prediction of rainfall and run-off inthe immediate watershed of YacyretB.

 30.     The Inspection Panel found that the reservoir was being operated above its legally
 agreed-upon level during some periods of low flow.7 InMarch 2004, Management contracted an
 independent study on the operation of the reservoir. This study (Valdez, 2004) confirmed that,
 beginning in 2001, the dam had been operated at higher levels than specified in the Operational
 Manual for flows less than 13,000 m3/s.Further analysis by Bank staff found that the mean daily
 water levels for these flows were about 75.90 masl until 2000, and increased to 76.30 masl in
 2001, 76.28 masl in 2002 and 76.40 masl in 2003. InMarch 2004, the operation of the reservoir
 was adjusted to follow the Operational Manual, and according to staff analysis, the observed
 water levels followed Operational Manualspecifications at that time.

 31.     To monitor the reservoir level and confirm that the reservoir i s operated in accordance
with the Operational Manual, the Bank i s contracting the University of L a Plata (Argentina) for a
period of five months. This University has established a team of water resources engineers from
the University of Asunci6n inParaguay and University of L a Plata inArgentina. According to its
terms of reference, this team will: (a) analyze hydrological data collected from the Argentine and
Paraguayan Coast Guards independently of EBY, monitor the reservoir level, and check
compliance with pertinent provisions in YacyretB's Operational Manual (including validation of
the height-flow rate curve); and (b) publicly disseminate the information collected on the
reservoir level on the two Universities' websites. During the July 2004 mission, EBY agreed to
assume responsibility for financing a similar independent mechanism to monitor the water level,
no later than the beginning of 2005.




  Harza y Asociados CIDY. Yacyreti Power Plant Operation and Maintenance Manual, 1998.
7 The term "legally agreed-upon level" refers to the Legal Agreements, last amended in 1997, that bind the
Republics of Argentina and Paraguay and EBY to conditions associated with Loan No. 3520-AR. As yet, the
Operational Manual for operation at 76 mad, referred to in the previous paragraph, i s not specifically incorporated
into these Legal Agreements. Duringthe next HighLevel Meeting, the Bank plans to negotiate this change with all
parties.

                                                  9

                                    VII. CONCLUSIONSAND NEXTSTEPS

32.     In conclusion, this report notes that there has been progress in several areas since the
Board discussion in early May, especially: (a) steps toward resolving outstanding environmental
and social issues by EBY and the local and national authorities, particularly in Paraguay where
these issues have tended to be more acute; and (b) intensive performance monitoringby the Bank
of those steps. EBY's Project Completion Plan includes measures to address most issues raised
by Management and by the World Bank and IDB Inspection Panels. Financing under
consideration by the IDB and the Government of Argentina, and a new urgency due to the
energy crisis inArgentina, may help generate momentum for completingthe Project.

33.     Management plans to report back to the Board in one year. Several specific actions are
expected to be completed during that time, including monitorable actions by EBY concerning
specific environmental and social issues (particularly the social communications program and the
updated PARR);'        various consultancies (particularly concerning a study of options for an
                                                                                          .
independent grievance mechanism and independent verification of reservoir water levels); and a
determination by IDB regarding its ongoing and future involvement inthe Project.

34.     At the same time, it may take a year or more before EBY and national authorities
complete steps sufficient for many affected parties to benefit from infrastructure improvements
(such as improved sanitation) or compensation (whether from an improved grievance resolution
mechanism or from improved implementation of existing sources of CDD-type funding). The
negotiations around the Project are complex, and the timetable set out by the two governments
for resolving Project-related issues i s ambitious and depends in part on some still uncertain
financing. In addition, there are many implementation variables over which the Bank has no or
limited influence. Backtracking, unforeseen events, and thus setbacks and delays, are possible.

35.     Given this overall situation, the Bank will continue to supervise the Project intensively.
Management remains committed to seeking workable solutions to support the affected people,
pressingfor their expeditious implementation, and helping build stronger understanding among
the various actors.




 See paragraphs 8, 11, 13, 14, 20, 23, 31.

             ANNEX 1. OVERVIEWWORLD
                            OF    BANKSuPPORT FORYACYRET~

Argentina




Paraguay

                                                    ANNEX2:
       ANNOTATEDMATRIX OF THE MANAGEMENT ACTION PLANAND PROGRESSTO DATE

The matrix that follows indicates the specific actions proposedby the Bank as part of its
Management Responseto the Inspection Panel's Investigation Report, and which were approved
by the Board inMay 2004, together with an indication of the progress achieved to date intheir
implementation.'

 Management's Action Plan in Response to Inspection
                    Panel's Findings                               Implementation Progressto Date

                                              Environment-OD   4.01




Biophysical environment     -long-term   (Item 6)
   The Bank will continue to monitor closely            0 EBYhas earmarked financing for Environmental
   compliance with the Legal Agreements, including        Management Plan (EMP) activities in its Project
   the environmental and social mitigation measures,      CompletionPlan presentedin June 2004. Duringthe
   and will ensurethat EBY is apprised of its findings,   July 2004 mission, both the Bank and IDB stressed
   with a view to improving EBY's capacity to             the importance for EBY to implement the actions
   maintain adequate environmental management             establishedinthe EMP.
   practices for the Project over the long term.




Reservoir level verification (Item 11)
0   Management will urge the Governments of             0 To monitor the reservoir level and confirmthat the
    Argentina and Paraguay and EBY to establish a        reservoir is operated inaccordancewith the
    means for indeuendent verification of the reservoir   Ouerational Manual. and based on terms of reference


 The left column is taken verbatim from the Management'sAction Plandated April 6, 2004. The Itemnumbers
given in each row refer to ItemsinAnnex 1of the Management Report and Recommendations inresponseto the
Yacyretfi Inspection PanelInvestigation(May 6, 2004).

                                                    12

   level. Bank staff will monitor this and confirm that      discussed with the Inspection Panel's hydrology
   the reservoir is operated at 76 masl, in accordance       consultant," the Bank is contracting the University of
   with the Legal Agreements. Management will also           L aPlata (UNLP). The UNLP has established a team
   request EBY to validate the height-flow rate              of water resourcesengineers from Universidad de
   curves every year.                                        Asuncion inParaguayand Universidad de la Plata in
                                                             Argentina. According to the terms of reference, this
                                                             team will: (a) analyze hydrological data collected
                                                             from the Argentine and ParaguayanCoast Guards
                                                             independently of EBY, monitor the reservoir level,
                                                             and check compliance with pertinentprovisions in
                                                             YacyretB's Operational Manual (including validation
                                                             of the height-flow rate curve); and (b) publicly
                                                             disseminatethe informationcollected on the reservoir
                                                             level on the two Universities' websites.
                                                             Duringthe July 2004 mission, EBY agreedto assume
                                                             responsibility for financing a similar independent
                                                             verification mechanismto monitor the water level, no
                                                             later than the beginninn of 2005.




lo discussiontookplacewiththeassentof
 This                                         the Inspection Panel.

                                                   13

                                                  Social OD 4.30
                                                        -




UpdatedPARR(Items 19,22,29,30,35,37)
  Management will confirm that the updated PARR          0 EBYhas agreed on a timetable and a methodology for
  component of the Revised Environmental                   updating the PARR. The update is expected to take
  Management Plan (EMP), when completed, is in             eight months. The process will be integrated with the
  full compliance with OD4.30 and the Legal                social communications program.
  Agreements, before the reservoir level i s raised
  beyond 78 mad. Management will also urge EBY           0 EBYhas agreed that the methodology for the updated
  to make the census and relevant topographical data       PARR will use up-to-date technology (including a
  public, and will advise EBY on ways to improve its       geo-referenced database), techniques and procedures
  procedures for public review.                            to ascertain the status o f the population to be resettled.

0 Management will confirm that the updated PARR          0 The PARR will update the Project's socioeconomic
  component o f the Revised EMP includes specific          baseline information inorder to better design different
  programs to promote the better integration o f           resettlement alternatives and rehabilitation Drograms


                                                   14

   resettled and host populations (discussions are           for families, businessesand industries being
    underway).                                               relocated, and programs to better integrate resettled
0   Management will confirmthat the updatedPARR              populations with host communities.
    component o f the RevisedEMP considers
    alternative sites and different resettlement             Duringthe secondsemester of 2004, EBY is expected
    strategies, and that both be subject to consultation.    to hire international staff to overseethe preparation
    Inthe updated PARR component of theRevised               and implementation of the updated Resettlement and
    EMP, the Bank will confirm that the required             Rehabilitation Plan.
    socioeconomic data has been included. The Bank           At EBY's request, the Bankplans to provide training
    will also facilitate a workshop, planned for the third   by the end of the year to the Governments of
   or fourth quarter o f 2004, to train EBY staff and to     Argentina and Paraguay and to EBY in developing
   discuss additional measures to improve the                resettlement and rehabilitation plans.
   rehabilitationprograms.
   Management will confirm with EBY that the
   updated PARR component of the Revised EMP
   (which is requiredto be revised prior to raisingthe
   reservoir beyond 78 mas1inaccordancewith the
   Legal Agreements), includes a realistic plan, budget
   and timetable for completion of resettlement
   activities.
   Management will confirmthat the updatedPARR
   component of the RevisedEMPhas included
   provisions to continue giving priority in
   resettlement sequencingto the most vulnerable and
   most impacted groups, particularly those located in
   areas prone to periodic flooding, as well as the sick
   and elderly.




Dispute resolution/ grievance procedures(Items 21,
22)The                                                     0The Bank has retained a law firm and an information
        Bank will oversee a review during the second        technology consultant to help EBY organize its
   quarter of 2004 of existingclaims againstEBY in          system for processing claims and grievances. The
   order to address issuesof dissatisfaction, and           IDBhas agreedto finance, through its ongoing
   propose a renewed effort (together with the IDB) to      project, the cost of improvingthis system, including
   develop a credible and transparent dispute               financing expert advice, computer systems, and
   resolution process. The Bank will continue to work       training.
   closely with EBY to establish this processas soon
   as possible.                                             The Bank has commissioned a study about possible
                                                            options for independent grievance resolution
0 Management will urge EBY (and provide guidance
   as necessary) to include inthe grievance procedures      mechanisms. For this purpose, the Bank has retained a
   a means for the reception and solution of claims         lawyer with experience inarbitration, mediationand
  that could emerge from host communities during            conciliation. The analytical work toward establishing
  the resettlement process.                                 such a mechanism is currently expected to be
                                                            completed before the end of 2004.


                                                      15

Influx of people into the Project area (Item 36)
   The Bank will urge the Paraguayanauthorities to     The Bank has consulted with local andregional
   explore all available legaI and administrative      officials in Paraguayabout means to stem the flow of
   means, such as licensing, permittingor fiscal       new settlers into the areas to be flooded. EBY is
   policies, to discourage new development or influx   expected to examine alternative measures to control
   into the land between 78 and 84 mas1untilsuch       migration, with a view to agreeing with the
   time as EBYhas adequatefinancial resourcesto        Government regarding the design and implementation
   acquire this land.                                  of such measures over the next year.




                                                   16

                                      Supervision OD 13.05 OP/BP 13.05
                                                   -      -




Consultation(Item42)
0  Inaccordancewith the Panel's findings, future         The June Mission documented Task Team meetings
  Aide Memoires will be expandedto document the          with affected people, with a summary of findings and
   subject matter of Bank meetings with affected         of follow-up actions needed.
  people, with summary findings and notes of follow-
  up actions needed.




Reporting(Item45)
 Based-on the results of the Panel's investigation      The Bank will continue to supervise the Project
  and related data gathering, Management will take      intensively and plans to report back to the Board in
  into account all available information and prior      one year.
  experience in order to improve the quality of future
  reporting.
  Inaddition, Management will report to the Board
  annually on the implementation of the proposed
  Action Plan.


                                                   17



