                                       The Inspection Panel

                                Report and Recommendation
                                                     on
                                      Request for Inspection

                PARAGUAY ­ Reform Project for the Water and
               Telecommunications Sectors (Loan No. 3842 ­PA)1,
             ARGENTINA ­SEGBA V Power Distribution Project
                                       (Loan No. 2854 ­ AR)



  1. On May 17, 2002, the Inspection Panel (the "Panel") received a Request for Inspection
       (the "Request") related to the above-referenced projects, which are related to the Yacyretá
       Hydroelectric Project ("Yacyretá") (Annex 1). On May 30, 2002, the Panel notified the
       Executive Directors and the President of the International Bank for Reconstruction and
       Development (the "Bank") of receipt of the Request (meaning "Registration" under the
       Panel's Operating Procedures).2

       A. The Project

  2. The Yacyretá Hydroelectric Project is a joint venture established in a 1973 treaty between
       Argentina and Paraguay. The Project consists of a 65 km earth dam in the main channel of
       the Parana River about 80 km from the cities of Posadas, Argentina, and Encarnación,
       Paraguay. The project is a low-head hydroelectric facility with 20 Kaplan turbines of 155
       MW each, for a total generating capacity of 3100 MW. The project also includes a
       navigation lock, fish-passage and other support facilities as well as a large program of
       infrastructure relocation, population resettlement, and mitigation of environmental
       impacts. The earth dam, with a uniform height of 86 meters above sea level (masl), creates
       a reservoir of 1065 square km, which, if filled to its design level of 83 masl, would flood
       over 107,000 hectares and affect over 13,000 families, including a major impact on the
       urban areas of Encarnación and Posadas. Currently, the dam operates at 60 percent of its
       capacity, with a reservoir level of 76 masl. To implement the project, a semi-autonomous
       bi-national entity, Entidad Binacional Yacyretá (EBY), was created in 1976, with equal
       representation of the two countries on its Board of Directors, as well as at all other
       administrative levels.




1The original name of the Project was "Asunción Sewerage Project" and was changed by an Amendment to the
Loan Agreement dated January 27, 2000.
2See The Inspection Panel, Operating Procedures (August 1994) at ¶ 17.



                                                      1

   B. Financing

3. The Yacyretá Project is partially financed by a series of loans from both the Bank and the
   Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) to the Argentine Republic (the "Borrower").
   The Bank's latest direct financial support for the project came in the form of two loans to
   Argentina: Loan 3520-AR, approved in 1992 for US$300 million equivalent, and Loan
   2854-AR, restructured in 1994, to provide US$135 million equivalent. Loan 3520-AR
   closed on December 31, 2000, while the closing date for Loan 2854-AR was extended
   until October 30, 2002.

4. The Request also refers to Loan 3842-PA, originally the Asuncion Sewerage Project,
   approved by the Board of Executive Directors in February 1995 for US$46.5 million
   equivalent. This Loan was made to the Republic of Paraguay to finance, inter alia,
   complementary investments relating to the Yacyretá Project. In 2000, Loan 3842-PA was
   restructured significantly to respond to nation-wide infrastructure reforms in Paraguay
   unrelated to the Yacyretá Project. As part of this restructuring the Asuncion Sewerage
   Project was renamed the "Reform Project for the Water and Telecommunications
   Sectors." The components supporting the Yacyretá Project, however, were not affected by
   this amendment.

            The Loans

5. Loan 2854-AR, for US$276 million equivalent, was approved on June 30, 1988. In
   August 1994 it was restructured to allow for US$135 million equivalent to be used for the
   Yacyretá Project. Loan 2854-AR was amended again in 1997 to provide increased
   financial support to resettlement and environmental activities under the Yacyretá Project
   in order to ensure the completion of Plan A (Plan A dealt with actions that should have
   been completed, but were not, before the reservoir was filled 76 masl level) and Plan B
   (Plan B proposed activities needed to operate the reservoir at 76 masl for a prolonged
   period). Through this amendment, Plans A and B were defined and related specific
   obligations of the Borrower, EBY and the Republic of Paraguay included in the legal
   documents. The closing date for Loan 2854-AR was extended until October 30, 2002, to
   enable the reallocation of the loan amounts among the already existing categories of
   disbursement. This reallocation of loan proceeds was designed to support additional
   development activities for the indigenous community of Pindo in Paraguay, resettlement
   and environmental activities, and the building and installation of new fish elevators and
   baffle plates in Yacyretá main spillway.

6. According to Management, Loan 2854-AR is currently rated as unsatisfactory for both
   development objectives and implementation. Management was considering a request for
   further extension of the Closing Date and a request for the reallocation of funds to support
   activities aimed primarily at overcoming EBY's chronically weak institutional capacity;
   the creation of a mechanism to allow EBY to contribute to local development and
   economic rehabilitation of the resettled families and other groups living within the project
   area; and the creation of a mechanism to resolve environmental conflicts.



                                             2

    7. Loan 3520-AR, for US$300 million equivalent, was approved by the Board on September
        29, 1992, to help complete the physical works on the Yacyretá dam. This loan closed on
        December 31, 2000, and is now fully disbursed. The Panel, therefore, has no jurisdiction
        over it pursuant to paragraph 14 (c) of the Resolution.3

    8. Loan 3842-PA, for US$46.5 million equivalent was approved on February 14, 1995, to
        finance the then called Asuncion Sewerage Project. One of the Project's objectives was to
        improve the living conditions of 3,000 inhabitants of Encarnación, who were to be
        resettled under the Second Yacyretá Hydroelectric Project, by providing related
        infrastructure works. Specifically Part C of the project description, "Civil Works in
        Encarnación", reads as follows, "[c]onstruction of infrastructure works, including, inter
        alia, (a) a water supply and sewage disposal facilities, (b) roads; (c) storm water
        drainage and solid wastes disposal facilities; and (d) a power distribution system for the
        benefit of about 3,000 people to be resettled under the Second Yacyretá Hydroelectric
        Project." Due to major implementations problems, the project was restructured and
        renamed in January 2000.4 This loan is scheduled to close on December 12, 2003.

        C. The Request

    9. The Request was submitted by Federación de Afectados por Yacyretá de Itapúa y
        Misiones (FEDAYIM)5, a local nongovernmental organization on its behalf as well as of
        more than 4,000 families who believe their lives are being affected socially and
        environmentally, because of the impacts of the Yacyretá Hydroelectric Dam, and six
        coordinators of affected people in the following areas of Paraguay: San Cosme y Damián,
        Distrito Cambyreta, Barrio Pacu Cúa, Barrio Santa Rosa Mboy Caé, Arroyo Potiy, and
        Barrio Santa Rosa (the "Requesters"). The Request includes letters from the Mayors and
        Municipal Councils of the City of Encarnación and the District of Cambyreta as evidence
        of their support of the Request. There are also a number of other documents attached to



3Resolution No. IBRD 93-10, No.IDA-93-6 "The World Bank Inspection Panel", September 22, 1993, ¶ 14(c).
("Resolution").
4In its Response to the Request for Inspection, Management claims that this Loan, as restructured, is now "unrelated
to Yacyretá" because the civil works associated with the Yacyretá project, funded by the original Loan, have been
satisfactorily completed. In a further memorandum, dated July 31, 2002, providing clarifications requested by the
Panel, Management restates this allegation considering that "the objectives of the related component had been met
and the funds allocated for that component fully disbursed." The same memorandum, however, acknowledges that
several of the sub-components of Part C have either not been financed ( roads) or "are to be financed by the Inter-
American Development Bank through Loan 760 OC-RG." The Panel observes that the temporal limitation
established in paragraph 14 (c) of the Resolution ("Requests filed after the Closing Date of the loan financing the
project with respect to which the request is filed or after the loan financing the project has been substantially
disbursed" i.e. "when at least ninety five percent of the loan proceeds have been disbursed") refers only to the
percentage of disbursement of the loan proceeds, regardless of the status of the execution of the project. For this
same reason, the Panel has no jurisdiction over projects yet to be completed when the related loan has been
substantially disbursed. In any event, the facts alleged by Management, i.e. that the project has been completed and
its objectives met (both as described in the relevant Loan Agreement), can only be determined through an
investigation of all pertinent facts.
5 The English translation of the NGO's name is "The Federation of People of Itapúa and Misiones Affected by
Yacyretá."



                                                          3

         the Request, including copies of several letters exchanged between the Requesters and
         Bank Management.

    10. The Requesters claim to represent more than 4,000 families affected by the pending
         liabilities or "deudas pendientes" (an apparent reference to Yacyretá Base and Pending
         Actions Programs6) which have occurred because of the raising levels of the reservoir of
         the Yacyretá hydropower plant to 76 masl and possibly higher. According to the Request,
         these families were not appropriately identified and "quantified in their real dimensions"
         and, as a consequence, thousands of them were excluded from existing compensation and
         mitigation programs in spite of the fact that they have owned and occupied lands affected
         by the construction of the dam for more than 20 years. What follows is a summary
         description of their specific claims.

    11. First, the Request cites, as an example, the case of 110 families represented by the
         Requesters who live in the district of Cambyreta on the banks of the Potiy Creek (Arroyo
         Potiy) who settled in the area around 1978 and "are now affected by floods every time that
         it rains." The Request also cites similar cases of families living on the banks of the
         following creeks: Mboy Caé, Santa Maria, and Yacu Paso. Several photos are provided in
         the Request to support this claim. The Requesters state that "this has continued, despite
         numerous efforts and reports ("denuncias") submitted to the Banks, the Yacyretá
         Binational Authority (Entidad Binacional Yacyretá ­ EBY), the local and the national
         authorities."7

    12. The Request claims that families for whom the Urban Creeks Program (Programa de
         Desborde de Arroyos or PDA) was established are being replaced by families from the
         neighborhoods of Pacu Cúa, Santa Rosa, Mboi Caé, Ita Paso and San Blas, who are in no
         way affected by the devastating situation being faced by those living on the creeks'
         banks. The Request also states that these affected families are concerned that the program
         currently underway for 700 homes in Ita Paso and 400 in Arroyo Porá, will end with no
         solution for the many families afflicted by the situation described and exhibited in the
         photos provided. These families, according to the Requesters, are "enduring extreme
         conditions that are truly life threatening."

    13. The Request further points to the environmental contamination and adverse health impacts
         caused by the elevation of the reservoir, resulting in the rising of the water table, which
         affected the latrines and resulted in the contamination of the drinking water wells.
         According to the Request, this situation has been further exacerbated by the wastewater
         spills from the housing developments built by Entidad Binacional Yacyretá (EBY) in
         Buena Vista and San Pedro, into the Potiy, Santa María and Mboy Caé creeks. In addition
         the Request claims that the work planned to resolve the pollution problems will not meet
         its main objective, since, according to a document in the possession of the Requesters, the
         planned Wastewater Treatment Plant will neither benefit neighborhoods built by EBY


6These programs, known also as Plans A and B, were approved by EBY after the first Request for Inspection related
to this project was filed. They are defined and referred to in the amendments to the legal documents for loans 2854-
AR and 3520-AR, dated December 11, 1997.
7Request for Inspection, p.1.



                                                            4

    under the project, nor others affected by the rise in the water table.        As such, the
    Requesters believe that the chance to recover or clean up these streams will be lost for
    good, and that numerous families will be condemned to live in a polluted environment.
    The Requesters allege that the inhabitants of Barrio La Esperanza neighborhood are
    opposed to this component of the project as currently designed, because of these reasons,
    and of the fact that the construction of the proposed plant is based on a defective
    Environmental Assessment that is even in violation of national environmental laws.

14. The Request claims that the reservoir has caused severe health problems. The reservoir,
    filled with stagnant water, polluted with sewage waste, is an ideal habitat for
    microorganisms that are vectors of serious disease, such as malaria, leishmaniasis,
    schistosomiasis, dengue fever and other diseases. Statistical data from the Ministry of
    Public Health and Social Welfare of Paraguay (Sanitation Region Seven) for the years
    1990, 1992 and 1994, mentioned in the Request show that diseases related to the
    reservoir's existence are among the main causes for doctor's visits, e.g., diarrhea, anemia,
    parasitic infection, ectoparasites, and skin diseases such as pyoderma. According to the
    Request, people living in the affected areas have complained of a high incidence of fevers
    since the reservoir was filled. The Requesters allege that there have been no programs for
    monitoring and controlling disease-causing microorganisms, and if this remains
    unresolved, it could lead to an alarming and catastrophic health situation.

15. The Requesters state that the Bank has failed in its obligation to ensure that EBY provide
    people with suitable compensation and resettlement packages. The assertion is based on
    the fact that the compensation approved for the requesting families living in the Santa
    Rosa, Arroyo Pora and Ita Paso neighborhoods "were negligible amounts that will in no
    way make it possible for the families to buy new land and rebuild their homes."
    Similarly, they state that the Bank and EBY have no plans to restore the families'
    productive infrastructure. Finally, the Request states that compensation and resettlement
    programs for brick-makers benefited only the owners of productive units and left their
    workers unemployed and in a very difficult economic situation.

16. The Requesters claim that the Bank's actions and omissions described in the Request
    constitute violations of various provisions of the following Bank Policies and Procedures:

     OD 4.00 Annex B on Environmental Policy for Dam and Reservoir Projects
    OD 4.01 on Environmental Assessment
    OD 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement
    OD/OP/BP 13.05 on Project Supervision
    OD 10.70 on Project Monitoring and Evaluation
    OD 13.40 on Suspension of Disbursements.

    D. Management Response

17. On July 10, 2002 the Panel received Management's Response to the Request for
    Inspection (Annex 2).




                                              5

   18. In its Response, Management specifically notes that many allegations made in the prior
         Request for Inspection8 (Request I) are similar and, in certain instances, identical to those
         in the current Request (Request II). Management asks the Panel to consider "only those
         allegation made in Request II that relate to developments since 1997" as the ones that
         "(...) fall within the Inspection Panel's jurisdiction according to paragraph 14(d) of the
         Board Resolution."9 Furthermore, Management submits that "the only such new
         developments are those involving; (a) the PDA (...); designed in 1998; (b) the siting of the
         future wastewater treatment plan for the Paraguayan city of Encarnación; (c)
         resettlement progress since 1997; and (d) Management's supervision efforts since
         1997."10 Furthermore and on the same issue of eligibility of the Request, Management
         submits that "many of the matters raised by the Requesters are not attributable to the
         project but are related to situations which existed before the project began."11 Hence,
         Management refers to paragraph 12 of the Resolution IBRD No.93-101, which "requires
         a causal link between an alleged Bank action/omission and the harm suffered by those
         represented by the Requesters."12

   19. In its Response, Management identifies three discreet sets or areas of complaint:
         resettlement and flooding; environmental and health impacts and compensation of
         resettled families and those of the brick makers. In summary, Management responds to
         each set of claims as follows.

   20. Resettlement and Flooding. In its response to the Requester's claim that 4, 000 families
         have not been properly identified, Management states that "this claim is not supported by
         available evidence."13 Specifically, Management refers to the two censuses conducted by
         EBY, in 1980 and 1990. The 1980 census would have identified all families needed to be
         resettled and/or compensated as a result of raising the level of the reservoir up to 83 masl.
         The 1990 census took into account demographic changes that had occurred since the
         previous census. Moreover, Management states that "all families included in the updated
         census of 1990 who were living in areas below 78 masl have been compensated and/or
         relocated"14 under the Resettlement and Social Action Plan (applied until 1992), the
         Resettlement and Rehabilitation Action Plan (1992), and Plans A (1995) and B (1996). In
         addition, in accordance with the provision of the "Third Owners Agreement" between the
         Governments of Argentina and Paraguay, all post-census families living in the areas up to
         84 masl would be resettled by their respective governments with their own funds.15
         Management concludes that "in spite of delays and other problems related to EBY's weak
         capacity and difficult environment in which resettlement takes place, supervision of the
         project has ensured compliance with the Bank's OD 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement."16



8Request for Inspection, dated September 30, 1996, registered by the Panel on October 1, 1996 ("Request I").
9Management Response, p.62, ¶ 148.
10Ibid.
11Id., p.12, ¶ 35.
12Ibid.
13Id., p.19, ¶ 37.
14Id., p.19, ¶ 38.
15Id., p.20, ¶ 39.
16Id., p.23, ¶ 46.



                                                        6

   21. In response to the claim about the frequent flooding of the people living on the banks of
         the Potiy, Mboy Caé, Santa Maria, and Yacu Paso creeks, Management denies any
         "causal relationship between urban creek flooding and raising the level of the reservoir to
         76 masl."17 Management claims that these allegations "are based on partial and incorrect
         information, misunderstandings about the scope of the PDA and its relation to future
         resettlement before reaching 83 masl, and insufficient understanding of the hydrology of
         the reservoir and neighboring urban creeks."18 Management explains that the PDA was
         designed "for the families between 78 and 84 masl that were living along urban creeks
         and thus, were exposed to excessively high risks and could not wait until a plan to reach
         84 masl was agreed and implemented."19 The PDA is comprised of two main elements:
         "a) construction of house and infrastructure for resettled families, and b) provision of
         assistance before, during and after the relocation of families to their new
         neighborhood."20 Although the Response alleges that the Bank is not financing the PDA
         Management states that "EBY is aware that the PDA, regardless of its sources of
         financing, needs to comply with the Bank's Involuntary Resettlement Policy (OD 4.30),"21
         adding that "the Bank has advised EBY that the design and implementation of the
         Program should ensure: (a) increased participation and consultation with affected
         families; (b) development of resettlement plans within the context of municipal
         development plans; (c) implementation of socio-economic impact assessments prior to
         relocation; (d) exploration of more flexible options of relocation; (e) use of self
         construction and mutual help methods; and finally (f) promotion of community
         development activities."22

   22. Moreover, Management asserts that it is aware of "current complaints by the families
         dissatisfied with their exclusion from the Program and the priority given to others."23
         With respect to specific claims by those families, Management maintains that the 68,
         instead of 110, Cambyreta families living in the San Francisco neighborhood were
         originally included in the PDA but they had rejected an option of moving to a new
         resettlement community in Arroyo Pora. Further, lands on the shores of Potiy creek in the
         District of Cambyreta are anticipated to be acquired by EBY if they are located below 84
         masl. Management continues that neighborhoods of Pacu Cua, Santa Rosa and Barril Paso
         will be eligible if they are affected by high risk of flooding and unsanitary conditions.
         Finally, the "presumed ineligible families" living in the area of Ita Paso were included in
         the PDA with the understanding that the Government of Paraguay undertook to finance
         this component of the Program and provide for these families.24 Therefore, Management
         concludes that "the Bank is aware that the PDA covers only a partial number of the
         people to be compensated and/or resettled before reaching 84 masl"25 and that EBY "had
         to make difficult choices in establishing priorities and, on that basis, determining that


17Id., p.23, ¶ 48.
18Ibid.
19Id., p.25, ¶ 50.
20Id., p.25, ¶ 54.
21Id., p.27, ¶ 58.
22Ibid.
23Id., p.29, ¶ 59.
24Id., p.30, ¶ 60.
25Id., p.31-32, ¶ 62.



                                                  7

         some families would be relocated earlier than others. Those at higher risk were included
         for advanced relocation as part of the PDA, while the rest would have to wait for
         resettlement in the context of a future plan to raise the level of operation to its final design
         of 83 masl."26

   23. In response to the claim that the houses have been destroyed by flooding and thus, the
         entitled owners have not received compensation, Management refers to the lack of causal
         link between the flooding and the current reservoir level. Management states that "Parana
         River has historically caused periodic floods, affecting families in the cities of Posadas
         and Encarnación."27 Furthermore, Management contends that "the Yacyretá reservoir at
         current level does not increase the likelihood or incidence of flooding. Heavy flooding is
         the result of natural precipitation cycles and is exacerbated by "El Niño" and other
         weather phenomena."28 Management sympathizes with the owners of the houses,
         especially since their properties are being reduced in value before the compensation is to
         be paid. Nevertheless, Management concludes that there is no violation of any Bank
         policies in this situation.

   24. With regard to the Requesters' claim of the lack of adequate supervision of the Projects by
         the Bank, Management "believes that the Requesters are not fully aware of previous and
         ongoing Bank supervision efforts as well as the specific positive results these efforts have
         generated."29 In particular, Management submits that it "reiterated its commitment to stay
         the course and protect the well-being of the affected people, consistent with the Panel's
         recommendation as endorsed by the Board."30 Furthermore, Management states that "as a
         result of Bank supervision, Plan A and B are almost fully implemented albeit with
         delays."31 Management also refers to the frequency of the supervision missions during the
         period of 1997-2002, which included three High-Level Supervision Meetings.32 As a
         result of adequate and intensive supervision, Management states that the Project was
         identified early in its implementation as being unsatisfactory and declared it to be non-
         compliant with the loan agreements. This triggered the suspension of all future loans to
         Paraguay until the outstanding issues were resolved. Subsequently, the Bank staff verified
         the progress of which and work on the Project has continued with the intensified
         supervision and management support.

   25. Environmental and health impacts. In response to the claims on environmental
         pollution and negative impact on health conditions in the area, Management states that
         "this claim is identical to the one presented in the Request I."33 Management refers to the
         information provided in the previous Panel response as being relevant to this claim for the
         period up to 1997. In particular, Management states that "[t]he environmental and health
         situation remains comparable to that of 1997. The dam has neither caused nor increased

26Ibid.
27Id., p.32. ¶ 63.
28Ibid.
29Id., p.33, ¶ 66.
30Id., p.33, ¶ 67.
31Id., p.33, ¶ 68.
32A list of Supervision Activities since 1997 is provided in Annex B of Management Response.
33Management Response, p.37, ¶ 78.



                                                           8

         environmental pollution in the area of Encarnación-Posadas. Water quality monitoring
         programs before, during and after raising the reservoir level up to 76 masl have
         demonstrated that there are no significant water quality issues in the reservoir (...). There
         have been no significant changes in key physical and chemical parameters in the main
         water body of the reservoir at locations such as Encarnación or Posadas."34

   26. With respect to the claim of formation of stagnant waters in the Parana River and creeks
         surrounding the city of Encarnación, Management states that "[t]he current water levels of
         the reservoir neither increase the presence of the stagnant waters in the creeks not
         influence flooding in the creeks of Encarnación. Creeks are flowing at the same rate they
         would without a reservoir at 76 masl."35 Furthermore, in response to the claim that there is
         contamination of the drinking water wells and the flooding of the pit latrines,
         Management refers to a similar claim made in the prior Request and the fact that these
         effects have been addressed in the initial Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) of
         1992. However, Management maintains its earlier response to this claim stating that "the
         floods in the areas... are not due to the current reservoir level, but rather are primarily
         due to rainfall in the catchments are of the creeks...hence, pollution of shallow wells is
         caused by hydraulic conductivity, not by fluctuations in the reservoir level."36

   27. In response to the allegation that the above-referred situation was further aggravated by
         the housing developments built by EBY in Buena Vista and San Pedro, where the
         wastewater spills into the Potiy, Santa María and Mboi Caé creeks, thus leaving them
         totally contaminated, Management claims that "EBY financed the designs and will further
         finance and supervise construction of a new sewage collection system and wastewater
         treatment plan."37 Management submits that "this system includes waste discharges from
         Buena Vista and San Pedro areas, which are being discharged in to creeks until sewerage
         system is completed."38 Moreover, "the wastewater treatment plan has been designed to
         treat discharges of 100 percent of the urban population of Encarnación (the pollution
         loads from which are much more severe and are being discharged into the same creeks)
         and thus it will indeed treat the sewage from the neighborhoods built by EBY."39
         Management also states that the design and siting of the wastewater treatment plant is
         adequate, because the Environmental Impact Assessment and further independent
         consultant's studies support it. Therefore it is in compliance with Paraguayan legislation,
         and endorsed by the Bank's supervision missions and has been discussed during
         meaningful public consultations. Furthermore, "the neighborhood where the plant is to be
         built will be connected to the sewer system along with other neighborhoods in
         Encarnación," thus "the local community will receive long-term health benefits."40
         Management maintains that during the construction phase of the plant, measures to
         minimize visual impacts from the wastewater plant and to avoid pollution problems will
         be undertaken.

34Ibid.
35Id., p.38, ¶ 81.
36Id., p.42, ¶ 91-92.
37Id., p.43, ¶ 96.
38Id., p.44, ¶ 97.
39Id., p.44, ¶ 98.
40Id., p.46, ¶ 100, 102.



                                                   9

   28. With regard to the claim that the Yacyretá reservoir is an ideal habitat for microorganisms
         that are vectors of serious disease, Management claims that there is "no causal
         relationship with the raising of the reservoir and its operation at 76 masl."41 Management
         states that all the vector species, referred to by the Requesters, "have been present in the
         Yacyretá Project area since long before dam construction began."42 Moreover,
         "[w]aterborne disease vectors and their incidence on the health condition of the
         population ...were identified and fully addressed in the 1992 EA report."43 Management
         also submits that systematic vector monitoring, supported by the Yacyretá Project, has
         been carried out on a regular basis by the Ministry of Public Health and Social Welfare of
         Paraguay, and that this monitoring has shown no significant increase in any of these
         vectors since the beginning of the filling of the reservoir. Management, therefore,
         concludes that "the reservoir has not caused health problems, and since 1997 there is no
         evidence that the situation has changed."44 In addition, Management notes that the
         Yacyretá Project not only is involved in a systematic monitoring of the vectors and
         diseases, but also provides a broad range of health services to the resettled families.

   29. Compensation and Resettlement. With regard to the claims about the lack of proper
         compensation to the resettled people and the flaws in the resettlement process,
         Management states that "proper compensation and resettlement has been provided to all
         families, both census as well post-census..., living in the area up to 78 masl."45 Despite
         some challenges in implementing the resettlement process, "5,378 families have resettled
         in new houses and farms, including 191 brick makers, in both countries."46 Further,
         Management notes that "urban families relocated close to workplaces have generally
         recovered their former levels of income following resettlement," although they have been
         subjected to the economic crises in both countries. On the other hand, "there are
         unanticipated problems with respect to urban families resettled on sites relatively distant
         from the commercial center of Encarnación."47 Management cites a series of short- and
         long-term measures to be implemented by EBY under the Bank's supervision to mitigate
         adverse economic impacts on resettled families, to assess future resettlement alternatives
         in light of potential negative economic impacts, to design actions to support economic
         rehabilitation of resettled families and to provide support to the Governments of both
         countries to minimize crises' effect on these communities.

   30. On the issue of providing sufficient compensation to buy new land and rebuild the homes,
         Management submits that "all families resettled as part of Plans A and B, as well as those
         families in Ita Paso, Santa Rosa and Arroyo Pora, have been compensated with properties
         and construction that were above the replacement cost of their former lots and homes."48
         Thus, Management concludes that despite the low property values of the affected houses

41Id., p.47, ¶ 104.
42Ibid.
43Ibid.
44Id., p. 48, ¶ 107.
45Id., p.49, ¶ 111.
46Id., p.50, ¶ 113.
47Id., p.51, ¶ 116.
48Id., p.54, ¶ 120.



                                                    10

         and lack of formal ownership, affected families were compensated for the replacement
         value of their houses or given better value for their properties.

   31. In its Response, Management also addresses the claim of the failure to restore productive
         infrastructure to relocated families. Management states that such claim "is based on
         incomplete and outdated information about the (...) RRAP."49 Thus, Management cites a
         series of activities that have been designed as a rehabilitation component for the economic
         support for rural people and particularly the brick makers.

   32. In response to the claim of the lack of compensation to the individuals employed in the
         brick and tile industries, Management refers to the RRAP, which provided alternative
         compensation for the small brick and roof tiles makers. In accordance with the RRAP,
         "EBY compensated brick factory owners, and the latter were bound by Paraguayan law to
         give their employees a severance payment."50 Therefore, the responsibility for
         compensating brick and roof tile industry employees was that of the enterprises and not
         with the Borrower or the Bank. Nevertheless, Management states that it will advise EBY
         to address such claims through a set of actions, such as "providing legal support to pursue
         their claims within the Paraguayan legal framework; providing technical assistance to
         unemployed brick makers in formulating projects and presenting them to the Pilot Local
         Productivity Fund (which will be set up by EBY and the Government of Paraguay as part
         of the economic rehabilitation of the resettled families), showing them how to apply for
         support from this Fund."51

   33. Management also notes that the Requesters cite several policies as being violated by the
         Bank without providing a link to any particular action or claim. Management responds to
         this claim by observing that it has "extensively elaborated on each particular claim" in its
         Response and "where relevant, links to policies were made."52 Management also states
         that it has maintained its financing and engagement in the Yacyretá Project and has
         avoided exercising legal remedies against the Borrower because in Management's
         judgment the Project is best served by such course of actions.

   34. In its assessment, Management states that "the Bank's actions were in compliance with the
         relevant policies and procedures. This does not mean, however, that all issues in the
         project area are resolved. As detailed in Progress Reports to the Board since 1997 (Annex
         Q), the project has faced, and continues to face, many implementation issues and
         challenges. Those reports and this Response demonstrate that the Bank continues to
         follow the recommendations of the Inspection Panel53 and the Bank's Board issued in
         connection with the Request I, namely to remain engaged in addressing environmental
         and social concerns at the Yacyretá Project site."54



49Id., p.54, ¶ 122.
50Id., p.58, ¶ 137.
51Id., p.59, ¶ 137.
52Id., p.60, ¶ 141.
53Review of Present Project Problems and Assessment of Action Plans Report (the Review Report).
54Management Response, p.12, ¶ 36.



                                                     11

         E. Prior Request

   35. On September 30, 1996, the Panel received a Request for Inspection from
         SOBREVIVENCIA-Friends             of   the     Earth    Paraguay,     concerning the  Yacyretá
         Hydroelectric Project. The Requesters alleged that adverse environmental, health and
         socio-economic impacts had occurred as a result of the filling of the Yacyretá reservoir to
         76 masl, and of the Bank's failure to supervise adequately the environmental mitigation
         and the resettlement activities provided by the project. In December 1996, the Panel
         recommended the Board of the Executive Directors that an investigation be authorized.

   36. At the Board meeting, on February 28, 1997, Management presented Action Plans (Plan A
         and Plan B) to address the Project's outstanding problems. Plan A was related to those
         actions that should have been completed before filling the reservoir to 76 masl. Plan B
         proposed the implementation of activities necessary to continue the operation of the
         reservoir at 76 masl in an environmentally sound manner. These plans were later
         incorporated by reference into the legal documents for both loans financing these projects
         through amendments dated December 11, 1997. In view of this, the Board did not the
         investigation recommended by the Panel but asked it "to undertake a review of the
         existing problems of the Yacyretá Hydroelectric Project in the areas of environment and
         resettlement and provide an assessment of the adequacy of the Action Plans as agreed
         between the Bank and the two countries within the next four months." The Board decided
         also that "independent of the above decision the Inspection Panel [was] expected to look
         at the extent to which the Bank staff had followed Bank procedures with respect to this
         project."55

   37. Since the February 1997 Board decision referred only to "Bank procedures" (as opposed
         to Bank policies and procedures) and given the fact that the precise extent and scope of
         this decision was not subsequently determined by the Board, the Panel did not look into
         possible violations of Bank policies and procedures but limited itself "to highlight the
         major areas where staff performance could or should have better followed" the Bank's
         operational statements, and identified just "three main areas of concern": a) participation
         of affected people, b) supervision and c) institutional strengthening, without conducting an
         investigation of these particular matters.56

         F. Eligibility

   38. For purposes of determining the eligibility of the Request and the Requesters, the Panel
         reviewed the Request and Management's Response. Panel Chairman Mr. Edward S.
         Ayensu met in Washington with the Executive Director that represents the Governments
         of Paraguay and Argentina and his advisors, and with Bank officials and staff. He then
         visited both countries.57 During the field visit to Paraguay Mr. Ayensu met with the
         representatives of the FEDAYIM, Government officials, local official and affected people

55Inspection Panel, Review of Present Project Problems and Assessment of Action Plans, Argentina/Paraguay
Yacyretá Hydroelectric Project, September 16, 1997, ¶ 1 and 2.
56Id., ¶ 245, 248.
57The Panel's Executive Secretary Mr. Eduardo Abbott assisted the Panel's Chairman.



                                                       12

         in the project area and with Government and EBY officials in Asuncion. In Argentina he
         met with Government and EBY officials and NGO representatives in Buenos Aires.58

   39. The Panel's visit confirmed that FEDAYIM and other signatories of the Request are
         legitimate representatives of people that claim that they have or may be affected by the
         Yacyretá project, thus, meeting this eligibility criterion to submit a Request for Inspection
         under the Resolution.

   40. Management refers to paragraph 12 of the Resolution IBRD No.93-101, which "requires
         a causal link between an alleged Bank action/omission and the harm suffered by those
         represented by the Requesters."59 The Response submits that "many of the matters raised
         by the Requesters are not attributable to the project but are related to situations which
         existed before the project began."60 In the Panel's view, however, this is a matter that can
         only be established as a result of an investigation of all relevant facts, as it is impossible to
         make such determination during the 21 day period allocated to the Panel to establish if the
         Request meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the Resolution.

   41. The Panel is satisfied that the Request does assert in substance that the Bank has incurred
         in a serious violation of its policies and procedures that may have material adverse effects.
         The Panel is also satisfied that the subject matter of the Request is not related to
         procurement and has been brought to the Management's attention. In addition, the related
         loans have not been closed or substantially disbursed.

   42. In reviewing the eligibility of the present Request (Request II), the Panel has also
         thoroughly examined the content and specific allegations in both Requests for Inspection,
         in view of Management's concerns and of the provisions of paragraph 14(d) of the
         Resolution, which provides that the following requests shall not be heard by the Panel:
         "Requests related to a particular matter or matters over which the Panel has already
         made its recommendation upon having received a prior request, unless justified by new
         evidence or circumstances not known at the time of the prior request." Based on the
         foregoing and the findings of the Panel's visit to the project area to review the eligibility
         of the Request, it is the Panel's view that, although generally of a similar nature, most of
         the particular matters or claims on both Requests are substantially different. In addition,
         many apparently similar allegations in Request II seem to be based on new facts or
         circumstances. For example, the facts surrounding the establishment of the PDA program
         for people living on the banks of the flooding creeks and the specific allegations that the
         families living in Santa Rosa, Arroyo Pora and Ita Paso neighborhoods have not received
         suitable compensation and resettlement, while new people, not affected by the project, are
         receiving these benefits; that the new housing developments built by EBY in Buena Vista


58The Panel wishes to thank the office of the Executive Director representing Paraguay and Argentina and his
Advisor Mr. Victor Vasquez for the assistance provided during the eligibility stage. It wishes to thank the
Government's officials, NGO representatives, local people and representatives of EBY who took time to meet with
the Panel's team. Finally, it would like to thank Bank staff in both countries and in Washington for their logistical
support.
59Ibid.
60Id., p.12, ¶ 35.



                                                          13

       and San Pedro have increased environmental pollution and that the environmental impact
       assessment of the wastewater treatment plant was inadequate.

   43. Based on the foregoing the Panel concludes that the eligibility criteria set forth in the
       Resolution for the Request and the Requesters have been met.

       G. Conclusions

   44. The Request and Management Response contain conflicting assertions and interpretations
       about the issues, the facts, compliance with Bank policies and procedures, and actual harm
       and potential harm. The Panel is neither able to address these conflicting statements in the
       period available to it to prepare and submit this report on eligibility, nor is it allowed to do
       so pursuant to the 1999 Clarifications of the Resolution.61 The Panel can only address
       these issues during the course of an investigation.

       H. Recommendation

   45. In the light of the foregoing, the Panel recommends an investigation into the matters
       alleged in the Request.




61According to the "1999 Clarifications" when the Panel makes a field visit to establish eligibility it "will not report
on the Bank's failure to comply with its policies and procedures or its resulting material adverse effect (...)." See ¶



                                                         14

    ANNEX 1

Request for Inspection

English Translation




        15

[Stamp:] Received, May 17, 2002, 4:45 p.m., The Inspection Panel                    UNOFFICIAL
TRANSLATION


                                      Request for Inspection
        The Federation of Persons Affected by Yacyreta in Itapua and Misiones (Federación de
Afectados por Yacyreta de Itapua y Misiones ­ FEDAYIM), entered in the public Register under
No. 262, hereby submits the following request for inspection by the World Bank and by the
independent investigative mechanism of the Inter-American Development Bank, doing so on its
own behalf and on behalf of the more than 4,000 families affected by the pending liabilities at
what is referred to as 76 meters above sea level (76 masl), with the backing and a similar request
from our authorities, the mayor of the city of Encarnación, the supervisor of the district of
Cambyreta, and the chairmen of the councils of both communities.
                                            Summary
        These liabilities are pending because the social and environmental impacts were neither
fully identified, nor was their true extent quantified, and as a result, thousands of families have
been unaccountably excluded from the compensation and mitigation plans, despite the fact that
they have owned and occupied the lands for more than twenty years.
        [FEDAYIM stamp]




                                                16

       First Complaint: Take the example of the 110 petitioning families from the district
of Cambyreta on the banks of the Potiy river, whose municipality granted Mrs. Norma de
Gutmann a permit for the subdivision of lands in 1978. Today, these lands suffer from flooding
whenever there is rainfall in the community, making life impossible for these people, and this
has continued, despite numerous efforts and reports submitted to the Banks, the Yacyreta
Binational Authority (Entidad Binacional Yacyreta ­ EBY), the local and the national authorities.
There are no proposed solutions. There are numerous families settled along the banks of the
Mboy Cae, Santa Maria and Yacú Paso streams who find themselves in the same situation.
Attached are photographs showing what these communities have had to endure.
       This organization believes that the Banks have failed in overseeing the implementation of
the resettlement projects. They are financing the project without even having undertaken the
duty of finding out the true number of people to be compensated for the damage, both social and
environmental.
       Nevertheless, the organizations' endeavors, backed by the NGO Sobrevivencia (Friends
of the Earth Paraguay), have managed to get various inspection panels to come that corroborated
the complaints, and as a result, the Yacyreta company issued Resolution 3874/98 (Document No.
1), which clearly states, in the preambular clauses, that this program was approved to deal with
those affected by the flooding of the streams.
       Similarly, the Program Evaluation Mission on the river flooding, which took place
September 27­29, 1999, recommended seven conditions that were to be taken into account by
the heads of EBY to deal with these families (Document No. 2). Nonetheless, these were
ignored or rejected.
       Our first specific complaint that we would like the mission to verify is that the families
for whom the stream flooding program was created are being replaced by families from the
neighborhoods of Pacu Cúa, Santa Rosa, Mboi Caé, Ita Paso and San Blas, who are in no way
affected by the devastating situation being borne by those living on the stream banks for whom
this program was created.
       We have been making this complaint ever since the program was initiated, as evidenced
by the various memorandums we have attached, and to date, there has been no response, nor
have they been addressed by the heads of EBY. We also denounce the housing situation of
property owners included in the 1980 census, whose homes have now been destroyed by the
continuing floods, yet to date, they have received no compensation. We also denounce the fact
that the EBY claims it is not responsible for the ravaged lands located on the Cambyreta district
side of the Potiy stream, which are now all unused because of the current elevation above sea
level. The concern of the affected families making this request is that, with the program
currently underway, for 700 homes in Ita Paso and 400 in Arroyo Porá, the program will end
with no solutions having been found for the families afflicted by the situations shown in the
photos, enduring extreme conditions that are truly life threatening.
       This situation was reported years ago, on two different occasions, as evidenced by the
memorandum delivered: a) to the representative of the World Bank in Paraguay, Mr. Peter
Hansen, on July 25, 2000, b) to the President of the Republic of Paraguay on July 5, 2000, c) to
Mr. Walter Reisser on July 5, 2000, d) to Mr. David de Ferranti in October 2001, e) another
memo reiterating the complaint in October 2001, as noted in the response sent by David de
Ferranti, and f) in the notarized instrument dated July 13, 2000.
       [FEDAYIM stamp]




                                                 17

       Second Complaint: The environmental pollution caused by the dam and its impact
on health.
       Before the dam elevated the Paraná River to the current height above sea level, the river
and streams surrounding the city of Encarnación flowed at a rate that precluded the presence of
stagnant waters. Neighborhoods got along through the use of borehole latrines and drinking
water wells. The wealthiest families had modern baths and pit latrines. Drinking water was
clean and healthy. When the financing banks let the resettlement programs proceed as a
component disassociated from the civil works, and allowed the dam to begin operations before
completing the transfer of all affected families, they ordained that the water table would pollute
the drinking water wells and flood the pit latrines, a situation that forced numerous families to
live in a totally contaminated and unhealthful environment.           This situation was further
aggravated by the housing developments built by EBY in Buena Vista and San Pedro, where the
wastewater spills into the Potiy, Santa María and Mboi Caé streams, leaving them totally
contaminated. This is still further aggravated by the fact that the work planned to resolve the
pollution problems will not meet that objective, since, according to a document the organization
holds, the planned Wastewater Treatment Plant will not benefit these neighborhoods built by
EBY, nor others affected by the rise in the water table. As such, the chance to recover or clean
up these streams will be lost for good, and numerous families will be condemned to live in a
polluted environment. Attached, on disk, is a study done by the Catholic University, with photos
and dates that relate to the degree of environmental pollution. A. Added to this is the fact that
the inhabitants of the neighborhood where the plant is supposed to be built (Barrio La Esperanza)
are opposed to the resolution for these very reasons. B. According to documentary evidence that
we have attached, the above was decided in violation of the environmental laws (Document No.
1). Document No. 2 was issued by the Office of the Controller. C. There are no plans for
connecting the neighborhood where the plant is supposed to be built to the sewer system,
meaning that the neighborhood will become contaminated by the rise in the water table. D. The
selected site needs to be filled in and will not allow for future expansion, meaning that future
generations will have trouble benefiting from appropriate sanitation networks.          E.   The
environmental impact report on the project was defective on various counts, including a lack of
participation by the affected parties and by the NGOs, who were concerned about the
consequences of the work. According to a note we have attached from the meeting held in
Ituzaingó, EBY is supposed to build a wastewater treatment plant in the towns of San Juan del
Paraná and Cambyreta, but these works are not included in the EBY's plans or projects, meaning
that once again, it is committing a gross omission.
       Impact on Health. The reservoir has caused severe health problems. The lake, filled
with stagnant, polluted water with sewage waste, is an ideal habitat for microorganisms that are
vectors of serious disease, such as malaria, leishmaniasis, schistosomiasis, dengue fever and
other diseases. Statistical data from the Ministry of Public Health and Social Welfare (Sanitation
Region Seven) for the years 1990, 1992 and 1994 show that diseases related to the reservoir's
existence are among the main causes for doctor's visits, e.g., diarrhea, anemia, parasitic
infection, skin diseases such as pyoderma and ectoparasites. Since the reservoir was filled,
people living in the area of influence have complained of a high incidence of fevers. We
denounce the fact that there were no programs for monitoring and controlling disease-causing
microorganisms, and if this remains unresolved, it could lead to an alarming and catastrophic
health situation.




                                                18

        Third Complaint: The banks have failed in their duty to ensure that EBY provides
people with suitable compensation and resettlement.
        For example: This includes the requesting families living in the Santa Rosa, Arroyo
Pora and Ita Paso neighborhoods. A photocopy of the valuations is attached.
        In the Santa Rosa neighborhood, EBY's appraisal department has approved negligible
amounts that will in no way make it possible for the families to buy new land and rebuild their
homes. Similarly, EBY has no plans to restore the families' productive infrastructure.

[Stamp:] Received May 17, 2002; The Inspection Panel
Yacyreta Binational Authority
                      RESOLUTION NO. 3874/98 ­ DOCUMENT NO. 5
By which the Board of Directors is asked to approve the program for awarding compensation for
flooding by urban streams on both banks.
HAVING REVIEWED:
File DOC-MD No. 556/98 and File POS No. 1370-P-1998 submitted with Memorandum No.
1.084/98 dated December 22, 1998 from the Department of Complementary Works, and:
WHEREAS:
In the high-level meeting that took place at the headquarters of the Inter-American Development
Bank in Washington D.C., it was agreed that "Prior to December 31, 1998, the Yacyreta
Binational Authority (EBY) shall submit to the Governments and to the Banks: (i) a list of the
allocations that need to be met on a priority basis due to the prolonged operation of the reservoir
at 76 masl (meters above sea level) and the flooding by urban streams, and (ii) the costs and
potential financing methods for the plan of action needed to deal with this, including the use of
mechanisms similar to the ones already in use in the Base Program."
Because of this, it is necessary to approve the Preliminary Program to be submitted with a view
to awarding compensation for flooding by urban streams on both banks, consisting of a series of
studies, actions and works that will enable resettlement of the families who have frequently been
affected by the elevated level of the streams.
The aforementioned program was developed using similar criteria for each side of the stream,
and the respective files were opened for individual consideration, with plans for the construction
of 1,185 residences for the beneficiary families (right bank, 500 families and left bank, 685
families), in addition to 2,520 residences for additional families (right bank, 1,320 families and
left bank, 1,200 families).
For this program, plans have been made to use US$51.0 million from IDB loan 760/OC-RG;
US$16.059 million from IBRD loan 2854-AR, and US$6.361 million from internal funds, for a
total investment of US$73.42 million.
The Financial and the Legal Departments have performed their assigned roles, and have
submitted no comments.
Under Articles 4, 20 and 15, paragraph (s) of the Internal Regulations, the Executive Committee
is responsible for submitting the respective draft resolution.
                                                                                          [Initials]
                                                                   THIS IS A TRUE COPY ...///...
                                                                             OF THE ORIGINAL




                                                 19

  COMPLAINTS FROM THE COORDINATOR FOR THE FAMILIES AFFECTED BY
         THE PENDING DEBTS AT 76 METERS ABOVE SEA LEVEL (76 MASL)
        1) There are families who have traditionally lived on the banks of the streams in
Encarnación, who, in light of the current operating level of the dam--76 masl--are already
suffering the effects of the secondary damming of these streams caused by the reservoir, and the
EBY has neither recognized this situation nor considered it to be an affected area, nor has it been
incorporated in its social and environmental impact mitigation plans, i.e., the Plan for
Resettlement and Rehabilitation (PARR) and the Master Environmental Management Plan
(PMMA).
        After an extensive battle organized by civil society and environmental groups, along with
requests for inspection by the banks involved in the project, with partial investigations, an onsite
verification by the Vice President of the World Bank, and more, the problem, however obvious,
was only recently acknowledged (in 1999) by the financing banks and EBY as being a
consequence of the Yacyreta reservoir. Accordingly, EBY drew up the "Stream Flooding
Program," and once again, it did so unilaterally, without effective participation from the affected
parties, and with the serious risk that many of the affected families would not be covered by the
program, since even after multiple requests for a list of families considered by the program, the
EBY officers continue to say they will provide it (as always), but to date, they have not done so.
        There are families listed in the census arbitrarily (and others not included in the census,
omitted through EBY's negligence) whose homes will become flooded at 83 masl, who are being
pressured to accept involuntary relocation, which they have objected to, in the Arroyo Porá and
Ita Paso resettlement areas, at sites very distant from their places of origin, with plans and
compensation not being drafted jointly (EBY and affected families), as provided by law. The
EBY officers say that if their terms are not accepted, the families will not be compensated at all,
losing all their rights.
        With this, they are clearly trying to clear out or vacate lands that will be flooded at 83
masl, at the expense of or using the funds that should be used to settle the large
socioenvironmental liability still pending at the reservoir's current operating level (76 masl),
leaving this problem unresolved, yet again. Furthermore, the true extent of this pending debt has
yet to be evaluated on a participatory basis, much less quantified, as we have been requesting for
two years now, and there is not even an Environmental Impact Report on this project, as required
by our laws. For this reason, we are opposed to amending Expropriation Act 394/94, since its
revision has not been participatory; it would allow the reservoir to be raised without resolving
the severe pending problems faced by the affected families, and we would be mortgaging the
elevation of the reservoir with our lives and our property, with no solution to our problems, with
a serious increase in as yet unquantified irreparable damages, with no guarantees of
compensation and with the experience of the current situation, in which six years after raising the
level of the reservoir, the problems brought about by operating at that level have yet to be
resolved.
        2) The Wastewater Treatment Plant planned for the city of Encarnación:
            a) Will not fix the pollution created by the EBY settlements, such as relocation of
                the Oleros (brick-makers) neighborhood.
            b) Will leave many neighborhoods without sanitation facilities, there already being
                problems with six pit latrines at 76 masl, e.g., the Quiteria and La Esperanza
                communities.




                                                20

       3) The municipal slaughterhouse, whose relocation will cause problems for 19 workers
who have been on the job for 30 years.
                                          WE REQUEST
       1) That a general and participatory census be taken
       2) A participatory assessment and quantification, by working committees consisting of
the affected parties, EBY, the authorities and NGOs, of the true magnitude and scope of the
damages and socioenvironmental problems, and with the EBY's compliance with all the terms
set by the World Bank in its November 29, 1999 memorandum to EBY director Patiño. And
with the funds remaining from the loans to be used to start this process at once.
       3) A participatory assessment and quantification of the true magnitude and scope of the
socioenvironmental damages that will be caused if the reservoir is raised to 84 masl, to determine
the viability and benefits for our country, or the lack thereof.
       [Handwritten:] Received by David de Ferranti, Oct. 14, 2000.




                                                  21

              Complaint Regarding the Situation of Brick-Makers and Ceramists
        The land on either side of the Paraná River, in both Itapúa and Misiones, holds rich
deposits of clay that encouraged the installation of brick makers and a ceramics industry. EBY
proceeded to compensate a large number of these establishments and relocated the productive
units of others to an area located far from the clay deposits. When the compensation was paid, it
went to the owners of these establishments, neglecting the personnel, leaving a large number of
people without jobs. This forced many of them to come up with and set up their own brick-
making businesses in order to continue subsisting along with their families, with which they are
now surviving precariously, since EBY now owns the clay deposits. This has forced them to buy
the raw material from some of the owners who still have their land and who have available clay.
As such, it is urgent that the independent mission confirm the status of these families, so as to
force EBY to undertake a serious program of job retraining for these affected communities.
                    LIST OF POLICIES THAT HAVE BEEN VIOLATED
        It is our understanding that the World Bank has the following policies and/or procedures:
Environmental Policy for Dam and Reservoir Projects (OD 4.00, Annex B), Environmental
Assessment (OD 4.01), Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30), Supervision (OD 13.05), Project
Monitoring and Evaluation (OD 10.70), and Supervision [sic] of Disbursements (OD 13.40). In
addition, the Inter-American Development Bank has policies and procedures for classifying and
evaluating the Environmental Impact of the Bank's operations, strategies and procedures on
sociocultural matters relating to the environment. In the course of designing and building the
Yacyreta Hydroelectric Project, each of these policies was violated.
        This occurred because the financing banks were unwilling to carry out proper supervision
and monitoring of the work. This led to nothing more than the dismantling of productive
systems; community structures and social connections were weakened and families were
dispersed.
        No attention is being paid to the needs of the most disadvantaged groups, and at this time,
the affected parties run a serious risk of ever increasing poverty if the heads of EBY are not
pressured into correcting their policies. For this reason, we believe that the presence of an
Independent Inspection Panel is urgent and necessary.
        We hereby authorize any publication of this request for inspection.
Please direct inquiries to:            Dr. Angela Vergara de Miranda
                                       Cerro Corá 269 c/o Juan Leon Mallorquín
                                       Fax: 071-207202/207203
                                       Phone: 071-207313/204512
                                       Mobile: 0975-606240
/s/ Dr. Angela V. de Miranda                      /s/ Victorio Ortellado B.
Chairman                                          Secretary
[FEDAYIM stamp]
/s/ Antonio Tapia                                 /s/ Carlos Sanabria
Coordinator for San Cosme and Damian              Coordinator for Cambyreta District
/s/ Rodolfo Navarro                               /s/ Dilma de Guerrero
Coordinator for Pacu Cua                          Coordinator for Santa Rosa Mboi Cae
/s/ Cresencia de Aranda                           /s/ Blas Cabral
Coordinator for Arroyo Potiy                      Coordinator for Ayolas
                                     /s/ Elena Vera de Riberos
                                    Coordinator for Santa Rosa



                                                 22

                                         [FEDAYIM stamp]

[Stamp:] Received, May 17, 2002, 4:46 p.m., The Inspection Panel
Municipality of Encarnación
Taxpayer ID No. MENI 846450 E
Phone: 203942 ­ 204253
                                                                 MEMORANDUM No. 0236/2002
                                                                         Encarnación, April 9, 2002
To the Members of the
Independent Inspection Panel
of the World Bank and IDB
for the Yacyreta Project
Hand delivered.
I am respectfully writing to inform you that, in view of the efforts made by the leaders of the
parties affected by the flooding of the streams in the district of Encarnación and other
neighboring towns, represented for these purposes by Dr. Angela V. de Miranda and Victorio
Ortellado, it is my belief that in the interests of the people involved, it is important to attach the
petition from the affected families, requesting the presence of the members of the Independent
Inspection Panel from the World Bank and the IDB.
Likewise, I feel it would be appropriate to schedule a joint meeting in Encarnación, with the
participation of the various affected sectors, to deal with matters related to the Yacyreta
Binational Authority.
In my capacity as Mayor of the city of Encarnación, I concur with the concerns expressed by the
leaders of the affected parties, who have been working continually to find appropriate solutions
to submit to the international organizations.
I look forward to hearing from you at your earliest convenience.
Sincerely,
/s/ Rogelio R. Benítez Vargas, Esq.
City Mayor
[Stamp]




                                                  23

[Stamp:] Received, May 17, 2002, 4:46 p.m., The Inspection Panel
City Council
City of Encarnación
Phone/Fax: (071) 204564
Itapúa, Paraguay
                                                               MEMORANDUM No. 130/2002
                                                                     Encarnación, April 10, 2002
To the Members of the
Independent Inspection Panel
of the World Bank and IDB
for the Yacyreta Hydroelectric Project
Hand delivered.
On behalf of the City Council, we are writing to you in relation to a memorandum submitted by
the Federation of Persons Affected by the Yacyreta Dam in Itapúa and Misiones (FEDAYIM),
requesting the support of this Council in its request for a visit by representatives from the
Independent Inspection Panel of the World Bank and IDB.
In this regard, the City Council, guided by the Opinion of the Special Task Force on Parties
Affected by EBY, has decided to SUPPORT the request of the Federation of Persons Affected by
the Yacyreta Dam in Itapúa and Misiones (FEDAYIM), in its request for a visit by
representatives from the Independent Inspection Panel, for purposes of inspecting the area
affected by the Yacyreta Hydroelectric Project.
Sincerely,
/s/ Juan Luis Regis González                    /s/ Ricardo Omar Cabrera V., Esq.
City Council Secretary                          City Council Chairman
[Municipal stamp]




                                               24

[Stamp:] Received, May 17, 2002, 4:46 p.m., The Inspection Panel
Municipality of Cambyreta
2001 ­ 2005 Term
Phone: (071) 205087
Itapúa, Paraguay
                                                                   MEMORANDUM No. 53/02
                                                                       Cambyreta, March, 2002
Dr. Angela V. de Miranda
Hand delivered.
We are writing to notify you that the information contained in the memorandum received by this
office on March 18 of this year is accurate, and therefore, the Municipal Supervisor and the
Supervisory Council for the District of Cambyreta hereby support the request contained therein.
Sincerely,
/s/ Martin Scheid                               Luis Alberto Wieldel
District Council Chairman                       District Supervisor
[Municipal stamp]                               [Municipal stamp]




                                               25

                               Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
                         Assistant Secretary of State for Natural Resources
                                        and the Environment
                                Office of Environmental Regulation
                                Coronel Bogado, February 15, 1999
Dr. Angela V. de Miranda
Member of the Coordinating Committee
I am writing to notify you and others concerned, in answer to the memorandum dated 26 - 0
[sic]- 99.
In this regard, it is my duty to notify you that, to date, the Yacyreta Binational Authority has not
submitted a new Environmental Impact Report to the Office of Environmental Regulation
regarding the Master Plan for the Sewer System and Wastewater Treatment Project for the city
of Encarnación.
Sincerely,
/s/ José Candia, Agric. Eng.
Regional Coordinator ­ D.O.A. ­ Coronel Bogado ­ Itapúa




                                                  26

                       ANNEX 2

                Management Response




International Bank for Reconstruction and Development



                                                       INSP/RQ02/1




                          27

  MANAGEMENT RESPONSE TO THE

     INSPECTION PANEL REQUEST




        ARGENTINA/PARAGUAY:


YACYRETÁ HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
(currently supported by IBRD Loan 2854-AR)




                July 10, 2002




                     28

                      BANK MANAGEMENT RESPONSE TO

           REQUEST FOR INSPECTION PANEL REVIEW OF THE

IBRD ­ FINANCED PARAGUAY REFORM PROJECT FOR THE WATER AND
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTORS (P0-3842-PA) AND ARGENTINA SEGBA
                 V POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT (P0-2854)


Management has reviewed the Request for Inspection of the IBRD-financed Paraguay
Reform Project for the Water and Telecommunications Sectors (P0-3842-PA) and
Argentina SEGBA V Power Distribution Project (P0-2854) (referred to in attached
document as Yacyretá Hydroelectric Project) received by the Inspection Panel on May
17, 2002 and registered on May 30, 2002. Management has prepared the following
response.


                          MANAGEMENT RESPONSE TO THE
                    INSPECTION PANEL REQUEST No. RQ02/1

                   Argentina/Paraguay: Yacyretá Hydroelectric Project
                      (currently supported by IBRD Loan 2854-AR)

                                                  CONTENTS


Acronyms, Abbreviations, and Glossary ..........................................................................vii

Executive Summary........................................................................................................... ix

I.     Introduction............................................................................................................. 1

II.    Previous Inspection Panel Recommendations and Management Response ........... 3

III.   Description and Status of the Projects Involved in the Request for Inspection...... 7

IV.    The 2002 Request ................................................................................................. 11

V.     First Set of Claims ................................................................................................ 18

VI.    Second Set of Claims............................................................................................ 35

VII.   Third Set of Claims............................................................................................... 47

VIII. Policy Compliance and Continued Engagement................................................... 56

IX.    Conclusion ............................................................................................................ 58

Figures


3.1    Yacyretá Project Diagram


5.1    Total Affected Population


5.2    Status of Resettlement


5.3    Population Resettled and To Be Resettled


5.4    Urban Creeks Program (PDA)




                                                           iii

Paraguay and Argentina                                            Management Response



5.5    Resettlement under RRAP (up to 2000), PDA and Pending Actions up to 84

       masl


6.1    Water Level in Encarnación at Different Flow Rates of the Paraná River


6.2    Interconnection of Wells and Latrines


6.3    Rate of Diarrhea in Encarnación, 1994-99


Tables


2.1    Supervision of Yacyretá Project, 2000-2002


4.1    Summary and Analysis of Inspection Panel Claims


5.1    Number of Families Resettled and To Be Resettled


5.2    Meetings and Communications Concerning the PDA


5.3    Number of Houses under Construction for PDA


6.1    Mean Water Quality Parameters in the Reservoir-River System


6.2    Return Period for Flood Levels in Encarnación­Posadas


6.3    Chronology of Events on the Location of Encarnación's Wastewater

       Treatment Plant and Issuance of Environmental License


7.1 Issues Related to the Resettlement of Families on Sites Removed from

       Encarnación City Center


7.2 Alternatives Included in the Resettlement Plan for Brick Makers and Ceramists


7.3 Alternatives Selected by Brick and Roof Tile Makers




                                           iv

Paraguay and Argentina                                                  Management Response



Annexes


A.     Initial Phased Reservoir Filling Schedule
B.     Supervision Activities Since 1997
C.     Examples of Affected Houses, New Housing, and Community Facilities Provided by the
       Entidad Binacional Yacyretá
D.     Urban Creeks Program (PDA) Target Population
E.     Letters between the World Bank and Entidad Binacional Yacyretá
F.     Letters to and from Entidad Binacional Yacyretá concerning Cambyretá
G.     Resolution No. 959/86
H.     Urban Environmental Conditions of Encarnación
I.     Location and Design of Encarnación Wastewater Treatment Plant
J.     Resolution 10 of 1999, Environmental License for the Environmental Assessment on the

Encarnación Wastewater Treatment Plant


K.     Resolution No. 1100/01 and Letter from Minister of Housing
L.     Brick Making Facilities, Mboi Caé
M.     Policy on Brick Makers
N.     Resolution No 2824/95
O.     San Pedro Industrial Park
P.     Leg No. 213/93
Q.     Progress Reports to the Board
R.     Status of Plan A and Plan B of the Yacyretá Project
S.     Summary of Bank Communications with Civil Society Groups
T.     Sample of Responses from Bank to Affected People
U.     Schematic of the Resettlement and Rehabilitation Action Plan V.

V.     Supervision Accomplishments and Remaining Challenges, 1997-2002

Maps


Map 1 Argentina and Paraguay Yacyretá Hydroelectric Project - IBRD 2022


Map 2 Paraguay Yacyretá Hydroelectric Project ­ City of Encarnación - IBRD 32023


Map 3 Reservoir Levels - IBRD 32040




                                                v


                ACRONYMS, ABBREVIATIONS, AND GLOSSARY

          A. Bank International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Census families   Families living in Yacyretá area and included in the 1990 census
CIET              Argentine NGO
CORPOSANA         Paraguayan Corporation of Water and Sanitation (Corporación
                  de Saneamiento y Agua de Asunción)
EBY               Entidad Binacional Yacyretá, formed in 1976, implementing
                  agency for the Yacyretá Project
EIA               Environmental Impact Assessment
El Niño           Weather phenomenon that results from a disruption of the ocean-
                  atmosphere system in the tropical Pacific. It has worldwide
                  weather consequences, including increased rainfall in South
                  America and droughts in Eastern Australia. La Niña, the sister
                  effect, results from cooling of water in the East and Central
                  Pacific, and produces droughts in South America and flooding in
                  Australia. Together these two effects are what is known as the El
                  Niño Southern Oscillation.
EMP               Yacyretá Environmental Management Plan
Encarnación,      City in Paraguay bordering the Yacyretá Reservoir.
Paraguay
FEDAYIM           Federación de Afectados por Yacyretá de Itapua y Misiones, the
                  Requester NGO
ICR               Implementation Completion Report
IDB               Inter-American Development Bank
Loan 2854-AR      ARGENTINA: SEGBA V Power Distribution Project, amended
                  in 1994 to provide financing for Yacyretá
Loan              PARAGUAY: Asunción Sewerage Project
3842-PA
Loan              ARGENTINA: Second Yacyretá Hydroelectric Project
3520-AR
Project 69269-PA  PARAGUAY: Pilot Community Development Project (not yet
                  signed)
Masl              Meters above sea level, in Spanish, cota
NGO               Non-governmental organization
OD 4.00 Annex B   Environmental Policy for Dam and Reservoir Projects. World
                  Bank Policy
OD 4.01           World Bank Operational Directive 4.01, Environmental
                  Assessment
OD 4.30           World Bank Operational Directive 4.30, Involuntary
                  Resettlement
OD 13.05          World Bank Operational Directive 13.05, Project Supervision
OD 10.70          Project Monitoring and Evaluation policy of the Bank



                                      vii

Paraguay and Argentina                                                Management Response



OD 13.40               World Bank Operational Directive, Suspension of Disbursements
OED                    Operations Evaluation Department of the Bank
PDA                    Programa de Desborde de Arroyos; in English, Urban Creeks
                       Program; started 1998
Plan A                 Additional program to complete some actions which should have
                       been finished prior to raising of the Yacyretá Reservoir to 76
                       masl. Partially financed by Loans 2854-AR and 3520-AR.
Plan B                 Additional program to address problems which surfaced because
                       of the unexpectedly prolonged permanence of the Yacyretá
                       Reservoir water level at 76 masl. Partially financed by Loans
                       2854-AR and 3520-AR.
Posadas, Argentina     City in Argentina bordering the Yacyretá Reservoir
Post-census families   Extracensales, people who came on site after the 1990 census
Request I              Inspection Panel Request INSP/R96-2, registered October 1,
                       1996
Request II             Inspection Panel Request IPN RQ02/1, registered May 30, 2002
RRAP                   Resettlement and Rehabilitation Action Plan; with the support of
                       the Bank in 1992 using updated data from the 1990 census
SEAM                   Secretary of the Environment (of Paraguay)
SENEPA                 SENEPA is in the Ministry of Public Health and Social Welfare,
                       Paraguay
Sobrevivencia          Paraguayan NGO
Yacyretá Dam           65 km earth dam in the main channel of the Paraná River, 80 km
                       downstream from Encarnación, Paraguay and Posadas,
                       Argentina
Yacyretá Reservoir     The reservoir created upstream from the Yacyretá Dam
Yacyretá Treaty        1973 Treaty undersigned by Argentina and Paraguay for the
                       construction of the Yacyretá Dam
                                                   C.




                                           viii

                          MANAGEMENT RESPONSE TO THE
                       INSPECTION PANEL REQUEST No. RQ02/1

                     Argentina/Paraguay: Yacyretá Hydroelectric Project
                        (currently supported by IBRD Loan 2854-AR)

                                    EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

1.      Inspection Panel Request No. RQ02/1 ("Request II") was brought by an NGO
representing parties in Paraguay claiming to be affected by the Yacyretá Hydroelectric
Project ("Yacyretá Project"). The International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development ("Bank") currently supports the Yacyretá Project exclusively through Loan
2854-AR to the Argentine Republic.

2.      The Yacyretá Project is partially financed by a series of loans from both the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and the Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB) to the Argentine Republic. As part of the Yacyretá
Project, a hydroelectric dam has been constructed on the Paraná River, which forms part
of the border between Argentina and Paraguay. At full capacity, the water level in the
reservoir would reach 83 meters above sea level ("masl"). Raising the reservoir to that
level would require resettlement of all affected populations to sites above 84 masl. Since
it was first filled in 1994, however, the reservoir level has been maintained at 76 masl and
only the affected population previously residing between the river's original 73 masl
level and a "buffer zone" ending at 78 masl has been resettled at sites above 84 masl
under the Yacyretá Project. Populations residing between 78 masl and 84 masl are
currently awaiting (or in some cases are already undergoing or have undergone)
resettlement in anticipation of a potential eventual raising of the reservoir to its 83 masl
design level. Those populations have been augmented by the arrival on site of new
residents after the 1990 census that established the baseline of those requiring eventual
resettlement as a result of the Yacyretá Project.

3.      Request II is in many respects similar to a previous request (Request I) brought
before the Inspection Panel in 1996 by another Paraguayan NGO, and thus only those
claims made in Request II that reflect new evidence or circumstances may be considered
by the Inspection Panel under the rules governing its activities (see Management
Response paragraph 30 below). Request II primarily alleges that the Bank has violated its
policies pertaining to Environmental Assessment, Involuntary Resettlement and
Supervision regarding the Yacyretá Project.

4.      The environmental assessment claims relate to the quality of water in the reservoir
and to health conditions in the reservoir's area of influence. In its Response to Request II,
Management notes that the reservoir's water quality is constantly monitored, falls within
satisfactory parameters, poses no significant health risks to people living in the vicinity of
the reservoir and thus presents no harm attributable to the claim of violation of the
Bank's policy on Environmental Assessment. Furthermore, although unrelated to the
Yacyretá Project, to address concern about issues of sanitation, the Bank is assisting with
the construction of a wastewater treatment plant to serve the Paraguayan city of



                                              ix

Paraguay and Argentina                                                   Management Response



Encarnación. The design and siting of this plant have been subject to appropriate analysis
under the requirements of the Bank's policy on Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01).

5.      The resettlement claims are essentially fourfold: (a) the reservoir causes flooding
of urban creeks that flow into it, and results in stagnant and unhealthy pooling of water
detrimental to those living along such creeks and thus requiring their compensation and
resettlement; (b) the resettlement program carried out under the Urban Creeks Program
(Programa de Desborde de Arroyos; PDA) by the Yacyretá Project's implementing
agency, Entidad Binacional Yacyretá (EBY), is flawed; (c) EBY's resettlement programs,
other than the PDA, are likewise flawed; and (d) some employees of brick making
enterprises, which shut down as a result of the Yacyretá Project's flooding or prospective
flooding of clay deposits used for brick making, did not benefit from compensation
provided by EBY to the owners of those enterprises.

6.      Management points out in its Response to Request II that no harm attributable to
any violation of Bank resettlement policy exists because: (a) the flooding of urban creeks
is due to hydrological conditions predating the Yacyretá Project (that is, the affected area
consists of a floodplain that has regularly flooded to levels well above 76 masl since long
before the reservoir was formed); floods are caused by rainfall and stagnant pooling is
further aggravated by local residents dumping solid waste, which obstructs creek
drainage; (b) given the above, EBY is not responsible for the living conditions of those
residing along the creeks and thus need not resettle them until and if a raising of the
reservoir level beyond 76 masl makes such resettlement imperative; the PDA offers
reasonable resettlement solutions that improve the living conditions of those whom it
covers and is consistent with the requirements of the Bank's policy on Involuntary
Resettlement (OD 4.30); (c) other EBY resettlement programs are compensating and
otherwise treating affected parties appropriately and consistent with Bank policy; and (d)
once EBY compensated the brick making enterprises, such enterprises (and not EBY)
were responsible under Paraguayan law for compensating their employees.

7.      The pre-existing hydrological conditions were taken into account by the 1992
Environmental Impact Assessment of the Yacyretá Project (at which time the affected
population was much less than it is now). The only possible mitigatory actions in
response to those conditions would be to keep people from settling on the floodplain and
to resettle to higher ground those who already lived there. If implemented as planned, the
Yacyretá Project would have achieved these ends as a side benefit of the dam: the
floodplain would have been permanently flooded to 83 masl and the affected people
resettled to safer sites. What could not have been reasonably anticipated at the time of the
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) was that the reservoir would only be raised to
76 masl and remain at that level for a long time, and that there would be an influx of new
people ­ uncontrolled by local authorities ­ into areas between 76 masl and 84 masl.
When the combined impact of the hydrological conditions, the influx of new people and
the permanence of the reservoir at 76 masl became apparent after the El Niño floods that
began in 1997, EBY responded by implementing the PDA to advance the resettlement of
some of the highest risk populations.




                                               x

Paraguay and Argentina                                                   Management Response



8.      As for the claim that the Bank is violating its policy on Supervision (OD 13.05),
Management notes that its supervision of the Yacyretá Project since 1997 has been
thorough, with particular attention paid to the social and environmental concerns of
parties affected by the operation. Argentine, Paraguayan and EBY compliance with their
obligations in this regard has at times been slow and uneven (largely because of the
significant financial and institutional constraints they face), but Management submits that
its supervision efforts have helped keep the Yacyretá Project moving in a positive
direction that would have been jeopardized had the Bank chosen to exercise its formal
legal remedies as part of such supervision. This position is in line with Bank supervision
policy and with the Inspection Panel's recommendation on Request I, endorsed by the
Bank's Board, that the Bank maintain its active engagement in the Yacyretá Project.

9.      As a result of the above, Management believes it has carried out its obligations in
accordance with its relevant policies and procedures and therefore submits that an
Inspection Panel investigation based on Request II is not warranted.




                                              xi

                             MANAGEMENT RESPONSE TO THE
                        INSPECTION PANEL REQUEST No. RQ02/1

                      Argentina/Paraguay: Yacyretá Hydroelectric Project
                          (currently supported by IBRD Loan 2854-AR)


                                       I.     INTRODUCTION

1.       On May 30, 2002 the Inspection Panel registered a request for Inspection, IPN
Request RQ02/1 (hereafter referred to as Request II) concerning the Yacyretá
Hydroelectric Project. This is the second time the Yacyretá Project has been the subject
of a Request for Inspection before the Inspection Panel. The first time was in September
1996 and the Request then (INSP/R96-2, hereafter referred to as Request I) raised issues
similar, often even identical, to those raised now in Request II.

YACYRETÁ PROJECT BACKGROUND

2.       Yacyretá is a multi-billion US dollar hydroelectric facility constructed on the
Paraná River, along the border between Argentina and Paraguay (See Map 1). At full
capacity (with a reservoir level of 83 masl), Yacyretá will generate 3,100 megawatts of
electricity. Currently, it operates at 60 percent of its capacity, with a reservoir level of 76
masl. The project is the result of a joint venture established in a 1973 treaty between the
countries. To implement the project, a semi-autonomous bi-national entity, Entidad
Binacional Yacyretá (EBY), was created in 1976, with equal representation of the two
countries on its Board of Directors, as well as at all other administrative levels.

3.       The Yacyretá Project62 is partially financed by a series of loans from both the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and the Inter-
American Development Bank (IDB) to the Argentine Republic (see Figure 3.1)63. The
Government of Paraguay, while participating in the management of the project and
sharing in its benefits, was not to contribute directly to any project costs. The Bank's
latest support for the project came in the form of two loans to Argentina, one approved in
1992 for US$300 million (Loan 3520-AR) and the other (Loan 2854-AR) restructured in
1994 to provide US$135 million for the operation. In addition to the commissioning of
the first six power generating units, these latest loans were also to be used for financing
resettlement and environmental programs, as well as to support studies related to the
possible eventual privatization of the facility. Loan 3520-AR closed on December 31,
2000 while the closing date for Loan 2854-AR was extended until October 30, 2002.64


62       The "Yacyretá Project" refers to construction of the hydroelectric dam, installation of turbines,
expropriation of land, resettlement of families, and environmental mitigation and compensation covered by
loans from the Bank, IDB, supplier credits, and Government of Argentina budget resources.
63       In 1979, the total cost of the project including debt service was estimated at US$5.3 billion over
the ten year period of anticipated construction and associated environmental and resettlement actions. As of
December 31, 1999, the total cost had increased to US$13 billion dollars.
64       On May 30, 2002 EBY presented a request for extension of the closing date for an additional two
years. The request is currently being considered by Management.



                                                       1

Paraguay and Argentina                                                     Management Response



4.      In its Notice of Registration for Request II, the Inspection Panel also cites the
Bank's February 1995 Loan 3842-PA to Paraguay as relevant for purposes of Request II.
The Asunción Sewerage Project, Loan 3842-PA, approved in February 1995 for US$46.5
million, financed minor components relating to the Yacyretá Project. The objectives of
this project in its original form were to: (a) assist the Government to improve the
provision of urban water and sewerage services in the country; (b) improve health and
quality of life of about 250,000 lower-income residents of the capital, Asunción, by
increasing coverage of sewerage services and mitigating the environmental impact of
sewage disposal in the Paraguay River, and (c) provide infrastructure works for 3,000
inhabitants in Encarnación to improve their living conditions. The works were completed
satisfactorily, as reported by a Bank mission that visited the site in November 1997. The
loan was significantly restructured in January 2000 to address Paraguayan nation-wide
infrastructure reforms unrelated to Yacyretá and renamed Reform Project for the Water
and Telecommunications Sectors. Consequently, Management considers that Loan 3842-
PA is no longer relevant to the Yacyretá Project.

5.      A great deal has transpired in the nearly thirty years since the launching of the
project, including much that is positive. First, despite lengthy delays, the hydroelectric
facility itself is well-constructed and has been operated relatively efficiently, though only
at two-thirds of capacity due to resettlement driven financial constraints to raising the
reservoir to the final design level of 83 masl. From a technological perspective, the
accomplishments of the partnership between Argentina and Paraguay are impressive.
Second, despite the problems outlined in this Response, the power facility has provided
the foundation for increased commercial activity and improved living conditions for
thousands of people in the surrounding area. The Yacyretá Project has also contributed
positively by improving services and municipal infrastructure, as well as housing,
especially for low-income families.

6.      At the same time, however, there have been serious problems in implementation,
with many difficult issues attributable to EBY's management structure. It is now clear,
for example, that as a public entity with responsibility to two separate governments with
different and sometimes divergent interests, EBY was not ideally suited to implement the
important but difficult aspects of the Yacyretá Project outside the technical sphere.
Although EBY was able to put in place and retain highly qualified and experienced
technical staff, it does not have the necessary management expertise and skills to
implement the environmental mitigation and social protection measures which are an
integral part of the project. Related to this is the profound political and financial
instability which has affected both countries for many years. Consequently, to a
significant extent the social problems in the project area stem from the economic,
political, and structural problems of the two countries involved rather than from the
Yacyretá Project itself.

7.      To understand the complaints registered in Request I (largely repeated in Request
II) and Management's Response to these Requests, it is useful to review the key events in
the project's chronology, particularly in the 1990s. In 1992, after much delay, the Bank
and EBY, in order to move the dam toward operation, agreed on a strategy to flood the
reservoir incrementally over three phases, beginning at 76 masl in 1994, increasing to 78


                                                2

Paraguay and Argentina                                                                Management Response



masl in 1995, and ending at its full planned height of 83 masl in 1998 (Annex A). An
important element of this agreement, spelled out by the Bank in the legal documents for
Loans 2854-AR and 3520-AR, is that a series of resettlement and environmental
measures to protect affected peoples and areas would be carried out by EBY before Phase
I (raising the water level to 76 masl).

8.       As has been documented by the Bank and other parties, the social and
environmental components of the project were not adequately completed. There are many
reasons for this. The 1995 financial crisis in Argentina and the constraints it placed on
EBY's resources were central to the problem. At the same time, management failures by
EBY, and inadequate pressure by the Bank on EBY to meet deadlines, also played a role.
As noted by an independent internal Bank evaluation conducted in 1999, the patience
with which the Bank's project team accepted EBY's continual deferment of resettlement
and environment programs contributed to slow progress.

9.       At the time of Request I, the dam had already been built and the reservoir had
recently been raised (in 1994) to its current level of 76 masl. This was short of the
reservoir's intended design level of 83 masl because a number of resettlement and
environmental actions required under the project as conditions for attaining 83 masl had
yet to be completed.65 Although 76 masl was supposed to be a short-term transitional
situation, it has lasted nearly a decade, up to the present.

10.      Following discussions begun in 1995, before Request I, Management agreed with
EBY and the Argentine and Paraguayan authorities on two action plans (Plan A and Plan
B) designed to address the outstanding resettlement and environmental issues affecting
the project. Plan A aimed at completing some actions which should have been finished
even prior to the raising of the reservoir to 76 masl. Plan B aimed at addressing problems
which surfaced because of the unexpectedly prolonged permanence of the reservoir water
level at 76 masl (for status of Plans A and B, see Annex R). Both these Plans were
incorporated into the project's legal documentation by amendment in 1997 to Loan 2854-
AR and Loan 3520-AR Loan Agreements and related instruments.


      II.     PREVIOUS INSPECTION PANEL RECOMMENDATIONS AND
                                       MANAGEMENT RESPONSE

11.      In September 1997, the Panel issued its Review of Present Project Problems and
Assessment of Action Plans (the Panel Review) regarding Request I. While sharing the
Bank's own view that mistakes had been made by EBY in failing to meet project
schedules, and by the Bank for being insufficiently rigorous in its insistence on the timely
completion of the environmental and resettlement measures, the Panel firmly endorsed
the Bank's continued participation in the project. It also affirmed the measures identified
by the Bank and EBY to ensure proper implementation of all aspects of the project.



65       A two meter protective buffer zone above 76 masl, i.e., up to 78 masl, has been cleared of
inhabitants since 1999, and a one meter buffer zone, i.e., up to 84 masl, would be in place if the water level
of the reservoir is ever raised to the 83 masl design height.



                                                       3

Paraguay and Argentina                                                             Management Response



12.      Specifically, the Panel analyzed both Plans A and B, found them to be necessary,
and urged the Bank to maintain its financing of the Plans and its engagement with the
project. The Panel recommended that:

         the Bank "should continue providing financing and technical assistance to
         correct the harms that have been identified and must remain committed to
         implementation ..." (Panel Review, para. 14; emphasis added); and "[t]he
         Panel has identified ... a set of criteria essential to a successful completion
         of the Project in terms of Bank policies and procedures:

· continuing all pending environmental and resettlement actions;
· involving the affected population to a greater extent in planning and execution of
    complementary works;

· guaranteeing that [Bank] policies have to be respected ...; and
· continuing [Bank] supervision of current and future actions.
         ... These actions cannot occur too soon, and [Bank] assistance will be
         vital to sustainable outcomes." (Panel Review, para. 291; emphasis
         added).

The Bank's Board endorsed the Panel's recommendations and advised Management "to
continue its follow-up on the implementation of Action Plans A and B and to report to the
Board on progress made."66

THE BANK'S RESPONSE TO THE PANEL RECOMMENDATIONS

13.      Consistent with the Board's advice, Management has since supervised the project
intensively and frequently reported to the Board on project status (see Annex Q).67 The
Bank has maintained its engagement with EBY and has continued its financing through
Loans 3520-AR and 2854-AR, all in an effort to promote compliance by the
Governments of Argentina and Paraguay, as well as by EBY, with their environmental
and social obligations.

14.      Indeed, the main reason why the reservoir level has yet to be raised beyond 76
masl has been the Bank's as well as the IDB's insistence that before such a step is taken,
all requisite environmental and social obligations be complied with, as required by the
pertinent legal documents. The Bank has been steadfast in using its influence to prevent
EBY from moving forward with the project until appropriate measures are taken, most
substantially by withholding its "no objection" to further elevation of the reservoir level.


66  Chairman's Conclusion in para. 37 of Summary of Discussion at the Meeting of the Executive
Directors of the Bank and IDA, December 9, 1997 (SD97-71/1), on the Inspection Panel Report ­
Argentina/Paraguay: Yacyretá Hydroelectric Project.
67  See Progress Reports dated February 3, 1997 (SecM97-74), April 21, 1998 (SecM98-293), May 14,
1999 (SecM99-333), and January 20, 2000 (INSP/SecM2000-1). The Board has also been given a copy of
the June 28, 2001 Implementation Completion Report for Loan 3520-AR. In addition, a progress report was
recently prepared which the Region is planning to submit to the Board. The above-cited Progress Reports
are contained in Annex Q.



                                                    4

Paraguay and Argentina                                                                  Management Response



The Bank could on many occasions have opted to exercise different leverage by
suspending loan disbursements. But in light of the Board's endorsement of the Panel's
recommendations, the fact that a suspension would impact Argentina as borrower even
though the bulk of project problems occurs on the Paraguayan side of the river and ­
most importantly ­ based upon a determination to make a positive difference in the long-
term outcomes of the project, the Bank chose not to exercise the remedies of suspension.
The positive results of this approach are set out in Annex V.

15.       Management has maintained its position that the reservoir be kept at 76 masl
despite numerous requests from EBY to allow the project to go forward to its ultimate
height to generate more hydroelectric power and greater revenues. In frank and public
disagreement with the positions of the Governments of Argentina and Paraguay,68
Management has refused to agree to this step being taken. The Regional Vice President
affirmed Management's position in a January 1999 press release: "We believe that there
should be no change from the 76-meter level, unless and until further study is undertaken
to assess the social and environmental impacts, as well as extensive participatory
consultation with the affected communities." The release went on to state that no action
should be contemplated to raise the water level without guarantees that necessary
measures are in place to protect affected communities--both those already settled, as
well as those who would be displaced by a raising of the water reservoir level--and the
environment.

16.       The Bank has supervised the project intensively,69 maintained its engagement, and
continued its financing, all in an effort to promote compliance by the relevant local
authorities--even if slow--with pending environmental and social obligations, as set
forth in the legal agreements. A thorough review of the Bank's performance over the past
ten years reveals a clear evolution, with a marked increase in supervision intensity
beginning at the time of Request I in 1996, and developing into a comprehensive and
systematic approach over the past four years (see Table 2.1). This supervision process has
been driven by senior management; the Regional Vice President of the Latin America
and Caribbean Region has visited the project for field based review and consultation
three times since 1999. These efforts have been repeatedly reinforced by the Country and
Sector Directors through four missions to the site since 1997. Annex B provides a
detailed presentation of the main issues discussed and key mission recommendations.




68  The Bank organized an international (Blue Ribbon) panel of independent experts in September 1998.
The panel was composed of five experts from Chile, Colombia, Brazil, Canada and the United Kingdom,
specializing in the areas of economics, hydroelectric dams, hydrology, environment and resettlement. The
panel was specifically asked to provide advice and contribute to defining a strategy that could ensure a
viable future for the project, and to review the options for completing the project to its design level, taking
into account changed economic, financial, environmental and social conditions in the area of influence of
the project over the past ten or so years. The panel delivered its final report in November 1999. The panel
pointed out a number of risks in going ahead to Level 83 masl but, on balance, recommended raising the
level as long as the project was restructured under private management. The panel recommended against
going to Level 83 masl under the present institutional and management structure.
69        A detailed review of the Bank's supervision of the Yacyretá Project since the time of Request I is
detailed in Annex B.



                                                       5

Paraguay and Argentina                                                              Management Response



                         Table 2.1: Supervision of Yacyretá Project 2000-2002
                                     Loans 2854-AR and 3520-AR
    Year               Supervision      Supervision     VP and Senior        High Level  Total For
                         Missions          Visits*       Management           Meetings     Year
                                                            Visits**

    2000                     2                1                1                  2         6
    2001                     3                17               2                  1         23
    2002                     2                13               2                  1         18
    Total During             7                31               5                  4         47
    Period
        * Visits during 2002 include visits organized with support of local consultants.
        ** Includes visits by LCC7C and LCC6C Directors and also LCSES Director.

17.     Management also improved supervision by shifting significant resources,
including the Task Manager, to the field. This was done as part of the decentralized
Country Management Unit, covering Argentina, Chile, Paraguay, and Uruguay, and has
allowed frequent visits to the area and more accurate and timely reporting back to
headquarters on developments. In keeping with this, steps were taken to substantially
increase and strengthen the supervisory capacity of the Bank's office in Paraguay,
including the hiring of a social development specialist with specific responsibilities for
Yacyretá. This specialist, functioning as a key liaison for the communities, carried out
more than twenty missions to the project area to help oversee resettlement and social
reintegration.

18.     In strengthening the supervision of the project, the Bank placed emphasis on
broadening its dialogue with civil society, particularly the people most affected by
Yacyretá. Management believes that it is important for affected people to express their
views and concerns. To support this effort, the Bank has offered financial and technical
assistance for the creation of a single office of affected people, contributing in this way to
an organization which could more effectively represent the interests of different parties,
and individual families, and through which they could more effectively communicate
their needs and opinions to EBY, local and provincial governments, and the Bank. The
Bank has also sought assistance directly from important NGOs, and has hired a number
of organizations, including some who submitted Request I, to provide guidance on
various critical issues. Finally, the Bank has used its influence and prompted EBY to
adopt this same approach, which has facilitated dialogue between EBY and NGOs.

19.     Management has also been seeking to identify ways in which existing non-
Yacyretá Bank loans to Argentina and Paraguay can be used to help address problems in
the project area, whether the problems relate to the project or not.

20.     As noted in many places throughout this Response, the Yacyretá Project faces
innumerable challenges. The most important relates to raising the level of the reservoir.
Management recognizes that this challenge is a complex one that requires finding
solutions to three sets of issues dealing with: (a) how to mobilize the needed financial
resources to cover the cost of complementary resettlement and environmental works,
estimated to be close to US$800 million; (b) how to find an institutional scheme that
overcomes chronic weaknesses in EBY; and (c) how to change the system of incentives



                                                    6

Paraguay and Argentina                                                              Management Response



that currently prevents effectiveness and efficiency from being a common institutional
objective of both countries. If these issues are not handled adequately, the project, as well
as the governments and the Banks, will remain trapped in a vicious circle of growing
complaints, inability to find effective responses, and increasing frustration. Management
will continue to supervise the project, working to contribute positively to the resolution of
these interrelated problems, and at the same time continue to ensure compliance with
Bank safeguards.


III.    DESCRIPTION AND STATUS OF THE PROJECTS INVOLVED IN THE
                                    REQUEST FOR INSPECTION

21.      The Request for Inspection concerns the Yacyretá Project, the implementation of
which is currently financed by Loan 2854-AR. In addition, the project prior to 1997
benefited from small amounts of financing under the Asunción Sewerage Project (Loan
3842-PA, as discussed in para. 4 above).

WORLD BANK SUPPORT FOR YACYRETÁ

22.      As mentioned previously, Yacyretá is a joint venture between Argentina and
Paraguay on the Paraná River, implemented by an autonomous agency, EBY. During its
long period of construction, the project went through many stops and starts because of the
economic crises facing Argentina and the social conflict and political crises in Paraguay.
The project includes construction of an earth dam about 65 kilometers long with ancillary
hydraulic works, a powerhouse with twenty turbines with the capacity to generate 3,100
MW of electricity, a navigation lock, and a fish passage facility. The corresponding
program of resettlement and environmental mitigation and management, mainly affecting
the cities of Posadas, Argentina, and Encarnación, Paraguay, never kept pace with the
hydroelectric works.

23.      The Bank has channeled support for Yacyretá through four different loans (see
Figure 3.1), the latest of which are Loans 3520-AR and 2854-AR.

24.      Loan 3520-AR. This US$300 million loan was approved by the Board on
September 29, 1992 to help complete the physical works for the dam.70 Loan 3520-AR is
now fully disbursed and closed on December 31, 2000. The Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) for Loan 3520-AR has been completed, reviewed by the Operations
Evaluations Department, and distributed to the Board on June 28, 2001. Loan 3520-AR
was designed to: (a) help provide an efficient supply of energy by ensuring operation of
Yacyretá's first units with an adequate transmission system; (b) bring about improved
environmental management and appropriate handling of social aspects of Yacyretá; and
(c) encourage private capital participation in EBY. On the whole, the project met its
objectives only partially and with considerable delays. All permanent structures were


70       In total the Bank has provided almost US$900 million in financing to the project since the late
1970s to support the civil works; IDB has provided an equivalent amount; export credit agencies have
financed most of the electro-mechanical equipment; and the Government of Argentina has provided most
of the resettlement and environment costs.



                                                    7

Paraguay and Argentina                                                    Management Response



completed; however, because the reservoir has remained at the 76 masl first stage, the
turbine generating units are delivering only two-thirds of their rated capacity. The
consequent loss of earnings is estimated between US$563 million and US$1.629 billion
per year. In addition, there is no clear roadmap for carrying the project forward to the
stage where all units can operate at full capacity. The objective of bringing about
improved environmental management and appropriate handling of social aspects of
Yacyretá was partly achieved, though with significant delay. In the same way, the
objective of encouraging private capital participation was partly achieved through the
privatization of the 500kV lines linking Yacyretá with the national interconnected
system, and the implementation of some studies assessing options for privatizing other
aspects of the operation.

25.     The ICR for Loan 3520-AR arrived at important conclusions in terms of assessing
past performance as well as the future of Yacyretá, including the following: (a) the
Government of Argentina was unable to give the project the priority it deserved because
of the financial crisis of 1995; (b) frequent changes of Yacyretá's Executive Director
adversely affected EBY's performance; (c) poor oversight of the areas to be flooded
resulted in invasion by families seeking resettlement compensation; (d) EBY was slow in
performing land acquisitions and housing construction, adding to pressures that slowed
down project implementation; (e) the Government of Argentina was unable to reconcile
its political interest in expediting the main civil works with existing concerns about the
project's resettlement and environmental impacts; (f) in making decisions, the Bank
failed to take note of the lessons of previous loans made for the Yacyretá Project, where
lack of counterpart funds was an important factor for poor performance; (g) the borrower
was ineffective in obtaining political support to reach key project objectives; (h) delay in
passing an Expropriation Law in Paraguay slowed land acquisition and resettlement; and
(i) the Resettlement and Rehabilitation Action Plan (RRAP) and the Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) were only partly implemented, with major issues remaining
outstanding.

26.     Loan 2854-AR (as amended in 1994 in support of Yacyretá). At present, only
Loan 2854-AR is still under implementation. Loan 2854-AR was originally approved on
June 30, 1988, for US$276 million. On August 1994, it was restructured to allow US$135
million, made surplus by the privatization of SEGBA (the public power company for
Greater Buenos Aires), to be used for the Yacyretá Project. Loan 2854-AR was amended
again, effective December 11, 1997, to provide increased financial support to the
resettlement and environmental operations in order to ensure the completion of Plan A
(activities still pending for 76 masl level) and Plan B (activities needed to operate for a
prolonged period at 76 masl). The closing date for Loan 2854-AR was extended
selectively on December 31, 2000 until October 30, 2002, reallocating loan amounts
among already existing categories within the project description. Reallocated resources
support additional development activities for the indigenous community of Pindó in
Paraguay, extension of consulting services contracts for the resettlement and
environmental plans, and the building and installation of new fish elevators and baffle
plates in the main spillway.




                                               8

Paraguay and Argentina                                                   Management Response



27.     Loan 2854-AR is currently rated as unsatisfactory for both development
objectives and implementation and, as of June 13, 2002, had an undisbursed balance of
US$17.196 million, and a closing date planned for October 30, 2002. Management is
considering a request for a further extension of the closing date that also contemplates
reallocation of funds to activities aimed primarily at overcoming EBY's chronically weak
institutional capacity; creation of a mechanism to allow EBY to contribute to local
development and economic rehabilitation of resettled families and other groups living
within the project's area of impact; and creation of a mechanism for resolution of
environmental conflicts.




                                             9

       GOVERNMENT OF ARGENTINA                                                                                                                    PLAN A
                                                                                                                                                (completed)

                                                                                                                              Agreed in 1997, includes all resettlement
             SUPPLIER CREDITS                                                     Figure 3.1.                                 and environmental actions pending after
                                                                                                                              raising to 76.
                                                                            Yacyretá Project Diagram
            IDB LOAN 760/OC-RG



           WORLD BANK SUPPORT
               FOR YACYRETA

Loan 2854-AR SEGBA V. Originally                                                                                                                  PLAN B
approved in 1998 for $276 million. Amended                                                                                    Agreed in 1997, includes all actions needed
in 1994 to allow funds made surplus by the
privatization of public power company for                                                     RRAP                            for operating at 76 during an unanticipated

Greater Buenos Aires to be used for Yacyretá        YACYRETA PROJECT                                                          long period, including: Resettlement of all
                                                                                      Resettlement
project. $135 million were reallocated for                                                                                    families up to elevation 78m; Provision of
                                                  · Execution by binational           Program provides
Yacyretá. Loan closes on Oct. 2002.                                                                                           land, houses, and property titles to resettled
                                                    entity                            framework for                           census families; Prevention of further
Loan 3520-AR YACYRETA-II for $300 million         · Began project in 1973;            actions up to 83                        settlement in affected areas; Protection of
approved Sept. 1992 to help complete                reservoir remains at 76           masl. Approved in                       56,000 hectares of compensatory natural
physical works for dam. Loan closed Dec. 31,        masl                              1992. Updating                          habitats; Construction of sewerage systems
2000.                                             · 65 km hydroelectric dam           under way.                              for Posadas and Encarnación; Relocation of
(Ln. 3520-AR and Ln. 2854-AR). Amended            · 3,200 MW at 83 masl                                                       municipal slaughterhouse in Encarnación;
Dec. 1997 to provide support to resettlement      · Currently operates at                                                     Resolution of the pluvial flooding of the
and environmental actions in Plan A and             60% capacity                                                              municipal market in Encarnación; Coastal
Plan B.                                                                                                                       treatment in Posadas and Encarnación;
                                                  · Expropriation of lands                      EMP                           Ensure the Aña Cuá Branch of the Paraná
Yacyretá I Loans 1761-AR approved in 1980         · Resettlement of families                                                  River is not dried up seasonally;
for $210 million, and 2998-AR approved in           up to 84 masl                     Environmental Man-                      Hydrogeological studies of groundwater in the
1989 for $252 million were fully disbursed in     · Affected people around            agement Program                         Paraná River Basin; and Independent
1991. They financed only civil works.               40,000                            provides framework
                                                                                      for environmental                       Evaluations of EMP and PARR.
                                                  · Environmental mitigation          actions up to 83
                                                    and compensation                  masl. Approved in
PROJECTS NOT RELATED TO YACYRETA                  · Current cost $13 billion          1992. Updating

Loan 3842-PA. Water and Telecom Reform                                                under way.

Paraguay. Approved in 1995 for US$46.5                                                                                                     PREVIOUS TO ANY
million.                                                                                                                                  RAISING BEYOND 76,
Loan 69269-PA. Pilot Community Develop-                                                                                                  UPDATING OF EMP AND
ment Project. Seeks to improve quality of life                                                                                            RRAP ARE REQUIRED
in 3 departments on the southern border of
Paraguay (Itapúa, Misiones, and Ñeembucú).                                          URBAN CREEKS PROGRAM (PDA)
Project aimed at all poor communities,
including those resettled by Yacyretá. Project                                    Affected population would need to be
finances small-scale, demand-driven                                               resettled in the future if and when the
subprojects prepared and submitted by                                             reservoir is raised to 83 masl. However,
groups of eligible beneficiaries: income                                          due to unsanitary conditions in which
generation as well community development                                          such families live along urban creeks,        UNDEFINED PLAN TO REACH 83 MASL
subprojects.                                                                      EBY is carrying out (without Bank               SUBJECT TO BANK NO-OBJECTION
                                                                                  financing) advanced resettlement
                                                                                  through a special program based on the
                                                                                  existing RRAP and EMP.

Paraguay and Argentina                                                              Management Response




                                       IV.      THE 2002 REQUEST

28.      Request II concerns the Yacyretá Project, the implementation of which is currently
financed exclusively by Loan 2854-AR. In Table 4.1 below, Management presents a summary of
the claims and the corresponding actions taken in accordance with the EMP and the RRAP,
approved by the Bank in 1992.71 The claims and the corresponding actions are discussed in detail
in Sections V through VII.

29.      Request II was submitted by FEDAYIM, an association of people claiming they have
been adversely affected by the Yacyretá Project, as well as by six coordinators of people living
in the following districts in or near Encarnación: San Cosme y Damian, Distrito Cambyretá,
Barrio Pacú Cua, Barrio Santa Rosa, Mboi Caé, Arroyo Poti'y, Ayolas, and Barrio Santa Rosa
(see Map 2). FEDAYIM reports that it is acting on its own behalf and on behalf of more than
4,000 families in the area (the Requesters).

30.      Request II is grouped around three basic claims. The first group of claims relates to
resettlement and compensation as well as Bank supervision of the Project. According to
Request II, several thousand families were not appropriately identified and were excluded from
existing compensation and mitigation programs. Other families also claimed to have not received
their due entitlements. In some cases, especially in the case of post-census families, the
Requesters claim that benefits were improperly awarded. Request II also refers to families living
along creeks who are affected by frequent flooding which they claim is caused by the reservoir.
Potentially relevant to this first group of claims is compliance with RRAP and the Bank's OD
13.05 on Project Supervision. Similar claims were raised in Request I.

31.      The second group covers environmental and health issues claimed by the Requesters
to be caused by the elevation and operation of the Yacyretá Reservoir. Some of these claims are
a verbatim reproduction of claims raised in Request I. To this extent, the Response updates the
information previously provided to the Inspection Panel for those specific claims. The Response
also addresses the claim that the reservoir is not adequately maintained. This particular claim
appears to be referring to OD 4.00 Annex B, on Environmental Policy for Dam and Reservoir
Projects. There is also a new claim raised here, specifically that the design and Environmental
Impact Assessment of the planned Encarnación wastewater treatment plant are inadequate,
thereby raising the possibility of a violation of OD 4.01 on Environmental Assessment. The
Requesters add that the plant is located in their neighborhood and that they will not benefit from
the plant's operation, although they do not specify why they consider themselves to be excluded
from the benefits of the wastewater treatment plant. As the Response notes, this neighborhood is
indeed slated to be fully connected to the new sewerage system.

32.      The third group of claims is the most concise. These claims allege that compensation
provided through EBY to local brick making operations did not flow from owners to


71       The EMP is a coordinated set of activities intended to mitigate, compensate, monitor and control the
project's adverse environmental impacts. The RRAP (Resettlement and Rehabilitation Plan) identifies the
population adversely impacted by the formation of the reservoir, and proposes a set of principles, guidelines, and
activities to mitigate, compensate and control such impacts. The EMP and RRAP were both approved by the Bank
and meet the requirements of OD 4.01 and OD 4.30.


                                                                                                                  11

Paraguay and Argentina                                                     Management Response



workers. The claims appear to raise issues of the obligation between employers and employees
under national labor law. If so, this would be an issue outside of the Bank's control, but the
Response will seek to address the claims to the extent possible. The claims also appear to relate
to compliance with the RRAP required under OD 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement. This issue
was also examined by the Inspection Panel pursuant to Request I.

33.     Apart from listing the policies mentioned above, the Request further states that the Bank
is in violation of its policies on Project Monitoring and Evaluation (OD 10.70) and Suspension of
Disbursements (OD 13.40). The Request does not specifically tie the Bank's alleged failures
with the specific policies and procedures enumerated in Request II. As a result, in preparing this
Response Management has sought to draw the most logical inference between the claimed
actions and the policies and procedures mentioned above. In addition, Management has
endeavored to interpret Request II in as broad a light as possible.

34.     None of the three main claims in the Request refer to any specific activity of the Bank
pertaining to monitoring and evaluation, nor do they refer to any action by the Bank pertaining to
suspension of disbursements. Management will nevertheless also seek to address these issues.

35.     A key issue relevant to Request II is the fact that many of the matters raised by the
Requesters are not attributable to the project, but are related to situations which existed before
the project began. Resolution IBRD No. 93-10, para. 12, requires a causal link between an
alleged Bank action/omission and the harm suffered by those represented by the Requesters.
Para. 14 of the Board's April 1999 "Conclusions of the Board's Second Review of the Inspection
Panel" indicates that "the without-project situation should be used as the base case for
comparison" in assessing the presence of such causation.

36.     In Management's view, the Bank's actions were in compliance with the relevant policies
and procedures. This does not mean, however, that all issues in the project area are resolved. As
detailed in Progress Reports to the Board since 1997 (Annex Q), the project has faced, and
continues to face, many implementation issues and challenges. Those reports and this Response
demonstrate that the Bank continues to follow the recommendations of the Inspection Panel and
the Bank's Board issued in connection with Request I, namely to remain engaged in addressing
environmental and social concerns at the Yacyretá Project site. The Bank has taken all actions
necessary to assist the implementing agency to ensure compliance with its obligations under the
relevant legal documents.




                                                                                                  12

Paraguay and Argentina                                                                          Management Response



                     TABLE 4.1. SUMMARY AND ANALYSIS OF INSPECTION PANEL CLAIMS
             Claims                                 Comments                                        Actions
First Set of Claims - Resettlement and Flooding
Claim 1.1 4000 families         Comments:                                            Actions:
affected by pending debts have  · The 1990 census identified all people affected     · Continue supervision of PDA
not been properly identified       up to 83 masl, and census families living up to   · Continue use of influence with
and quantified and have been       78    masl    have    been     resettled  and/or    Government of Paraguay to stop
excluded from existing             compensated.      Post-census      families  are    additional migrations into area
compensation and mitigation        compensated       and/or    relocated    by  the  · Continue process of updating RRAP
programs.                          Government of Paraguay.                             and EMP before any future raising of
                                · Families between 78 and 84 masl along urban          the level
Relevant Policy: OD 4.30           creeks with high flood risk are being resettled   · Conclude study of socio-economic
                                   early under the PDA, and existing information       impacts of resettlement and design
                                   indicates that an additional 6,380 families in      mitigation actions
                                   Paraguay       need      resettlement     and/or  · Continue to advise and supervise
                                   compensation.     Pending      resettlements   in   the search for options to complete
                                   Paraguay are complicated due to lack of             Yacyretá Project
                                   controls over area, and a continuous influx of
                                   people.
Claim 1.2. Creeks Poti'y, Mboi   Comments:                                           Actions:
Caé, Santa María, Yacú Paso     · Flooding of urban creeks is not related to the     · Continue        involvement      and
have been affected by              76 masl operating level of the reservoir, but       supervision of PDA
Yacyretá. There are no             rather due to heavy rainfall and garbage-         · If affected people have not been
solutions for these families.      clogged     creeks.    Nevertheless,     families   included in PDA, Bank could verify
PDA was designed to assist         between 78 and 84 masl living along creeks          cases and follow up with EBY.
people affected by creek           will be resettled in advance of the original      · Continue to use influence with
flooding. PDA is not fulfilling    schedule under the PDA. The PDA is fulfilling       Paraguay to stop further migration
its objectives. Families for       its objectives and addressing the needs of          into high risk areas
whom the PDA was created are       families at highest risk along creeks.            · Continue to advise and supervise
being replaced by those who     · Bank     not    financing   PDA     but   actively   the search for options to complete
are not affected.                  supervising    to   ensure     compliance    with   Yacyretá Project
                                   safeguards
Relevant Policy: OD 4.01, OD    · Bank provided with adequate information
4.30                               about PDA
                                · Participants in PDA objectively selected by
                                   field surveys, and proper listing of affected
                                   families
                                · All neighborhoods in PDA, except Itá Paso,
                                   exposed to high flood and environmental risk
                                · Inclusion of post-census families in Itá Paso
                                   decided and financed by Government of
                                   Paraguay to comply with Bank conditions
                                · Bank aware that other families not included in
                                   PDA waiting for resettlements are unsatisfied
                                · Remaining families will be resettled when and
                                   if Yacyretá is completed.
Claim 1.3 Owners of houses       Comments:                                           Actions:
included in EBY's census have   · Claim of relationship between floods and the       · Continue to advise EBY in finding
had their houses destroyed by      raising and/or operation of reservoir is against    option that allows completion of
floods without compensation.       hydrological evidence and analysis.                 project at 83 masl or any other
                                · Property owners between 78 and 84 masl are           feasible    level,   thus    reducing
                                   subject to expropriation if and when the            uncertainty for affected people
                                   reservoir is raised to 83 masl                    · Continue     efforts  to   encourage
                                · Expropriation delayed by lack of adequate            Paraguay to approve Expropriation
                                   Expropriation Law in Paraguay                       Law.
                                · However, EBY has defined procedures for
                                   anticipated expropriation if owners request it
                                · Situation does not violate any policies
                                · Bank recognizes frustration of owners unable
                                   to sell, devalued properties, and uncertainty
                                   about future.



                                                                                                                             13

Paraguay and Argentina                                                                        Management Response



                    TABLE 4.1. SUMMARY AND ANALYSIS OF INSPECTION PANEL CLAIMS
            Claims                               Comments                                         Actions
Claim 1.4. Bank has failed in  Comments:                                          Actions:
overseeing resettlement        · Due    diligence   has    been     exercised  in · Maintain intensive supervision until
projects.                        supervision of Yacyretá                            closing date of Loan 2854-AR
                               · Following Inspection Panel Report in 1997        · Maintain       Bank        involvement
Relevant Policy: OD 13.05        important measures adopted                         regardless of Loan balances and
                               · Supervision intensified based on number of         closing dates
                                 visits                                           · Increase          contacts        and
                               · Diversified supervision strategy adopted with      communication with civil society,
                                 strong involvement of Bank Regional Vice           local governments, and affected
                                 President as well as that of Directors of          people
                                 Country       Management          and     Sector · Supervision     should    continue   to
                                 Management Units                                   assign high priority to issues most
                               · Increased reporting and contacts with a            important     for  affected     people:
                                 broader group of stakeholders (civil society,      participation, consultations, avoiding
                                 affected people and local governments)             delays in PDA, and searching for
                               · Supervision shifted to field, social expert        acceptable options to complete the
                                 based in Paraguay hired                            project and reduce uncertainty over
                               · Change      in   supervision     has   produced    Yacyretá's future.
                                 important positive results for project, Bank,
                                 and affected people.
Claim 1.5 Complaints have      Comments:                                          Actions:
been made without proper       · All    communications       and/or    complaints · Maintain course consistent with 1997
response.                        addressed to Management and project team           Inspection Panel Report endorsed
                                 have been properly responded to                    by the Board
Relevant Policy: OD 13.05      · Project team has been proactive, maintaining     · Maintain dialogue and use influence
                                 periodic   contacts    with    affected  people,   with governments and EBY for
                                 including those presenting the Request for         increased participation
                                 Inspection, to learn of their concerns           · Continue efforts to persuade EBY
                               · Views and demands of affected people and           and governments about need to
                                 other stakeholders have been used as input to      create       independent        conflict
                                 supervision and dialogue with EBY and              resolution mechanism
                                 governments
                               · NGOs have been contracted by Bank to
                                 advise on key issues
                               · Bank has advised and used influence with
                                 EBY and both governments to adopt a more
                                 participatory management style
                               · Management is aware that Yacyretá will
                                 remain a controversial project that will
                                 continue to generate complaints and conflicts.
Second Set of Claims - Environmental and Health Issues
Claim 2.1 The dam has caused   Comments:                                          Actions:
environmental pollution and    · At current level (76 masl) reservoir and         · Maintain monitoring and improve
negatively impacted health       operation     do  not    cause     environmental   dissemination of results
conditions in the area.          pollution                                        · Continue to advise EBY to be more
                               · Water quality monitoring indicates no changes      proactive    with    information  and
Relevant Policy: OD 4.01         or deterioration                                   allowing    public   scrutiny   of   its
                               · No significant changes in chemical and             operation and related impacts.
                                 physical parameters in reservoir                 · Continue to closely monitor EBY-IDB
                               · In fact, filling the reservoir by stages has       bidding process for the sewer and
                                 allowed flushing effect and washing away of        wastewater      treatment    plant    in
                                 organic solids                                     Encarnación.
                               · Some     of   EBY's    actions    have   allowed · Ensure public consultation of any
                                 improvements in public health.                     plan to complete Yacyretá (83 masl)
                                                                                    to listen to concerns and ideas about
                                                                                    protecting    the  environment    and
                                                                                    public health
                                                                                  · Continue with process of updating
                                                                                    the EMP



                                                                                                                             14

Paraguay and Argentina                                                                           Management Response



                      TABLE 4.1. SUMMARY AND ANALYSIS OF INSPECTION PANEL CLAIMS
             Claims                                 Comments                                         Actions
Claim 2.2 Before the dam          Comments:                                           · Actions:
elevated the Paraná River to 76   · Creeks are flowing at same rate as they would     · Continue to advise EBY to make
masl, the river and the             without reservoir at 76 masl                        information on flows, levels, and
surrounding creeks flowed at a    · Project team supervises flows, levels and the       dam operations more accessible and
rate that precluded the presence    application of agreed rules of operation            subject to public analysis
of stagnant waters.               · However, greatest environmental risk of going     · Bank supervision will continue to
                                    to 83 masl is the possible formation of lateral     monitor     proper    and     periodic
Relevant Policy: OD 4.01            bays around the city of Encarnación                 shoreline treatment activities
                                  · Process of updating EMP is taking into            · Continue to advise EBY as to the
                                    account the risk of lateral urban bays              need    for  working    closely   with
                                  · Water quality of urban creeks is degraded by        municipalities    in   solid   waste
                                    disposal of solid waste and discharges of           management
                                    untreated sewage                                  · Continue to discuss with EBY ways
                                  · EBY has supported and continues supporting          to ensure that resources from Loan
                                    cleaning of urban creeks as part of shoreline       2854-AR allocated to strengthen
                                    treatment actions, partly financed by Loan          capacity of local governments are
                                    2854-AR                                             used before closing date.
                                  · Municipalities need to do more with the
                                    support of EBY to prevent improper solid
                                    waste disposal in urban creeks
Claim 2.3 Before raising level    Comments:                                           Actions:
to 76 masl, drinking water was    · The reservoir does not affect water quality.      · Bank supervision team will continue
clean and healthy. Raising the    · Bank has always been concerned about                to    advise     EBY      and   local
level has caused the water table    quality of drinking water and related health        governments to monitor water quality
to pollute the drinking water       risks                                               in shallow wells
wells and flood the pit latrines, · Shallow wells used for drinking water in the      · Continue to advise EBY to promote
a situation that forces numerous    low lying areas of Encarnación share the            campaign for      relocating shallow
families to live in a totally       same water table as latrines                        wells   properly   with   respect  to
contaminated and unhealthful      · Increased rain water infiltration into the ground   latrines.
environment.                        water   table   has    led  to    the   continued · Continue    working   with   EBY   to
                                    intermixing of latrine wastes with drinking         ensure a broader dissemination of
Relevant Policy: OD 4.01            water wells                                         reports.
                                  · Contained aquifer has not been impacted by
                                    the dam/reservoir
                                  · Conditions and problems related to quality of
                                    drinking water were identified and described in
                                    the EIA of 1992
                                  · Bank    has    supported      different   studies
                                    analyzing interrelationship between water
                                    levels and the reservoir.




                                                                                                                               15

Paraguay and Argentina                                                                            Management Response



                     TABLE 4.1. SUMMARY AND ANALYSIS OF INSPECTION PANEL CLAIMS
             Claims                                 Comments                                          Actions
Claim 2.4. Resettlements built    Comments:                                            Actions:
by project (Buena Vista and       · The wastewater discharge of these two              · Maintain     supervision      of    the
San Pedro) have aggravated the      communities is insignificant with respect to the     wastewater treatment plant situation,
situation by directly               reservoir, which is flushed every five days on       exploring ways to facilitate the
discharging into creeks. Work       average by the Paraná River flows                    process
planned to resolve the pollution  · The solution to the problem is related to          · Maintain close monitoring of bidding
problems will not meet that         construction of the wastewater treatment plant       and implementation of this project
objective, since wastewater         for Encarnación                                    · Support    for   shoreline   treatment
treatment plant to be built by    · Bank     has   monitored     EBY's   support   to    actions will be continued.
EBY will not benefit these          CORPOSANA          and     the   Municipality  of  · A   global    and   full  solution    to
neighborhoods, nor others           Encarnación for installing a sewerage system         Encarnación sanitation problems will
affected by the rise in the water   with full coverage and the treatment plant           be maintained as a condition for any
table.                            · Process has been slow due to EBY's limited           future raising of the reservoir level.
                                    capacity and opposition of a small group of
Relevant Policy: OD 4.01 and        individuals
OD 4.30                           · Bank supervision has been diligent by
                                    requiring EBY to conduct shoreline treatment
                                    actions in Encarnación.
                                  · Bank has also indicated that finding a solution
                                    to sewage collection and treatment for the
                                    entire city is a precondition for any plan to
                                    raise the level above 76 masl.
Claim 2.5. Inhabitants of La      Comments:                                            Actions:
Esperanza are opposed to the      · The Bank is aware that some people in La           · Supervision will be maintained to
location of the wastewater          Esperanza     are    opposed     to  location  of    ensure         compliance          with
treatment plant. Decision in        wastewater     treatment     plant.  International   recommendations
violation of the environmental      consultants were hired by EBY, IDB, and the        · Coordination    with    IDB   will   be
laws of Paraguay. There are no      Bank to look at different options for its            maintained
plans for connecting the            location, and all endorsed the selected site.      · Bank will continue advising EBY on
neighborhood where the plant        The Bank made additional recommendations             campaigns to disseminate results of
is supposed to be built to the      to eliminate possible adverse effects by             studies and plans.
sewer system. Environmental         creating a buffer zone and other measures.
impact report on the project      · The plant's EIA was reviewed and found
was defective.                      acceptable by the Bank and the plant was
                                    granted a license by relevant Paraguayan
Relevant Policy: OD 4.01            authorities. Additionally, meaningful public
                                    consultations took place, as required by Bank
                                    policy. Delays in plant construction have
                                    occurred due to opposition of the small group
                                    of people in La Esperanza, who, contrary to
                                    the claim, would be connected to the
                                    sewerage system.
Claim 2.6. EBY is supposed to     Comments:                                            Actions:
build a wastewater treatment      · The Bank will continue working with EBY and        · Continued        supervision       and
plant in the towns of San Juan      the plant will cover Cambyretá. Discharges           dissemination of plans.
del Paraná and Cambyretá, but       from San Juan del Paraná, a small town, will
these works are not included in     go directly to the reservoir. A full scale
EBY's plans.                        treatment plant for San Juan del Paraná is not
                                    justified technically or financially.
Relevant Policy: OD 4.01
Claim 2.71: The Yacyretá          Comments:                                            Actions:
Reservoir is an ideal habitat for · Studies and experience show otherwise.             · Maintain monitoring efforts
the vectors of malaria,             Vector and health monitoring efforts have          · Continue    working    with   EBY     to
leishmaniasis, schistosomiasis,     demonstrated that there have been no                 ensure       a      much       broader
dengue fever, and other serious     changes in vector populations in the area of         dissemination of the results of these
diseases.                           Yacyretá.                                            monitoring efforts.

Relevant Policy: OD 4.01




                                                                                                                                  16

Paraguay and Argentina                                                                           Management Response



                     TABLE 4.1. SUMMARY AND ANALYSIS OF INSPECTION PANEL CLAIMS
             Claims                                 Comments                                         Actions
Claim 2.72. The Yacyretá          Comments:                                          Actions:
Reservoir has caused severe       · Claim is similar to one formulated in the        · Maintain monitoring
health problems, including          Request for Inspection of 1996                   · Advise     EBY     on  making     more
diarrhea, anemia, parasitic       · No    increase   in   vector   borne   diseases     aggressive dissemination of results
infections, skin diseases,          attributable to Yacyretá has been detected       · Continue to advise EBY on the need
ectoparasites, and fevers.        · Water related diseases are related to the           to  maintain     support  for   health
                                    preexisting lack of potable water and poor          services    for   resettled  families,
Relevant Policy: OD 4.01            sanitation,   and   none    of   the   diseases     monitoring        conditions      and
                                    mentioned in claim have increased on per            disseminating results.
                                    capita terms
                                  · Monitoring has been supported by EBY and
                                    supervised by the Bank
                                  · EBY has also supported a broad range of
                                    health services to resettled families.
Claim 2.8: There have been no     Comments:                                          Actions:
programs for monitoring and       · Monitoring of diseases and microorganisms        · Continue monitoring
controlling disease-causing         has been done for the past 8 years               · Continue to work with EBY to ensure
microorganisms.                   · No evidence of major outbreaks                      a much broader dissemination of the
                                  · However, heavy flood events (which are not a        results of these monitoring efforts.
Relevant Policy: OD 4.01            consequence of the dam) are normally
                                    accompanied by increased incidence of
                                    certain diseases.
Third Set of Claims Compensation to Resettled Families and Brick Makers
Claim 3.1. The Bank has failed    Comments:                                          Actions:
to ensure proper compensation     · The Bank has made significant efforts to         · Where claims are legitimate, Bank
and resettlement to affected        ensure proper compensation to affected              has   encouraged     EBY     to   take
people.                             people. The RRAP approved by the Bank in            measures to address them. Whereas
                                    1992 includes provision of land, housing,           previously only census families were
Relevant Policy: OD 4.30            support for relocation, and a program for           included, the PDA expanded the
                                    social and economic rehabilitation at no cost       number of people to be resettled and
                                    to the families. Since there has been a             included post-census families along
                                    continual, relatively unmonitored influx of         creeks.
                                    people into areas that had been evacuated,       · Continue to maintain supervision,
                                    there are more people who have claimed to be        monitoring, and external evaluation.
                                    affected. Within the scope of the project, not
                                    everyone is entitled to compensation.
Claim 3.2. Compensation           Comments:                                          Actions:
approved for Itá Paso, Santa      · Home appraisal of affected houses is low         · Continue to maintain supervision,
Rosa, and Arroyo Porá is            because 87% of the people are occupants             monitoring, and external evaluation.
insufficient to allow families to   without titles that have small lots and shanty
buy new land and rebuild their      houses. This is why the RRAP provides land,
homes.                              housing, and support at no cost to the
                                    families.
Relevant Policy: OD 4.30
Claim 3.3. There are no plans     Comments:                                          Actions:
to restore productive             · EBY's     resettlement     plan    includes   a  · Continue to maintain supervision,
infrastructure of relocated         rehabilitation program. The PDA Social and          monitoring, and external evaluation
families.                           Productive     Rehabilitation  Plan     includes · Encourage EBY to improve its
                                    communication,       training,    support    for    rehabilitation programs
Relevant Policy: OD 4.30            development      of    micro-enterprises    and  · Continue      to   advise    EBY     to
                                    technical assistance. The Bank endorsed the         strengthen    its  coordination   with
                                    plan and required a detailed formulation of         governmental institutions and NGOs.
                                    programs.
                                  · EBY     and   the   Paraguayan      Government
                                    created a Productive Fund (US$6 million) as a
                                    safety net and to support productive projects
                                    proposed by families and communities.




                                                                                                                               17

Paraguay and Argentina                                                                       Management Response



                    TABLE 4.1. SUMMARY AND ANALYSIS OF INSPECTION PANEL CLAIMS
            Claims                                 Comments                                      Actions
Claim 3.4. Compensation to       Comments:                                        Actions:
brick makers only benefited     · Brick-making companies were compensated         · Encourage EBY to investigate these
owners but did not compensate      by    EBY    and    were    legally bound   to   brick   maker     claims  and    offer
workers and their situation has    compensate their workers (EBY does not deal      technical assistance to help brick
deteriorated.                      directly with the individual employees). Under   makers find ways to access the
                                   pressure from the Bank, EBY made major           Productive     Fund   or   apply   for
Relevant Policy: OD 4.30           efforts to compensate those affected, not just   rehabilitation through other programs
                                   the enterprises and self-employed brick-       · EBY may also take other corrective
                                   makers, but those who relied on clay deposits    measures      where    feasible   and
                                   that would no longer be available.               warranted.




                                      V.        FIRST SET OF CLAIMS

     Claim 1.1.

     4000 families affected by "pending debts" have not been properly identified and
     quantified and have been excluded from existing compensation and mitigation
     programs.

37.       Management believes that this claim is not supported by available evidence. Families
affected by the raising of the level and/or operation at 76 masl72 have been properly identified
and compensated, even though some families remain dissatisfied with the solutions provided. In
1980, EBY conducted a first census of all families that needed to be resettled and/or
compensated as a result of raising the level of the reservoir up to 83 masl. In 1990, a second
census was organized taking into account demographic changes that had occurred since the
previous census.

38.       All families included in the updated census of 1990 who were living in areas below 78
masl have been compensated and/or relocated through actions included in: (a) the Resettlement
and Social Action Plan that was applied until 1992; (b) the RRAP, prepared with support from
the Bank and adopted in the same year;73 and (c) Plans A and B, agreed with the Bank in 1995
and 1996 respectively.

39.       Moreover, the "Third Owners Agreement" between Argentina, Paraguay, and the Bank,
as amended in 1997 when the legal agreements for Loans 2854-AR and 3520-AR were updated,
established that any family not included in the above 1990 census and living in areas up to 84
masl (post-census families) would be resettled and/or compensated by Governments of the
respective countries with their own funds.

40.       The implementation of the Resettlement Plans, as well as Plans A and B carried out by
EBY, and the Third Owners Agreement, have allowed resettlement of approximately 5,378
families (approximately 26,800 people). Out of this total, 79 percent are census families and the
remaining 21 percent are post-census families. Resettlement has taken place in seven new urban
settlements located in the cities of Posadas and Encarnación, eight rural settlements, and two

72        "Deudas pendientes" are understood as recognized pending claims.
73        This Plan continues to provide the framework for all current and ongoing resettlement actions.


                                                                                                                           18

Paraguay and Argentina                                                         Management Response



settlements for brick makers on both sides of the river. This has made relocation possible for all
families in the area up to 78 masl and allowed for clearing of the 76-78 masl buffer area of all
construction, in accordance with obligations under the legal agreements.

41.     On average, urban housing provided by EBY since 1994 has had a cost of US$14,500 per
unit,74 including land and services. New settlements are equipped with schools, kindergartens,
churches, police offices, health clinics, community centers, and sports facilities (Annex C).
However, municipalities and other public agencies in Paraguay lack the management and/or the
financial capacity to assume responsibility for the long-term operation and maintenance for the
new infrastructure. Bank supervision has maintained since 1997 a permanent dialogue with EBY,
the local authorities and national governments to find a solution to this problem. In addition, IDB
and the Bank have used their leverage to ensure that services to the new resettlements are not
discontinued and do not deteriorate in their quality. As a result, EBY has assumed these
responsibilities and continued financing maintenance and operation of different infrastructure
and services. Also, Bank supervision has tried to involve affected people, NGOs, and other civil
society groups in order for them to effectively communicate their desire for local governments to
assume the responsibility for services and infrastructure.

42.     Given the time elapsed since the last census, identification and quantification of affected
people is being updated, focusing on those families who would be affected if and when the level
of the reservoir is raised to 83 masl. According to EBY's current estimates, raising the level of
the reservoir to its original design level of 83 masl will require resettlement of an additional
5,454 families in Argentina and 6,380 families in Paraguay. In addition, in Paraguay relocation
of 360 commercial properties, which house approximately 700 businesses as well as several
small industries and businesses, will be required. It is important to mention that the number of
families to be resettled and/or compensated up to 83 masl has increased significantly over time,
because the Government of Paraguay has been unable to control new migrations into the area.
Since 1997, this issue has been the subject of much attention by the Bank, as can be seen in
Annex B, which summarizes conclusions and recommendations of all supervision missions since
that date.

43.     Resettlement of the additional 11,834 families that would be required prior to EBY's
operation of the reservoir at 83 masl will depend on EBY and the Governments of Argentina and
Paraguay finding the necessary financing and meeting conditions established in the loan
agreements signed with IDB as well as with the Bank. This challenge becomes more difficult as
new families arrive expecting to be resettled. For low income families, the possibility of
obtaining the status of "affected people" and getting legal title to new and free housing is a
powerful incentive for illegally migrating to areas below 84 masl. Management and the
supervision team have always maintained that, in compliance with OD 4.30, EBY's resettlement
and/or compensation obligations established in the RRAP and in Plans A and B are limited to the
1990 census families. However, Management has repeatedly expressed to EBY and the
Governments of Argentina and Paraguay that, in light of the delays in implementing the agreed




74      With the exception of houses in Buena Vista which cost approximately US$25,000.


                                                                                                   19

Paraguay and Argentina                                                                   Management Response


strategy for flooding the reservoir incrementally over three phases,75 any future raising will
require updating the resettlement and environmental plans, as specified in the legal agreements.

44.       As part of the effort to improve the identification and quantification of impacts at higher
levels of operation, EBY, with support and advice from the Bank and in compliance with the
provisions of the legal agreements, is: (a) updating the RRAP, (b) implementing a study aimed at
identifying socio-economic impacts associated with the relocation of families, and (c) preparing
a geo-referenced map of housing between the 78 and 84 masl levels.

45.       To summarize the current situation, Table 5.1 provides detailed information about
resettlements conducted to date, as part of the first phase of implementation of the RRAP, plus
those included in Plans A and B. Figure 5.1 shows the total number of families affected by
displacement according to 1980, 1990, and 2000 estimates. Of the total population, Figure 5.2
shows the percentage of families resettled and yet to be resettled. Figure 5.3 shows the
resettlement status of census and post-census families. The table and figures include estimates
about future resettlements which would be part of any plan to raise the level of the reservoir to
83 masl.76 These figures would need to be revised after the updating of the RRAP.

                                  TABLE 5.1 YACYRETÁ HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
                             NUMBER OF FAMILIES RESETTLED AND TO BE RESETTLED
Country              No. of families resettled         No. of families to be resettled if           Total
                            1983 - 1999                water level is raised to 83 masl
                      to reach 76 masl and 2             and one meter buffer zone
                   additional meters (78 masl)                 cleared (84masl)
                         as a buffer zone
                   Families    Post-        Total       Families        Post-    Total    Families   Post-     Total
                  included     Census     Families     included in     Census   Families  included  Census    Families
                   in 1990    Families                 1990 Census     Families            in 1990  Families
                   Census                                                                  Census
Argentina            2,903         397       3,300          2,733        2,721    5,454      5,636    3,118     8,754
Paraguay             1,363        715        2,078          3,379        3,001    6,380      4,742    3,716     8,458
Total Resettle-
ment                 4,266      1,112        5,378          6,112        5,722   11,834     10,378    6,834   17,212

Source: EBY, Verificación de Familias Afectadas Noviembre 2000.
NOTE: This table does not include businesses or small industries in Paraguay.




75        In 1992, the Bank and EBY, in order to move the dam toward operation, agreed to raise the level to 76 masl
in 1994, 78 masl in 1995, ending at its full planned height of 83 masl in 1998.
76        This Plan is under preparation by EBY, subject to no objection by IDB and the Bank. This Plan includes
resettlement of all families up to 84 masl, for the 1 meter buffer zone.


                                                                                                                 20

Paraguay and Argentina                                                                Management Response



                     A. Figure 5.1                                                 B. Figure 5.2

             ARGENTINA AND PARAGUAY:                                           ARGENTINA AND PARAGUAY:

           TOTAL AFFECTED POPULATION                                           STATUS OF RESETTLEMENT

                    (No. of Families)


 20,000
 18,000                                                                                  31%
 16,000
 14,000
                                                                                                     Resettled families
 12,000
                                                                                                     Families to be resettled
 10,000
  8,000
  6,000                                                                  69%

  4,000
  2,000
      0
         1980 Census      1990 Census    2000 Estimate




                                                      ARGENTINA AND P ARAGUAY:
                                      P OP ULATION RESETTLED UP TO 76/78 M ASL AND TO
                                                   BE RESETTLED UP TO 83/84 M ASL
                                                          (No. of Families)
                               7,000

                               6,000

                               5,000                                                   1983-1992
                               4,000                                                   1993-1994
                               3,000                                                   1995-2000
                               2,000                                                   To be resettled
                               1,000

                                    0
                                               census               post-census
                     C.
                     D. Figure 5.3



46.     In accordance with legal agreements and relevant operational policies, the Bank has
ensured through proper supervision that EBY's resettlement plans included all 1990 census
families up to 78 masl. In accordance with the provision of the "Third Owners Agreement" the
Governments of Argentina and Paraguay have resettled all post-census families living up to that
same level. Management believes that, in spite of delays and other problems related to EBY's
weak capacity and the difficult environment in which resettlement takes place, supervision of the
project has ensured compliance with the Bank's OD 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement.

47.     Bank supervision has included special actions promoting several important steps to
ensure that all families affected are properly identified, resettled and/or compensated. Most
important among these actions are:

· Repeatedly reminding the Governments of Argentina and Paraguay of the need to resettle
     post-census families in compliance with the "Third Owners Agreement;"

· Providing advice to EBY for the creation of a conflict resolution mechanism;

· Supporting the updating of the EMP and RRAP; and,


                                                                                                                            21

Paraguay and Argentina                                                          Management Response


· Supporting different studies and actions to ensure proper mitigation of any economic
    dislocation resulting from resettlement.

    Claim 1.2.

    Creeks Poti'y, Mboi Caé, Santa María, Yacú Paso have been affected by Yacyretá.
    They flood with any rain because of Yacyretá. Families living on their shores are
    affected by frequent flooding. There are no solutions for these families. Examples:
    110 families in Arroyo Poti'y, Cambyretá District; landowners of Poti'y shores in
    Cambyretá. Bank is financing the PDA without determining the real number of
    people to be compensated. PDA was designed to assist people affected by creek
    flooding. PDA is not fulfilling its objectives. Recommendations of Supervision
    Mission (September 1999) have been ignored or rejected. Families for whom the
    PDA was created are being replaced by others (from Pacú Cua, Santa Rosa, Mboi
    Caé, Itá Paso and San Blas) who are not affected. Families (400 Arroyo Porá and
    700 Itá Paso) concerned that the PDA will conclude without proper solutions for all
    those affected.

48.     Management believes that there is no causal relationship between urban creek flooding
and raising the level of the reservoir to 76 masl. The information provided in response to this
claim shows that these claims are based on partial and incorrect information, misunderstandings
about the scope of the PDA (Figure 5.5) and its relation to future resettlement before reaching 83
masl, and insufficient understanding of the hydrology of the reservoir and neighboring urban
creeks, as discussed in detail in paras. 81 to 92.

49.     The EA prepared in 1992 identified that most people to be resettled by the Yacyretá
Project lived in the floodplain of the Paraná River, which includes the floodplains of the urban
creeks in Encarnación and Posadas. The resettlement of populations affected by Yacyretá would
in itself constitute an effective way to eliminate the risk to groups located in risk-prone areas.
The continuing social and human costs experienced by the population living along urban creeks
are exacerbated by (a) the prolonged stay at Level 76masl, and hence the delay in
implementation of the RRAP, (b) the poorly controlled influx of population into the floodplain,
which has placed more people at risk, (c) the clogging of creeks by dumping of garbage; and (d)
the more frequent occurrence of phenomena such as El Niño, which has increased flood events in
urban creeks from exceptional rainfall in their watersheds. Management recognizes that families
living along the different urban creeks, including those mentioned in the Request for Inspection,
are exposed to high risk, deteriorating living conditions and an unsanitary environment.77

50.     The concern for the families affected by flooding was among the issues noted by the
Bank and IDB supervision mission in September 1998, as reflected in its Aide Memoire, which
states, "the Banks recognize the necessity to attend to the families resettled along the rivers and
sewage drains and the necessity to improve the poor sanitary conditions of thousands living in
both cities" (Annex B). In addition, in the first of the high level meetings on the project held in
Washington in 1998, both the Bank and IDB requested from EBY "a detailed account of the
pending impacts resulting from operating the project at 76 masl that should be a priority to


77      See Progress Report dated May 14, 1999 (Sec. M99-333), pg. 11, para. 37.


                                                                                                    22

Paraguay and Argentina                                                                 Management Response



address due to the prolonged presence of the reservoir at 76 masl and due to overflowing of
urban creeks." In these meetings it was agreed that EBY should present a plan to assist the
affected people (albeit not as a recognition of a causal relationship between the reservoir and the
flooding of the creeks). The argument for requesting and implementing the PDA was that all
families up to level 84 masl had to be resettled. However, those families between 78 and 84 masl
that were living along urban creeks were exposed to excessively high risks and thus could not
wait until a plan to reach 84 masl was agreed and implemented. This led to the formulation and
implementation of the PDA, a program of anticipated resettlement designed to respond precisely
to the problems referred to the claim.78

51.      Subsequently, the Bank has been actively involved in the supervision of the PDA in order
to ensure that it is implemented in compliance with OD 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement.
Although the Bank is not financing the PDA, its interest and commitment to the program is
reflected in Table 5.2 and results from the fact that it constitutes a subset of the resettlement
contemplated by the Yacyretá Project's legal agreements.79

52.      Immediately after the 1997-1998 flood, EBY, with the advice of IDB and the Bank,
organized visits to areas affected by the heavy rains and flooding in order to assess the damages
and risks. On this basis, EBY defined high risk areas below 84 masl as: (a) those neighborhoods
along the main urban creeks most affected by the great flood of 1997-1998, and (b) other areas
not necessarily affected by natural urban creeks, but exposed to similar high environmental risks,
located near open rain water and sewage channels.80 Annex D illustrates the two types of
situations that the PDA was designed to resolve.




78       See Progress Report dated May 14, 1999. (Sec. M99-333), pg 11, para 37.
79       The pertinent legal agreements foresee the need to resettle all people affected by a possible raising of the
reservoir beyond 76 masl. That need would be triggered in stages. In particular, Section 9 of the Loan 3520-AR
Third Owners' Agreement (also applicable to Loan 2854-AR through cross-reference) requires resettlement for "any
of a number of possible raisings short of 78 [masl]," for "a raising up to 78 [masl]" and for a raising "beyond 78
[masl]." Thus, resettlement of the people affected by the PDA is contemplated in the legal agreements, although the
reservoir will not be raised under the PDA. Section 9 further stipulates that resettlements not contemplated in the
pre-PDA RRAP are carried out "in accordance with standards consistent with those included in the [RRAP] ...[and]
to the satisfaction of the Bank" (without limitation to when the resettlement occurs). Hence, all resettlement under
PDA is subject to the Bank's resettlement policy (OD 4.30).
80       Families living in the Pacú Cua and Barril Paso neighbourhoods, both mentioned in Request II, are
examples of communities included in the PDA as a result of their exposure to environmental risk.


                                                                                                                     23

Paraguay and Argentina                                                              Management Response



                    TABLE 5.2. MEETINGS AND COMMUNICATIONS CONCERNING THE PDA
           Date                          Meetings and Communications concerning PDA
      12/3-4/98        First High Level Meeting in Washington DC. Attendees: representatives of IBRD,
                       IDB, EBY, Governments of Paraguay and Argentina. Agreement was reached that
                       EBY would present a program to assist communities living in the most polluted
                       zones--Posadas and Encarnación creeks' areas (in accordance with the activities
                       already being developed by EBY).
      09/08/99         Bank sends letter to EBY regarding a workshop that would take place to discuss the
                       PDA proposal.
      09/26/99 to      Participatory evaluation workshop takes place on PDA. Attendees: representatives
      10/01/99         from EBY (Argentina and Paraguay), four experts hired by the Bank, the Project's
                       manager, social expert.
      11/26/99         Joint meeting takes place on conceptual analysis of PDA.
      11/29/99         Bank sends EBY Final Report on the participatory evaluation workshop and the
                       conditions under which the PDA would be financed.
      03/30/00         EBY sends comments to the Bank on the conditions under which the PDA would be
                       financed.
      08/08/00         Bank informs EBY of the need to amend the loan agreements in order to make
                       financing feasible.
      08/24/00         EBY notifies the Bank that it will not use the resources coming from the loans to
                       finance PDA.
      09/08/00         Bank responds to EBY regarding its decision to not use the discussed resources and
                       informs about its willingness to support the program.
      09/08/00 up to   Supervision mission assesses progress and problems, meeting regularly with
      present          affected people in the PDA and makes recommendations. (See Annex 4.1).


53.     Based on the situation described in para. 52, EBY carried out an assessment in 1999,
identifying a total of 1,10181 families in Encarnación below 84 masl, including families living on
the shores of the Poti'y (308), Mboi Caé (589), and Mboi Tesá (204) Creeks. The relocation of
these families had already been planned as part of resettlements included in the plan to reach 84
masl. The PDA, based on IDB and Bank advice, assigned a higher priority to their relocation to
minimize the impact of future floods.

54.     The PDA has two main components: (a) construction of houses and infrastructure for
resettled families, and (b) provision of assistance before, during and after the relocation of
families to their new neighborhood. The construction of 674 houses for Itá Paso was included in
the first component even though they were not affected by the urban creek flooding, for reasons
explained below. As a result, under the first component EBY invited bids for construction of
1,970 houses and corresponding infrastructure works for the new resettlement in Arroyo Porá
and Itá Paso, and it is repairing 40 houses that were already built in the Buena Vista
neighborhood. EBY's resettlement team has completed all of the pre-moving activities and is
preparing for the phase of moving the families, which will begin in July 2002 upon completion
of the first group of houses.

55.     Details of the progress made in the construction of these homes are presented in Table
5.3. The information was compiled during the supervision mission of May 2002.



81      The original number of families that require resettlement as a part of the PDA was 1,101 but additional
work done by EBY increased this to 2,010.


                                                                                                               24

   Paraguay and Argentina                                                          Management Response



                            TABLE 5.3. NO. OF HOUSES UNDER CONSTRUCTION FOR PDA
                    Neighborhood           No. of Houses         PROGRESS ACCORDING TO PLANS
              Arroyo Porá                       453           86% of construction completed
              Arroyo Porá II                    601           In bidding
              Arroyo Porá III                   150           Bidding documents under preparation
              Itá Paso                          674           97% of construction completed
              San Pedro                          92           97% of construction completed
              Buena Vista                        40           Information not available.
              Total                            2,010


   56.     The second component of the PDA includes support for families before, during, and after
   relocation as shown in Figure 5.4. Resettlement under the PDA complements the resettlement
   activities carried out by EBY under the RRAP and represents advanced resettlement of families
   that would have to be relocated if and when the reservoir level is raised to 83 masl. Figure 5.5
   presents information about the PDA and past and future resettlement of the affected population.

                         Figure 5.4. URBAN CREEKS PROGRAM



Pre-moving Subprogram               Transition Subprogram                  Emancipation Subprogram


         Information                      Social integration and                   Strengthening of social
                                              strengthening                             organization

         Updating of
    socioeconomic data                    Use and maintenance                       Articulation of social
                                                of houses                       organizations with govern-
                                                                                  ment organizations and
    Family and community                                                                   NGOS
          diagnosis                               Titling

                                                                                           Titling

    Community promotion


    Special cases support




                                                                                                            25

Paraguay and Argentina                                                             Management Response




                            Figure 5.5. Resettlement Under RRAP (Up to 2000), PDA
                                          and Pending Actions to 84 masl
                                                 Number of Families



                    9,000
                    8,000                                                     1983-1992
                    7,000                                                     1993-1994
                    6,000
                    5,000                                                     1995-2000
                    4,000                                                     PDA
                    3,000
                    2,000                                                     To Be Resettled*
                    1,000
                         0
                           1983-19921993-19941995-2000 PDA  To Be
                                                           Resettled*
                              _________________
                           Population already Resettled

   * If reservoir level is raised



57.       Bank involvement in the PDA. Table 5.2 summarizes the discussions held between
EBY and the Bank regarding the PDA. On August 8, 2000, the Bank expressed to EBY its
willingness to amend Loan 2854-AR to allow use of resources from this loan in support of the
PDA. However, EBY did not pursue this avenue. As a result, the Bank cancelled US$10.4
million from Loan 2854-AR on December 31, 2000.

58.       EBY is aware that the PDA, regardless of its sources of financing, needs to comply with
the Bank's Involuntary Resettlement Policy (OD 4.30). In addition, the Bank has advised EBY
that the design and implementation of the Program should ensure: (a) increased participation and
consultation with affected families; (b) development of resettlement plans within the context of
municipal development plans; (c) implementation of socio-economic impact assessments prior to
relocation; (d) exploration of more flexible options of relocation; (e) use of self construction and
mutual help methods; and finally (f) promotion of community development activities. Even
though the Bank is not providing financing for the resettlement activities to be undertaken as part
of the PDA, Bank supervision of the PDA has been intensive, in order to ensure compliance with
OD 4.30 and the specific recommendations made by the Bank on November 29, 1999. (See
Annex E). Bank supervision has made the following important verifications with respect to PDA:

· Increased participation. EBY has modified its methodologies allowing for increased
    participation of families to be resettled by the PDA. Since 1999, EBY has conducted
    information and consultation meetings with provincial and municipal authorities as well as
    with representatives from affected neighborhoods. In these meetings, EBY has explained the
    PDA, its objectives, criteria for inclusion, solutions, and methodology. To promote better
    understanding of the PDA, EBY has organized visits of affected families to the new
    resettlement site. Families have also been incorporated into the process of managing and
    planning some resettlement activities. Affected families are sharing responsibilities for the
    allocation of new homes, assisting in identification of potential impacts resulting from the
    relocation, and helping design compensatory programs.



                                                                                                       26

Paraguay and Argentina                                                           Management Response


· Inclusion of resettlement in urban development plans. The Bank has advised EBY on
    numerous occasions about the need to improve coordination with local governments,
    ensuring that new neighborhoods created as a result of resettlement actions are compatible
    with urban development plans. Local authorities have to assume responsibilities in providing
    services, and operating and maintaining the new infrastructure included in EBY's
    resettlement programs. The Bank advised EBY to implement a component aimed at
    strengthening the capacity of local governments, as a complement to the PDA, and approved
    the allocation of US$1.0 million from Loan 2854-AR for this purpose.82 However, EBY has
    been slow in channeling this support, in spite of repeated requests from the Bank. According
    to plans, the first support will be granted to the Municipality of Encarnación in order to
    enable it to manage efficiently the new municipal slaughterhouse and the market built as part
    of Plan B.83

· Socioeconomic impact assessment. The PDA commissioned Catholic University of
    Encarnación to conduct a socioeconomic impact assessment of all families and communities
    to be resettled.

· Support for relocation in Itá Paso and Arroyo Porá instead of purchasing new land. EBY
    modified its original plans of purchasing two new sites, distant from the commercial center
    of Encarnación and instead accepted the Bank's recommendations of resettling more families
    in Arroyo Porá and Itá Paso, increasing the size of these neighborhoods and making them
    economically more viable.

· Diversification of resettlement alternatives. The Bank recommended to EBY that the PDA
    provide a more flexible menu of resettlement options, allowing affected people to choose the
    alternative most compatible with their socioeconomic and demographic conditions. EBY
    agreed that this was an important objective but considered that it was not feasible to do it in
    the context of the PDA. EBY pointed out that introducing more flexibility into the PDA
    would lead to delays and additional frustration of people exposed to the risk of flooding.
    However, EBY has offered that any future resettlement program will be designed with more
    flexibility. Nevertheless, the PDA does offer a range of options (i.e., to relocate either in Itá
    Paso or Arroyo Porá; to pick the lot within the closer community; or, to opt for cash
    compensation instead of resettlement).

· Review of the resettlement proposal for Itá Paso in order to avoid destruction of houses
    built by families. EBY accepted the Bank's advice concerning Itá Paso, avoiding the
    destruction of existing homes that had been constructed by the resettled families. The new
    homes built as part of the PDA were integrated with existing homes, providing increased
    living spaces and allowing for productive activities to be organized within the home.

· Focused attention on mitigation of economic impact caused by displacement. The Bank
    required and EBY accepted preparation of a detailed and individual analysis of the potential


82      This reallocation was approved on December 31, 2000 as a part of the extension of the loan's closing date.
83      Construction of the municipal market was planned to be financed with resources of Loan 2854-AR but after
long delays and non compliance with agreed timetables, financing was withdrawn. EBY is financing the market, a
component of Plan B, with its own resources, subject to Bank supervision.


                                                                                                                27

Paraguay and Argentina                                                   Management Response



   economic impacts associated with relocation of families from their neighborhoods along the
   urban creeks to the new sites. To respond to the potential negative impacts, EBY presented,
   during the supervision mission of May 13-17, 2002, a Social and Economic Rehabilitation
   Program. The Bank endorsed this Program and required a detailed formulation of projects
   and definition of target population according to the results of the impact assessment.

59.    Current complaints. Management is aware that some families not included in the PDA
might be dissatisfied with their exclusion and the priority given to others. Conflicts have
developed between EBY and some excluded groups, including the following main cases:

· First, families living between levels 78 and 84 masl at relatively close distances from urban
   creeks, but not exposed to high risk, questioned the priorities as defined by EBY and
   expressed unwillingness to wait for the final resettlement phase slated to occur when and if
   the reservoir is raised to 83 masl. However, these families will be resettled as part of any plan
   to raise the level to 83 masl and establish a buffer zone (84 masl).

· A second group of families living along urban creeks but above 84 masl have also demanded
   inclusion in the PDA in spite of the fact that they are not within the actual or potential area of
   impact of Yacyretá. These families will not be resettled by PDA or any other EBY sponsored
   resettlement program as they would not be affected in any way by the operation at 83 masl
   and, as explained above, there is no causal link between the reservoir and urban creek
   flooding.

· Third, there are conflicts with families, such as the 110 families living in Arroyo Poti'y
   mentioned in the Request for Inspection, that were included in the PDA but did not agree
   with the proposed resettlement site. If these families maintain their rejection of the proposed
   site, they will be resettled as part of any plan acceptable to the Bank to raise the level to 83
   masl and establish a buffer zone (84 masl).

· A fourth type of conflict has developed with families living in areas of high risk near major
   urban creeks, but who are not included in the Program due to their post-1998 arrival in the
   neighborhood. These families will also be resettled as part of any plan acceptable to the Bank
   to raise the level to 83 masl and establish a buffer zone (84 masl).

60.    In reference to the specific cases cited in this claim, Management holds the following
views:

· The Cambyretá families living in the San Francisco neighborhood: According to EBY
   November 2000 census verification, 68 families live in the affected blocks, and not 110 as
   mentioned in Request II. The 68 families were originally included in the PDA, but during the
   process of negotiating with the community, they rejected the option of being moved to a new
   resettlement community in Arroyo Porá (located in the same municipality, but at the extreme
   opposite of the San Francisco neighborhood) and proposed another area that would have
   required land purchase (Annex F).1 Taking into account that the PDA was designed under
   clear budget and land restrictions, the request presented was considered as an option to be
   analyzed as part of the resettlements planned in regard to the raising of the level of the
   reservoir to 83 masl. EBY responded to the San Francisco proposal, as can be seen in Annex



                                                                                                   28

Paraguay and Argentina                                                   Management Response



    F. It is important to mention that EBY has included, as part of the draft plan to raise the level
    of operation to 83 masl, some relocation sites in the area that the Cambyretá community is
    demanding.

· Lands on the shores of Poti'y Creek in the District de Cambyretá. EBY anticipates
    acquiring all of the affected lands below 84 masl. Additionally, the Expropriation Law in
    Paraguay guarantees that all the lands and physical improvements (houses, fences, etc.)
    within the expropriation boundaries are subject to just compensation. The project team has
    discussed with EBY that, in order to comply with the RRAP, families are to be compensated
    according to replacement cost.

· The neighborhoods of Pacú Cua, Santa Rosa, and Barril Paso. These neighborhoods are
    eligible as they are affected by high risk of flooding and unsanitary conditions, since they are
    located along sewage and rain water discharges areas (see Annex D). The Mboi Caé
    neighborhood, in particular, is one of the areas most severely affected by floods.

· Presumed ineligible families. The only families included in the PDA that were not affected
    by the periodic overflow of urban creeks are the 674 families relocated to Itá Paso in 1997-
    1998. Families in Itá Paso belong to the post-census group, those not included in the 1990
    census, to whom the Government of Paraguay had provided an undeveloped lot with no
    housing, inadequate services, and poor infrastructure. Including Itá Paso families in the PDA
    allowed for significant improvements: new houses were provided free of charge, water
    services have been improved, sewerage connections are being constructed; a new school,
    health post and church have been built, and a local NGO (Kuña Roga) has been contracted by
    EBY to promote community development and improve the quality of life, especially for
    women and youth (see photos of Itá Paso, Annex C). The inclusion of the Itá Paso families in
    the PDA will be financed by the Government of Paraguay to comply with the requirements
    established by the Bank regarding improved living conditions for post-census families.

61.     Finally, the PDA does not deny the rights of other families with legitimate resettlement
claims to relocation under similar conditions. All families living between 78 and 84 masl,
including those mentioned in Request II, would be resettled in the context of the plans to raise
the level of operation to 83 masl. However, the situation in the affected areas is deteriorating and
the demand for resettlement is actually much greater than EBY's ability to address it. The
number of new families in the affected areas is another situation that changes the planning
horizon, as families continue to settle in highly vulnerable areas, undoing the progress made. The
Bank has insisted on the need for the Government of Paraguay to improve controls of the areas
between 78 and 83 masl. Even though improvements have occurred in controlling new
migrations into the 76-78 masl region, the situation continues to be unsatisfactory for the areas
between 78 and 83 masl.

62.     Summary. As stated at the beginning of this section, Management considers that the
claims related to the PDA are based on partial and/or incorrect information, misunderstandings
about the scope of the PDA and its relation to future resettlements that would take place before
the reservoir reaches 83 masl, and incorrect understanding of the hydrology of the reservoir and
neighboring urban creeks. With respect to this claim, Management has made the following
conclusions:


                                                                                                   29

Paraguay and Argentina                                                   Management Response


· Contrary to the claims included in the Request, EBY has provided both the Bank and IDB
   with precise and sufficient information about the nature and scope of the PDA, the proposed
   solutions and the way that the PDA relates to future resettlements to be organized in the
   context of a plan to raise the level to 83 masl. This is as should be expected given that the
   Bank's resettlement policy is applicable to the PDA (see footnote 18 above).

· The Bank has been provided with what it believes to be accurate information about the
   number of people to be resettled as part of the PDA, and the criteria used for their selection.

· The Bank is aware that the PDA covers only a partial number of the people to be
   compensated and/or resettled before reaching 84 masl. The number of people to be
   compensated and/or resettled on the Paraguayan side--in the context of the Yacyretá
   Project--is far larger than the number of families included in the PDA.

· The Bank is aware that EBY had to make difficult choices in establishing priorities and, on
   that basis, determining that some families would be relocated earlier than others. Those at
   higher risk were included for advanced relocation as part of the PDA, while the rest would
   have to wait for resettlement in the context of a future plan to raise the level of operation to
   its final design level of 83 masl.

· Management has discussed with EBY the need to find solutions to all of the conflicts that
   have arisen as a result of such priority setting.

· The Bank has diligently supervised the implementation of the PDA to ensure that solutions
   and resettlements take place according to principles and procedures developed in the RRAP
   approved by the Bank, and that plans and agreements reached with affected families and their
   representative organizations are honored.

· Management considers that the decisions adopted by EBY are consistent with applicable
   safeguard policies.

   Claim 1.3.

   Owners of houses, who were included in EBY census have had their houses
   destroyed by flooding.

63.     Management considers that the claim of a causal link between the current reservoir level
and the flooding cannot be substantiated. First, floods are not caused or exacerbated by the
reservoir at 76 masl (Figure 6.1). The Paraná River has historically caused periodic floods,
affecting families in the cities of Posadas and Encarnación. The frequency of floods and the
levels that the river reaches periodically are shown in Table 6.2. The Yacyretá Reservoir at
current levels does not increase the likelihood or incidence of flooding. Heavy flooding is the
result of natural precipitation cycles and is exacerbated by "El Niño" and other weather
phenomena.

64.     Moreover, EBY has adopted Resolution No. 959/86 (Annex G) that allows for anticipated
or early expropriation of legally titled home owners. This resolution allows early compensation



                                                                                                   30

Paraguay and Argentina                                                          Management Response



of any home owner whose property is located below 84 masl, provided that he/she makes a
formal request to EBY. Under Resolution 959/86, once EBY has received a request for early
expropriation, it proceeds with the assessment of the property and its improvements, and then
compensates the owner for the expropriation according to replacement cost, as required by the
RRAP and OD 4.30 on Involuntary Resettlement. The Bank, however, is aware that this
procedure is subject to the limitations imposed by EBY's finances.

65.     Finally, Management believes that this situation is not in violation of any Bank policies,
even though it recognizes the frustration of home owners who have seen the value of their
properties reduced and had to wait for many years to be expropriated and compensated, without
an end in sight. Management has frequently advised EBY of the need to put an end to the
uncertainty by either raising the level to 83 masl, operating indefinitely at an intermediate level,
or staying at the current 76 masl as a final solution, ensuring in all cases not only compliance
with Bank policies but also compensating home owners and other affected people for the
damages and negative impacts originated by the relevant scenario.

    Claim 1.4.

    Bank has failed in overseeing resettlement projects.

66.     Management believes that the Requesters are not fully aware of previous and ongoing
Bank supervision efforts as well as the specific positive results these efforts have generated. Due
diligence has been exercised in supervising resettlement, environmental, and other issues related
to project implementation in accordance with the requirements of OD 13.05.

67.     Following the Board's endorsement of the Panel's recommendations of 1997,
Management took several actions aimed at strengthening project supervision.84 Management
reiterated its commitment to stay the course and protect the well-being of the affected people,
consistent with the Panel's recommendations as endorsed by the Board, namely that "Bank
assistance will be vital to sustainable outcomes". The Bank, the Borrower and EBY have moved
to address the concerns reflected in the Panel's Review. Nevertheless, while some aspects have
gone well, others are subject to the frequent changes in EBY's management and political climate,
and restricted by the chronic institutional weaknesses of EBY, and its insufficient commitment to
consultation and participation.

68.     As a result of Bank supervision, Plan A and Plan B are almost fully implemented, albeit
with delays. Annex R presents a summary implementation status on Plans A and B, based on
information provided to the last Bank supervision mission on May 13-17, 2002. The 1997
restructuring of Loan 3520-AR (Yacyretá II) and Loan 2854-AR (SEGBA V) significantly
increased Bank financing for resettlement and environmental mitigation, together with
establishment of a trust account, to ensure full availability of funds needed for complete
implementation. In addition, Bank supervision was intensified and shifted to the field, to the
decentralized Country Management Unit, covering Argentina, Chile, Paraguay, and Uruguay. A
new social development specialist has been in place since February 1999 with special


84      See The Inspection Panel, Review of Problems and Assessment of Action Plans: Argentina/Paraguay:
Yacyretá Hydroelectric Project, September 16, 1997.


                                                                                                         31

Paraguay and Argentina                                                     Management Response



responsibilities for the Yacyretá Project, as part of the supervision team, and for dealing with
civil society.

69.     Annex B presents information of the number of supervision missions conducted during
the period 1999-2001, and a summary of recommendations and conclusions related to the claims
included in the Request for Inspection. Management believes that this provides a clear summary
of supervision activities and an overview of the key messages relating to supervision of the
Yacyretá Project, following the Panel's 1997 Report, including:

· Bank supervision has intensified based on the number of missions and field visits conducted
    during the period;

· The Bank has also supported implementation to increase the effectiveness of the PDA; and,

· Management has advised and pressured EBY for the creation of a conflict resolution
    mechanism to deal with the growing number of conflicts that surround Yacyretá.

· In order to assess the adequacy of the supervision effort, the Regional Vice President for
    Latin America and the Caribbean called for an independent internal Bank evaluation of Bank
    oversight. The resulting report was completed in June 1999 and looked into the adequacy and
    effectiveness of the past and present management decision-making processes, supervision,
    and mechanisms in place to exercise available legal remedies in the case of non-compliance
    of the Borrower. The report voices some of the same concerns as did the Panel Report about
    the prevalence of engineering considerations over environmental and resettlement in the
    early years of the project and the Bank's acceptance of continuous deferment and delays in
    meeting obligations which seem to have weakened the Borrower's accountability for results.
    It also cited deficiencies in past supervision practices, despite the fact that supervision was
    five times the average level. The biggest lesson was that senior regional management needed
    to be involved and be proactive in addressing issues, many of which were political, not
    technical.

70.     In 1998, the project received an unsatisfactory rating, after a series of Bank missions
closely supervising resettlement, environmental and project management issues concluded that
EBY was failing to reduce delays in implementing key activities of the RRAP and Yacyretá
EMP financed by Loans 2854-AR and 3520-AR. The Borrower and EBY were informed in 2001
that reclassification would require, among other things, meeting the following conditions: (a)
approval of the Expropriation Law in Paraguay; (b) progress in construction of the municipal
market, the slaughterhouse, and the wastewater treatment plant of Encarnación; (c) progress in
construction of baffle plates in the main spillway; and (d) starting of the sedimentation study.
During the supervision mission of November 1999, an action plan was agreed with EBY to
ensure progress and facilitate follow-up.

71.     Also in 1998, after several Bank missions verified no progress and a lack of action in
implementing agreed upon actions, the Bank declared the project in non-compliance with loan
agreements as a result of the Government of Paraguay failing to establish: (a) adequate
administrative or operational capacity to carry out the resettlement of post-census families; (b)
the means and mechanisms to prevent further migration into the affected area of new post-census



                                                                                                   32

Paraguay and Argentina                                                   Management Response



families; and (c) a trust fund account in a commercial bank to finance the two foregoing
commitments. The Bank decided to suspend all future loans to Paraguay until these issues were
resolved. Subsequently, progress was verified by Bank staff with respect to the first two issues
mentioned above. In addition, the Government of Paraguay opened a fiduciary account, and
deposited US$1.1 million to improve living conditions of post-census families in Itá Paso.

72.     Supervision and management support was strengthened in line with the independent
internal Bank report previously mentioned, including (a) close field supervision since 1999 by
assigning the Task Manager to Buenos Aires and contracting a social expert based in Asunción,
and (b) intensified supervision through the use of a more diversified supervision strategy. In
addition to standard supervision missions, supervision visits to Posadas and Encarnación were
conducted regularly by the Task Manager based in Buenos Aires and the social expert in
Asunción. During the period 1998-2002, a total of forty-seven such visits were conducted. With
the support of a local consultant financed by Loan 2854-AR, a monthly follow-up report has
been produced since 2000. The agenda for these supervision visits has been to follow up on
agreements reached during the previous standard supervision mission, contact affected people,
NGOs and local governments, and discuss specific issues with the local EBY office in
Encarnación.

73.     Following recommendations of the report, another supervision instrument was designed
jointly with IDB to allow for senior Management to review problems and progress in project
implementation, including resettlement and the PDA. A total of three High Level Supervision
Meetings during the period 1999-2002 were organized. During these meetings, the Regional
Vice President, Country Management Unit Director, and Sector Management Unit Directors
have engaged in dialogue with ministers and other high level officials from the Governments of
Argentina and Paraguay. Finally, the Regional Vice Presidency and the Country Management
Unit Director have also maintained close contacts with affected people, NGOs and other civil
society groups including through three visits to the project sites by the Bank's Regional Vice
President, during which meetings were organized with affected people, NGOs and other civil
society groups. In short, supervision has been intensive and in compliance with OD 13.05.

    Claim 1.5.

    Complaints have been made without proper response.

74.     Since 1999, Management and the supervision team have received numerous letters of
complaint, and other types of communication from affected people in Paraguay, including some
from the groups presenting Request II. Annex S summarizes some of the complaints received
and the responses made by the Bank, and Annex T includes a sample of these letters. EBY has
also received communications from groups and/or individuals sponsoring Request II, demanding
solutions to different problems and, in some cases, indicating that if their demands are not met
they will take action against the project entity. The Bank has been responsive to all complaints
and communications received from civil society groups. The views and/or demands of these
groups have been used by the Bank as inputs for the dialogue with EBY and for project
supervision. In addition to written communications, additional complaints, requests and
suggestions have been channeled directly to the project Task Manager, the supervision team, and
senior Management during visits to the project site, including the city of Encarnación.



                                                                                                33

Paraguay and Argentina                                                            Management Response



75.     Following the Board's endorsement in 1997 of the Panel's Review, supervision missions
have met regularly with affected people and other groups with claims, NGOs, civil society
groups, and local and provincial governments to learn about their perspective on the project and
certain key issues such as the PDA and EBY's proposal to raise the level of the reservoir to 83
masl. Additional steps have been taken by the Bank to ensure proper understanding of
complaints and affected people. For example, two NGOs (Sobrevivencia in Paraguay and CIET
in Argentina), were contracted during the first half of 2000 to: (a) conduct an opinion survey of
affected people and project stakeholders on the issue of raising the level of the reservoir and (b)
advise the Bank on the conditions that would be required under different scenarios.

76.     To the extent that decisions are made by EBY and the Governments of Argentina and
Paraguay, the Bank has encouraged affected people and civil society to also channel their
complaints directly to EBY and/or the respective Governments. In addition, the Bank has
advised and promoted, in different ways, EBY's consultation with affected families and other
groups. The Bank's advice to and dialogue with EBY and Governments has led to some success
insofar as EBY has responded to specific complaints of affected people and civil society groups.
The most important cases include:

· Complaints from affected families in Itá Paso have led to significant improvements in the
    community;

· Improved coordination between EBY and local governments has begun to develop;

· Merchants located in Encarnación's municipal market (to be relocated) were incorporated
    into the process of design of the market under construction;

· EBY reconsidered the original solution of resettlement project sites for relocation under the
    PDA to minimize adverse socio-economic impacts from relocation to distant and isolated
    places;

· EBY has agreed to conduct socio-economic assessments of populations to be resettled as part
    of the PDA and possible impacts from the relocation;

· EBY has become more receptive to participation and consultation,85 and

· EBY has begun to conduct business in a more transparent fashion.86

77.     In sum, comments received by the Bank have been responded to and brought to the
attention of EBY and other the relevant authorities in a timely manner, in writing, through direct
contacts, and in the context of supervision missions.




85      Annual Consultations have been organized (Jornadas Participativas) since 1998, and specific consultations
have been organized focusing on specific issues such as the Blue Ribbon Panel Report.
86      Information Centres are operating in Posadas and Encarnación, a web-site is facilitating access to
information, and Transparency International (Argentina Chapter) was contracted to advise on public monitoring.


                                                                                                               34

Paraguay and Argentina                                                                    Management Response



                                     VI.     SECOND SET OF CLAIMS

    Claim 2.1.

    The Dam has caused environmental pollution and negatively impacted health
    conditions in the area.

78.      This claim is identical to the one presented in Request I.87 Thus, for the period up to
1997, information provided in the previous Panel response is still relevant to this claim. The
environmental and health situation remains comparable to that in 1997. The dam has neither
caused nor increased environmental pollution in the area of Encarnación-Posadas. Water quality
monitoring programs before, during, and after raising the reservoir level up to 76 masl have
demonstrated that there are no significant water quality issues in the reservoir. Intensive
environmental monitoring efforts showed that after filling the reservoir to 76 masl, water quality
in or near urban areas maintained levels similar to those prior to filling the reservoir.88 There
have been no significant changes in key physical and chemical parameters in the main water
body of the reservoir at locations such as Encarnación or Posadas. Table 6.1 provides data on the
water quality in the main body of the reservoir and in the Paraná River upstream of Encarnación-
Posadas for the sampling period 1993 ­ 2002.

                                                          TABLE 6.1
                        MEAN WATER QUALITY IN THE RESERVOIR ­ RIVER SYSTEM
               Water Quality Parameter                        Main Body of                 Upstream
                                                                Reservoir           Encarnación-Posadas
               Dissolved Oxygen, mg/l                               8.4                       8.60.
               Nitrogen as Nitrate, mg/l                          0.376                     0.3640
               Nitrogen as NH3, mg/l                              0.038                      0.035
               Phosphorous as total P, mg/l                       0.053                      0.042
               Orthophosphates, mg/l                              0.021                      0.015
               Total coliforms, coliforms/100 ml                   508                        547

79.      The filling of the reservoir by stages and the operation of the reservoir at 76 masl for
almost eight years, together with the high water renovation rates in the reservoir (the water is
renewed in less than five days) have allowed an important flushing effect, washing away most
organic solids and nutrients.89 Table 6.1 demonstrates that the reservoir's water quality is
oligotrophic (very low in nutrient/organic materials). The water quality data time series shows
that no eutrophication (excess nutrient availability) problems have occurred, nor are they forecast
for the short, medium or long term. One of the major reasons why the reservoir is oligotrophic is
the low hydraulic retention time of less than five days.90



87       See para. 4 of Request I ("The rise in reservoir has introduced stagnant polluted water.") and para. 3.46 of
Management's Response to Request I, which concluded that "There have been no significant changes in key
physical and chemical parameters in the main water body of the reservoir."
88       Bimonthly Report ­ Plan de Manejo de Medio Ambiente; EBY; May-June 2001, p. 6. All reports have
concluded the same.
89       Theoretically, from its partial initial filling in September 1994 until June 2002, the reservoir has been fully
renewed more than 1000 times.
90       If retention time is significantly longer, i.e. one year, the risk of eutrophication problems increases in
reservoirs.


                                                                                                                      35

Paraguay and Argentina                                                   Management Response



80.     EBY financed the wastewater treatment plant and major sewage interceptors for the city
of Posadas, greatly improving the environmental conditions of neighborhoods located along
urban creeks. However, the Encarnación wastewater treatment plant has not yet been built due to
delays in the siting process, which has involved intensive public consultation. As explained
further in Claim 2.7, the reservoir has not had a negative effect on human health.

    Claim 2.2.

    Before the dam elevated the Paraná River to the current height above sea level, the
    river and creeks surrounding the city of Encarnación flowed at a rate that
    precluded the presence of stagnant waters.

81.     The current water levels of the reservoir neither increase the presence of stagnant waters
in the creeks nor influence flooding in the creeks in Encarnación. Creeks are flowing at the same
rate they would without a reservoir at 76 masl. The Yacyretá Project is a run-of-the river plant.
Thus, since the reservoir is constantly being flushed by river run-off, it behaves less like a lake
and more like a river. The reservoir operating rules establish that to keep an average flow rate of
13,000 m3/second passing through the dam, the water level at Encarnación ­ Posadas should be
76 masl. This means that for flows less than or equal to 13,000 m3/s the water level at
Encarnación ­ Posadas will remain at or below 76 masl. As the flows increase closer to 13,000
m3/s, water levels in Encarnación ­ Posadas will essentially be those corresponding to natural
river conditions (without the presence of the Yacyretá Dam). For flows above 13,000 m3/s water
levels at Encarnación ­ Posadas will be practically identical to those reached under natural
conditions for the Paraná River. Figure 6.1 shows the water levels at Encarnación ­ Posadas for
different flow rates and the influence of reservoir operation at 76 masl.




                                                                                                   36

Paraguay and Argentina                                                                            Management Response



                                                                    Figure 6.1.
                                       Water Level in Encarnación at Different Flow Rates of the Paraná River

                                    82




                                    80
        asl)
            m(                                 operating with
                                             reservoir at 76 m

              level                 78

                   teraw
                        n           76

                         nació


                              Encar 74

                                                                natural conditions

                                    72
                                      0    5        10       15       20        25       30       35      40     45

                                                           Paraná River flow rate (1,000 m 3 /s)



82.     The above described situation also means that floods in Encarnación, as well as in
Posadas, will continue to happen with the same frequency as the frequency of flows greater than
13.000 m3/s and that these floods will reach the same levels that they would have reached even in
the absence of the Yacyretá Dam. The study of floods in the Paraná River91 carried out within the
Argentina Flood Emergency Project financed by the World Bank estimated the following flood
recurrence periods for Encarnación ­ Posadas (Table 6.2).

                                                                    TABLE 6.2

                                       RETURN PERIOD FOR FLOOD LEVELS IN ENCARNACIÓN-POSADAS
                                              Recurrence Period                   Level in
                                                     (Years)           Encarnación-Posadas (masl)
                                                        2                            77
                                                        5                            78
                                                       10                            79
                                                       20                            80
                                                       50                            81
                                                       100                          81.6
                                                       200                          82.5

83.     As can be observed, reservoir operation at 76 masl will not absorb any type of flood
event (even those of a lower recurrence such as biannual floods). Therefore, the social and

91      Sir William Halcrow & Partners. September 1994. "Estudio de Regulación del valle Aluvial de los Ríos Paraná,
Paraguay y Uruguay para el Control de Inundaciones;" Ministerio del Interior, Sub Unidad Central de Coordinación de la
Emergencia, Argentina.


                                                                                                                       37

Paraguay and Argentina                                                   Management Response



economic impacts of floods on Encarnación and Posadas will continue as long as the reservoir
remains at this level. Even in the absence of Yacyretá, the relocation of poor people living in the
floodplain between 78 and 83 masl would have been justified on social grounds.

84.      Even in the absence of Yacyretá, the relocation of poor people living in the floodplain of
the creeks between 78 and 83 masl would be justified on social grounds. As can be observed,
reservoir operation at 76 masl cannot absorb and neutralize any type of flood event (even those
of a lower recurrence such as biannual floods). Therefore, the social and economic impacts of
floods on Encarnación will continue as long as the reservoir remains at this level. The EA for the
project identified that most people to be resettled by the Yacyretá Project lived in the floodplain
of the Paraná River, which includes the floodplains of the urban creeks in Encarnación and
Posadas. Thus, resettlement of populations affected by Yacyretá would in itself constitute an
effective way to eliminate the risk to groups located in risk-prone areas. If the original filling
schedule had been achieved, all population below 84 masl (including those at highest risk along
urban creeks) would have been relocated above flood levels by now.

85.      Increasing the level of the reservoir could potentially modify the hydraulics of the urban
creeks, thus limiting their capacity to carry wastewater to the main river channel, which in turn
has a great assimilation capacity. At 83 masl, the formation of lateral bays in the urban areas will
represent the greatest environmental risk of the project unless the sanitary conditions (wastewater
collection, treatment and disposal) are greatly improved in Encarnación and Posadas. The long-
term management plan for water quality problems in lateral urban bays is mainly based on the
construction and operation of systems for the collection, treatment and disposal of wastewater,
and interception of the discharge of polluting substances to such bays. The strategy is based on a
joint effort between EBY and the agency that provides the service in each city. EBY builds the
main infrastructure (main collectors and interceptors, pumping stations and treatment plant) and
the service provider is in charge of building the secondary networks and the house connections.
Although this scheme has been successfully implemented in Posadas, the implementation on the
Encarnación side has proven to be more difficult.

86.      At 76 masl, the main bodies of the creeks are not affected and their hydraulic
characteristics and flushing capacity are maintained. Historical records show that prior to
reservoir filling, 50 percent of the time in a given year, the Paraná would be at 76 masl or above.

87.      The water quality of the urban creeks, especially in Encarnación, continues to be
degraded by the disposal of solid waste and the discharge of untreated domestic sewage (Annex
H). Thus, potential problems in the urban creeks are exacerbated by domestic garbage dumping,
wastes from marketplaces and slaughterhouses, and urban garbage in general, both along creeks
and in the drainage system of the cities of Encarnación and Posadas. Disposal of solid waste and
garbage exacerbates the clogging of the creeks and impedes the smooth flow of excess water
down the creeks and into the reservoir, thus leading to the formation of stagnant and unhealthy
pools (above the current 76 masl reservoir level) that take a long time to finally drain.

88.      At 76 masl, reservoir shore treatment works financed by EBY have been implemented in
both Encarnación and Posadas. These works have included closure and disinfection of all known
pit latrines and septic tanks, removal of vegetation, removal of construction and fences and more
importantly, clean-up and dredging of urban creeks (thus improving their flow conditions) up to



                                                                                                  38

Paraguay and Argentina                                                          Management Response



84 masl (Annex H). These works have proven to be very effective in improving environmental
conditions in the 76-78 masl stretch and in the urban area as a whole. EBY is committed to
maintaining such conditions (maintenance operations have been carried out biannually), but
more needs to be done by the municipalities, especially the control of illegal waste dumping
along creeks. The updated EMP for Yacyretá includes technical assistance to municipalities to
help them find solutions to urban environmental problems.

    Claim 2.3.

    Neighborhoods got along through the use of borehole latrines and drinking water
    wells. The wealthiest families had modern baths and pit latrines. Drinking water
    was clean and healthy. When the financing Banks let the resettlement programs
    proceed as a component disassociated from the civil works, and allowed the dam to
    begin operations before completing the transfer of all affected families, they caused
    the water table to pollute the drinking water wells and flood the pit latrines, a
    situation that forced numerous families to live in a totally contaminated and
    unhealthful environment. Contaminated aquifer (water table) has polluted drinking
    water wells and flooded pit latrines.

89.     As addressed in Request I,92 drinking water quality in or near urban areas and its related
potential health risks have been regarded as concerns of the highest importance since the
preparation of the initial Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) report for the project in 1992.
Persisting deficits in sanitation services, especially in Encarnación (where sewage collection
covers less than 20 percent of the population) have created unhealthy conditions throughout the
city ­ open sewers crisscross the city of Encarnación (Annex H).

90.     Shallow wells, used for drinking water in the low lying areas of Encarnación, are located
in and share the same groundwater table as the pit latrines. Shallow wells and latrines are
interconnected by infiltration water after any rainfall event. All these conditions ­ the dire
sanitary conditions of poor people drinking contaminated waters, the pollution of shallow wells
by latrines, and the unhealthy conditions of urban creeks ­ were fully described in the baseline
conditions section of the 1992 EIA report.93 The report noted that: "the deficit in sanitation
services poses the highest health risk in the region, especially in the urban areas ... [a] situation
exacerbated by latrines which discharge their content into the superficial groundwater table, the
principal source of drinking water for a large percentage of the population. This situation is
corroborated by the incidence of diarrhea in the area and further aggravated by children
swimming in polluted canals in periods of intense heat."94

91.     The Yacyretá Reservoir at 76 masl does not cause flooding in the creeks of Poti'y, Mboi
Tesá, Pacú Cua, Santa Rosa, Mboi Caé, Itá Paso and San Blas (Map 2). According to the Lotti




92      See paras. 3.36 and 3.37 of Management's Response to Request I."
93      Quintero, J.D. and R. Roderos. July 1992. "Informe de Evaluación Ambiental ­ Proyecto Hidroeléctrico de
Yacyretá." Entidad Binacional Yacyretá.
94      Informe de Evaluación Ambiental - Proyecto Hidroeléctrico de Yacyretá, 1992, page 92.


                                                                                                             39

Paraguay and Argentina                                                          Management Response


and Associates study95, the floods in the areas of influence of those creeks are not due to the
current reservoir level, but rather are primarily due to rainfall in the catchment area of the creeks.

92.     As is shown in Figure 6.2, groundwater in those neighborhoods is always above the
reservoir level, and is therefore not related to increases in the river/reservoir levels. The
variations in the water table are a function of rainfall infiltration and runoff. Therefore, it follows
that the interconnection of latrines and the sub-surface groundwater table, and hence, the
pollution of shallow wells, is caused by hydraulic conductivity, not by the fluctuations in the
reservoir level. The hydrogeological study referenced above includes water quality data for wells
in the area of Encarnación.96 These data indicate the presence of fecal pollution in most wells.

                          FIGURE 6.2. INTERCONNECTION OF WELLS AND LATRINES




93.     Under Loan 3842-PA Asunción Sewerage Project, subsequently renamed Reform Project
for the Water and Telecommunications Sectors, the Bank financed infrastructure works for 3,000
inhabitants in Encarnación. This loan benefited 600 families in Itá Paso and consisted of: (a)
supply and installation of 600 water house connections with their corresponding water meters
and meter boxes; (b) supply and installation of 6400 meters of distribution pipes of 50, 100 and
150 mm diameter and the corresponding valves and appurtenances; (c) construction of a
reinforced concrete water storage tank and a pump station to house mechanical and electrical
equipment for a deep groundwater well plus a chlorinator shed; (d) construction of 600
residential septic tanks and corresponding inspection chambers; and (e) construction of a mid


95      C. Lotti & Associati. March 1999. "Estudio Hidrogeológico, Topográfico y Geotécnico del Area de
Posadas, Garupa (Misiones-Argentina) y Encarnación (Itapua-Paraguay)." Entidad Binacional Yacyretá.
96      Lotti, 1999, Annex 2, Table 3, page 37.


                                                                                                        40

Paraguay and Argentina                                                    Management Response



voltage power transmission line including posts and other appurtenances. The works were
satisfactorily carried out, as reported by a Bank mission that visited the site in November 1997.

94.     In addition to these actions in Itá Paso, the Bank has showed due diligence by insisting on
the provision of water supply to populations in the floodplains through standpipes. In 1997
CORPOSANA designed and built around fourteen temporary facilities through standpipes (EBY
later on built seven additional standpipes) intended to provide relief to several communities in
the low lying areas of Encarnación.

95.     Bank supervision and dialogue with EBY has led to organizing and financing the
shoreline treatment works already described above, which have included: removal of vegetation,
clean-up of creeks and drains, removal of open solid waste dumps, closure of latrines and open
pits, and closure of shallow "wells."

    Claim 2.4.

    This situation was further aggravated by the housing developments built by EBY in
    Buena Vista and San Pedro, where the wastewater spills into the Poti'y, Santa
    María and Mboi Caé creeks, leaving them totally contaminated. This is still further
    aggravated by the fact that the work planned to resolve the pollution problems will
    not meet that objective, since, according to a document the organization holds, the
    planned Wastewater Treatment Plant (WTP) will not benefit these neighborhoods
    built by EBY, nor others affected by the rise in the water table. As such, the chance
    to recover or clean up these creeks will be lost for good, and numerous families will
    be condemned to live in a polluted environment. Attached, on disk, is a study done
    by the Catholic University, with photos and dates that relate to the degree of
    environmental pollution.

96.     The recent study carried out by the Catholic University corroborates the situation
concerning the poor conditions of the current management of sewage discharges in Encarnación
and the numerous discharges of wastewater to creeks and other water bodies. To overcome the
very serious sanitation problems posed by this situation, EBY financed the designs and will
finance and supervise construction of a new sewage collection system and wastewater treatment
plant.

97.     CORPOSANA and the Municipality of Encarnación designed and will undertake
construction of the sewerage system and wastewater treatment plant. The sewerage system
designs are intended to cover 100 percent of all urban areas in Encarnación, including housing
developments not built by EBY. The system designed includes waste discharges from Buena
Vista and San Pedro areas, which are being discharged into creeks until the sewerage system is
completed. However, the pollution loads from Buena Vista and San Pedro are minor when
compared to the overall loads from the total population in Encarnación, which also discharge to
the same water bodies, and when compared to the assimilation capacity of the Paraná River (less
than 0.03 percent of the Paraná River flow rate). Sewerage sub-system networks will be
constructed according to priorities ("inner" urban watersheds first, specifically meaning those
that drain into the creeks instead of those that drain directly into the Paraná River), and all EBY
settlements will be connected.



                                                                                                  41

Paraguay and Argentina                                                        Management Response



98.     Since the wastewater treatment plant has been designed to treat the discharges of 100
percent of the urban population of Encarnación, it will indeed treat the sewage from the
neighborhoods built by EBY in Encarnación. The urban area of Cambyretá will also be
connected to this sewerage network. Opposition to the proposed site of the treatment plant in
Encarnación delayed the implementation of this system and the project was on the verge of being
withdrawn from IDB financing. This opposition occurred in spite of the fact that international
experts (contacted by EBY, the Municipality, and the Banks) all agreed that the site was
adequate and would not cause the impacts claimed by opponents. The IDB as well as the Bank
brought international specialists to study the location and design of the wastewater treatment
plant. Both agreed on the adequacy of the location (Annex I) and of the technical specifications
of the wastewater treatment plant.97 A well known international consulting company designed
the plant as one utilizing extended aeration lagoons.

99.     The Bank has shown diligence in requiring EBY to carry out a program to clean up
creeks from garbage and other wastes, and shut down latrines and wells in the area between 76
and 78 masl. The IDB (through Loan 760) will finance the wastewater treatment plant,
interceptors, pumping stations, and sewerage network. The construction of the sewerage system
will facilitate a full recovery of urban creeks (particularly when coupled with appropriate waste
disposal) and is a condition for increasing water levels in the reservoir.

    Claim 2.5.

    Inhabitants of the neighborhood where the plant is supposed to be built (Barrio La
    Esperanza) are opposed to the resolution for these very reasons. According to
    documentary evidence that we have attached, the above was decided in violation of
    the environmental laws (Document No. 1). Document No. 2 was issued by the Office
    of the Controller. There are no plans for connecting the neighborhood where the
    plant is supposed to be built to the sewer system, meaning that the neighborhood
    will become contaminated by the rise in the water table. The selected site needs to be
    filled in and will not allow for future expansion, meaning that future generations
    will have trouble benefiting from appropriate sanitation networks. The
    environmental impact report on the project was defective on various counts,
    including a lack of participation by the affected parties and by the NGOs, who were
    concerned about the consequences of the work.

100.    The Bank is aware of the opposition of a small group of inhabitants (mainly from the La
Esperanza neighborhood) to the siting of the wastewater treatment plant. The wastewater
treatment plant has been sited 300 to 500 meters from the closest urban developments.
Neighborhood concerns are based on presumed impacts such as aesthetic concerns, odors, or
property values. Despite these concerns, the plant is important and the Bank supports it, because
the local community will receive long-term health benefits as it will also be connected to the
projected sewer network. As explained above, both the IDB and Bank have contracted
international consultants to assist EBY, CORPOSANA, and the Municipality in the location of
the plant. These consultants have concurred that the proposed site is adequate and that the plant
will not pose any risks to the surrounding communities and the environment (see Annex I).


97      The studies were done by Pacheco Jordao in 1997 and 1998 and by Gustavo Gonzalez in 1998.


                                                                                                    42

Paraguay and Argentina                                                              Management Response



101.    The Bank reviewed the Environmental Impact Assessment for the wastewater treatment
plant, which included analysis of alternative sites and alternative treatment options. The Bank
hired a consultant to look more closely at the selected site, and he also found it to be acceptable.
Bank staff visited all sites and made recommendations to EBY on buffer zones and other
measures. The Environmental Impact Assessment report of Encarnación's wastewater treatment
plant was approved by the Secretary of Environment of Paraguay (SEAM). On that basis, SEAM
issued the environmental license by Resolution 10 of 1999 (Annex J), confirming the project's
compliance with existing Paraguayan legislation. In addition, at the Bank's insistence,
meaningful public consultation was carried out regarding the site and design for the wastewater
treatment plant early on in the process. Table 6.3 lists the chronology of events and the public
meeting held to discuss the siting and design of the wastewater treatment plant.

    TABLE 6.3. CHRONOLOGY OF EVENTS ON THE LOCATION OF ENCARNACIÓN'S WASTEWATER
                 TREATMENT PLANT AND ISSUANCE OF ENVIRONMENTAL LICENSE
1995                 IDB financed the EIA and issued no objection of EIA study.
11/1995              EBY submitted the EIA of the wastewater treatment plant for approval of
                     Paraguayan Environmental Protection Secretary.
                     The Bank reviewed the EIA and provided comments.
11/1996              La Esperanza neighbors opposed the location of the plant.
05/1997              The Bank's supervision mission requested that EBY conduct public consultations
                     on the location and design of wastewater treatment plant.
10/1997              The IDB in agreement with the Encarnación Municipality contracted independent
                     international consultants to assess the siting and design of the wastewater treatment
                     plant, as well as a review of the adequacy of the EIA.
12/15/1997           One of said international consultants attended a public meeting to discuss the
                     location of the wastewater treatment plant. The public meeting involved more than
                     110 people from Encarnación and other cities. A group of people organized a public
                     meeting to protest the location of the wastewater treatment plant.
1998                 Bank contracted another independent consultant to conduct an additional review of
                     location and design of the wastewater treatment plant.
10/1999              The SEAM issued the environmental license (Annex J).
2001                 The bidding documents and proposed selection of contractors were sent to IDB for
                     "no objection."
2001                 For reasons unrelated to this issue, IDB did not provide a "no objection" to the
                     process for selecting the contractors.
05/2002              The bidding documents were re-sent to IDB for "no objection."

102.    The neighborhood where the plant is supposed to be built will be connected to the sewer
system along with all the other neighborhoods in Encarnación. In order to ensure further
minimization of visual impacts (aerated lagoons do not produce odors) from the wastewater
treatment plant, a vegetation buffer area of 24 hectares around the plant facilities will be
established. Construction of the wastewater treatment plant is expected to take about 24 months.
To avoid pollution problems during the construction period, the Bank suggested that EBY design
and build a primary treatment unit and a submerged outfall that would discharge into the
reservoir (Aide Memoire, Supervision Mission of May, 2002). This temporary outfall (which
would be decommissioned after the treatment plant is in place) would ensure that wastewater
discharges would not impact on the urban population during the construction period and should
alleviate the existing pollution problems in creeks close to the population. The plant has been
designed for a population of 118,000 inhabitants and a flow rate of 0.43 m3/sec and will
ultimately discharge into the Paraná River. It also has been designed to accommodate population


                                                                                                            43

Paraguay and Argentina                                                    Management Response



growth in Encarnación up until at least 2016, after which the facilities could be expanded to meet
future needs.

    Claim 2.6.

    According to a note we have attached from the meeting held in Ituzaingó, EBY is
    supposed to build a wastewater treatment plant in the towns of San Juan del Paraná
    and Cambyretá, but these works are not included in the EBY's plans or projects,
    meaning that once again, it is committing a gross omission.

103.    The design of the Encarnación sewerage system includes collection of wastewater
discharges from Cambyretá, particularly discharges coming from Arroyo Porá (the largest
population area of Cambyretá). The discharges from San Juan del Paraná are being discharged
directly to the reservoir, since the flow (estimated at 0.001 m3/s) and pollution load are
insignificant when compared with the assimilative capacity of the Paraná (which flows at an
average rate of 13,000 m3/s). The sewage from Encarnación and Cambyretá is expected to be
treated in extended aerated lagoons at Encarnación's proposed wastewater treatment plant.

    Claim 2.71.

    The Yacyretá Reservoir is an ideal habitat for the vectors of malaria, leishmaniasis,
    schistosomiasis, dengue fever, and other serious diseases.

104.    This claim refers to issues that have no causal relationship with the raising of the
reservoir and its operation at 76 masl. It is true that the mosquito vectors of malaria (Anopheles
darlingi and A. albitarsis), dengue fever (Aedes aegyptii), and yellow fever are endemic to the
Paraná River basin, as are the Biomphalaria aquatic snail vectors of schistosomiasis. All these
vector species have been present in the Yacyretá Project area (both countries) since long before
dam construction began. Waterborne disease vectors and their incidence on the health conditions
of the population living in the area of influence of the future reservoir were identified and fully
addressed in the 1992 EA report. The EA's EMP proposes sanitation programs for the urban
centers, as well as intensive monitoring programs of vector and health conditions in the area.

105.    Systematic vector monitoring, supported by the Yacyretá Project, is carried out on a
regular basis by the Ministry of Public Health and Social Welfare of Paraguay. It shows no
significant increase (beyond normal annual fluctuations) in the populations of any of these
vectors, nor changes in species composition, since 1993 (before reservoir filling began). The
Aedes mosquito vector of dengue fever breeds in small urban water bodies and containers, not in
the Yacyretá Reservoir. The fly vector of leishmaniasis occurs in forests and adjacent cleared
areas in Paraguay's Alto Paraná Department, but does not breed in or otherwise utilize any part
of the Yacyretá Reservoir.

106.    Through an agreement with the Ministry of Public Health and Social Welfare of
Paraguay, the Yacyretá Project also supports systematic monitoring of vector-borne diseases
with a possible link to aquatic habitats potentially associated with the reservoir (schistosomiasis,
malaria, and yellow fever). To date, this monitoring has shown that: (a) although the
Biomphalaria snail vectors are common in the Yacyretá Reservoir and elsewhere in the Paraná
River, schistosomiasis is not established within the project area; (b) there have been relatively


                                                                                                   44

Paraguay and Argentina                                                                                           Management Response



few cases of mosquito-borne diseases within the Yacyretá Project area; and (c) none of these
disease cases are attributable to environmental changes in the Paraná River since the Yacyretá
Reservoir was filled in 1994.98 The Yacyretá Project has also provided substantial assistance to
the Ministry of Public Health and Social Welfare (Paraguay) and the Ministry of Public Health
(Misiones, Argentina), to improve their capacity for disease vector monitoring.


                                                        Figure 6.3. Rate of Diarrhea in Encarnación, 1994-99

                                                  350.0
                                                                                      309             320
                      )s                          300.0

                        ant
                                                  250.0
      hear                                                  227
                                                                       203
          ardi             inhabit                200.0

              of                  and                                                                   166
                                                  150.0
                                     ousht                                       134

                Cases                     ent     100.0


                                             (per 50.0

                                                   0.0

                                                        1994        1995      1996      1997     1998       1999

                                                                             Year



Source: Bimonthly Report ­ Plan de Manejo de Medio Ambiente; No. 22, Entidad Binacional Yacyretá (EBY); May-June 2001, p.
17.

    Claim 2.72.

    The Yacyretá Reservoir has caused severe health problems, including diarrhea,
    anemia, parasitic infections, skin diseases, ectoparasites, and fevers.

107.                 This claim was already addressed as part of the Management Response to Request I.99
However, herein Management will provide additional updated information. As mentioned in the
Management Response to Request I, the reservoir has not caused health problems, and since
1997 there is no evidence that the situation has changed. As noted in the response to Claim 2.71,
there has been no increase in vector-borne diseases attributable to the Yacyretá Reservoir. In the
case of water-related diseases, including diarrheal diseases (Figure 6.3), these are attributable to
the pre-existing lack of potable water supply and sanitation services, not to the reservoir. None of


98                   As an example, Paraguay's National Malaria Eradication Service (SENEPA) reports that nine people had
been diagnosed with malaria in the Yacyretá Project area between January 1 and June 13, 2002, but that all these
patients were recent migrants from areas further north, where malaria is more prevalent. All these malaria cases
received timely, appropriate medical treatment. It is worth noting that EBY has made available additional
contingency funds (up to US$160,000 per year in Paraguay and the same amount for Argentina) which can be
accessed to address: (a) vector-borne disease outbreaks; and (b) any important increases in mosquitoes or other
vectors; to date, these contingency funds have remained unused because of the lack of major disease or vector
outbreaks.
99                   See paras. 3.22 and 3.24 of the Management Response.


                                                                                                                                     45

Paraguay and Argentina                                                    Management Response



the diseases mentioned in the claim have increased on a per capita basis within the project area
since reservoir filling, and this is despite improved reporting procedures and substantial
migration of relatively poor people into Encarnación and nearby urban areas.

108.    It is worth noting that, in addition to its continued monitoring of vectors and diseases, the
Yacyretá Project is providing a broad range of health services to the families who have been
resettled by the project. The urban families resettled by the Yacyretá Project also have access to
potable water and adequate sanitation, which substantially reduces diarrheal diseases. This
finding is confirmed by recent data from the Ministry of Public Health of Misiones Province
(Argentina), indicating that the urban families resettled by Yacyretá (in Settlement A-1) have a
much lower incidence of diarrheal diseases than those families still awaiting resettlement (in the
neighborhoods of El Zaiman and Villa Flor). Although comparable data (disaggregated by
neighborhood) are not available from Paraguay, the same outcome should be expected.

    Claim 2.8.

    There have been no programs for monitoring and controlling disease-causing
    microorganisms.

109.    There has been systematic and continuous monitoring in both Paraguay (since 1992) and
Argentina (since 1995) of the mosquito vectors of malaria and yellow fever, the snail vectors of
schistosomiasis, and the outbreaks of these diseases. This monitoring is funded by EBY and
carried out in Paraguay by SENEPA in the Ministry of Public Health and Social Welfare, and in
Argentina by the National Universities of Misiones and La Plata, and the Ministry of Public
Health of Misiones Province. The terms of all these monitoring arrangements are recorded in
operating agreements (convenios) between EBY and these other entities. The amounts provided
annually by EBY (not counting the above-mentioned contingency funds) include: (a) for vector
monitoring, about US$32,000 in Paraguay and US$28,000 in Argentina, (b) for disease
monitoring and (as needed) treatment, about US$270,000 in Paraguay and US$250,000 in
Argentina.

110.    EBY's continued financial support to this public health monitoring is part of the Yacyretá
EMP, which supports the recurrent costs of monitoring public health (vectors and diseases),
water quality, aquatic vegetation, and fish populations and migrations, along with the
conservation of protected areas, fisheries, and endangered species. The combined recurrent costs
of all these environmental monitoring and management activities (for both Paraguay and
Argentina) are now about US$3.7 million annually; this amount would be increased
proportionately (taking into account exchange rate fluctuations) if and when the reservoir's
operating level is raised above its current 76 masl. It is expected that the entity responsible for
operating the Yacyretá Dam will continue to support these recurrent environmental activities
(including public health monitoring) for as long as the project continues to generate electricity.




                                                                                                   46

Paraguay and Argentina                                                               Management Response



                                    VII.    THIRD SET OF CLAIMS

    Claim 3.1.

    The Bank has failed to ensure proper compensation and resettlement to affected
    people.

111.     Management believes that proper compensation and resettlement has been provided to all
families, both census as well as post-census families, living in areas up to 78 masl. The Bank has
ensured that families affected by the Yacyretá Project have been properly identified, and those
that were living in areas up to 78 masl have been properly compensated, in accordance with OD
4.30100. As was mentioned earlier, families included in the updated census of 1990 that were
living in areas below 78 masl have been properly identified and compensated and/or relocated
through actions included in: (a) the Resettlement and Social Action Plan that was applied until
1992; and (b) the RRAP after 1992 (Annex U).101.

112.     Management assumes that Request II is not referring to proper compensation for lands
expropriated as part of the process of implementing the Yacyretá Project, since this was already
explained as part of the Management Response to Request I and the arguments presented at the
time continue to be relevant.102

113.     The RRAP prepared in 1992, approved by the Bank, establishes that all families
registered in the 1989-1990 census are eligible for resettlement, and the Third Owners
Agreement between the Governments of Argentina and Paraguay and the Bank, signed in 1992
and as amended in 1997, establishes that any family not included in the above 1990 census and
living in areas up to 84 masl (post-census families) will be resettled and/or compensated by
Governments of the respective countries with their own funds. The RRAP includes the provision
of land and housing, support for relocation, and a program for social and economic
rehabilitation. All the affected people in the project area, whether or not they formally own the
affected property, are entitled to a new house and a lot with utilities at no cost. So far, EBY has
resettled 5,378 families in new houses or farms (for those in rural areas), including 191 brick
makers, in both countries. The rehabilitation programs include adaptation to new homes and
neighborhoods, productive projects in rural areas, health, education and community organization.

114.     The RRAP continues to be independently monitored and evaluated every year. Sixteen
independent international evaluations of the outcome of the resettlement program have been
conducted since 1994, and in most recent evaluations, resettled families express a high degree of
satisfaction with the physical solutions provided by EBY.

115.     The results show that urban families relocated close to workplaces have generally
recovered their former levels of income following resettlement. However these resettled families,
as the rest of the urban population in Encarnación and Posadas, have been subject to the effects



100      The reservoir is currently operating at 76 masl but resettlement has covered areas up to 78 masl to allow for
a buffer zone up to two meters.
101      This Plan continues to provide the framework for all current and ongoing resettlement actions.
102      See paras. 3.19 and 3.20 of Management Response, October 30, 1996.


                                                                                                                   47

Paraguay and Argentina                                                          Management Response


of the economic crises in Paraguay and Argentina.103 Peri-urban brick makers relocated by EBY
are achieving levels of productivity similar to or higher than those prior to resettlement. These
brick makers have organized themselves into cooperatives, which were furnished with public
services and technical assistance from EBY. The majority of rural families, all of whom lived
below poverty level prior to resettlement, has significantly improved living conditions and
increased assets. The vast majority of urban, peri-urban, and rural resettled families that were
landless and inhabited high flood risk areas prior to resettlement today possess titles to land and
houses located above flood levels. Comparisons made in independent evaluations between
resettled and non-resettled families in the same region show that the former have dramatically
improved their livelihoods and standards of living.104

116.    However, independent evaluations have also made it clear that there are unanticipated
problems with respect to urban families resettled on sites relatively distant from the commercial
center of Encarnación. Some of the families in Itá Paso and Arroyo Porá are experiencing
difficulties in restoring their pre-resettlement levels of income and maintaining their linkages to
the local economy, partly because of distance from the urban center. Most affected families are
those: (a) working in informal sector activities; (b) headed by women; (c) consisting of senior
citizens; and (d) with less education and work skills. Difficulties are related to the extra cost and
availability of transport, and the loss of competitiveness relative to other low-income families
living in closer proximity to the commercial center.

117.    Following the Inspection Panel Review as endorsed by the Board in 1997, EBY and the
Bank began to recognize the issues and EBY is implementing a series of short- and long-term
measures to:

· Mitigate adverse economic impacts to families already resettled in Itá Paso and Arroyo Porá;

· Assess future resettlement alternatives in light of potential negative economic impacts. As
    part of this effort, the Bank recommended conducting, prior to any resettlement organized as
    part of the PDA, an assessment of potential socioeconomic impacts, including baseline
    information on the community and each of the families. In addition, the Bank approved
    financing from Loan 2854-AR to organize a macro study of past and potential future
    economic impacts associated with the relocation programs;

· Design actions to support the economic rehabilitation of resettled families in sustainable
    ways. The Government of Paraguay with the support of EBY has created a fund of US$6.0
    million dollars for activities to support the economic rehabilitation of families resettled by
    EBY or that have otherwise experienced negative economic impacts as a result of Yacyretá.
    The Bank expressed to EBY that these are steps in the right direction but it also pointed out
    that more systematic and transparent mechanisms need to be created.

· To the extent that resettled families were and continue to be affected by general poverty
    conditions and the economic crisis in Paraguay and Argentina, the Bank has also provided
    support to the Government of Paraguay through a Pilot Community Development Project


103     Scombatti, Marilia and de Carvalho, Raul. 2000, 2001. Evaluaciones Independientes del PARR, vols. 2-13.
104     Scombatti and de Carvalho. vols. 5 and 10.


                                                                                                            48

      Paraguay and Argentina                                                                Management Response



          which targets communities within the Yacyretá area of influence. As previously mentioned,
          families resettled and/or compensated to date are only a fraction of the total number of
          people that would need to be resettled and or compensated in order for the Yacyretá
          Reservoir to be raised to 83 masl.105 So far those resettled and/or compensated are those
          census and post-census families that were living in areas up to 78 masl. The PDA in addition
          will resettle and/or compensate a small subset of families living between 78 and 84 masl who
          face high flood or environmental risk. Families to be resettled as part of the PDA will also be
          resettled and/or compensated according to the guidelines and standards of the RRAP, which
          has been approved by the Bank and is in compliance with Bank policies and procedures.

      118.     Bank supervision has been proactive in dealing with the situation, searching for solutions
      when they are feasible. The most important factors forcing relocation to sites removed from the
      Encarnación commercial center are: (a) the lack of an appropriate Expropriation Law in
      Paraguay that allows acquisition of lands at reasonable prices; (b) the increased number of post-
      census families that have had to be relocated as part of Plan B and the PDA; and finally (c) the
      growing budget limitations of the Government of Paraguay and the resulting difficulties in
      buying lands near the city center and along urban expansion axes for resettlement of post-census
      families. Table 7.1 summarizes the problems or elements that have forced resettlements at distant
      locations such as Itá Paso and Arroyo Porá, and most importantly the actions taken by the Bank.

                          TABLE 7.1. ISSUES RELATED TO RESETTLEMENT OF FAMILIES TO
                                 SITES REMOVED FROM ENCARNACIÓN CITY CENTER
         Element                   Impact on Resettlement                           Bank's actions
                                            Program
Lack of Expropriation Law in   ·   Because of the lack of this     ·    Bank supervision repeatedly noted to EBY
Paraguay.                          law, EBY was not able to             the need for such a law.
                                   acquire additional land for     ·    Eventually, Bank rated project as
                                   urban resettlement.                  unsatisfactory.
                                                                   ·    New lending operations to Paraguay were
                                                                        put on hold until, among other things, the
                                                                        law was approved.
                                                                   ·    An Expropriation Law was passed in 2001
                                                                        by Congress; however, because it contained
                                                                        a number of unsatisfactory articles, the
                                                                        Bank expressed its concern about their
                                                                        implications for the future of the project.
                                                                        The Government s currently reviewing the
                                                                        Law to address these concerns.




      105      If and when the reservoir reaches an operating level of 83 masl, there will be an additional area of one
      meter (up to 84 masl) that will cleared of all construction.


                                                                                                                       49

        Paraguay and Argentina                                                          Management Response



           Element                 Impact on Resettlement                       Bank's actions
                                           Program
New arrivals of families in    ·   Increased number of           ·  As can be seen in Annex B, Bank
the affected area between 78       families claiming                supervision missions have repeatedly
and 84 masl. Despite               resettlement.                    touched on the issue and made
improved controls in areas     ·   Increased cost of the            recommendations.
between 76 and 78 masl             Project.                      ·  Eventually, Bank rated the project as
problems persist.              ·   Difficulty in finding suitable   unsatisfactory because of lack of control in
                                   land to accommodate              the affected area.
                                   increasing number of          ·  The situation improved in the area up to 78
                                   families.                        masl but between this level and 84 masl the
                               ·   Difficulties to complete the     situation needs further improvements.
                                   Resettlement Plan,            ·  Bank supervision continues to discuss
                                   especially with respect to       existing problem with EBY.
                                   post-census families that
                                   have to be relocated with
                                   government funds.
Inadequate resettlement of     ·   Lack of adequate houses       ·  Bank requested Government of Paraguay to
post-census families carried       and services for resettled       take measures in order to improve the
out by the government (case        families.                        conditions of these families.
of Itá Paso).                  ·   Lack of assistance programs   ·  As a result of Bank requirements, EBY took
                                   to restore the socioeconomic     the responsibility of improving the
                                   networks.                        resettlement conditions of Itá Paso on
                               ·   Increased cost of                behalf of the Government of Paraguay.
                                   transportation for resettled  ·  New houses, service infrastructure and
                                   families to access their         public buildings were built.
                                   sources of income.            ·  Socioeconomic programs have been
                                                                    developed. The Bank has required a more
                                                                    systematic design and implementation of
                                                                    these programs.



            Claim 3.2.

            Compensation approved for Itá Paso, Santa Rosa, and Arroyo Porá are insufficient
            to allow families to buy new land and rebuild the homes.

        119.     Of the total affected population of the Yacyretá Project, 92 percent are urban. Of this
        affected urban population, 87 percent are occupants without titles that have small lots with
        precarious houses located in areas without running water, sewerage lines, or garbage collection.
        This, coupled with run-down living conditions, contributed to the poor environment and health
        conditions in the area. A high percentage of the affected families have very low incomes and are
        linked to the informal sector with no social security or benefits. The socioeconomic impact study
        financed by Loan 2854-AR, scheduled to be completed in July 2002, has found a situation of
        extreme poverty within the project area, with 50 percent of the population living below the
        poverty line and per capita incomes of less than US$2 per day; 20 percent of those living in
        extreme poverty earn less than US$1 dollar per day.106

        120.     All families resettled as part of Plans A and B, as well as those families in Itá Paso, Santa
        Rosa and Arroyo Porá, have been compensated with properties and constructions that were

        106      Diagonal Urbana. Evaluación de Impactos Socioeconómicos.


                                                                                                                 50

Paraguay and Argentina                                                    Management Response



above the replacement cost of their former lots and homes. Levels of poverty of the people
resettled, in general, were high and as a result the values of the properties they occupied were
extremely low. For example, 55 percent of the houses included in Plan B in Encarnación had a
value less than US$3,000. For these reasons and with Bank advice, EBY designed the RRAP to
compensate poor families according to replacement value or better.

121.    Despite the low property values of the affected houses and lack of formal ownership,
EBY resettled each of these families on a 360m2 lot, with public service infrastructure and a 45
m2 brick house in new resettlement housing developments (Annex C) equipped with community
resources (schools, health clinics, sports complexes, churches and police stations, etc.). However,
in any situation where replacement values were higher than the cost of the home provided by
EBY, families were compensated for the difference.

    Claim 3.3.

    There are no plans to restore productive infrastructure of relocated families.

122.    Management believes that this claim is based on incomplete and outdated information
about the way the RRAP is structured and is currently operating. As previously mentioned, the
RRAP includes the provision of land, housing, support for relocation, and a program for social
and economic rehabilitation. All the affected people in the project area, whether or not they
formally own the affected property, are entitled to a new house and a lot that provides access to
infrastructure and services at no cost. Services are installed and house connections are in place
free of charge. As previously mentioned, replacement housing cost equals or exceeds that of the
original lost houses (low income families whose homes have low replacement cost are provided
with homes with a value that surpasses replacement cost). It is important to mention that families
are required to pay for any monthly service charges (water and electricity consumption). So far,
EBY has resettled 5,378 families in new houses or farms (for those in rural areas), including 191
brick makers in both countries. The RRAP is being carried out by a Social Team in each country
and some of the rehabilitation programs have been implemented through agreements with
Government ministries, universities and NGOs. The rehabilitation programs include adaptation
to new homes and neighborhoods, productive projects in rural areas, health, education and
community organization.

123.    The rehabilitation component considers economic support for rural people and brick
makers. The RRAP did not include economic reestablishment for urban people, because in 1992
there was no evidence of loss of income in urban resettlements carried out by EBY. Up until
1996, resettled urban families encountered no major alterations in their economic activities,
because their new neighborhoods were located in close proximity to the urban areas of
Encarnación and Posadas. As mentioned above, the problems presented by relocation sites
further from the city center were not anticipated by EBY. The Bank's supervision team also did
not identify this as an issue that needed further study and/or actions at that time. It was not until
after 1997 that preventive and compensatory actions were adopted by EBY and the Bank for the
more peripheral resettlement housing developments.

124.    To address this situation, EBY and/or the Government of Paraguay have designed and, in
some cases implemented, a series of activities including:



                                                                                                    51

Paraguay and Argentina                                                   Management Response


· Creation of a Productive Fund (US$6 million dollars) to support productive projects
    proposed by the families and communities. The Secretary of Social Action of Paraguay trains
    and supports interested families in the preparation of proposals to access this fund (see
    Annex K);

· Promotion of private employment of resettled families. EBY is working with private
    construction contractors, promoting hiring of resettled families from Itá Paso and Arroyo
    Porá as construction workers. As an incentive, EBY provides the contractor a subsidy
    equivalent to the employer's contribution to the social security system and other labor taxes;

· Subsidized transport for families for the first six months after relocation;

· Free school transportation to all families up until the time that the new school built in the
    neighborhood is completed;

· Design and development of family gardens, for which EBY offers technical assistance and
    facilitates the inputs;

· Creation of a nine-hectare community plantation in Arroyo Porá in which families plant a
    range of produce for domestic consumption, with the assistance and support of EBY;

· Design of milk production projects, a plant nursery, and investigation of ways to effectively
    market and sell vegetables; and

· Training and capacity-building workshops for various trades (hair dressing, carpentry,
    electrician, etc.).

125.    In order to systematize and reinforce the activities described above, EBY prepared under
the PDA a Plan of Rehabilitation and Social Support that includes community-based programs
for re-establishment of economic activities, including identifying interests and skills and
providing assistance in the formation of micro-enterprises. During the last Supervision Mission
(May 2002) EBY expressed interest in receiving advice from the Bank to design a "local
development fund" that could operate independently and on the basis of objective criteria. The
fund could incorporate NGOs and other civil society groups in the process of analyzing requests,
making decisions, and monitoring its operations. A request for extending the closing date for
Loan 2854-AR has been presented, including a proposal to reallocate resources to support the
creation of this fund. Management is currently considering the request.

126.    Despite the ongoing efforts, the greatest challenge for the RRAP in the urban sectors is to
re-establish and improve the linkages of these populations to the local economy, ensuring that
they maintain their sources of income or develop new ones, and helping them become more
productive and competitive. An important lesson learned is that sites located along urban
expansion paths facilitate the integration of the newly created communities into the urban fabric
and thus assist reinsertion of displaced people into urban labor markets.




                                                                                                52

Paraguay and Argentina                                                                   Management Response



127.     Those seeking greater "restoration of productive infrastructure" can potentially be
assisted through the recently approved Pilot Community Development Project (P0-69269)107
referred to previously. This project "seeks to improve the quality of life and social inclusion of
poor rural and marginal urban communities in three departments on the southern border of
Paraguay (Itapúa, Misiones, and Ñeembucú)."

     Claim 3.4.

     Compensation to brick makers only benefited owners but did not compensate
     workers and their situation has deteriorated.

128.     The RRAP, approved by the Bank in 1992, included the following alternatives for small
brick makers and roof tile makers (see also Annexes M and N):

                       TABLE 7.2. ALTERNATIVES INCLUDED IN THE RESETTLEMENT PLAN FOR
                                           BRICK AND ROOF TILE MAKERS
Brick makers (mostly small family owned business)        ·    Option 1: House and a plot for production unit
                                                         ·    Option 2: Rural relocation (plot of 7.5 hectares
                                                              and a house in a new rural resettlement.
                                                              Technical agricultural assistance, inputs for
                                                              production, social assistance, food supply for 6
                                                              months)
                                                         ·    Option 3:Urban house and compensation for
                                                              change of economic activity
                                                         ·    Option 4: Cash compensation
Roof tile makers (mostly medium and large size           ·    Option 1: Compensation for self resettlement
business)                                                     due to their managerial capacity




107  The Pilot Community Development Project in Paraguay will finance small scale demand-driven sub-projects
prepared and submitted by groups of eligible beneficiaries. These would include income generation sub-projects
including agricultural diversification (such as raising of pigs, chickens, flowers), small enterprises, artisan
workshops, eco-tourism, services such as laundries, processing facilities, community markets, and the like, as well
as community development sub-projects for activities that would complement productive investments such as child
care facilities, community centers, child/youth development, among others.
     While the Project is demand-based and all eligible populations can access the project, geographic targeting of
eligible communities will be used to identify priority areas for further institutional and organizational development
assistance to ensure that vulnerable non-organized groups and municipalities with scarce resources have a fair
opportunity to access project resources. Potential beneficiaries will be screened to ensure that they meet eligibility
criteria based on easily observable indicators that reflect unsatisfied basic needs (housing, water and sanitation),
productive assets, and household vulnerability (gender, ethnicity, age), according to the targeting and eligibility
criteria set forth in the Operational Manual.
     To facilitate project implementation, the project will finance support services, including technical assistance
(pre-investment for non-organized groups), training and organizational development, and the implementation of a
participatory monitoring and evaluation system. The project is expected to assist at least 3,700 poor and vulnerable
families, comprising approximately 18,500 direct beneficiaries. While the project is not targeted to Yacyretá-
affected populations, those meeting the targeting and eligibility criteria set forth by the project (poverty and
vulnerability) could prepare and submit proposals as other potential beneficiaries and would receive technical and
financial assistance for sub-project design and implementation.


                                                                                                                    53

Paraguay and Argentina                                                      Management Response



129.     The RRAP also highlighted the need to develop specific studies to identify the areas for
relocation of brick makers (Annexes L and O). EBY contracted a study in 1993 to ensure
compliance with OD 4.30, and results were available in 1994.

130.     In the meantime, brick and roof tile makers living and operating above 84 masl began
demanding anticipated compensation, based on the argument that they would lose access to their
traditional sources of clay as a result of the filling of the reservoir to 83 masl (Annex M).

131.     After all the studies, a large number of brick and tile makers, including those operating at
levels above 84 masl, engaged in a long and complex process of negotiation with EBY and
selected cash compensation as the preferred option. Table 7.3 presents a summary of the number
of brick and tile makers that were compensated and/or resettled during the period 1994 to 1996.

                    TABLE 7.3. ALTERNATIVES SELECTED BY BRICK AND ROOF TILE MAKERS
          Alternative                 No. of productive units        Total Compensation Paid
                                                                           by EBY (US$)
Brick makers
Relocation                                      97                           2,785,650
Compensation                                   334                           3,607,760
Compensation for loss of clay                   94                            611,000
deposit (paid to brick makers
above 84 masl)
Sub Total                                      525                           7,004,410
Roof Tile Makers
Cash compensation for self                      54                           4,545,981
relocation
Compensation for loss of clay                   48                           3,000,000
deposit (paid to ceramists above
84 masl)
Compensation                                    2                            2,752,400
Sub ­Total                                     104                          10,298,381
TOTAL                                          629                          17,302,791
Source: EBY

132.     The relocation option included a 0.5 hectare plot for production unit, five years of clay
trucked into plot (this service is still being provided by EBY), house plot and house with water,
electricity, drainage and sewerage, community buildings, schools, health center, food supply for
six months, social and technical assistance, grant of US$2,500 in compensation of lost time. This
package was used to ensure reestablishment of production for the 97 family-business brick
making enterprises that were resettled (92 now constitute the San Pedro Industrial Park in
Encarnación [Annex O], and 5 were re-established in the Coronel Bogado Municipality).

133.     The great majority of those compensated were family owned businesses with some
temporary or seasonal laborers. A firm contracted by EBY in 1993 produced a report evaluating
alternative solutions for the brick makers and found 2.2 workers per brick making enterprise (the
owner and a relative were the most common situation). For those who selected cash
compensation, EBY began in 1994 to offer training courses to the brick makers through the
Servicio Nacional de Promoción Profesional. These courses on various marketable skills were
very well attended, but the impact on employment has not been very significant due to the
recession in the country and region.


                                                                                                  54

Paraguay and Argentina                                                         Management Response



134.    Regarding the roof tile makers, an independent evaluation done from 1997 to 1998 found
that 13 of the industries had relocated and 11 of those had continued producing, 16 did not move
and continued production in the same spot in which they had been, and 25 had been
discontinued.

135.    The industries that relocated or continued producing in the same place did not have to fire
employees and those that were compensated but did not continue production had to give workers
severance pay as stipulated in Articles 78, 79, 80 and 91 of Law 213 (Work Code of the
Paraguayan Republic, 1993, Annex P). During the period 1994 to 1996, when discussion about
compensation to brick and roof tile makers was under way, the Bank as well as EBY worked
under the assumption that Paraguayan labor laws would be applied effectively. As a result,
analysis and discussion were focused on compensating owners of brick and tile making
businesses and it was assumed that employers would proceed according to the law and properly
compensate their employees. At the time, the assumption appeared justified by: (a) the
prevalence of small businesses using fundamentally family labor; and (b) the existence of clear
laws and regulations establishing the employers' responsibility. In addition, this treatment of the
situation was in line with the RRAP approved by the Bank in 1992.

136.    Looked at with the benefit of hindsight, this assumption was optimistic, because the Bank
supervision team assumed effective application of the law. However, there are limits to how far
EBY (and thus indirectly the Bank) can and should be required to monitor the ultimate use of the
compensation paid.

137.    While EBY has fulfilled its legal obligation in compensating the brick factory owners
(who were bound by Paraguayan law108 to give their employees a severance payment),
Management will advise EBY to support claimants through the three following actions: (a)
provide legal support for the claimants to pursue solutions through the Paraguayan legal system;
(b) provide technical assistance to unemployed brick makers in formulating projects and
presenting them for consideration to the Pilot Local Development Fund; and (c) show brick
makers how to apply for support through the Productive Fund, which was set up by EBY and the
Government of Paraguay to support economic rehabilitation of resettled families or anyone who
may have experienced negative economic impacts as a result of Yacyretá.

138.    The actions taken until 1996 resolved all of the cases of brick factories below 84 masl
(recorded in 1993), and included compensation to all those at higher levels who would be
affected by subsequent lack of access to clay deposits, in accordance with OD 4.30 on
Involuntary Resettlement.

139.    In the years following the compensations of 1994-1996, there has been a mushrooming of
claims from people claiming to have been involved in tile and brick making, who want to receive
the same benefits as those granted to tile and brick makers included in the census of 1990. As of
today, there are 840 new brick makers expecting compensation. The Governments of Argentina
and Paraguay as well as EBY are assessing whether payment is to be made to these new brick
makers. This is part of the ongoing process of preparing a plan to raise the level to 83 masl.


108     Brick factories were bound by the project (Annex N) and Paraguayan Labor Law to compensate their
employees and give them severance pay.


                                                                                                         55

Paraguay and Argentina                                                              Management Response



Management considers that this issue needs to be studied further and a solution should be found
before any plan to raise to 83 masl is approved by the Bank. The Bank has been and will
continue working with EBY and the Governments to ensure that any plans for the future
elevation of the reservoir are compatible with relevant policies.


          VIII. POLICY COMPLIANCE AND CONTINUED ENGAGEMENT

140.    In a final section of the Request, the Requesters claimed that the Bank had violated six of
its policies. However, it did not link the policies to any particular action nor to any of the
previous claims. The six policies in question are listed below with their titles and core objectives.

     D.       OD     4.00                 E. Environmental Policy for Dam and Reservoir Projects
      Annex B                 To minimize or mitigate adverse effects and enhance beneficial ones.

     OD 4.01                              F. Environmental Assessment
                              To improve decision making and ensure that project options under
                              consideration are environmentally sound and sustainable;
                              To recognize environmental consequences early in the project cycle and take
                              them into account in project selection, siting, planning, and design;
                              To prevent, minimize, mitigate, or compensate for adverse impacts.
     OD 4.30                              G. Involuntary Resettlement
                              To address resettlement early in the project cycle to: (a) avoid and minimize
                              involuntary resettlement; (b) undertake involuntary resettlement as
                              development program; (c) encourage community participation in planning
                              and implementing resettlement; (d) help resettlers to become socially and
                              economically integrated into the host community; and (e) compensate
                              resettlers appropriately.
     OD 13.05                             H. Project Supervision
                              To ensure borrower implements project with due diligence to achieve the
                              agreed development objectives;
                              To identify problems as they arise;
                              To cancel a project if its continuation is no longer justified;
                              To disseminate significant lessons learned;
                              To use experience gained to improve design of future projects;
                              To prepare Project Completion Reports.
     OD 10.70                             I. Project Monitoring and Evaluation
                              To improve overall management practice within borrower agencies;
                              To identify project design problems;
                              To measure changes attributable to the project.
     OD 13.40                             J. Suspension of Disbursements
                              To establish procedures for suspending disbursements.

141.    Claims relating to the Environmental Policy for Dam and Reservoir Projects,
Environmental Assessment, Involuntary Resettlement, Project Supervision, and Project
Monitoring and Evaluation have all been extensively elaborated in the preceding sections of the
Response. Where relevant, links to policies were made. For example, public consultations and
siting studies were undertaken for the wastewater treatment plant EIA, as required under OD
4.01, as were resettlement activities, consistent with the objectives of OD 4.30, which included




                                                                                                            56

Paraguay and Argentina                                                                     Management Response



avoiding and minimizing involuntary resettlement, and aiding resettlers to become socially and
economically integrated into their new communities.109

142.       Operational Directive 13.05 on Project Supervision requires that the Bank supervise the
projects it helps finance. However, the supervision responsibility of the Bank extends to all
project components, including those components for which the borrower and others provide the
financing.

143.       Sound Bank supervision is evidenced, for example, by frequent contact with borrower
and implementing entity personnel, by repeated field visits to the project site and, most
importantly, by sustained analysis of project issues and response thereto (Annex B). This
response can take many forms, one of which involves the exercise of legal remedies (such as
suspension of loan disbursements because of borrower or implementing entity failure to comply
with legal obligations pertaining to the project).

144.       The exercise of such remedies is by no means mandatory. Consequently, the fact that
remedies are not exercised is not an indication that sound supervision has not taken place and
that Bank management has therefore failed to apply the Bank's supervision policy. The Board
Resolution establishing the Panel (IBRD 93-10; IDA 93-6) confers on the Panel the power to
investigate situations where the Bank has "failed to follow up on the borrower's obligations
under loan agreements" (para 12).

145.       As indicated in paras. 11 and 12, the Board endorsed the Inspection Panel's proposal that
the Bank maintain its financing of, and engagement in, the Yacyretá Project as an indispensable
contribution towards protecting the legitimate interests of parties affected by the consequences of
the dam. It is Management's position that, fully consistent with this Inspection Panel
recommendation endorsed by the Board, engagement in (and, obviously, financing of) the
project would under current circumstances not be best served by exercising legal remedies. As
reported to the Bank's Board through various Progress Reports (Annex Q), Plan B is behind
schedule; the Encarnación wastewater treatment plant has yet to be built; and delays in project
implementation are evident. Nevertheless, despite the constraints and complexity of the situation,
EBY is not a recalcitrant project implementing entity but one that tries to find solutions to
difficult issues as they arise, is engaged with the Bank and is receptive to Bank suggestions. In
this context, it is Management's judgement that exercising legal remedies could well prove to be
counterproductive.

146.       In fact, the most important leverage exercised by the Bank in supervising the Yacyretá
Project is not directly related to remedies, but instead to the legal requirement that the Bank give
its no-objection to raising of the reservoir beyond 76 masl. Making sure that all social and
environmental commitments are met if and when the reservoir is raised has been the keystone of
the Bank's supervision efforts. Given that EBY, Argentina and Paraguay are all committed to
raise the reservoir so as to generate more hydroelectric power and revenues, this leverage,
reinforced by constant Bank supervision, has been vital in keeping the social and environmental
agenda of the project moving, albeit slowly, in the right direction.

109        See Annex C photographs showing newly resettled communities equipped with infrastructure such as schools, health
clinics, sports complexes, and community centers. The PDA and other options are available for restoring productive
infrastructure and learning skills for economic integration.


                                                                                                                          57

Paraguay and Argentina                                                     Management Response



                                     IX.     CONCLUSION

147.    Management believes that this Response will provide the Inspection Panel sufficient and
adequate information concerning Request INS/RQ02/1. The Request primarily centers on claims
that the Bank has violated its policies with respect to Environmental Assessment, Involuntary
Resettlement and Supervision regarding the Yacyretá Project. In this respect, there are three clear
conclusions directly related to the claims:

· The reservoir's water quality is constantly monitored, falls within satisfactory parameters,
    poses no significant health risks to people living in the vicinity of the reservoir and thus
    represents no harm attributable to the claim of violation of Bank policy on Environmental
    Assessment. Although unrelated to the Yacyretá Project, to address concern about issues of
    sanitation, the Bank is assisting with the construction of a wastewater treatment plant to serve
    the Paraguayan city of Encarnación. The design and location of this plant have been subject
    to appropriate analysis under the Bank's policy on Environmental Assessment, and found
    satisfactory.

· With respect to the claims related to resettlement, the conclusion is that no harm attributable
    to violation of the Bank's policy on Involuntary Resettlement exists because: (a) the flooding
    of urban creeks is due to hydrological conditions predating the Yacyretá Project (that is, the
    affected area consists of a floodplain that has regularly flooded to levels well above 76 masl
    since long before the reservoir was formed); floods are caused by rainfall, and stagnant
    pooling is further aggravated by the dumping of solid waste that obstruct creek drainage; (b)
    given the above, EBY is not responsible for the living conditions of those residing along the
    creeks and thus need not resettle them until and if a raising of the reservoir level beyond 76
    masl makes such resettlement imperative; the PDA offers reasonable resettlement solutions
    that improve the living conditions of those whom it covers and is consistent with the
    requirements of the Bank's policy on Involuntary Resettlement; (c) other EBY resettlement
    programs are compensating and otherwise treating affected parties appropriately and
    consistently with Bank policy; and (d) once EBY compensated the brick making enterprises,
    such enterprises (and not EBY) were responsible under Paraguayan law for compensating
    their employees.

· With respect to the claim related to the Bank's policy on Supervision, Management believes
    that it has thoroughly supervised the Yacyretá Project following the Panel's 1997 report,
    paying particular attention to the social and environmental concerns of parties affected by the
    operation.

148.    Given that Request I and its subsequent analysis by the Inspection Panel thoroughly
covered practically the entire reality of the Yacyretá situation as it stood around mid-1997, that
reality and the decisions and circumstances leading up to it should not be re-examined now. Only
those allegations made in Request II that relate to developments since 1997 should therefore fall
within the Inspection Panel's jurisdiction according to paragraph 14 (d) of the Board Resolution.
Management submits that the only such new developments are those involving: (a) the PDA
designed in 1998; (b) the siting of the future wastewater treatment plant for the Paraguayan city
of Encarnación; (c) resettlement progress since 1997; and (d) Management's supervision efforts
since 1997.


                                                                                                 58

Paraguay and Argentina                                                            Management Response



149.    This Response makes clear that Argentine, Paraguayan and EBY compliance with their
obligations has at times been slow and uneven (largely because of the significant financial and
institutional constraints they face), but Management submits that its supervision efforts have
helped keep the Yacyretá Project moving in a positive direction that would have been
jeopardized had the Bank chosen to exercise legal remedies as part of such supervision.
Moreover, Management has periodically informed the Board about the evolution of and
challenges confronted during project implementation.110 Since 1997, the Bank has been careful
and diligent in requiring mitigation of adverse impacts and provision of benefits for affected
peoples in the project area, in what are very challenging and complex circumstances
environmentally, politically, socially and economically. This position is in line with the Bank's
policy on Supervision and with the Board-endorsed recommendations of the Inspection Panel,
stemming from Request I.

150.    The remainder of the Loan 2854-AR disbursements is designed to strengthen local
institutional capacity, thereby consolidating the advances made through the project, including
those shown in the Annexes. The Bank will continue to actively supervise project
implementation until the closing of Loan 2854-AR. It will also continue to make its best efforts
to resolve pending issues until the repayment of the loan.

151.    In conclusion, based upon the duplication of some claims in both Request I and Request
II, the absence of causal links between Bank action and the harm claimed by the Requester, the
solutions in place for eligible families and families at high risk, the Bank's close supervision,111
and emphasis on compliance with the 1997 Panel and Board recommendations, Management
believes that Request II should be denied by the Inspection Panel.

3.5




110     See Progress Reports dated February 3, 1997 (SecM97-74), April 21, 1998 (SecM98-293), May 14, 1999
(SecM99-333), and January 20, 2000 (INSP/SecM2000-1). The Board has also been given a copy of the June 28,
2001 Implementation Completion Report for Loan 3520-AR. In addition, a progress report was recently prepared
which the Region is planning to submit to the Board. The above-cited Progress Reports are contained in Annex Q.
111     Supervision Table, Annex B.


                                                                                                              59

