                                                                          REPORT NO. 37938




                                          ARGENTINA
        SEGBA V POWERDISTRIBUTIONPROJECT (LOAN NO. 2854-AR)




                                           PARAGUAY
 REFORMPROJECTFORTHE WATERAND TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTORS
                                    (LOANNO. 3842-PA)




                                         Follow-up to the
          Meeting of the Executive Directors of the World Bank (May 6,2004)
                 on the Inspection Panel Investigation ReportNo. 27995
            and Management Report and Recommendation (April 6,2004)
     and Progress Reports on Implementationof the Management Recommendations
                 and Action Plan (August 6,2004 and October 31,2005)




        PROGRESS REPORT ONIMPLEMENTATION OFMANAGEMENT

             RECOMMENDATIONS AND ACTION PLAN, YACYRETA




                                      December 20,2006




This document has a restricted distribution and may be usedby recipients only inthe
performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.

                                                       CONTENTS

ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS ......................................................................................                            ...
                                                                                                                                             111
I INTRODUCTION.................................................................................................................. 4
 .
11.UPDATE ON THE YACYRETAPROJECT............................................................................                                  5
I11.LEGALAGREEMENTS..........................................................................................................                 6
IV.PROGRESSONIMPLEMENTATION OF THEMANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN..........7
     SocialIssues............................................................................................................................ 7
    ResettlementPlanUpdate.......................................................................................................             7
                                                                                                                                              9
    MonitoringofEBY's Compliancewith its Obligations to Affected Parties..........................
     Social CommunicationProgram.............................................................................................
                                                                                                                                              9
    RehabilitationMeasures........................................................................................................ 10
    Reservoir Level and Other EnvironmentalIssues ................................................................                           10
    EnvironmentalIssues Associatedwith FutureWater LevelRise.........................................                                        11
V.PROJECT SUPERVISIONAND COLLABORATION WITH THE IDB.............................                                                             12
V.CONCLUSIONS......................................................................................................................          13
ANNEX IANNOTATED MATRIX OFTHE MANAGEMENTACTION PLAN.............14
         .
AND PROGRESSTO DATE....................................................................................................                      14

             ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS

Acronym    Term (andTranslation)

BP         Bank Procedure
CDD        Community-DrivenDevelopment
C Y        Calendar Year
EBY        EntidadBinacional Yacyreta (Yacyreta BinationalEntity, or
           Corporation)
EMP        Resettlement andEnvironmental Management Plan
FEDAYIM    Federacicin de Afectados por Yacyreta de Itapuay Misiones (Federation
           ofYacyretaDamAffected Persons inItapua and Misiones [Paraguay])
IDB        Inter-AmericanDevelopment Bank
m3/s       Flow rate incubic meters per second
masl       Meters above sea level
MW         Megawatt
NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
O&M        Operation and Maintenance
OP         Operational Policy (World Bank)
PARR       Plande Acci6n para el Reasentamiento y laRehabilitacion
           (Resettlement andRehabilitationAction Plan, component o fthe EMP)
PDA        Programa de Desborde de Arroyos (Creek Flooding Program)
PlanB      Part o f the Base Program agreed in 1997.PlanB aimed at addressing
           problems that surfaced because o f the prolonged duration of the
           reservoir water level at 76 masl.
P M M A    Plande Manejo del Medio Ambiente (Environmental Management Plan,
           component of the EMP)
PTY        Plan de Terminacibnde Yacyreta (Yacyreta CompletionPlan)
SAS        Secretaria de Accion Social (Social Action Secretariat-Paraguay)
SRS        Servicios Regionales del Sur
SEGBA      Servicios Electricos del Gran Buenos Aires, S.A.(Electricity Services
           Corporationo f Greater Buenos Aires)
TOR        Terms o fReferente
UNLP       National University o f L aPlata (Argentina)

                                         I.INTRODUCTION

1.     Yacyreta i s a multibillion U S dollar hydroelectric facility on the Parana River, along the
border between Argentina and Paraguay. The Project was partly financed by several Bank
loans: the Argentina Yacyreta Hydroelectric Project (Loan 1761-AR, 1979), the Argentina
Electric Power Sector IProject (Loan 2998-AR, 1988), the Argentina Second Yacyreta
Hydroelectric Project (Loan 3520-AR, 1992), andthe Argentina SEGBA V Power Distribution
Project (Loan 2854-AR, as amended in 1994). The Paraguay Reform Project for the Water and
Telecommunications Sectors (originally called the Asuncion Sewerage Project, Loan 3842-AR,
1995) financed infrastructure works benefiting about 3,000 people resettled in Encarnacion,
Paraguay. On May 30, 2002, the Inspection Panel registered a Request for Inspection
concerning the Project, linked to Loans 3520-AR and 3842-PA and subsequently conducted a
full inspection ofthe project.'

2.     On May 6, 2004 the Board Executive Directors discussed and approved the Management
Responseto the InspectionPanel's investigation. The Board asked for follow-up reporting, and
subsequent Progress Reports were submitted inAugust, 2004 and October 2005.2This report i s
the third inthe series o fProgress Reports to the Board.

3.     On September 15,2006, the Argentine Republic prepaid the US$106 millionbalance due
on the Second Yacyreta Hydroelectric Project (Loan 3520-AR), the last outstanding Yacyreta-
related World Bank loan. At that point, all legal obligations o f the parties under the Legal
Agreements were terminatedY3ending the Bank's legal right to supervise the project. As a
result, it i s expected that this Progress Report will be the last to be submitted in follow-up to
the InspectionPanel investigation and Management Action Plan.

4.     Consistent with the Board's guidance, this report provides updates on: (a) implementation
o f the Bank's Action Plan and additional measures identifiedby Management with respect to
the affected parties; (b) grievance procedures for resolving claims related to the project; (c)
project activities supported by the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), and IDB-Bank
collaboration on issues identified in the investigation; and (d) decisions taken with respect to
the reservoir's water level and potential impacts. Annex 1 provides a more detailed
presentation o f implementation progress on each o f the issues covered in the Management
Action Plan.




1 Following the Inspection Panel Request for Inspection, the Executive Directors authorized a full Inspection
Panel investigation on September 9, 2002. The IF' report was completed and submitted to the Board on February
24, 2004 ("Paraguay: Reform Project for the Water and Telecommunication Sectors and Argentina: SEGBA V
Power Distribution Project"). The "Management Response and Recommendations" were submitted to the Board
on April 6,2004 (Report No. 27995).
  The two "Progress Reports on Implementation o f Management Recommendations and Action Plan" were
submitted on August 6,2004 (Report No. 29809-PA) and October 31,2005 (Report No. 33743), respectively.
3 The term "Legal Agreements" means the Loan Agreement (the Loan Agreement) entered into between the
Argentine Republic (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Project Agreement (the Project Agreement) entered into
between the Bank and EBY, and/or the Third Owners Agreement (the Third Owners Agreement) entered into
between the Argentine Republic, the Republic o f Paraguay, and the Bank, all dated November 16, 1992, and as
thereafter amended (most recently inDecember 1997).


                                                      4

                                      BOX 1.PROFILE OF THE PROJECT

         The Yacyreta Hydroelectric Project is the result o f the 1973 treaty betweenArgentina and Paraguay that
created the binational entity, Entidad Binacional Yacyreta (EBY), to implement the project. The project includes
construction o f a dam with the capacity to generate 3,200 MW o f electricity, a secondary dam with spillways to
maintain ecological flows, an earth dam about 65 kilometers long, a navigation lock, irrigation water intakes, and
a fish passage facility. The dam was built to operate at full capacity at a level o f 83 meters above sea level (masl).
However, since various resettlement, environmental, and other complementary civil works were not yet
completed, i t was agreed in 1994 that the reservoir level would be filled only to the level o f 76 masl. With the
necessary works still not completed, and a series o f economic crises affecting Argentina, the hydroelectric plant
operated at about 60 percent o f its capacity untilt h s year.

         InJune 2004, the Governments o fArgentina andParaguay prepared aplanto complete the project bythe
end o f 2008, at an estimated cost o f US$653.4 million. Financing was to come from the Argentine Republic,
revenues from interim higher water levels, and the US$70 million undisbursed balance o f an existing IDB loan.
Implementation o f the plan has progressed although at a slower rate than anticipated by both governments two
years ago. EBY estimated this year that implementation costs have increased by 25 percent. Works to be
completed include the 10 km Aguapey dike and associated canal, works for sewage collection and treatment in
Encarnacion, and resettlement o f the business district of Encarnacion. Both governments remain determined to
complete the project as quickly as possible, and for the first time in many years, progress i s being seen and
welcomed on the ground.

         Revisions to the 1973 EBY treaty between Argentina and Paraguay have been discussed between the
parties but not fialized. Almost the entire Paraguayanshare o f the cost of the dam consists o f debt financing held
by Argentina. A memorandum o f understanding on a debt restructuring o f EBY ("preacuerdo, a nivel tecnico,
para la reestructuracion de la deuda de la Entidad Binacional Yacyreta") was signed in early November 2006 by
the Minister of Public Works o f Paraguay and the Minister o f Federal Planning, Public Investments and Services
o fArgentina.




                           11.UPDATE ON THE YACYRETA PROJECT

5.     Between October 2005 and the present, the period covered by this Progress Report, the
implementation progress o f the project has been positive. The governments have met the vast
majority o f legal covenants and there has been progress on the Management Action Plan.
Historic tensions between EBY and the affected parties have declined due to a combination o f
factors, most notably: (a) tangible progress on civil works in Paraguay and Argentina; (b) the
recent responsibly executed increase in water level; (c) the creation o f local jobs and the
associated economic upturn; and (d) compensation paid by EBY against a significant number
o f outstanding claims.

6.     During this reporting period, one full Bank supervision mission was camed out in
December 2005. On April 17, 2006 Ministers D e Vido and Benitez (Minister o f Federal
Planning, Public Investment and Services o f Argentina and Minister o f Public Works and
Communication o f Paraguay, respectively) informed the Bank that the two governments
decided to raise the level o f the reservoir from 76 to 78 meters above sea level (masl). This
water level rise would increase the generating capacity from 1,840 to 2,230 MW, or from 58
percent to 70 percent of design capacity. Their letter was accompanied by an annex
summarizing overall project progress and the governments' assessment o f compliance with the



                                                            5

Legal Agreements. The annex showed that 27 o f the total 30 conditions o f the Legal
Agreements hadbeenmet (two more thanin2005).

7.     On May 11, 2006 the Bank responded that although considerable progress had been
made, legal conditions were pendingthat warranted further discussion. The Bank also accepted
the Government of Argentina's invitation to review the status o f the Project and its current
level of compliance. BetweenMay andAugust 2006, the Bank, including through interventions
by the Country Director and the Regional Vice President, actively sought to obtain agreement
from the government and EBY on the location and agenda for a supervision mission. Despite
these efforts, a supervision mission didnot take place and discussion of the project was limited
to a meetingwith the counterparts inBuenos Aires inOctober 2006.

8.     Parallel to these events, the Government o f Argentina notified the Bank in July 2006 of
its intention to prepay the outstanding balance o f Loan No. 3520-AR (the last outstanding
World Bank loan related to Yacyreta)--an unpaidbalance o f approximately US$105.5 million.
This payment was made on September 15,2006, just over two years ahead o f schedule. At this
point, the Bank has no further legal right under the Legal Agreements to supervise the project.
Notwithstanding, the Bank has communicated on various occasions to both the Argentine and
Paraguayan authorities that it is willing to remain engaged in whatever way might be useful
and appropriate to the completion o f the project, particularly with regard to socially and
environmentally related issues. This offer was reiterated in a letter o f December 19, 2006, sent
bythe Country Director to bothgovernments. To date, the governments havenot requestedthe
Bankto remainengaged.


                                    111.LEGALAGREEMENTS

9.     The Bank's supervision o f the project has been guided by two sets o f documents: (a) the
Legal Agreements (see footnote 3), and (b) commitments made in the 2004 Management
Action Plan in response to the Inspection Panel investigation. The Legal Agreements include
some 30 conditions, o f which 25 hadbeenmet as o fDecember 2005 and 2 more have beenmet
in2006. Three conditions have not been completed, to the best ofthe Bank's knowledge, as of
November 2006 (see Box 2).4 These are: completed issuance of land titles for those people
resettled up to 78 masl; completion o f the sewerage system for Encarnacion; and legal transfer
o f all public works to local authorities.

 10. Independentmonitoring has confirmed that the water level remained inthe vicinity o f 76
masl untillate 2005 (albeit with frequent increases up to 76.7 masl, as was reported as early as
the 2004 InspectionPanel report), when EBY started to raise the water level to 77.6 masl. The
water had reached 77.6 masl by the time o f a May 2006 IDB supervision mission. Few, if any,
adverse social or environmental impacts have been associated with the rise to that water level,
as corroborated bythe latest IDBmission andby staffmonitoringo fthe press.



4 As noted, there was no full Bank field mission after December 2005, although there were regular points of
contact with EBY and other authorities o n both the Argentina and Paraguay sides. In addition, Bank consultants
joined an IDBmission inMay 2006, and a Bank Sector Leader joined another IDBmission inJuly 2006.


                                                       6

 BOX 2. OVERVIEW OF THE LEGAL CONDITIONS REQUIRINGCOMPLIANCE PRIOR TO THE
                     BANK GIVING ITS NO OBJECTION TO WATER LEVELRISE

A. Items Completed as o f October 2006

     e  Compensation for lands along the shore o f the reservoir;
     e  Completion o f the Municipal Market inEncamacion;
        Compensation paid to all brick and tile makers to whom it i s due;
        Completion o f the D a mOperational Manual to the satisfaction of the Bank;
        Creation of compensatory Natural Areas for inundated lands;
     e  Completion o f Archaeological Survey and Salvage up to 78 masl;
     e  Treatment o f solid waste landfills to be inundated in Encamacion;
     e  Relocationo fthe Encarnacion Municipal Slaughterhouse;
        Independent evaluation o f EnvironmentalManagement Planby internationally known experts;
     e  Study o f risks to human health from the future urbanlateralbays (at reservoir levels above 78 masl);
     e  Grievance system inplace;
     e  Implementationo f a Social Communications Program; and
        Relocationcompleted and compensation paidup to 78 masl.

B.Items Pending.Completion

        Issuance ofland titles for those resettled up to 78 masl.
     e  Completion of sewerage systemfor Encarnacion; and
        Legal transfer o f all public works to local authorities.




 IV. PROGRESSONIMPLEMENTATION OFTHE MANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN

11. In its response to the Inspection Panel's Investigation Report, Management proposed an
Action Plan to follow up on the Panel's findings and strengthen project implementation. The
three main categories in the Management Action Plan are Social, Environmental, and Project
Supervision Issues. Progress to date i s summarized below andpresented indetail inAnnex I.

Social Issues

12. There has been progress in resolving social issues with the issuance o f a revised
resettlement plan, the launching o f a grievance mechanism for persons with claims against
EBY, and the implementation of a communications program, although the implementation of
these resettlement andrehabilitationtools has beenuneven, as fbrther describedbelow.

ResettlementPlan Update

13. On November 17, 2005, EBY submitted an updated Resettlement Plan (PARR) for
completing the project. The revised plan identified some 7,435 families (1,812 in Argentina
and 5,623 inParaguay) still awaiting resettlement. Bank staff reviewed the PARR and found it
to be generally satisfactory, and a provisional acceptance was granted in December 2005
subject to the Bank receiving clarification related to issues o f timing and budget, and


                                                          7

socioeconomic data. The requested clarifications were not received. Four main issues are
pendingwith regardto the Resettlement Plan.

14. First, o f the total number o f families to be resettled, 5,795 (or 78 percent) on both the
Argentine and Paraguayan sides are adicionales, i.e., families not included in the census
updates conducted over the years. The updated PARR calls for the respective governments to
assume financial responsibility for resettling the adicionales, but no formal agreements
between EBY and the governments have been reached. Without assured government financial
support, resettling the adicionales is likely to be financed by EBY, even if EBY tries to
negotiate reimbursement from government authorities at a later date.

15.   Second, ifEBY applies the same standards used for the last resettlement sites it designed
inParaguay, it will need approximately270 hectares ofland(360 m2perhouse) to resettle the
7,435 remaining families. EBY has encountered great difficulty in finding such an expanse o f
located land that i s acceptable to the resettlers. Consequently, EBY has begun acquiring
smaller parcels o f land closer to the urban center o f Encarnacion, a positive step in line with
Bank policy. However, EBY i s still constrained by a local Paraguayan ordinance that sets 360
m2as the minimum lot size, in spite of the trade-off in preferences between location and lot
size. Bank missions have urged EBY to seek a legal means for allowing greater housing
density inmore centrally located urban areas. EBY has recently indicated that the minimum lot
size ordinance is still in effect, but that it may be feasible to propose changes to the local
authorities in order to allow more flexible resettlement planning and to accommodate some
resettlers closer to the city center.

16. Third, EBY's revised PARR called for publishing a list o f all persons/families entitled to
housing, with a period o f 30 days to make additional claims. That is, families not included on
the list could file for entitlement within the 30-day period. The Bank observed that this would
be a reasonable approach which, if handled properly, could close the door on squatting and
new claims. InOctober 2006, during discussions with EBY, the Bank learned that the entity
changed the methodology presented in the revised PARR. Rather than publishing the list o f
entitlements, EBY intends to release information about entitlements through its neighborhood
offices on an individual basis. This procedure, however, leaves the resettlement baseline open
and allows future entry to further additional claimants.

17. Fourth, the resettlement o f the downtown business district o f Encamacion is still in the
planning stage. The December 2005 Bank supervision mission attended a meeting o f a
tripartite committee established by EBY to address the issues surrounding relocation o f the
business district. The committee includes merchants from the municipal market, members o f
the municipal administration, and EBY. Most o f the discussion focused around the issue o f
payments to be made to the merchants against possible business losses. The problem to which
the merchants rightly pointedwas that the risk o f loss o f trade would be substantially higher if
only a few merchants moved to the new location while the majority remained in place. The
Bank and IDB representatives recommended that a partial move to the new municipal market
be avoided to the extent possible, until a planwas inplace to move all the market facilities to
the new location, including the wholesalers and their warehouses, shop owners, street-stand
merchants, and others. In December 2005, EBY agreed to this concept. However, in October



                                                 8

2006 EBY indicated that planning for the transfer of only 65 merchants whose shops are
located around the municipal market had advanced, although the specific timing o f their
relocationremains uncertain because financing and construction are pending.

Social CommunicationProgram

18.    One o f the legal conditions for raising the dam level above 76 mas1included establishing
a social communications program5that would inform affected persons o f their rights and o f the
timetable of events. EBY has carried out a communications program, albeit reduced in scope
fiom that discussed with the Bank and IDB during the program design phase in2004 and 2005.
The messages reaching people in Encarnacion and Posadas have been mainly in the form o f
announcements on billboards, radio, and television, and focused on the benefits EBY has
provided to the region. EBY has not widely disseminated the content or workings o f its
grievance system, preferring instead to settle grievances through alternate and less formal
channels. Overall, the social communications program i s more focused on information
dissemination rather than dialogue to help resolve localissues.

Monitoring of EBY's Compliance with its Obligations toAffected Parties

19. Over the years, Bank supervision missions held many meetings with EBY, NGOs, and
community groups in both Argentina and Paraguay, including with FEDAYIM, the coalition
that submittedthe May 2002 Inspection Panel Request. Over the past two years there has been
a drop indirect contact between civil society groups and EBY, especially inParaguay. Current
EBY staff generally distrust and decline to meet with FEDAYIMand other groups, although
general tensions within the community at large have been reduced.

Grievance Mechanism

20.    Another important aspect o f the Management Action Plan was to assist EBY in the
creation o f a grievance mechanism capable o f responding to complaints that have been
presented to EBY, to Bank missions, published inthe press, and otherwise presented over the
years. The Bankprovided direct technical assistanceto EBY in2004-2005 inthe form o f legal
and technical consultancies, and oversight during the last year's supervision mission and
meetings.

21.    EBY's formal grievance procedure was approved by its Executive Board on September
12, 2005. This procedure sets out measures for receiving, registering, and treating complaints,
and includes specific time limits for dealing with complaints. The Bank regarded this
resolution positively. As o f October 2006, EBY informed the Bank that relatively few
complaints had been filed, and that claims are being settled independent o f the grievance
mechanism. EBY also informed the Bank that the social climate in the affected region had


  Amendment to Loan Agreement, December 11, 1997, Part B.l (b) o f Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement (as
amended inDecember 1997), "Implement a Social Communications Program designed to inform all beneficiaries
and affected people o f the timetable o f delivery for Base Program works, goods and services, together with
another such program designed to informthe general public o fArgentina and Paraguay regarding the progress and
results o f the resettlement and environmentalprograms (EMP)."


                                                        9

become more peaceful than inearly 2006, for reasons attributable to a general economic upturn
inthe area, particularly inParaguay where works financed by EBY are absorbing considerable
amounts of labor.

Redevelopmentof Encarnacibn

22.   The Paraguayan city of Encamacionhas grown from a population of about 25,000 inthe
late 1970s when the Yacyreta Project was started to approximately 65,000 today. Most of its
downtown area will be flooded as the reservoir levels climb to 83 masl. During 1997-1998, a
master plan for Encarnacionwas prepared and a formal zoning resolution was adopted by the
Municipality o f Encarnacion. However, the master plan was not implementedbecause the pace
o f implementingthe Yacyreta Project slowed.

23.   The InspectionPanel recommended, and Bank Management agreed, that Bank staff assist
EBY in preparing an updated urban plan for Encarnacion. In December 2005, the firm
contracted by EBY presented its preliminary updated plan to the Bank supervision team. The
Bank commented that while the plan was a positive contribution, it focused more on the urban
design features o f proposed EBY investmentsthan on the broader socioeconomic needs o f the
growing and changing city o f Encarnacion. The updated plan is beingimplementedby EBY.

Rehabilitation Measures

24. As Management indicated inthe May 2004 Board discussion o f the Management Action
Plan, two specific funds for community-driven development (CDD) were being prepared by
the Government o f Paraguay and EBY to assist in the rehabilitation o f affected communities.
These were: (a) the Productive Fund created by the Government o f Paraguay to support
productive projects for people affected when the reservoir was filled to 76 masl and above, but
who were not included inthe PARR; and (b) the Social Investment Fund, set up by EBY and
managed by an NGO to implement rehabilitation programs in the resettlement sites. Over the
course o f 2005, these two hnds became inactive, and EBY and the Paraguayan authorities
increased the use o f direct cash payments to resettled families and other claimants. This
approach has the benefit of allowing each family to decide how it wishes to invest its resources
and has reduced the level of social tension on the Paraguayan side. Although the Bank has
advised against this approach based on international experience, EBY and the Paraguayan
authorities continue to rely on cash compensation as their preferred method o f rehabilitation.
While there have been no complaints by the beneficiaries, this approach has stimulated an
increased demand for cash payments by affected people andrent seekers alike.

Reservoir Level and Other Environmental Issues

25.   The main environmental issues raised by the project and included in the Management
Action Plan are: (a) monitoring the reservoir water level to ensure compliance with the Legal
Agreements; (b) the environmental impact o f future water level rise, especially related to
Encarnacion's sewage but also tied to biodiversity conservation; and (c) the environmental
impact o f the project's civil works, including urban improvements, embankments, and
resettlement areas.



                                              10

26.   Between August 2004 and June 2006, the Bank supported an independent review o f
reservoir levels, carried out by the National University o f L a Plata. Data show that since at
least October 2004. EBY has operated the dam above the level stipulated in the 1997
amendments to the Legal Agreements. After October 1, 2005 (the beginning o f the period
covered b y this report), water levels were above 76.5 masl virtually all the time, including days
o f low river flow. The independent review also shows that, during the first three months o f
2006, the reservoir level was allowed to rise to 77.7 masl, reaching that height before the letter
from the Governments of Argentina and Paraguay informing the Bank o f their intention to
raise the reservoir level.

27.   Through the December 2005 mission, the Bank continued to maintain a dialogue with
EBY on the issue ofthe reservoir level. Although the Bank requestedthat the dambe operated
strictly at the 76 masl level during low flow periods as per the Legal Agreements, EBY
claimed that an immediate increase in the water level was justified by the need to protect the
turbines from damage, as well as by the additional power generated (and associated income to
be used to complete the project).

28.   In November 2005,            heavy rains temporarily raised the reservoir                           level in
Posadas/Encarnacion to over 78 masl-a            normal and inevitable occurrence that i s independent
o f the dam which i s 100 kilometers downstream.6 It i s noteworthy that at this level, there was
no apparent environmental or social damage. The matter was not raised at a subsequent
meeting among EBY, the Bank, and FEDAYIMinEncarnacion; this indicates that water levels
as highas 78 masl have little if any negative impacts. The immediate social and environmental
actions required, such as resettlement and relocation o f infrastructure for a water level up to 78
masl, had been completed. To date, the Bank has not received any complaints regarding harm
causedbythese higher reservoir levels. However, there have been comments inthe Paraguayan
press to the effect that EBY should pass along some o f its increased revenues (resulting from
the higher water level) to people adversely affectedbythe project.

29.   Regarding a prior concern with a drainage problem near the Arroyo Pora resettlement
site, Bank missions have visited the site during every field mission since 2004. In December
2005, the Bank mission found that the drainage problem had been corrected. The problem
appears to have been solved without the payment o f cash compensation to community
members as hadbeen demanded.

Environmental IssuesAssociated with Future Water Level Rise

30. Future increases inthe reservoir water level beyond 78 masl may create problems inthe
lateral bays that will form in creeks around Encarnacion, particularly with regard to disease
vectors. As the reservoir rises to the full design height, free-flowing creeks will be flooded,
resulting in large areas o f shallow and relatively stagnant water in which wastes may
accumulate. To address this problem, the Bank has urged the design and construction o f a
complete sewage collection system for Encarnacion, consistent with the project's Legal

6Occasional flooding up to this level is normal. In fact, 78 masl defines the legal level o f the river floodplain in
PosadasIEncarnacion.


                                                        11

 Agreements. The partial sewerage collection and treatment system under construction for the
 southern part o f the city does not address the full sanitation and environmental needs o f the
 entire city.

 31. Neither EBY nor the Paraguayan authorities have assumed responsibility for a citywide
 solution. Work on the sewage treatment plant financed by IDB was stopped in late 2005 upon
 the discovery o f a major design miscalculation, and IDB subsequently withdrew its financing
 for that project. Furthermore, EBY has declared that it will not assume operation o f the future
 Encarnacion sewage system nor be responsible for connecting households to the system. There
 i s no development on the horizon that would leadto the improvement o f the Encarnacion water
 and sewage utility. The Bank has sought to engage EBY on this issue and recommended that
 EBY convene an expert panel to review sanitary conditions and future options, yet the inertia
 behind the current partial collection and treatment system under construction has proven
 strong, andno progress has beenmade.

          V. PROJECT SUPERVISIONAND COLLABORATIONWITH THE IDB

 32.    Since October 2005, the Bank conducted one fulljoint field supervisionmission with the
 IDB (December 2005), several smaller missions to Buenos Aires, and three small missions to
 Asuncion. Inaddition, Bank staff and consultants accompanied two IDB missions to the field
 inMay andJuly of2006. As discussed inSection I1above, the Bankdidnot have its own field
 supervision in 2006, because EBY and the Argentine authorities determinedthat meetings in
 Buenos Aires could substitutefor a supervision mission (see also paragraph 7).


         Table 1: Yacyreta-Bank Supervision Missions and Meetings since the last Progress Report


     MissionDates        Locations         Participating Staff and
                           Visited               Consultants                        Topics Covered
1912112005  0912112005  Buenos Aires C. Brandon (Sector Leader)           Meeting with Argentine Secretary o f
                                                                           Energy, EBY Executive Director,
                                                                           and staff
I211212005  12/16/2006 Posadas,      A. van Trotsenburg (Country          Meeting with ParaguayanMinister
                        Encarnacion, Director), C. Brandon (Sector         o fPublic Works
                        Asuncion     Leader), D. Gross (Lead              EBYDirectors and staff
                                     Resettlement Specialist/Consultant), Meeting with Civil Society
                                     E. Sanchez-Triana (Senior             Organizations
                                     Environmental Specialist), G.        Reservoir Level
                                     Sanchez-Martinez (Civil Society      BufferZone
                                     Specialist)                          D a mOperational Manual
                                                                          EncarnacionUrbanPlan
                                                                          Trust Fund
                                                                          Management Structure o f PTY
                                                                          Social Communication
)5/08/2006 0511212006   Encarnacion M.E. Sili, PlannerKonsultant; L.      Water quality inUrbanBays
                        mdPosadas    Garcia, Water and Sanitation         Reservoir Level
                                    EngineerKonsultant                    Hydrodynamics o f Reservoir
                                                                          Joined full IDB mission.




                                                    12

      Table 1: Yacyreth-Bank SupervisionMissions and Meetings since the last ProgressReport (cont.)


    MissionDates         Locations       Participating Staff and
                          Visited             Consultants                        Topics Covered
0513112006 05131/2006 Asuncion      C.Brandon                          Lic. Angel Recalde, Dir.EBY
                                                                       Paraguay
0711812006 0711812006 Encamaci6n    C. Brandon                         Reservoir level and status o f
                        and Posadas                                    complementary works as observer
                                                                       on IDBmission
10/2512006 10/25/2006 Buenos Aires C. Brandon; D. Gross                Meeting with EBY staff



                                       V. CONCLUSIONS

 33.   The project's implementation progress has generally been positive. The Governments o f
 Argentina and Paraguay have complied with the vast majority o f loan covenants, inparticular
 those critical for safe operation o f the facility and mitigation o f impacts from having the
 reservoir operate at current levels o f 78 masl and below. Tensions among the governments,
 EBY, and social groups have declined significantly, reflecting progress in project
 implementation, economic growth, and job creation. There has also been steady but slowing
 progress on implementation o f the agreed Action Plan inresponse to the Panel's investigation.
 In several instances, pending Action Plan activities reflect EBY's and the governments'
 decision to resolve social and environmental issues in less transparent yet somewhat effective
 measures. Inthe case o f environmental impacts from future reservoir water levels above 78
 masl, the lack o f a citywide sewage collection system for Encarnacionremains a concern. To
 date, however, water levels have not gone above that mark.

 34. The Bank has offered to continue providing support not only to the Government o f
 Argentina, but to the Government o f Paraguay and to EBY, with particular regard to ongoing
 social- and environment-related issues. To date, there has been no request from the
 governments for the Bank to remain engaged. As stated above, upon loan repayment all legal
 obligations o f the parties under the Legal Agreements have been terminated; therefore, the
 Bank has no further legal authority to supervise the project. While the Bank will continue to
 stand ready should the governments decide to request its assistance, it is expected that this
 Progress Report will be the last to be submitted in follow-up to the Inspection Panel
 investigationandManagement Action Plan.




                                                 13

      ANNEX I.ANNOTATED MATRIX OFTHE MANAGEMENT ACTION PLAN
                                        AND PROGRESSTO DATE

The matrix that follows indicates the specific actions proposed by the Bank as part of its
Management Response to the Inspection Panel's InvestigationReport, which were approved by
the Board in May 2004, together with an indication o f the progress achieved to date in their
imp~ementation.~


 Management Action PlaninResponseto Inspection
                   Panel's Findings                                ImplementationProgressto Date


                                             Environment-OD 4-01

Resettlementsites and civilworks (Items 3,8,9,40)
   Management will request that EBY update Ute          * The Bank requested that EBY update the screening
   screening process for non-dam-reiated civil works      procedures for non-dam-related civil works and
   and that it include a quality assurance protocol to    provided assistance to do so. These procedures are
   evaluate the environmental conditions and the          used for assessing the environmental impact of
   quality of the civil works in the resettlement sites.   infrastructure- and resettlement-related works. This
   The Bank will continue to monitor engineering           framework was approved by EBY's governing board
   supervision and contractor iiisurancc practices and     in late 2004 and applied to housing developinetits
   will requestimprovements, as necessary.                atler that date. Thc updated procedures are designed
                                                          to enhance the design, construction, and quality
                                                           asstiratice o f remaining civil works at existing and
                                                           future resettlement sites.

   The Bank will monitor the system EBY has in * The Bank continued to monitor EBY's systems in
   place to supervise civil works and request that        place to supervise civil works and requested that
   contracts continue to include required clauses. The     contracts continue to include the required clauses.
   Bank will also continue to pay careful attention in     This monitoring included the December 2005 field
   Future   supervision    missions    to  construction   visit. The Bank paid careful attention to construction
   deficiencies.                                           deficiencies during supervision, particularly those
                                                           relatingto the Arroyo Pararesettlement.

Biophysicalenvironment-long-term (Item6)
   The Bank will continue to closely monitor             * Bankteamscontinued to monitor compliance with$he
   compliance with the Legaf Agreements, including        Legal Agreements, including environmental and
   the environmental and social mitigation measures.       social mitigation measures, and apprised EBY of their
   and will ensure that EBY is apprised of its dindings,   findings. This monitoring included the Deceniber
   with a view to improving EBY's capacity ro              2005 field visit and a meeting in Buenm Aires in
   mainrain adequate environnxnkl management              October 2006.
   practices for the project over the longterm.




7The itemnumbersgiven ineachrowrefer to items inAnnex 1ofthe Management Report andRecommendations
inresponseto the Yacyreta InspectionPanelInvestigation(May 6, 2004).
                                                        14

Management Action Plan inResponse to Inspection
                   Panel's Findings                               Implementation Progressto Date

Errban and periurban environments: population
growth, induced impacts, and host populations
(Item 7)
   The Bank will continue to supervise compliance         The Bank, along with the IDR, continued to supervise
   with the implementation of the PMMA component          conlpliance with the i ~ ~ ~ p ~ e ~ e n toaf tthe
                                                                                                          i o nP M M A
   of the EMP, in accordance with the provisions of       component of the EMP, in accordance with the
   the Legal Agreetncnts.                                 provisions o f the Legal Agreements. This included
                                                          the full EMP in missions conducted in April and
                                                          December 2005. The Bank urged EBY to address
                                                          environmental risks including, most iniportantly, the
                                                          risk o f disease vectors arising from the urban bays
                                                          khat will he fornied as the reservoir rises. The Bank
                                                          has also urged adoption of a more flexible model for
                                                          resettlenieat housing in order to accornntodate the
                                                          resettledpopulation's different needs and demands. In
                                                          November      2005,    EBY submitted            a    revised
                                                          Resettlement Action Plan which the Bank considered
                                                          generally satisfactory, and has begun to acquire land
                                                          parcels closer to the urban core of Encamacihn.

Reservoir levelverification (Item 11)
*   Management will urge the Goveniments of + Managenlent urged the Governments o f Argentina
    Argentina and Paraguay and EBY eo establish a         and Paraguay and EBY to establish a means for
    means for independent verification of the reservoir   indepexident verification o f the reservoir level. EBY
    level. Rank staff will monitor this and confirm that  published reservoir levels on its website for a brief
    the reservoir is operated at 76 masl, in accordance   period in 2005 and then discontinued this service.
    with the Legal Agreements. Management will also
    request EBY to validate the height-flow rate           Bank staff monitored and confirnred the water lepel.
    curves every year.                                     The Bank contracted a specialized team from the
                                                           UNLP to carry out an independent assessment o f
                                                           reservoir levels and height-flow rate curves. UNLP
                                                           foundthe reservoir to be consistently operated above
                                                           76 masl at times o f low flow during 2004 and 2005
                                                           and at 77.7 ~msl  during late 2005 and 2006.

                                                           H3Y revised its Darn Operating Manual in 2004. but
                                                           the Bank did not accept the revisedmanual because it
                                                           stipulated permissible operating levels in terms of
                                                           broad bands that exceeded (in the Bank's view)
                                                           conditions in the Legal Agreements. The Argentine
                                                           and Paraguayan Governments officially announced
                                                           their decision to operate the reservoir at 77.6 nus1in
                                                           April 2006, and this water level rise was confirmed
                                                           by the independent monitoring.




                                                        15

ManagementAction Planin Responseto Inspection
                   Panel's Findings                                 ImplementationBrogressto Date

Seweragesystem(Items 15,16,17,41)
  Management will request EBY to make all relevant       0 Management requested EBY make all relevant
  drawings of sewerage systems, pumping stations,          drawings of sewerage systems, pumpingstations, and
  and the wastewater treatment plant, as well as any       the wastewater treatment plant, as well as any other
  other non-dam-related civil works, available to the      non-dam-related          civil works,  available to the
  community. In addition, the Bank will monitor            community. Accordingly, the plans for the sewerage
  inclusion of activities to clarify the areas being       system pumping station, and wastewater treatment
  covered and the proposed time frame for coverage        plant were made publicly available in mid-2004.The
  inEBY's social cornurncationsprogram.                    Bank monitored the inclusion. o f activities to clarify
                                                           the areas being covered and the proposed time frame
                                                           for coverage in EBY's social communications
                                                           program. Through             December 2005, the Bank
                                                           remained closely engaged with BBY and both
                                                           governments on the design and implenientationof the
                                                           system. EBY conmissioned a study of the risks
                                                           connected with the lack o f sewerage in northern and
                                                           eastern Encarnacihin when the reservoir level reaches
                                                           83 mask The report concluded that the urban lateral
                                                           hays did not pose a seriow risk o f fbrming habitats
                                                           for insect disease vectors although the risk of
                                                           e u t r o ~ h ~ c ~ tisi o ~high. EBY has not directly
                                                           addressed the issue of the coverage o f the sewerage
                                                           system. EBY has launched a social cornmicarions
                                                           program although it has focused on dissemination of
                                                           information rather than on dialogue to help resolve
                                                           local issues.

  Management will confirm that the sewerage system       0 Construction        o f      the  sewerage   system  in
  has been completed prior to the raising of the           Encaniacion's        southern zone and a sewerage
  reservoir level to 78 masl, in accordance with the       treamient plant, both with IDB funding, have
  pertinent provisions of the Legal Agreements, and        undergone serious delays. Completion is            now
  will urge EBY and the Paraguayan authorities to          scheduled for 2007, but IDB has withdraw its
  pursue IDB or other financing for the household          fbding for the sewage treatment plant over design
  connections.                                             and fiduciary concerns. Neither Bank nor IDB
                                                           financing of household connections in Encai-nacibn is
                                                           likely, There is no clear plan in place for financing
                                                           household connections to the system.

  It is expected that actions pertinent to transfer and    Compliance with the Legal Agreements. which covcr
  supervision o f the sewerage system in Encarnacih        both construction and transfer o f ownership of the
  wili be undeivdken by IDB prior to the raising o f       sewerage collection and treatment systena, was
  the reservoir level to 78 masl.                          closely monitored. To date, government authorities in
                                                           Paraguay have been reluctant to assume responsibility
                                                           for infrastructure builtby EBY.

  Management is urging EBY to accelerate effons to         Management urged EBY to accelerate efforts to
  improve the outfall o f effluents from the Itd Paso      improve the outfall of effluents from the Ita Paso
  resertlerntnt site even prior to the completion of the   resettlement site, even prior to the completion of the
  wastewater treatment plant.                              wastewater treatment plant. Accordingly, the sewage
                                                           collection system at Ita Paso has beencompleted.




                                                        16

ManagementAction Planin Responseto Inspection
                  Panel's Findings                                  Xmplernentation Progressto Date
                                                  Social -OD430
Social Communications Program (Items 18, 23, 24,
27,28,38,44)
   During supervision, the Bank will monitor EBY's        * The Bank monitored EBY's implementation o f the
   iniplementation of the social conmiunications            social commut~icationsprogram. During 2005, EBY
   program, to improve the relations between people         formally adopted a Social Conimunications Policy
   implementingthe project andthose affected by it.         and Program closely following recommendations
                                                            made by Bank and IDBconsultants. It also contracted
                                                            a communications consulting firm to guide its Social
                                                            Comunicatians Program. It appears that EBY is
                                                            relying on the firm to implement much o f the
                                                            program rather than training its own personnel in
                                                            cominunicatioit skills as was recommended by the
                                                            Bank and the IDB.

   The Bank will monitor EBY's provision and              e EBY has        nlaintained   contact    with    affected
   dissemination o f information on he criteria and         populations    through    its   neighborhood     offices
   procedures to be used in order to confirm                (ujkirius bar~istle~) although EBY social workers
                                                                                 and
   beneficiary status, as part of its implementation o f    appear to be well motivated and familiar with. the
   the social communications program to comply with         people they serve, considerable uncertainty persists
   Plan B.                                                  regarding:
e  The Bank will monitor inclusion in EBY`s social                o beneficiary status
   cumrnunications program o f specific program of                o property valuationand appeals
   information    and     consultation      with     host         o the resettlement sequence in the updated
   populations for planning and carrying out                           PARR
   construction inresettlement sites.                             o    resettlement timing under Plan B and the
   The Bank will monitor inclusion in EBY's social                     Urban Creeks program.
   communications     progrant     o f provisions     for
   strengthening tlie dissemination of i n f o ~ ~ ~toi o n  Overall (referring to tlie last six bullets in the left-
   affected peopie on the procedures that BBY                hand colunm), the Bank has had relatively little
   employs for property appraisals. Moreover, the            capacity to monitor cumiiiunications with host
   Bank will assess the adequacy o f valuation               populations, in pare because EBY has not been
   procedures for     the properties    that will be         willing to release information about sites under
   expropriated prior to raising the water level further.    study. However, the Bank's impression is that, in
   The Bank will nionitor inclusion of iniproved plans       gcneral,    host    populations     have     benefited
   for dissemination o f procedures for property             significantly from social infrastructure provided in
   valuation    and    appeals     in   EBY's      social    connection with housing projects (including health
   communications program.                                   posts, schools, preschools, community centers, and
* Management will confirm that              the    social    the like).
   communications program includes information on
   the resettlement sequence to he incorporated in
   &e PARR component o fthe Revised EMP.
   Management will confirm EBY`s iK~iplem~~tation
   of a social conmunications program, to comply
   with Plan B, and will urge EBY to address
   comiunication issues under the IJrban Creeks
   Program.




                                                         17

Management Action Plan in Responseto Inspection
                   Panel's Findings                               Implementation Progressto Date

Updated PARR(Items 19,22,29,30,35,37)
   Management will confirm that the updated PARR          Management confirmed that the PARR component of
   component       of the     Revised    Environmental    the Revised Enviranniexital Management Plan (EMP),
   Management Plan (EMP), when completed, is in           was updated (submitted to the Bank on November 17,
   fult compliance with OD 4.30 and the Legal             2005), and in general is in full compliance with OD
   Agreements, before the reservoir level i s raised      4.30    and     the     Legal   Agreements,    pending
   beyond 78 masl. Management will also urge EBY          clarifications on issues including timing, budget, and
   to make the census andrelevant topographical data      social economic data. Both the Bank and IDB
   public, and will advise EBY on ways to improve         provided support in the form o f consultants,
   its procedures for public review.                      workshops, TORS, and technical guidance to EBY as
                                                          It updated its resettlenient plan. EBY continues to
                                                          issue periodic reports and an annual evaluation. The
                                                          requested clarifications were not received, and the
                                                          Rank has been unable to supervise implenientationof
                                                          the PARR since the December 2005 mission. As
                                                          noted above (see paragraph 16 inthe main text), EBY
                                                          informed the Bank in October 2006 that while Ute
                                                          PARR calls for publishing a list o f entitlements on a
                                                          certain date followed by a 30-day period to receive
                                                          comments or complaints, EBY has elected to follow a
                                                          different and less transparent methodology.

  Management will confirm that the updated PARR           Management has confirmed that the updated PARR
  component of the Revised EMP includes specific          coniponenf of the Revised EMP includes specitic
  programs to promote the better integration of           programs to promote the better integrationo fresettled
  resettled and host populations (discussions are         and host populations. EBY has adopted the pragmatic
  underway).                                              position that its obligation extends to making it
                                                          possible for displaced people to restore or improve
                                                          their previous standard o f living. However, EBY
                                                          continues to rely heavily on cash grants with
                                                          relatively little training or investment follow-up. The
                                                          Bank urged EBY to reconsider its relocation of
                                                          people to the urban periphery where transport is
                                                          difficult and job opportunities are scarce, and EBY
                                                          has begunto select relocation sites closer to the urban
                                                          core.

  Management will confirm that the updated PARR           The Bank urged EBY to incorporate into the PARR
  component o f the Revised EMP considers                 resettlement afternatives and rehabilitation programs
  alternative    sites   and   different   resettlement   for relocating families, businesses, and industries into
  strategies, and that both be subject to consultation.   the PARR. As noted above, EBY 'has begunto select
                                                          relocation sites closer to the urbancore.

  In the updated PARR component of the Revised            'The Bank has confirmed that the updated PARR
  EMP, the Bank will confirm that the required            component o f the Revised EMP includes the required
  socioeconomic data has been included. The Bank          socioeconomic data.
  will also facilitate a workshop, planned for the third
  or fourth quarter of 2004, to wain bBY staff and to
  discuss additional measures to improve the
  rehabilitation programs.




                                                        18

ManagementAction PlaninResponseto Inspection
                 Panel's Findings                                Implemenk~tion     Progressto Date


 Management will confirm with EBY that the              0 `The updated PARR lacks a timetable and budget, in
 updated PARR component o f the Revised EMP               spite of the Bank and IDB having addressed this
  (which is required to be revisedprior to raising the    issue in June, September, and December 2004; at the
  reservoir beyond 78 masl, in accordance with the        re~biiitationworkshop held in April 2005; in the
  Legal Agreements), includes a realistic plan,           December 2005 supervision mission; and in the
  budget,    and timetable for completion            of   October 2006 meeting.
 resettlement activities.

* Management will confirm that the updated PARR * The revisedPARK didnot make               it clear that the most
 component of the Revised EMP has included                vulnerable families would receive priority in the
 provisions    to   continue    giving    priority   in  resettlement sequence. The mast vulnerable families
 resettlement sequencingto the most vulnerable and        are likely those living along creeks that are subject to
  most impacted groups,, particularly those locafed in    flooding (not from the reservoir). These families are
  areas prone to periodic flooding, as well as the sick   not necessarily the first to receive new housing from
  and elderly.                                            EBY.


Monitoring(Items 20,30)
* The Bank will continue to advise EBYand monitor * The Bank continued to advise EBY and monitor
 compliance with ~ m p l ~ m e n ~ofthe~PARR.The
                                     t i o                compliance with i ~ l e ~ x e n ~ tofothe PARR. The
                                                                                               i  n
  Bank will also continue to advise EBY that cash         Bank    continued     to   advise   EBY that        cash
  compensation is not a satisfactory means, nor is        compensation is not a fully satisfactory means, nor is
  principal occupation the sole criterion for income      principal occupation the sole criterion for income
  restoration.                                            restoration (including in June, September, and
                                                          December 2004; at the rehabilitation workshop held
                                                          in April 2005; with the Paraguayan authorities in
                                                          early September 2005: and duringthe December 200.5
                                                          supervision mission).

  Management will continue to urge EBY to collect         Management continued to urge EHY to collect the
  the necessarybaseline data, and it will monitor how     necessary baseline data and to monitor how the
  the current PARR responds to the impacts caused         current PARR responds to the impacts caused by
  by displacement.                                        displacement. The Bank provided technical assistance
                                                          on baseline georefereraced data collection and usage
                                                          in October and December 2004, and subsequently
                                                          through the international resettlement consultant
                                                          financed by the IDB.




                                                       19

Management Action Planin Response to Inspection
                  Panel's Findings                              ImplementationProgress to Date

Dispute resolutionigrievance procedures (Items 21,
22)
* During the second quarter of 2004 the Bank nil1       During the secondquarter of 2004 the Bank oversaw
   oversee a review o f existing claims against EBY in  a review of existing claims against EBY in order to
   order to address issues o f dissatisfaction, and     address issues of dissatisfaction, and proposed a
   propose a renewedeffort (together with the IDB)to    renewed effort to develop a credible and transparent
   develop    a credible and transparent dispute        dispute resolution process. The Bank retained a law
   resolution process. The Bank will continue to work   firm, Baker & McKenzic, working in conjunction
   closely with EBY to establish this process as soon   with a systems analyst, to analyze a sample o f
   as possible.                                         existing claims and EBY's system for handling such
                                                        claims. The study provided a computerized tracking
                                                         system and made recommendations on improved
                                                        procedures, la 2005, the same law frm provided
                                                        workshop training to EBY. In a separate study
                                                        commissioned by the Bank in late 2004, an expert
                                                         consultant presented options for alternative dispute
                                                        resolution.   Elements     of  both   studies   were
                                                         incorporated in the BBY resolution dated September
                                                         12, 2005. In September 2005, BBY approved a new
                                                        grievance system that acknowledges these inputs. In
                                                         October 2006, EBY informed the Bank that relatively
                                                         few complaints had been filed, and that claims were
                                                         mostly being settled independent of the grievance
                                                         mechanism.

   Management will urge EBY (and provide guidance      * During all field visits, nmagenient and staff urged
   as necessary)to includein the grievance procedures    EBY to adopt clear procedures for receiving and
   a means for the reception and solution o f claims    sealing claims from all affected parties. EBY's
   that could emerge from host communities during       readiness to receive claims is linked to the Social
   the resettlement process.                             C o ~ ~ i c ~ ~plan,nbut it does not appear that
                                                                            i o    s
                                                         EBYhaswidely disseminated its grievance system.




                                                      20

ManagementAction Planin Responseto Inspection
                    Panel's Findings                                Implementation Progressto Date

Brickmakers (Items 26,31,32,33,34)
   Management will request that BY continue to            * 'The Bank has been assured that small brick makers
   provide small brick makers with access to clay           have continuing access to clay pits. In fact, the brick
   deposits. Management also will monitor inclusion        and tile industry is much larger now in Encarnacion
   in EBY's social communications program (to               than it was a decade ago, especially now that EBY
   conxply with Plan B) o f activities to ensure that       sources bricks and tiles from local producers. In
   brick makers are aware of the location of clay           addition, the Bank urged an expanded program to
   deposits onEBY-owned property.                           ooimxunicate with all affected parties, including brick
                                                           makers. However, EBY insists that i t has discharged
                                                            every obligation it has to brick and tile makers. There
                                                            is some evidence of rent-seeking among these
                                                            producers including some small producers who
                                                            apparently set themselves up in business solely to
                                                            access resources fiom EBY.

   Medium- and large-sized industries will cantinue to      In October 2004, September 2005, and December
   have access to clay deposits on the land that BBY        2005, the Bank confirmed with EBY that medium-
   owns untilthe reservoir level is raised.                 and large-sized industries will continuc to have access
                                                            to clay deposits on the land that EBY owns untilthe
                                                            reservoir level is raised. EBY no longer delivers clay
                                                            to producers since the time limit for such deliveries
                                                            has expired.

   Management %ill      request EBY atid the Paraguayan   * Management requested and EBY disbursed funds to
   authorities    to meet     the 2004    timetable   for   individual families for productive enterprises through
   disbursing benefits under the Productive Fund to         2005, but the funds subsequently became inactive.
   the    informal      workers    already    identified.   There has been relatively little follow-up technical
   Management will also request that EBY make               assistance. Beneficiary families have used the fmds
   every e f t k t to identify former workers of brick-     for consumptio~~or, in some cases, to set up or
   and tile-making industries who did not previously        augment small handicraft, manufacturing, or food-
   receive compensation for loss of employment due          service businesses.
   to their informal status and utilize the Productise      In terms of the brick and tile industries, EBY has
   Fund to provide            them   with    appropriate    taken the positron that it bas met or exceeded all
   compensation, Finally. management will c o d i           obligations to brick and tile makers and workers. In
   with EBY that the updated PARR component of the          an attempt to resolve outstanding claims, in August
   Revised EMY includes provisions for employment           2005 the Government of Paraguay made a cash offer
   alternatives for both informal and fotbpml workers       of approximately IJS$2.000 to each of the 29
   who lose their employment due to industry dosure         umesolved brick- and tilemaker clainunts, but it was
   or relocation.                                           rejected. The Bank has confirmed that the 130 former
                                                            workers claiming conipensation have been identified.
                                                            The Bank has urged EBY to process the remaining
                                                            disputes arid claims by brick and tile makers, and by
                                                            former workers, through E B Y's f o m l grievance
                                                            mechanism.




                                                         21

Management Action Pianin Responseto Inspection
                   Panel'sFindings                                  ImplementationProgress to Date

Influx of people into the Project area (Item 36)
   The Bank will urge the Paraguayan authorities to     0   The Bank discussed the matter at length with EBY
   explore all available legal and administrative           and local officials during 2004 and 2005. Local
   means, such as licensing, permitting, or fiscal          officials insist that responsibility for discouraging
   policies, to discourage ne\%development or influx         squatting ties uith EBY. EBY has agreements with
    into the land between 78 and 84 ~ n a s luntil such     the police and with private security providers to
   time as EBY has adequate financial resources to           suppress illegal occupation o f lands to be flooded.
   acquire this land.                                        EBY's revised PARR provides for a cutoff date for
                                                            new entitlements. While it appears that no extensive
                                                            new settlement is going on between 76 arid 83 mad,
                                                             EBY has not provided the Bank with data to support
                                                             this conclusion.
                                      Supervision -OD 13.05 -OPBP 13.05

Technical quality and expertise (Items 7,40,44)
   The Bank will continue to monitor the system EBY       The Bank has continued to nionitor the system EBY
   Ius in place to supervise civil works and request      has in place to supervise civil works and has
   that contracts continue to include rcquired clauses.   requested that contracts continue to include required
   "he Bank will also continue to pay careful attention   clauses. 'The construction of civil works has been
   in fizture supervision missions to construction        supervised by nearly every field mission. Aside from
   deficiencies.                                          the drainage problem in Arroyo Pora mentioned        111
                                                          the main text (paragraph 29), no major construction
                                                          defects have appeared in the works financed by the
                                                          Rank. However, a significant miscalculation in the
                                                          amount of landfill required in the construction o f the
                                                          EncamaciCtn sewage treatment plant. and related
                                                          circunastances,     led to the withdrawal of IDR
                                                          financing. In October 2006, EBY infomied the Bank
                                                          that, with tBY"s own financing, the sewage treatment
                                                          plant was scheduled for completion in Decernber
                                                          2006, and that the sewage system for Southern
                                                          Encarnacibn was scheduled fix coinplction in 2007.

   'To strengthen Bank supervision, an architectiurban    'I'he Bank team found little receptivity by EBY or
   planner with experience in environmental and           local officials in Encarnacion for support froin a Bank
   social assessments will join the Task Teana to         architectiurban      planner  with      experience   in
   siipervise issues related to infrastructure arid       environmental and social assessments. ERY chose to
   housing for resettlement sites.                        engage the services of a development firm in Buenos
                                                          Aires to produce an urban plan for Encarnacibn. As
                                                          noted in the main text (paragraph 231, the Bank
                                                          observed that the plan focused more on urban design
                                                          features than on the broader socioeconomic needs of
                                                          die.growing and changing city of Encarnacion.

   EBY has infonned the Bank that it will contract        EBY informed tlie Bank that it contracted an
   independent     ex     post  evaluations   for   the   independent       firm   to  review     and    evaluate
   resettlement sites of' Arroyo Pora and It&Paso.        implementation of resertlemerit plans in Arroyo Pora
                                                          and Ita Paso. Regular reports have been submitted to
                                                          and accepted by the Bank.




                                                       22

Managemen                   in Responseto lnspeetion           ~ ~ p ~ e ~ ~Progress Eo Daten
                                                                                   ~ E ~ t i a
~ o n ~ ~ l (Itemt 42) n
  In accordance with the Panel's findings, fitture *
              t ~   i ~
                                                       Aides-M~moire were expanded to document the
  A ~ d e s - M ~ ~willi rbe expanded to document the
                     ~    e                            subject matter oFBank meetingswith affected people,
  subject matter of Bank meetings with affected        with summary followings and notes of follow-up
  people, with summary findings andnotesof follow-     actions needed. Extensive summaries of meetings
  up actionsneeded.                                    with civil society organizations in June, October, and
                                                       December 2004, and April and Dccember 2005 have
                                                       beenpreparedandare available.

Levelofsupervision(Items 43,46)
e The Bank will emphasize to EBY that, among the *     The Bank emphasized to EBY that, amongthe works
  works required for completion of the project, the    required for cotnpletion o f the project, the most
  most urgent are those related to resettlement, and   urgent are those related to resettlement, and that local
  that local actors and organ~~tions must be involved  actors and organizations must be involved in

  the Bank will continue to send any project-related *
  in overseeing rcsettlcment activities. Xn addition,  overseeingresettlementactivities.
                                                       Bank missions have repeatedly been asked by civil
  corruption complaints reccivcd to the Department     society groups to audit the use of Bank funds.
  of ~i~~titut~onalIntegrity.                          Regular financial audits, as required by the Legal
                                                       Agreements, were performed prior to loan closure,
                                                       No specific allegations of corruption or misuse of
                                                       funds have keen received by the Bank since the
                                                        In~~ec~ionPanelcase began.


e The Bank has recently upgraded and expanded its c The Bank's civil society specialist based in its
  Asuncicin office, and is recruiting a civil socie6y  Asuncian office is an integralpartofthe team and has
  specialist to join in April or May2004, Amongthis    participatedin nearlyall missionssince 2004,
  person's dutieswill be localsupervision ofprogress
  in it~p~ementingthe PARR and other project-
  relatedrequirements.

  The Bank will continue to review and comment on *    The Bank has used the Legal Agreements as a basic
  proposalsfor raisingthe reservoir leveland monitor   reference to establish clear benchmarks for actions
  compliance with the pertinent provisions in the       necessarybeforethe Bank could issue a no objection
  Legal Agreenrents, In addition,the Bank intends to   to water level rise. The Second Yacyretir Loan was
  continue supervising the project through the final    scheduled to be repaid by November 2009, and the
  repaymentofthe SecondYacyrcthLoan.                    Bank intended to continuesupervisionof that project
                                                        until such date. However, the Government oF
                                                       Argentina prepaid the loan on September 15, 2006;
                                                       therefore, the Dank has no further legal right to
                                                        supervise the project under the LegalAgreements,
Reporting(Item 45)
0 Basedon the resultsofthe Panel's investi~~t~on * M ~ n a ~ e ~hastaken intoaccount all available
                                                                      ~ e n t
  and rclareddatagathering, M a ~ a g e ~wiilntake
                                           ~ e ~        jnfor~ationand prior experience inorder to improve
  intoaccount all available inforniationand prior      the quality ofreporting.As a result ofthe loan
  experiencein order to improvethe qualityof future    prepayment, all legalobligationsunder the Legal
  reporting.                                           Agrecments have beenterminated, Unlessaskedby
                                                       EBY, Argentine, or P~ag~ayanauthorities. the Bank
                                                       has no plans for further supervisionactivities.
  Inaddition, Managementwill rcgortto the Board       * Managementconsidersthe presentreportto bethe
  annually onthe implementationo fthe proposed          finalreponto the BoardofDirectorsconcerningthis
  Action Plan.                                         project*




                                                     23

