Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY                ,LE        '4 
Report No. 176 1-SU
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF A PORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
February 17, 1978
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =      Sudanese Pounds (ITS)
US$1                5      iS 0.400
is 1                =      US$2.50
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                =             3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       2   =             0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km )                 0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 kilogram (kg)            =             2.2 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (ton)         =             2,205 pounds (lbs)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
SRC      -      Sudan Railways Corporation
SPC      -      Sea Ports Corporation
ICB      -      International Competitive Bidding
ILO      -     International Labour Organization
UNDP     -      United Nations Development Programme
RTC      -      River Transport Corporation
CAD      -      Civil Aviation Department
RBPC     -      Roads and Bridges Public Corporation
PPF      -      Project Preparation Facility
L&H      -      Livesey and Henderson (Consultants)
R-R      -      Rhein-Ruhr Consultants
ADAR     -     Associates for the Development of Arab Resources
NRT      -      Net Registered Tons
dwt      -     Deadweight tons
ODM      -      Overseas Development Ministry (U.K.)
GOVERNMENT OF SUDAN
FISCAL YEAR-/
July 1   -   June 30
1/   Years given in this report refer to the 12 months ending June 30
in the year mentioned.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
DEMDCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF A PORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.          THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ......             ..........................          1
A.  Economic Background  *.............................                    1
B.  The Transport System ..... * ...................... . . . . . . .  .   1
C.   Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination * .....                   2
D. Past Bank Group Transport Sector Operations
in Sudan ..................................................           3
II.          THE SEA PORTS CORPORATION  ........ . . .  ........................... .   4
A.  Port Facilities                ..................................      4
B.   Organization, Management and Staff                  7..........*      7
C. Training               ...........................                      9
D.  Operations ............................................    10
E.   Past and Present Traffic  ..............           ...........    11
F.  Port Planning . ....................                        ... ..    13
G.  Budget, Accounts, Audit and Insurance  ............    14
III.         THE PROJECT ...............   *...*...    *................. ..15
A.   Port Investment Program .....             .       .....................    15
B.   Scope of Proposed Project                 ........................    16
C.   Details of the Project ........................                      16
D.   Evaluation of Project Requirements  ..............              .    18
E.  Cost Estimates and Financing P lan ................    21
F.   Procurement and Disbursement                  ....................    23
G.   Project Execution . .............................. .    24
H.   Operational Targets  ...... .   .......................    26
I.   Environmental Impact  .............................    27
J.   Employment Impact          ............... .................    27
IV.         ECONOMIC EVALUATION  . .................................    28
A.  Future Traffic ......                      ..... ..     ........    28
B.   Objective of the Project  ........              .................    29
C.   Project Benefits and Their Distribution                  ..........   31
D.   Economic Costs of Project  ....... ... ...........    32
E.   Economic Return and Sensitivity Analysis  ........              .   33
F.   Timing of Port Suakin . ................. ...  .......    33
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
FINANCIAL EVALUATION .........   ........................  33
A.  Past Performance ....................................  33
B.  Financial Forecasts     ..............................   35
C.  Projected Income Statements .................... ..  37
D.  Projected Cash Flows and Financing Plan    ..........  39
E.  Projected Balance Sheets .........................  41
F.  Financial Internal Rate of Return ............... .  41
G.  Port Suakin Impact on SPC Finances ...............  42
H.  Impact of Inflation on SPC Finances     ..............  44
VI.      RECOMMENDATIONS ............   ..........................  44
ANNEX
1. Past Bank Group linanced Transport Projects in Sudan
2. Documents Available in Project File
MAPS
1. Sudan Main Transportation Infrastructure - IBRD 12615
2. Port Sudan Existing Layout and Proposed Improvements - IBRD 13081
This report has been prepared by Messrs. Parthasarathi (Senior Economist),
D. Raymond (Port Engineer), and 0. Fraisse (Financial Analyst) on the basis
of consultants' studies listed in Annex 2 and their findings during an
appraisal mission to Sudan in July 1977.



I.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Economic Background
1.01      Sudan, the largest country on the African continent, is essentially
an enormous plain, with a large uninhabited desert in the northern third of
the country and tropical forests and savannahs in the south. It is traversed
from north to south by the Nile River system (see Map), close to which lives
a large part of the country's 15.6 million population, which is growing at a
rate of 2% p.a. Per capita GNP is US$290.
1.02      Agriculture dominates the economy, accounting for over 40% of GDP
and almost all export earnings. Economic activity is largely concentrated
within the fertile and well-irrigated 400 km stretch south and east of
Khartoum. More than half the population depends for its livelihood directly
on agriculture, and a substantial amount of farm production is exported
through Port Sudan, the only deep-water port.
B. The Transport System
1.03      The principal transport corridor is the Khartoum-Port Sudan route
where until recently the railway has had a virtual monopoly, but was supple-
mented by a pipeline for white oil products which began operation in December
1977. A paved road via Kassala is expected to be completed later this year.
Elsewhere in the country the railway, where it exists, is the primary mode,
with roads and river transport serving as feeders to it.
1.04      Comprising about 4,800 km of 1.067 m gauge, single line track, the
railway network emanates from Port Sudan and extends west to Nyala, south to
Wau and north to Wadi Halfa. Of the 19,000 km of roads, only about 1,000 km
are paved, mainly near Khartoum; the 6,000 km of gravel roads are mostly
located in the three southern provinces where laterite material is available.
Much of the road network, particularly in the more populated and developed
areas, passes over heavy clay soils which are generally impassable during the
rainy season (June-September). River services operate on two sections of
the Nile River System, Kosti-Malakal-Juba (1,400 km) in the south and Karima-
Dongala (290 km) in the north. Port Sudan, on the Red Sea, is Sudan's only
deep-water seaport. Twenty airports and airstrips in Sudan are served by
scheduled flights; the facilities range from the all-weather, 24-hour inter-
national jet airport at Khartoum to an unimproved field in Dinder.
1.05      Important analyses of the investment needs of the sector have re-
cently been carried out by the Associates for the Development of Arab Re-
sources (ADAR) with Kuwait Fund financing and by the ILO Comprehensive
Employment Survey Mission. In the last three years the Government has
undertaken a very large investment program in this sector as the spearhead



- 2 -
of its national development efforts, including the construction of several
roads and a pipeline from Port Sudan tb Khartoum to carry white oil products.
The Government is also engaged in improving railway capacity and efficiency
over the entire network, river tr ansport capacity, the only reliable means
of freight transport to and from an extensive area in the soud1i, a               -
ternal air transport system principally through improving ground and naviga-
tion facilities.  It also has plans to expand port facilities to handle-
anticipated growth in foreign trade to avoid Port Sudan developing into a
bottleneck.
C. Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination
Policy
1.06       Sudan has great potential for agricultural expansion.  A chapter of
the Government's Six-Year Development Plan, "National Objectives and Long-Term
Perspective", indicates that economic growth in the near future is expected to
come principally from the agricultural sector, with increasing volumes of
agricultural products exported abroad to pay for rising imports of consumer
and capital goods. This will require more reliable transport facilities with
increased capacity in corridors already served by transport facilities.
Further, the Government's stated objective of integrating hitherto isolated
areas into the mainstream of the country's economic life will entail develop-
ment of reliable transport fac:ilities between these areas and the rest of the
country.
1.07       In recognition of the magnitude of these undertakings, the plan
provides about LS 462 million or an annual average of over LS 77 million
for transport sector investments over 1978-83, representing some 25% of
the total proposed development budget of LS 2.0 billion. By way of com-
parison, this sector accounted for less than LS 10.0 million a year in
investments until 1974, when the Government, realizing the crucial role
of transport in economic development, increased investments in the sector
to almost LS 50 million a year in 1975-77.
1.08       In addition to the substantial investments required to achieve the
two-fold objective of meeting transport demands and economic integration, the
operational problems which prevent some of the modes from providing reliable,
efficient services must be overcome through well-conceived, concentrated and
sustained long-term efforts. Substantial improvements, it must be recognized,
will not be achieved easily or quickly. The same is true of deficiencies in
qualified professional staff, adequately trained and supervised sub-professional
staff and maintenance, shortcomings shared by most of the transport organi-
zations.
Planning
1.09       Sudan's 1971-75 Development Plan was not formulated on the basis of
economic priorities but consisted largely of a list of proposals by the various



- 3 -
ministries to meet specific requirements. Since the drafting of that Plan in
1970, the planning system has been considerably improved with the assistance
of a planning team, financed by the UNDP, in the Ministry of National Planning,
which is responsible for intersectoral planning, and through the training
efforts of EDI which has conducted a number of courses in Khartoum tailored
to Sudan's needs. This Ministry also has a well-staffed Transport Section,
responsible for ensuring that transport projects are compatible with other
sectors and responsive to their needs. The 1978-83 Development Plan, just
published, takes a balanced view of transport sector requirements in relation
to those of other sectors. However, paucity of data, principally on past
truck transport, is a major gap in the overall transport picture.
1.10      The Ministry of Transport is responsible for inter-modal planning.
After almost two years' search, the Government has recently recruited an
advisor for the planning unit, also with UNDP financing. There are also
planning units of varying experience and depth in the modal departments
and the corporations, which suffer from shortages of qualified staff to
varying degrees.
Transport Coordination
1.11      Until recently, modal coordination had not been an issue because
most transport services had been complementary. This will not be the case
much longer since the Government is presently following a policy which will
encourage rail/road competition. For instance, roads which will offer
an alternative to the railway are either being constructed (Khartoum-Port
Sudan) or are being planned (Sennar-Roseires), and truck imports are being
subsidized, by the temporary waiver of import duties and exchange taxes, to
promote a much needed expansion of road transport. Thus coordination of
transport planning, investments and operations are assuming importance and
will require more careful consideration in the future, although the railway
will continue to be the principal mode for long-distance freight movement for
the foreseeable future.
D. Past Bank Group Transport Sector Operations in Sudan
1.12      The proposed project will be the Bank Group's first direct lending
operation to the Sudan Sea Ports Corporation. Three previous railway projects
(Loan 212-SU - 1958, Loan 440-SU - 1965, and Credit 457-SU - 1974) included
some provision for the modernization and improvement of port facilities.
There have been four other Bank Group-financed transport operations in
Sudan. The First Highway Project (Credit 331-SU, US$7.0 million), approved
in 1971, included assistance with transport sector planning; the Domestic
Aviation Project approved in 1975 (Loan 1287-T-SU and Credit 643-SU for
US$20.0 million and US$9.0 million, respectively) will help finance the
development and/or upgrading of four domestic airports. A Technical Assis-
tance Credit, also approved in 1976 (Credit 614-SU for US$4.0 million),
will include aid in preinvestment work in transportation. The Fourth Railway
Project, approved in 1977, provides mainly for upgrading the level of effi-
ciency of SRC operations and thus its capacity, along with some additions
to motive power and rolling stock (See Annex 1).



- 4 -
.13       In general, physical implementation of projects in the transport
se^tor has been satisfactory, although there have been considerable delays
due to: (a) complicated procurement, bid evaluation and contract award
procedures; (b) cost increases which have required revision of the list of
goo5s; and (c) insufficient response to some invitations to bid. Under
the proposed project, SPC will set up its own procurement unit with the
advice of an expert, to be provided under technical assistance, to simplify
procedures and eliminate delays previously encountered. Consultants will
also assist SPC in preparing tender documents and evaluating bids for
implementing the proposed project.
II. THE SEA PORTS CORPORATION
A. Port Facilities
2.01      Port Sudan is currently Sudan's only deep-water port, located in
a narrow inlet from the Red Sea. It has quite limited ship maneuvering room,
and very limited waterfront opportunities for expansion. As it is located
within the City of Port Sudan and immediately adjoins it, there is also
essentially no room for expansion of the port area on the shore side either,
except to a limited degree in the area of the South Quays (See Map).
2.02      The main cargo handling quays are situated on the east side of
the harbor, comprising 11 berths. These have been constructed following
the natural deep water contours and thus do not present one continuous berth-
ing face, but in fact four. The operational water depths for these berths
fall into two groups: 8.7 m and those over 10.7 m (except for Berth 5A which
is 10.2 m). The South Quays comprising four berths are on the southern
side of the port near the harbor entrance. Of these, only two berths provide
deep water immediately alongside, while two others have been adapted for deep
water vessels by the use of fender pontoons. Additionally the port has a
small explosives jetty, a shallow draft tug berth, a small bunker barge berth,
and a limited shallow draft pontoon berth. While there are nominally 15 cargo
berths, due to length limitations the effective capacity is only 12 berths,
with an average length of 185 m.
2.03      The mean tidal range at Port Sudan is only 0.1 m and the maximum
seasonal range is 0.85 m. The harbor floor consists generally of soft coral
and sand, overlain with silt.



-5-
Type                        Water            Effective
Berths          Construction      Length        Depth             Capacity -         Remarks
------meters----               No. Berths
Main Quays
1, 2, 3, 4,    Gravity             825        1 thru 5-8.6                       General cargo,
5, 5A                                         5A - 10.2               5          5A, molasses
6 - 7           Gravity                                                          General cargo &
block wall         365           10.7                 2         edible oils
8-9          8 - Concrete sheet                                                  General cargo &
pile wall;       375           10.7                 2         edible oils
9 - Gravity block
wall
11              Gravity block       98 2/         8.7 1/             1/2         General cargo
wall
South Quays
15              Gravity block                                                    Bulk grain (silo)
wall              205 2/        10.7                 1          and general cargo
16              Gravity block
wall               72 2/        10.7                1/2        General cargo
17-18           Gravity block                                                    General cargo
wall              278           11.4 1/              1         and bulk oil
Total                        2,218                               12
Other
Explosives Jetty                    25            4.0                            West of Berth 18
Tug Berth                          200             2.4 1/                        City side -
opposite Berth 11
Pontoon Berth                       93             2.0                          North of Berth 11
Bunker barge berth                  10           10.0                            East of Berth 17
1/   Depths outside fender pontoons.
2/   Longer ships overhang berth.



- 6 -
2.04      Ancillary facilities at Port Sudan include storage tanks for
petroleum (at a nearby refinery), edibie oils, and molasses; a 50,900 ton
grain silo (owned and operated by the Agricultural Bank); 50,000 m  of 2sheds
and warehouses within the customs zone; private warehoules of 42,000 m
outside the customs zone; open storage area of 21,000 m within the customs
zone and numerous less clearly defined open storage areas; and a dockyard
with four slipways of 50 to 600 tons capacity.
2.05      The port has eight tugs of 550 - 1,200 hp capacity.  Berthing and
unberthing are dependent on the use of tugs due to the limited maneuvering
space available. The port has an adequate number of quay cranes but only 19
forklift trucks and cargo is still largely manually handled. Details of port
equipment are as follows:
Item      Capacity            Date
Floating
Tugs                           1    1,000 hp (steam)        1952
4    1,200 hp               1963-71
3      550 hp               1953-58
Water barge                    1      100 ton                  -
Grab dredger                   1    50 ton hopper;          1964
5-1/2 ton lift
Pontoons                     17    75-300 tons             1951-73
Launches                      16      Various              1950-76
Cargo Handling
Quay cranes                   26      5 ton                1955-68
9    3-5 ton                1961-62
1     15 ton                1942
Transporter cranes             4      5 ton                1927
Handling area cranes           3    3-15 ton               1952-62
Mobile cranes                  6      5 ton                 1954-73
1     75 ton                1974
Forklift trucks               19      2 ton                1963-74
Internal rail wagons        200       Various              Unknown
Shunting locomotives           4        -                  1976
Tractors                       9      Various              Unknown
2.06      Over the years Port Sudan has been developed almost exclusively
as a rail served port. Both quay areas have extensive rail networks linked
to the national system. On the Main Quays all warehouses and sheds are rail



- 7 -
served, and there are two large marshalling areas within the customs area,
little used except for wagon storage. The South Quays, including the
grain silo (Berth 15), are also rail served. Only the quayside apron
is surfaced so that rail tracks are flush. Elsewhere there is a profusion of
rail tracks, many no longer necessary, and between which surfacing is not
flush with the tracks. Thus mobility for wheeled vehicles is quite limited
and much potential operating and storage area is presently unavailable.
Wheeled vehicle access to and availability of open storage within the port is
particularly critical because of the rail track situation. The present method
of vertical stacking with captive rail cranes in these areas results in
excessive damage.
2.07      Port Sudan has very few facilities for handling special commodi-
ties. Grain is handled in bulk over Berth 15. Molasses is exported over
Berth 5A which has a pipeline connected to storage tanks just outside the
port. Edible oils are exported over Berths 6 to 9, connected by pipe-
lines to storage tanks within the port area. Live animals are now handled
at all general cargo berths, with loading by platform slings. There are no
special facilities for Ro-Ro ships. Those with canted ramps currently berth
at the Main Quays; however, those with bow or stern ramps are moored perpen-
dicular to the quay at Berth 16. There are no special facilities or equipment
for container handling either. For the most part, parties receiving container
shipments make their own arrangements for pickup at shipside and transport
from the port area.
2.08      Pontoons are utilized at Port Sudan to supplement quayside loading
and unloading of general cargo. Only explosives are handled by lighters at
offshore anchorages. There is no special berth for unloading lighters,
unloading taking place at vacant or partially utilized berths.
B. Organization, Management and Staff
2.09      Formerly a department of the Sudan Railways Corporation (SRC), the
Sea Ports Corporation (SPC) was established in 1974 under the Ministry of
Defence to administer Sudanese sea ports. In 1977, it was transferred to
the Ministry of Transport. SPC is headed by a full-time Chairman assisted
by four senior officers based in the Khartoum headquarters office. They
are responsible for the overall planning, direction and control of SPC, and
for liaison with Government and other agencies both in Sudan and outside. The
General Manager at Port Sudan is SPC's chief operating officer. Reporting
directly to the General Manager are five senior executives -- the Directors
of Shore Operations, Marine Operations, Engineering, Finance and Personnel
(see Chart).
2.10      The organization requires considerable strengthening, especially
in operations, procurement and stores, finance, workshop and maintenance.



SUDAN SEA PORTS CORPORATION
ORGANIZATION CHART
MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT
CHAIRMAN, BOARD OF DIRECTORS
|     MANAGING DIRECTOR        
D        DIRECTOR       CL EGINER                DOCYRD                 EEIRECTCTR RCDIRECTORA
SHOREOPEHATIONS  MARINEOPERATIONS                                                                             FINANCE                ERSONENGINEER  ENNANCR  AEDITONEL
ENT            DEPARTMENT                                                                                    EPARTMENTSEYCHIE  AITNT  A SSISTANTr
DEPTY DIECO             CII ENINE                                          NGINER                                                                Arl RESEARC
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ CA    
DEPUTY DIRECTOR        HARBOUR MASTER           CIVIL ENGINEER           DOCKYARD               ELECTRICAL
j  COMMERCIAL |    j    SENIOR      l          NEW WORKS  l       j     TUG        l     j   ELECTRICAL             S ORESOR ANEDT
| CONTROLLER  |    l    MASTER      l      l    SECTOR      l     l MAINTENANCE |        l    SECTION    l       l  PURCHASING E   R
SHORE  l  |   SENIOR  l  l         l      l               l      | MECHANICAL              CONTROLLER             APPOINTMENTS
SUPERVISOR   l            ATUG               MAINTENANCE                 WORKSHOP              SECTION               OF ACCOUNTS  |           & BUDGET
CHIEF INSPECTOR |           SENIOR                 MARINE                                                          | SEIR                   PTSRVC
WAREHOUSES  |       1    PILOT       l           WORKS                                                                 BUDGEHN              M    GEMENT
MASTERORSERVICES 
| OPERATIONS   l                                                                                                 - 1 IND RELATIONS
| OFFICER                                                           
{ <                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~World Bork-172BB



- 9 -
SPC has had difficulty in recruiting and retaining qualified staff at the
supervisory levels. Among the reasons for this are the high salaries
offered to technical staff in nearby Saudi Arabia, the high cost of living
in Port Sudan, and the feeling of isolation from Khartoum.
2.11      SPC employs approximately 4,000 workers on a permanent basis for
maintenance and basic services. For cargo handling and stevedoring, some
2,000 workers are hired on a daily basis from the local labor office and
cooperative society. Several hundred more workers are employed in related
activities outside the port area - warehousing, transport, etc. The port is
the principal employer in Port Sudan. Its staff size reflects its labor-
intensive cargo handling methods, its unofficial role as the main source of
livelihood to people who would otherwise be unemployed because of age or
physical condition, and the severe climatic conditions in which the port has
to operate.
C. Training
2.12      Before separation from SRC in 1974, employees at Port Sudan were
included in SRC's training programs. Following the separation, almost the
only training provided is on-the-job; however, a number of senior staff are
sent on overseas study tours. The changes now facing SPC and the increased
responsibilities it will assume will require considerable strengthening and
development of training activities. Three factors make this particularly
urgent and critical:
(i)  Since the separation of the port from SRC, functions formerly
performed by SRC have been assumed by the port only with con-
siderable difficulty, e.g., accounting, mechanical maintenance,
procurement, and clearance of goods from the port area.
(ii) From a token introduction of mechanical cargo handling equip-
ment in the Third Railway Project, additional equipment will
be provided in this project to transform cargo handling to an
essentially mechanical basis in order to enable the limited
physical facilities of the port to handle growing traffic.
Training in both maintenance and operation of such equipment
is required.
(iii) The system for handling cargo on both procedural and physical
bases will be changed significantly, requiring training for
its implementation.
2.13      To satisfy the training needs of Port Sudan, and subsequently
for the needs of Port Suakin, it is proposed in this project to: (i)
establish a training facility; (ii) finance supplies and equipment for



- 10 -
training; (iii) arrange for overseas training of selected staff; and (iv)
finance the services of a training adviser and key instructors.
D. Operations
2.14      The labor-intensive cargo handling operations in Port Sudan have
remained largely unchanged for several decades. Pallets are not used, and
such equipment as forklift trucks, tractors and trailers are used only
minimally. The port is poorly equipped to handle cargo which cannot be loaded
(or unloaded) directly to (or from) waiting transport. Stevedores lack
adequate handling equipment and gear for use aboard ships and there is a
shortage of trained supervisors. Bulk cargoes are for the most part handled
in bags. General cargo is unloaded principally by quay cranes using slings.
2.15      The handling rates for imports are generally low and there is
considerable cargo damage. Bagged import handling rates have averaged 18.5
tons per gross appliance hour over the period 1965-75, with other imports
averaging 6.3 tons. Exports, principally in bales or bags, are handled
efficiently, averaging 18.2 tons per hour over the same period. Ships are
frequently double-banked while awaiting berths and partially unloaded by
lighterage, utilizing ships' gear and the 17 lighterage pontoons owned by
SPC .
2.16      The grain berth utilizes a travelling ship loader/unloader with two
pneumatic suction arms.  Handling rates are 120 tons per hour for imports and
240 tons per hour for exports, though sustained handling rates are lower.
2.17      The port operates throughout the year except for three religious
holidays. It works two regular shifts per day; there is some third shift
work each day, usually on three to four berths handling exports or heavy
cargo. There is inadequate labor supply for a full third shift and, in any
case, local labor, which still clings to its semi-nomadic life style, has
little enthusiasm for it. Warehouses and sheds are closed during the
third shift for security reasons, and related commercial operations out-
side the port are also not open. However, it is apparent that third shift
operations may have to be expanded to assist in handling expected traffic
until additional facilities at Port Suakin become available.
2.18      For the past several years there has been a chronic problem con-
cerning clearance of import cargoes from both the port and Port Sudan City
area. Basically, there has been insufficient rail capacity to move these
cargoes to the interior of Sudan.  Whether the insufficiency is one of too
few wagons, too few trains, too little capability to load and unload, or
L combination of all these, is arguable, although the last appears to be
most probable.  Rail movement of imports is governed by a Government policy
which, quite correctly, gives priority to supplies for new projects (e.g.,



- 11 -
sugar mills, textile factories, irrigation projects) or seasonal commodity
demands such as fertilizer, but this causes excessive delays to commercial
general cargo. This situation has given impetus to a continuing growth in
movement of cargoes inland by truck, even though the all-weather highway to
the interior will not be completed until later this year. About 30,000 tons
per month of high value critical traffic moves by this mode, and this can be
expected to increase significantly with completion of the highway. Railway
capacity is also expected to increase with the implementation of the Fourth
Railway Project, and in any event the completion in late 1977 of a white
petroleum products pipeline from Port Sudan to Khartoum has freed over half
of the 40% rail capacity devoted to petroleum products. Beyond 1978, inland
transport capacity is expected to cease to be a bottleneck to Port Sudan
traffic. To deal with the immediate problem, the Minister of Transport has
established a committee including railway and port personnel to review the
clearance problem and to take coordinated action toward its solution.
2.19      The chronic problem of Port Sudan City area clearance impinges
on the port area as congestion backs up all the way to the quays. Even
though untransported cargoes are eventually moved from the port area to the
open spaces to the north of Port Sudan, there is a certain inertia in the
process arising from the knowledge that the initial destinations are only
temporary. Compounding this constraint is the overall shortage
of equipment to load, unload, and stack cargo in both the port area and the
outside storage areas. There is also a tendency to leave cargo overly long
in port storage areas, on the quays, and in sheds, for lack of an adequate
incentive for the owners to move them and from a failure by port management
to enforce vigorously penalties for excessive delays. Remedial measures,
such as imposition of higher storage charges and strict enforcement of storage
regulations, were discussed and agreed during negotiations. The physical
aspects of the movement problem now overshadow the procedural aspects relating
to documentation and processing. The latter also warrants attention and is
provided for under technical assistance in the proposed project.
E. Past and Present Traffic
2.20      From 1967 to 1975, when the Suez Canal was closed and Sudan's
economic growth relatively low (around 3.0% p.a.), Port Sudan traffic
remained remarkably constant. Imports amounted to 2 million tons per year,
crude petroleum accounting for close to 50%, sugar for a further 100,000 -
150,000 tons, and the remainder mainly general cargo. Exports amounted to
1 million tons per year, dominated by cotton (16%), groundnuts (16%), and
grains and other oilseeds, such as sesame. Passenger traffic is limited to
the pilgrimage season to Mecca, and is not significant (approximately 11,000
passengers per year).
2.21      In 1975, following the reopening of the Suez canal and a step-up
in investment and economic activity, cargo traffic substantially increased.
Cargo traffic for 1976 was approximately 15-20% above the 1973/75 levels.
Most of the increase is due to an increase in imports.



- 12 -
Sudan Port Traffic
('000 metric tons)
1973      1974       1975       1976
General Cargo
Exports                1,168      1,040        875     1,278
Imports                1,912      2,026      2,026     2,248
Total              3,080      3,066     2,901      3,526
Oil 1/                 1,068      1,047      1,053     1,156
1/   Included in imports.
2.22      During the Canal closure, the number of ship calls was around 800
a year or 65-70 a month. Shipping patterns changed somewhat from mostly
conference line calls to greater reliance on charters, with an increase
in the average cargo vessel size. Since the reopening of the Canal in 1975,
the pre-closure pattern of about 100 ships per month has returned and the
average volume of cargo handled per ship is also on the increase. As a
result, ship waiting time has increased significantly. During 1974/75 it
was 1.15 days per ship. During the 18 month period, July 1975-December 1976,
the average ship waiting time was 3.17 days, increasing to 3.54 days for the
12 month period January - December 1976. Ship time at berth averaged 5.5
days in 1974/75, compared with 6.3 days in 1975/76.
2.23      Port traffic is dominated by general cargo vessels (90-95%) ranging
from the small vessels used in coastal and Red Sea trades to the medium size
common to the international trading routes. Average ship sizes (NRT) increased
from 2,900 tons in 1965/69 to 3,500 in 1970/72 and 3,800 in 1973/75. With
the reopening of the Canal, there is some evidence that this average may
drop. Within the average for 1973/75, the international trading route vessels
were generally 4,500 - 6,000 NRT, while those on the coastal and Red Sea
routes were from 1,000 - 2,000 NRT. Although Ro-Ro vessels are used for the
import of passenger cars and some trucks, there has to date been little use
of such vessels, or of container ships, for unitized cargo movement. The
number of dry bulk carriers, utilized principally for wheat import, is
very small.  Oil tankers comprise the remainder of ship calls - on the order
of five per month; these vessels are small by international standards,
carrying cargoes of only 25,000-35,000 tons.



- 13 -
F. Port Planning
2.24      SPC does not yet have the capability to undertake long-term port
planning and the engineering and other studies necessary for the purpose.
Realizing the need for such studies, the Bank Group financed, under Credit
457-SU for the Third Railway Project, consultants' services to examine the
need and alternatives for expanding Sudan's port capacity up to the year
2000. The consultants also reviewed SPC's organization and operations with
a view to improving their effectiveness and efficiency. The port development
study by consultants, Livesey and Henderson/Coopers and Lybrand (U.K.) (L&H),
was completed in mid-1976, and accepted by the Government in February 1977.
The consultants formulated three alternatives for the development of Sudan's
port capacity:
(a) Strategy 1: Expand Port Sudan's capacity to handle only a
"low" traffic forecast, which they felt to be unlikely;
(b) Strategy 2: Limit the expansion of Port Sudan and develop
a new port at Suakin as soon as possible, with both ports
together capable of handling a "central" or "high" traffic
forecast; or
(c) Strategy 3: Develop and expand Port Sudan to the maximum,
and delay the development of a new Port Suakin until
foreseeable traffic can be expected to exceed the full
potential capacity of Port Sudan, estimated on the basis
of the "central" and "high"   traffic forecasts to occur
around 1990.
They recommended Strategy 3 on the ground that it avoided the possibility
of too early development of a new port.
2.25      A second study commissioned by the German Government was executed
by the Rhein-Ruhr Group (R-R) - the draft final report being completed in
October 1976. The R-R study recommends limiting the expansion of Port Sudan
in the immediate future, and concentrating on the earliest possible develop-
ment of a new Port Suakin, to be followed by expansion of Port Sudan and/or
Port Suakin as and when required.
2.26      The main point of difference between the two studies was whether
expansion works undertaken at Port Sudan will reduce its cargo handling
capacity during construction to an unacceptable level. L&H's view is that
well managed and carefully coordinated construction works will not hinder
traffic significantly. R-R contends that Port Sudan is already so congested
that any interference might lead to chaos. The Bank agrees with
R-R, since major expansion works within the port would require careful plann-
ing, supervision and coordination to avoid traffic disruptions, and SPC at
present lacks both supervisory and operating staff with adequate training and
skills to ensure this. Simulation studies indicate that any diminution in



- 14 -
Port Sudan s _i>pacity will have a disastrous impact on ship waiting time
indicating that the proposed strategy limiting development work at Port Sudan
and initiating the development ofE Port Suakin is well justified (See para.
4.12).
2.27      The Sudan Government favors the early construction of a new port
at Suakin in line with the R-R proposals. It is presently negotiating a
contract for design and construction of a port at Suakin on a turnkey basis.
SPC has retained R-R as its consultant for the development of Port Suakin.
The German Government has agreed to extend a credit of DM67 million for
external infrastructure facilities (access road, railroad, water supply,
electricity source) necessary to the new port. The Sudan Government is
currently attempting to mobilize external financing for the foreign costs
of the port itself. (See para. 3.02 for the estimated cost of the R-R
proposal.)
2.28      The project which SPC and the Sudan Government have requested
the Bank to finance for Port Sudan is consistent with the decision to go
ahead with Port Suakin. The project appraised in this report concentrates
on technical assistance, training, the introduction of cargo handling
equipment, and limited expansion adequate to meet interim needs at Port
Sudan until Port Suakin can be opened, with minimum interference to ongoing
operations.
2.29      For the long range, Port Suakin will be developed principally as a
bulk handling facility, while Port Sudan will remain the principal port for
general cargo. Initially Port Suakin will handle mainly containers, Ro-Ro
traffic, and bulk sugar exports. As and when additional grain handling
facilities are needed, these will be provided at Port Suakin, while Port
Sudan will continue to handle bulk grain to the capacity of the present silo.
Also, at such time as Sudan's oil refinery capacity is expanded, it is planned
to locate it in the vicinity of Port Suakin with a deeper draft tanker berth
to be provided at Port Suakin. ALt that point a decision will be made whether
to continue handling existing ref-inery requirements from Port Sudan, or to
connect the Port Sudan refinery by pipeline to the oil terminal at Port
Suakin.
G. Budget, Accounts, Audit and Insurance
2.30      SPC's board is empowered to approve the Corporation's annual capital
and revenue budgets. Revised est:imates are submitted for Board approval when-
ever requested or justified by future developments. The Ministers of Trans-
port, Planning and Finance also have to approve the budgets which are then
resented for information to the national legislature.  In spite of this
seemingly thorough sequence of clearances and approvals, the budgeting process
should be improved. The revenue budget is still not utilized as a managerial
tool within SPC, while the annual capital expenditure budget is not properly
linked to a cash flow forecast. Capital expenditures are approved on the
basis of disbursements in the budget year, with little regard for future
commitments.



- 15 -
2.31      Annual accounts, which follow an acceptable commercial format,
are sent to the Minister of Transport,-together with an audit report
on SPC's activity for the year; these are also furnished to the national
legislature.
2.32      Under the Auditor General Act, 1970, SPC's accounts are audited
by the Auditor General who is responsible to the President in Council.
This arrangement is acceptable to the Bank although audit is about two years
behind schedule due to the heavy workload and lack of staff of the Auditor
General. The situation is expected to improve with the recent recruiting of
additional staff and the training of personnel from the Auditor General's
staff arranged with the Egyptian Government. Credit 457-SU also provided for
training of some staff in the USA and the UK.
2.33      SPC is presently self-insured for cargo damage and has limited its
liability towards port users. It has indicated, however, its intention to
engage an insurance expert to advise on its insurance requirements and provide
for such coverage as he may recommend. This was confirmed during loan
negotiations.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Port Investment Program
3.01      In order to handle the anticipated growth in foreign trade traffic,
the Government of Sudan has assigned high priority to expanding the country's
port capacity. There is recognition that Port Sudan, currently Sudan's only
outlet to the sea, is now operating at or close to capacity and that for both
the near future and long-range, Sudan must have a significantly expanded
port capacity. To achieve this objective the Government has focussed its
planning on the early development of a new port in the vicinity of Suakin,
some 40 km south of Port Sudan, for the medium and long terms, and immediate
improvement in the capacity of Port Sudan for the short term. Until new Port
Suakin becomes available around 1983, Port Sudan will have to handle the
anticipated increases in traffic.
3.02      The investment program for Port Sudan consists principally of the
items included in the proposed project, detailed later in this chapter, and,
in addition, the rehabilitation of eight launches, and construction of office
buildings and staff quarters. The program for Port Suakin, based on the plans
and cost estimates developed by the Rhein-Ruhr Group, comprises a breakwater,
dredging, about 900 m of quay, transit sheds and buildings, navigation aids,
and cargo handling and marine equipment, for an investment of ]S 47 million
(US$118 million) in 1976 prices, excluding contingencies. In addition it will
require 50 km of rail track connecting to the main line, a 120 km water pipe-
line, and about 3 MW of additional power generating capacity, all estimated
by R-R to cost an additional ES 12 million (US$30 million).



- 16 -
3.03      The projected development of new Port Suakin, in conjunction with
the proposed improvements to Port Sudan, constitutes a rational basis for
satisfying Sudan's port requirements for approximately the next ten years.
While the current consultant studies address the longer range requirements
beyond that period, the exact nature of future investments will depend on
actual traffic developments in the next few years.
B. Scope of Proposed Project
3.04      The proposed project :Ls a major step in the modernization and
improvement of Port Sudan to increase its physical capacity, operational
productivity, and management efficiency. Its principal objective is to
increase the handling capacity of the port to relieve congestion and increase
throughput, through the mechanization of cargo handling and movement, improve-
ment of layout and working surfaces, improvement of bulk, container and
Ro-Ro facilities, and through management assistance and training. Even with
these improvements, however, congestion will not be entirely eliminated, for
the opportunities to expand physical facilities at Port Sudan without severe
disruption of existing operations are limited. A major increase in the port
capacity of Sudan can only result from construction of a new port. As the
provision of this new capacity must be undertaken at a completely undeveloped
site, it will be costly in terms of basic facilities (breakwater, harbor, and
reclaimed areas), infrastructure (highway, rail, water supply, electricity
etc.), and lengthy in time for realization. Accordingly, the proposed
improvements at Port Sudan are characterized both by a sense of urgency and by
the necessity for minimum disruption of ongoing operations.
C. Details of the Project
3.05      The project consists of:
(i)   Civil Works
a. Improvement of the oil berth - dredging to 13.5 m depth below
mean low water from the present 11.4 m and provision of fender
pontoons, pneumatic fenders, hose handling and pipe changes;
b. Construction of a bow/stern Ro-Ro ramp at berth 16, with
fendering, dolphins, and mooring bollards;
c.  Layout ch2nges, removal of railway tracks, and surfacing of 2
180,000 m of work areas behind the main quays, and 50,000 m
of work areas behind the south quays;



- 17 -
d.  Erection of a new transit shed 6,000 m 2
e. Provision and erection of pre-engineered buildings for
mechanical equipment repair facilities and training
facilities;
f. Increasing the handling capacity of the existing grain silo,
now limited to 120 tons per hour;
g. Improving the piping at berths 5A and 6 through 9 for the
handling of molasses and edible oils, respectively;
2
h. Provision of a livestock holding pen (2,800 m ) for livestock
export.
(ii)  Cargo Handling Equipment
2 grabs (2 ton); 6 portable hoppers; 2 portable bagging plants;
6 portable conveyors; 63 forklifts (3-10 ton); 24 mobile cranes
(7-75 ton); 34 tractors; 96 trailers (15-40 ton); 1 Scotch derrick;
3 container spreaders; 18,000 pallets; 2 front-end loaders;
1 bulldozer; 3 tipper lorries; plus spare parts for approximately
two years.
(iii) Facility Maintenance and Repair Equipment
1 tractor, crawler w/dozer; 1 self-propelled roller;
1 compressor, 250 cfm; 1 front-end loader; 2 tipper lorries;
6 pick-up trucks; 1 mobile crane; 1 concrete mixer; 1 asphalt
distributor; plus spare parts.
(iv)  Pollution Control and Emergency Services Equipment
1 skimmer vessel; 1 oil boom set; 1 hand-spraying and dispersant set;
3 tanker trailers; 6 refuse trailers; 1 incinerator; 1 fire boat;
3 fire trucks; 1 ambulance; plus spare parts.
(v)   Marine Equipment
1 tug, 2,000 hp, which will replace an existing tug, over 25 years
old and no longer an adequate towing unit, and another tug of 750 hp
to help handle the inner harbor ship movements which are expected to
increase.
(vi)  Mechanical Workshop Equipment
(vii) Training
a. Provision of instructors, equipment, and training aids
for a training facility;



- 18 -
b. Provision of 17 man years of professional training abroad
for port management staff; and 100 man-months of foreign
training for operating personnel.
(viii)  Technical Assistance
Provision of 16.25 man-years of technical assistance in:
port operations; personnel management and training; pur-
chasing and stores; finance and accounting; mechanical main-
tenance management and supervision; tariff management; customs
documentation procedures; management information systems.
(ix)  Consultant Services
a.  The Technical Assistance team indicated in (viii) provided
by contract with a consulting firm;
b.  Detailed engineering of civil works, preparation of tender
documents, evaluation of bids, supervision of construction;
and
c.  Development of specifications and tender documents for
equipment, evaluation of bids.
D. Evaluation of Project Requirements
3.06      The principal thrust of the project is to improve the produc-
tivity of the present port. This will be accomplished through the following
measures:
a.   Civil Works
(i)  The present oil berth will be deepened by limited dredging
and equipped with widened fender pontoons to permit the berthing
of 50,000 dwt tankers as compared to the present limit of 35,000
dwt.
(ii) The provision of a bow/stern Ro-Ro ramp at Berth 16 will permit
this type of Ro-Ro ship to berth parallel to the quay line
rather than perpendlicular as at present, thus facilitating the
handling of Ro-Ro cargo. The current practice further restricts
movement in the already limited maneuvering room in Port Sudan.
(iii) Layout changes, removal of rails, and work area surfacing on
both the main and south quays will help expand cargo handling
areas, facilitate the use of mobile handling equipment, accom-
modate the increasing use of trucks and improve traffic circu-
lation within the port area;



- 19 -
(iv)  The provision of a new transit shed on the main quay will
permit the demolition of'two small substandard sheds at
Berth 11 and facilitate layout changes;
(v) The piping changes at Berths 6-9 and 5A will permit more
rapid pumping rates for edible oil and molasses, respectively,
thus also increasing the availability of these berths for
general cargo;
(vi)  The livestock holding pen will permit the reception and
holding of one trainload of cattle or sheep for brief
periods (up to 24 hours) while awaiting loading.
b.   Cargo handling equipment:
(i) Bulk handling. For the import of bulk fertilizer over berth 1,
a system of grabs, hoppers, and a portable bagging plant is
provided. This will replace bagging by hand in the ships'
holds;
(ii)  For the loading of animal feed cakes and groundnuts over berth
2, portable conveyors are provided. Bags are now loaded using
cargo nets;
(iii) For the export of bulk ores over berth 17/18 a system of
front-end loaders, hoppers, portable conveyors, and tipper
lorries are provided. This system will replace a 75 year
old transporter crane system which is to be partially removed
to permit container handling at this berth;
(iv)  For the handling of containers over berth 17/18 a system
comprising a Scotch derrick, spreaders, trailers, and tractor
tugs is provided. At present there is no special container
handling capability at Port Sudan;
(v) For the handling of other than palletized cargo within the port
area, and the extensive external staging area, mobile cranes
are provided. This function is now performed principally by
captive rail cranes which can handle cargo only in the near
proximity of rail lines, limiting the opportunities for hori-
zontal dispersion, and contributing to a high damage rate
from excessive vertical stacking;
(vi)  For increased general cargo handling productivity, a handling
system of pallets, forklifts, trailers, and tractors is pro-
vided for such cargo. Introduced on a token basis in Credit
457-SU, it will replace the present system which is charac-
terized by excessive rehandling, principal reliance on manual
labor, limited ability to stack vertically, cargo congestion
on the quays, and extensive transit time of cargoes through
the port area.



- 20 -
c.   Facility Maintenance and Repair Equipment
The port engineer currently has no capability to maintain or extend
the paved work areas of the port. With the provision of extensive
paved areas in the port area and the necessity for their continuing
maintenance and gradual extension, this is essential.
d.   Pollution Control and Emergency Services Equipment
(i) Port Sudan has no capability to cope with oil spills or to
collect for disposal either dry or liquid wastes generated
in the port area by ships or in the cargo handling process;
(ii) Port Sudan relies for firefighting on a single 1920 vintage
fire engine and makeshift fire nozzle arrangement on various
harbor craft, resulting in a high risk situation. There is
no specific purpose firefighting vessel currently available
to the port. It has no ambulance for casualty evacuation.
e.   Marine Equipment
Port Sudan currently has 5 tugs for ship handling, four   1,200 hp
(7-12 years old) and one   1,000 hp steam engine which is 25 years
old and no longer an efficient towing unit. Movements within the
port have increased since the reopening of the Suez Canal from 3,000
to 4,000 per year, and are projected to continue to increase. Ship
sizes are also increasing. These two considerations, coupled with
the excessive maintenance requirements of the steam tug, warrant
replacing it with a nesw 2,000 hp tug and the purchase of a new
small tug.
f.   Workshop Equipment
Shop equipment will bes provided to enable continuing maintenance
and repair of the mechanical equipment being provided, in order
to insure adequate equipment availability. The present workshop
equipment is inadequate both quantitatively and qualitatively, as
well as by types.  A pre-engineered shop building is also provided
to replace an old power station now serving as a maintenance shop.
g.   Training of Personnel
An extensive training program is planned to insure the development
of the necessary skills to manage, operate and maintain the port
and its equipment. For the general skills which must be trans-
ferred to large numbers of employees, a training institute is to
be established in Port Sudan. For the more specialized skills,
including professional requirements, provision is made for both
long and short-term training in other ports and educational insti-
tutions. Pre-engineered buildings are provided for classrooms
and offices for the training facilities.



- 21 -
h.   Technical Assistance in Management and Operations
Technical assistance in key management areas will be provided for
varying periods of three months to three years. This is especially
critical as Port Sudan is converting from a labor-intensive railway-
oriented port to a more modern, mechanized concept, using wheeled
vehicles and operating at higher efficiency and productivity levels.
Extensive assistance during the transition period is essential to
effecting this transition smoothly and to realizing fully the
potential increase in capacity.
E. Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
3.07      Cost estimates for civil works as developed by the consultant
are based on unit prices and rates obtained from contracts for small works
for SPC and SRC, and from international bidding experience. Cost estimates
for equipment are based on prices obtained from manufacturers, as well as
recent experience under Credit 457-SU. Cost estimates for overseas train-
ing, consultants' services, and technical assistance are based on discus-
sions with the consultant, Bank experience, and costs of course offerings in
selected ports. The foreign exchange cost per man-month of technical assist-
ance is US$6,770, and the local cost representing the cost of housing, util-
ities, office space and services, local transport, internal travel, etc., is
US$4,430.   Base prices for civil works and equipment are from mid-1976 data,
and have been updated to mid-1978 using Bank escalation rates for foreign
costs (Civil Works - 10% for 1976; 9% for 1977; 9% for 1978; Equipment - 8%
for 1976; 7.5% for 1977; 7.5% for 1978) as well as local costs (15% for 1977
and 13% for 1978).
3.08      The total project cost, based on mid-1978 estimates, is IS 25.6
million (US$64.0 million equivalent). This includes a 20% physical contin-
gency on all civil works and price contingencies on civil works and equipment
at Bank price escalation rates through the estimated implementation period
for both foreign costs (Civil Works - 1979, 9%; 1980-81, 8%; Equipment -
1979, 7.5%; 1980-81, 7%) and local costs (1979, 11%; 1980-81, 8%).
3.09      The foreign exchange cost is estimated at ES 14.9 million (US$37.2
million equivalent); local currency costs at ES 10.7 million (US$26.8 million
equivalent), including contingencies and price escalation. Of the total local
currency costs, approximately 50% (IS 5.3 million, or US$13.3 million equi-
valent) is for exchange tax and customs. Project costs are shown on the next
page.
3.10      The Sudan Government is negotiating with the U.K.  Overseas Develop-
ment Ministry (ODM) for a grant to finance the purchase of cargo handling
equipment (US$9.6 million equivalent). It has arranged with the German
Government for a "soft" loan (of DM 7 million) to pay for the marine equipment.
The Kuwait Fund is financing the foreign cost of the first year of technical
assistance to SPC (about US$0.5 million) under the Technical Assistance Credit
(614-SU). The Bank Group will finance the foreign exchange cost of the other
items in the project, including the balance of technical assistance. Local
expenditures will be met by SPC.



SUDAN
Appraisal of a Port Project
Sudan Sea Ports Corporation
Summary of Project Costs
Z         US$ Million
Cost ES Million                     Cost US$ Million                 Foreign       Bank Group
Foreign     Local      Total         Foreign      Local      Total        Exchange       Financing
Cargo Handling Equipment            3.84        2.13       5.97            9.60       5.31      14.91          64              -
Pollution Control and
Emergency Services Equip.         0.68        0.37       1.05            1.70       0.92       2.62          65              1.70
Facility Maintenance and
Repair Equipment                  0.24        0.12       0.36            0.60       0.30       0.90          67             0.60
Marine Equipment                    1.68        0.93       2.61            4.19       2.31       6.50          64               _
Workshop Equipment                  0.20        0.09       0.29            0.50       0.22       0.72          69              0.50
Civil Works                         4.32        4.58       8.90           10.80      11.45      22.25          49             10.80
Engineering                         0.40        0.11       0.51            1.00       0.28       1.28           78             1.00
Design - 1980/1983                  0.40        0.11       0.51            1.00       0.28       1.28          78              1.00
Training                            0.48        0.07       0.55            1.20       0.18       1.38          87              1.20
Technical Assistance                0.59        0.29       0.88            1.47       0.72       2.19          68              1.00
Contingency - Physical  1/          0.86        0.92       1.78            2.15       2.30       4.45          48              2.15
Contingency - Price
Civil Works                       0.53        0.64       1.17            1.32       1.60       2.92          45             1.32
Equipment                         0.65        0.36       1.01            1.63       0.90       2.53          64             0.73
Total                    14.87      10.72      25.59            37,16     26.80      63.96           58            22.00
1/ 20% on civil works
Source: Bank staff
February 1978



- 23 -
F. Procurement and Disbursement
3.11      All contracts for civil works and equipment financed by the Bank
Group, and estimated to cost more than US$100,000 equivalent, will be ten-
dered on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank Group "Guidelines". The equipment will be tendered on the basis of
separate packages for: (i) cargo handling, (ii) pollution control and emer-
gency services, (iii) facility maintenance and repair, (iv) marine, and (v)
workshop, in order to facilitate co-financing arrangements. The civil works
will be packaged for bidding as a single contract, except for the grain silo
upgrading which will be a separate package because of its special engineering
requirements. A single package is considered necessary to provide a contract
large enough to attract foreign contractors with the required expertise and
capability. Pre-qualification will be required for both the grain silo and
other civil works contractors. Domestic preference for the civil works
will be applicable; however, it is unlikely that any Sudanese contractor will
qualify for the general contractor role.
3.12      Disbursements from the Credit will be on the basis of 100% of
the foreign expenditures for equipment, technical assistance, and training;
for civil works, 80% of the cost of the oil berth improvement, Berth 16
conversion to Ro-Ro, piping changes, grain elevator modernization, and 60% of
the cost of surfacing, layout changes, and buildings. These percentages are in
relation to the procurement/contract costs, excluding the local currency
amounts for exchange tax and customs duties. The estimated schedule of
disbursements from the Credit is as follows:
IBRD Fiscal Year                Disbursements       Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter                   During Quarter         at End of Quarter
---------------- (US$ '000)---------------
1979
September 30, 1978                600                        600
December 31, 1978                 600                      1,200
M4rch 31, 1979                     600                     1,800
June 30, 1979                   1,200                      3,000
1980
September 30, 1979              2,200                      5,200
December 31, 1979               3,200                      8,400
March 31, 1980                  3,600                     12,000
June 30, 1980                   3,000                    15,000
1981
September 30, 1980              2,800                    17,800
December 31, 1980               2,200                     20,000
March 31, 1981                  1,600                     21,600
June 30, 1981                     200                    21,800
1982
September 30, 1981                100                    21,900
December 31, 1981                  100                    22,000



- 24 -
3.13      Retroactive finaricing in the amount of US$150,000 for engineering
consultants' services is recommended for expenditures after February 1, 1978.
In addition, US$500,000 is provided for repayment of the PPF advance
(para 3.15).
G. Project Execution
3.14      SPC does not have adequate engineering capability to supervise the
execution of the civil works portion of the project, nor is there an appro-
priate Government public works agency which could act for SPC in this regard.
Accordingly SPC will rely on the services of a consulting firm for supervision
of project execution. As was done succesfully with port development works
financed under the Second Railway Project, a Sudanese Resident Engineer will
be appointed to represent SPC within the consultants' resident project staff.
Basically the functions of the Resident Engineer will be to: (i) insure the
protection of SPC's interests, (ii) supervise the work of the consultants; and
(iii) oversee the execution of the construction contract(s). The Resident
Engineer will be expected to: seek the advice and recommendations of the
consultants; be assisted technically by the consultants; work within the
consultants' on-site staff; and work in partnership with the senior, on-site
consultant representative. Specific responsibilities of the Resident Engineer
would include, inter-alia:
a.   approval of any substantive alteration to designs or costs;
b.   approval of payment certificates;
c.   certification of quantity surveys; and
d.   inspection of the works.
The Resident Engineer would also assign other Sudanese engineers to work with
the consultants' on-site staff for on-the-job training in the management of
civil works.
3.15      Implementation of the project will require four years and is planned
in accordance with the Chart on the next page. SPC intends to undertake
timely procurement of both civil works and equipment in order to avoid addi-
tional escalation in costs. To this end consultants (Livesey and Henderson,
U.K.), acceptable to the Bank Group, are shortly expected to begin preparing
designs and specifications for early award of contracts after credit approval,
and SPC will employ a procurement expert during the same period to help im-
prove its procurement system. To help SPC pay for the consultants' services,
an advance of US$500,000 from the Bank's Project Preparation Facility (PPF)
has been approved. This advance will be repaid from the proceeds of the
proposed credit as soon as it becomes effective.



SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF A PORT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Calendar Year    1977               1978                    1979                      1980                     1981
ITEM-
Quarter   3    4      1     2     3    4       1     2     3      4     1    2      3     4      1     2     3     4
1. CARGO HANDLING EQUIPMENT
a. Prepare specifications and tender documents
b. Advertise, receive tenders, evaluate award
c. Delivery--                                                                                                                             -     -
2. WORKSHOP EQUIPMENT *
3. POLLUTION CONTROL AND EMERGENCY SERVICES EQUIPMENT*
4. FACILITY MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR EQUIPMENT*
5. MARINE EQUIPMENT*
6. CIVIL CONSTRUCTION
a. Design and preparation tender documents
b. Advertise, receive tenders, evaluate, award
c. Construction                                                                                         l              -      -     -     -
7. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
a. Recruit
b. In place                                                                        __                                             _9I 9     E t Tl
8. ENGINEERING AND SUPERVISION, 1977-79 PROGRAM                                            _          _                                -                  -     -
9. ENGINEERING STUDIES, FUTURE DEVELOPMENT                                                        _
10. TRAINING PROGRAM
a. Abroad                                                                                           -      -                              -
b. Institute
Preparation
Training                                                                                                      _                                           -                  -
] The Sea Ports Corporation negotiated a technical assistance contract                                                                                                World Bank - 17865
in January 1978, to be funded during its first year by the Kuwait Fund
2] Assumes some gaps in keeping positions filled
* Same schedule as for item 1.



- 26 -
3.16      Since the grain silo to be improved under the proposed project
belongs to the Agricultural Bank of Sudan, assurances were obtained
from the Government during negotiations on arrangements satisfactory to
the Bank Group between SPC and the Agricultural Bank for:
a.   SPC to be responsible for carrying out the improvements;
b.   relending the portion of the credit to be used for this
purpose to the Agricultural Bank; and
c.   future operation of the silo.
G. Operational Targets
3.17      In order to assess progress towards the overall project objec-
tive of enabling Port Sudan to handle the forecast traffic growth, and
particularly to insure that SPC management has the nucleus of an information
system necessary for continuing review and evaluation of port operations, key
indicators have been discussed and agreed with SPC. Targets have been esta-
blished as follows:
1976
Level    Objective
a.   Equipment (Cargo Handling) Availability:        -        75%
to measure the effectiveness of the port                (from July 1980)
maintenance system
b.   Equipment (Cargo Handling) Utilization:         -        85%
to measure the effectiveness of employ-                 (from July 1980)
ment of equiment in port operations
c.   General Cargo Clearance:  to measure the   About         No net
effectiveness of movement of import           300,000   increase in
cargoes from the port area by rail and        tons in   accumulation
highway                                       storage   of general
cargo under
control of
SPC
d.   Average Ship Waiting Time:  to measure        3.0 days  Less than 24 hours
the ability of the port to reduce waiting                average per ship
time in relation to increased productiv-                 (from January 1981)
ity, and to assess physical port capacity
as reflected in waiting time
e.   Productivity of Ships Working:  to measure 5.5 days  5% improvement by
the rates of unloading/loading of princi-  average   July 1979; further
pal type carrier ships (objective applies  time at   10% by July 1980;
to general cargo)                             berth      and further 5% by
July 1981



- 27 -
f.   Gang Shift Productivity:  to assess the    See          As in (e)
expected increases in productivity of        paras.
labor in handling general cargo when         2.15 and
augmented by mechanical handling equip-    2.16
ment
These were confirmed during negotiations.
3.18      To assist in the attainment of the above objectives, particularly
regarding the maintenance of mechanical equipment, SPC will need to maintain
an adequate supply of spare parts. To ensure this, during negotiations an
assurance was obtained from the Government that adequate foreign exchange -
about US$1,000,000 yearly - will be made available to SPC for the purpose.
H. Environmental Impact
3.19      Water pollution in Port Sudan is an increasing problem, as no
facilities are currently available for collection and disposal of liquid
wastes or oil spills. The project provides for equipment to control and
collect oil spills (skimmer vessel and oil boom), and to collect and transport
liquid wastes (tanker trailers) from visiting ships to a suitable disposal
area. For dry wastes (trash) a collection system (refuse trailers) and an
incinerator are provided.  The effectiveness of these measures will depend on
the establishment of suitable regulations for waste disposal and for minimizing
oil spills, and the provision of an enforcement system. It was agreed during
negotiations that regulations will be drawn up and an enforcement system
established by June 30, 1979.
I. Employment Impact
3.20      The proposed project will mark a major advance in cargo handling
operations in Port Sudan, leading to a fuller utilization of fixed installa-
tions through the higher productivity of mechanical handling compared with
the present manual methods, and the resulting quicker turnaround of ships.
This is not, however, expected to result in any unemployment among the workers.
Due to the needs of expanding traffic, the planned development of Port Suakin,
and planned industrial activities in the area (cement, textiles, etc.),
any labor displaced from current cargo handling activities could be relatively
easily resettled in alternative employment. To facilitate consideration
of any labor problem which might arise, the Government is planning a socio-
economic study of the impact of port development in the Port Sudan-Port
Suakin area. The study results are expected to be available before the end of
1979.



- 28 -
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Future Traffic
4.01      To assess the nature and extent of additional port development
needed for Sudan, Livesey and Henderson/Coopers and Lybrand studied the
future foreign cargo traffic potential on the basis of the Government's
outline of the six-year Development Plan for mid-1977/mid-1983, major
industrial and agricultural projects already under implementation, and
their evaluation of future prospects. The data collected by them also
provided the basis for the traffic forecasts developed by the Rhein-Ruhr
team -- a "low" one and a "central" and/or "high" one.  The forecasts of
the two consultants are almost identical for all practical purposes. In
essence, both consultants concluded that the low forecasts were based
on rather pessimistic assumptions and that, with reasonable expectations
for overall growth of the Sudanese economy, the central forecasts should
materialize and port traffic more than double by 1987 from the level of
2.9 million tons in 1975.
4.02      These consultants' forecasts were reviewed and modified downward by
the Bank in the light of developments since the studies were completed and
other traffic forecasts developed by SRC. The forecasts used in the present
appraisal are shown in the attached table and indicate a more than doubling of
port traffic to 7.4 million tons by 1987, compared with 3.5 million tons in
1976, an annual growth of 7%. Bulk cargoes -- both liquid and dry -- will
increase somewhat more than general cargo, the former increasing from 2.5
million tons to 5.8 million tons and the latter from 1.0 million tons to 1.7
million tons (See Table on next page).
4.03      The forecasts are based on a slow but substantial change in the
character of the Sudanese economy. Thus, from being an importer of wheat,
sugar, cotton textiles, and other consumer goods, Sudan will become either
a net exporter of some of those goods such as sugar or become self-suffi-
cient as in wheat and cotton textiles. Although both imports and exports
are expected to grow substantially, the growth rate in exports is somewhat
greater, reflecting the importance of such a development to Sudan's ability
to service foreign capital inflows into the country, both loans and invest-
ments. The forecasts are in line with the Bank's general expectations for
Sudan's future economic growth.
4.04      Simultaneously with the growth in the total volume of cargo
handled, the number of ships handling Sudan's foreign trade traffic is ex-
pected to go up from 1,200 in 1976 to some 2,600 in 1987, an annual growth
of about 6%.



- 29 -
B. Objective of the Project
4.05      The principal aim of the project is to augment the cargo handling
capacity of Port Sudan harbor from the present 3.0-3.5 million tons to
around 5.0-5.5 million tons, a traffic level expected to be reached in 1982-
83. This will be accomplished as follows:
(i) The provision of cargo handling equipment for general cargo
will increase cargo handling rates from 19 tons/hour to about
33 tons/hour. This will reduce ship time at berth by about
40%.
(ii) Planned improvements to the grain silo and handling facili-
ties will increase grain handling capacity from 240 tons/hour
loading and 120 tons/hour unloading to 800 tons and 400 tons/
hour respectively. This will reduce grain ship time at berth
by at least 70%.
(iii) Proposed improvements to petroleum handling facilities will
help the port accommodate larger, 50,000 dwt ships compared
with 35,000 dwt now. Assuming the discharge rate is usually
10% of ship capacity per hour, ship time at berth for a given
traffic volume will be 30% less.
(iv) The provision of Ro-Ro and container facilities will help triple
productivity at these berths over other general cargo berths,
and thus reduce ship time at berth for cargo suitable for Ro-Ro/
container handling by over 65%.
(v) The provision of improved handling facilities for animal feed
cakes and groundnuts will increase handling rates from 100 tons/
hour to 300 tons/hour; for ores from 75 tons/hour to 120 tons/
hour; and for fertilizers from 75 tons/hour to 175 tons/hour.
4.06      The above improvements, together with proposed improvements in
handling timber, steel and bagged cargo, will add to Port Sudan's capacity
the equivalent of 2.5-3.0 berths during 1980/85. In accomplishing this,
the proposed project will also help to reduce ship waiting time below what
it would otherwise be for the forecast volumes of traffic.



- 30 -
SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF A PORT PROJECT
Traffic rorecast to 1987
(in '000 tons)
Actuals   Estimate                                  Forecast
1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
A. Exports
1. Liquid Bulk
Petroleum Products                               300    260    240    120        -       -      -       -       -       -
Vegetable Oils                                     45     55      65      75     90    110    130    150    170    190
Molasses                                           -      25      80    130    160    180    210    240    260    280
256    272    300    345    340    385    325    250    290    340    390    430    470
2. Dry Bulk
Groundnuts                                         235    255    270    265    260    250    240    230    220    210
Sesame Seeds                                       130    135    145    145    150    150    155    160    160    165
Oilcake                                            235    245    260    275    290    310    325    340    360    385
ores                                                30     50      90    130    135    140    145    150    160    170
Maize and Millets                                  290    350    450    500    550    600    650    700    750    800
Sugar                                         _    -       75    230    320    350    380    410    440    470    500
380    563    750    920  1,110  1,445  1,635  1,735  1,830  1,925  2,020  2,120  2,230
3. General Cargo
Cotton                                            225    235    250    255    260    265    270    280    290    300
Gum Arabic                                          40     41      42     43      44      45     46      47      48     50
Meat                                                16     18      20      25     35      45      55     70      85    100
Live Animals                                        42     44      48      50     60      75     90    110    130    150
Other Oilseeds                                      10     10      10      10     10      10     10      10      10     10
Other Food Products                                 25     26      27      28     30      31     32      33      34     35
Miscellaneous                      _                35     40      45      60     75    100    120    140    160    180
239     443   430    393    414    442    471    514    571    623    690    757    825
'- otalExports         875   1,278  1.480  ._kg   1. 864  2,272  2,431  2,499  2,691  2,888   3lln  3 137  3,525
B. Imports
1. Liquid Bulk
Petroleum Products                                  20    140    250    350    440        -      -       -       -      -
Bulk Petroleum                     _            1,300  1.300  1,300  1,300  1,300  2,020  2,150  2,300  2,500  2,750
1,053  1,156  1,180  1,320  1,440  1,550  1,650  1,740  2,020  2,150  2,300  2,500  2,750
2. Dry Bulk
Sugar                                             100      40      -      -       -       -     -        -       -      -
Wheat                                               15      5      -       -      -       -     -        -       -       -
Fertilizers                                       315    345    370    300    230    260    280    300    320    340
480    520    J'80    430    390    370    300    230    260    280    300    320    340
3. General Cargo
Insecticides and
Chemicals                                        67     72      78     85      95    105    115    125    140    150
Petroleum Products                                  13     15      17      19     22      -       -      -       -       -
Coffee and Tea                                      28     28      29      30     30      30      30     30      30      30
Timber and Wood                                     35     36      38      40     42      44      46     48      50      52
Paper                                               25     26      27      29     31      33      35     37      39      40
Jute Sacking                                        45     47      50      52     35      37      40     42      44      45
Iron and Steel                                     115    125    135    150    170    190    210    230    250    280
Motor Vehicles                                      31      32     33      34     35      36      37      38     39      40
Hachinery and Equipment                             60      61     62      63     64      65      66      67     68      70
Other Agric. Products                               25     26      27      28     29      30      31     32      33      34
Other Manufactures                                  60      63     65      68     72      76      80      83     86      90
Other Crude Materials                               15-    16      17      18     19      20      21      22     23      24
493    572    590    519    547    578    616    644    666    711    754    802    855
Total Imports        2,026  2,248  2,150  2,269  2,377  2,498  2,566  2,614  2,946  3,141  3,354  3,622 3,945
Total Imports
and  xports        2,901  3,526  3,630  3,927  4.241  4,770  4,997  5,113  5,637  6,029  6,454  6,929  7Z470
Liquid Bulk        1,309  1,428  1,480 1,665  1,780  1,935  1 975  1,990  2,310  2,490  2,690  2,930  3,220
Dry Bulk             860  1,0830 .130                       815  1935  1965  2          2205  2,320  2,440  2,565
General Cargo        732  1,015  1,020    912    961  1.020  1.087  1,158  1,237  1,334  1,444  1,559  1,680
February 1978



- 31-
C. Project Benefits and Their Distribution
4.07      Quantifiable benefits from the project include reductions in
(i) ship time waiting for berth, (ii) ship time at berth loading/unloading
cargo, (iii) freight rate for crude petroleum (and possibly some other bulk
items), and (iv) damage to cargo. These are discussed in detail below:
(i)  Reduction in ship time waiting for berth:
During 1976, ship time lost on account of waiting for berths
was over 3 days per ship, or a total of 3,600 days. This has
resulted in the conference lines serving Port Sudan levying a
surcharge on freight amounting to 15%. The Sudan Shipping
Line, which carries about 20% of Sudan's overseas general cargo,
estimates that the surcharge will yield an additional US$10.0
million a year to the shipping lines. The additional cost to
charter vessels serving Sudan's special trades in the form of
demurrage charges is estimated at US$4.0 million a year. Thus
the cost of excessive ship time lost waiting for berth, for
which Sudan has to pay, is some US$14 million. A computer
simulation of the port's operations shows that the project will
help to reduce ship waiting to about 0.8 day per ship on the
average, compared with over 3.0 days per ship for 1976 and
an even higher average for 1980 and thereafter in view of the
forecast traffic growth. Thus, with the project, the saving
in ship waiting time would be at least 2.2 days per ship, or
3,000 ship/days in 1980, or about US$14.0 million/year at
US$4,500-5,000 per ship per day. These savings should accrue
to Sudan through elimination of the surcharge and avoidance
of demurrage, and these would increase with traffic growth until
the port begins to be fully utilized, probably from 1982 on.
In calculating the economic return, only half of these benefits
are assumed to accrue directly and immediately to the Sudanese
econony due to uncertainty over whether the entire savings will
be passed on to Sudan immediately by the shipping lines.
(ii) Reduction in ship time at berth:
The improved cargo handling rates resulting from the project
will reduce the time alongside berth for ships to load/dis-
charge cargo. These savings are expected to amount to 2,500
shipdays in 1980, increasing thereafter with traffic growth.
The value of this is approximately US$11.5 million in 1980.
A major part of the savings relating to charter ships
(US$9.5 million) could accrue to Sudan in the form of lower
charter rates or higher port charges for better service, or
a combination of the two. Of the savings to general cargo liner
vessels averaging 0.5 day per ship, at least one-fifth (US$0.4
million) representing the Sudan Shipping Line's present share



- 32 -
in external liner traffic would accrue directly to Sudan, and
a part of the balance (US$1.6 million) can be recovered by SPC
in the form of higher port charges for a better level of ser-
vice. At least one-half of the savings of non-Sudanese ships,
both charter and liner, are assumed to be recovered by Sudan
in this fashion. These savings will amount to US$6.0 million
in 1980, growing with port traffic thereafter until port facil-
ities are fully utilized.
(iii)  Freight Savings:
The use of larger tankers made possible by the project will
reduce the freight on crude petroleum by US$1 a ton, or US$1.3
million in 1980. Freight savings on other bulk cargo have
been ignored as these are rather small.
(iv)  Reduction in Damage to Cargo:
The present methods of cargo handling undoubtedly cause excessive
damage to cargo, especially imported general cargo. Although
no precise estimates of damage are now available, the proposed
improvements would reduce damage significantly. Estimating
such savings to be 1% of the value of imported general cargo,
they will amount to at least US$2 millon a year. These savings
will accrue directly to Sudanese importers.
(v)  Other Benefits:
There will also be benefits in the form of avoidance of delays
to cargo, which are not significant in total value and have,
therefore, been ignored.
4.08      In order to be on the conservative side in evaluating the economic
benefits of the project, only about 80% of the productivity increases in
general cargo handling discussed earlier have been taken into account as
arising directly from the project. Of the benefits accruing to Sudan, a
substantial part will accrue to the public sector directly through the Sudan
Shipping Line and the parastatal corporations handling imports and exports and
indirectly through higher port tariffs.
D. Economic Costs of Project
4.09      For calculating the economic return, total project costs have
been adjusted by excluding price contingencies as well as the tax element
of local costs. Price contingencies have been excluded from costs as
benefits have been projected in constant prices, and taxes have been omitted
as they do not involve any real costs to the economy of Sudan. Additional
operating costs to SPC resulting from the project have been taken into



- 33 -
account, as provided for in the financial evaluation, after excluding the
tax element in them. The foreign exchange element in costs has been shadow-
priced 25% above the market rate to reflect its estimated true value.
E. Economic Return and Sensitivity Analysis
4.10      The benefits discussed above yield a return of 43% on the invest-
ments in the proposed project. Without shadow pricing foreign exchange, the
economic return is 41%. The first-year return on the proposed improvements
in Port Sudan is estimated at 28%, indicating that the project is long
overdue.
4.11      The principal element about which there is some uncertainty is
the traffic forecast, especially the timing of its growth. The proposed
project, however, is aimed principally at improving the efficiency of
Port Sudan. Thus, even if traffic does not grow above present levels, the
economic and first-year returns would still be 28% and 24% respectively.
The other element of uncertainty concerns the rate of improvement in opera-
tional efficiency, for which allowance has already been made (para. 4.08).
Even if only 60% of the improvements visualized are realized, the return will
be 32%.
F. Timing of Port Suakin
4.12      A simulation exercise of Port Sudan's operations indicates that,
by 1984, ship waiting time will average 6 days per ship for a total loss
of about 15,000 ship days, at a cost of over US$75 million. Construction
of Port Suakin, involving a total estimated investment in 1976 prices of
about US$150 million, will help reduce ship waiting time to less than
I day per ship, a saving of over 12,000 ship days (US$60 million). If a
minimum of half of these benefits are assumed to be recovered by Sudan, the
first year return will be 20%, indicating that the proposed timing of the
construction of Port Suakin is justified.
V. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A. Past Performance
5.01      SPC's financial situation has been and continues to be satisfactory.
The working ratio for the last six years has remained under 46%, and the rate
of return on net fixed assets in use is above 50%. SPC's existing assets are
almost fully depreciated, and very few investments were made in recent years,
so that outstanding loans and debt service obligations are very small.
As a result, SPC has managed to accumulate ES 7 million in cash as of July
1977, now earmarked for financing the local costs of the proposed project.



- 34 -
SPC Operating Statement
Year Ending June 30                      1974       1975       1976      1977 1/
--------------(000   6S)--- - --
Revenue
Quay Dues                              2,870      5,037     6,358      5,660
Equipment                                261        242        336       324
Porterage                                370        347        404       425
Storage and Miscellaneous              1,095      1,521     1,869      2,551
Total Revenue                        4,596      7,147     8,967      8,960
Expenses
Personnel                              1,629      2,176     2,960      3,154
Stores                                   143        129       184        185
Fuel                                      28         51         69        86
Miscellaneous                            150        322        551       622
1,950     2,678      3,764      4,047
Depreciation                             214        267        261       267
Total Expenses                       2,164      2,945     4,025      4,314
Net Operating Revenues                   2,432      4,202     4,942      4,646
Working Ratio                         0.42       0.37      0.42       0.45
1/   Estimate
5.02      An analysis of SPC's costs and revenues attributable to the various
services highlights the extent of cross-subsidization. With the exception of
quay dues on imports, which are based on the value of cargo handled and thus
provide a certain amount of protection against inflation, the present level
of charges for most services does not cover their allocated costs. As a first
step towards eliminating cross-subsidization, SPC increased all port tariffs
but quay dues by 25% as of July 1, 1977.  A specialist will also be hired to
help SPC revise and simplify the tariff structure as part of the technical
assistance under the proposed project.



- 35 -
5.03      SPC balance sheets, summarized below, also reflect a strong
financial position:
SPC - Summarized Balance Sheet
Year Ending June 30                      1975         1976          1977 1/
-----________('000 IS)     
Net Fixed Assets and Work
in Progress                             7,623        7,758         7,527
Net Current Assets                       3,898        7,907        11,863
11,521       15,665        19,390
Financed By:
Long Term Debt                         1,193        1,164         1,139
Equity:  Capital                      6,450         6,450         6,462
Reserves                     3,878         8,051        11,789
11,521       15,665        19,390
Current Ratio                              6.5          8.0           9.4
Debt/Equity Ratio                        10/90          7/93         6/94
1/   Estimate
B. Financial Forecasts
5.04      Financial projections for SPC are very tentative because the timing
for the construction of Port Suakin has not been finalized yet. Based on
Rhein-Rhur consultants' estimates, a 15% physical contingency for civil works,
and price contingency in accordance with Bank Group escalation rates, Suakin
construction costs amount to ES 63.03 million, excluding infrastructure cost
(access road, rail link, water and power). The construction work is assumed
to start in 1978 and to be completed by the end of 1982. The port will
thus become operational in early 1983. It was agreed during negotiations that
the new Port at Suakin will be entirely financed by the Government, and, when
completed, transferred to SPC as a Government contribution to its equity.



- 36 -
5.05       Financial projections were thus prepared to assess the conse-
quences of two alternative strategies of port development:
(i)   proposed investments in Port Sudan are carried out,
so that expected traffic until 1982 can be handled
there. Unless further investments are made, Port
Sudan capacity will henceforth be limited to its 1982
level. Port Suakin project is not implemented.
(ii)   Both Port Sudan and Port Suakin projects are imple-
mented. As in alternative (i), Port Sudan handles all
expected traffic until 1982; starting from 1983,
traffic increases go through Port Suakin.
5.06       The projections were prepared using a fixed monetary unit
(without providing for inflation) and under the following assumptions:
(i)   Revenues are based on expected traffic and July 1977
tariff levels. A first increase of tariffs of approxi-
mately 20% will be required in 1980, when the proposed
project nears completion. A second increase of at
least 10% will be nezessary in 1983, when Port Suakin
is assumed to start operations. These increases will
allow SPC to obtain a satisfactory return on its invest-
ments, and to maintain adequate liquidity during the
projection period.  All revenues but storage are based
on the levels of port activity. Revenues from storage
are assumed to decrease by 5% a year after 1978, because
improved efficiency of the port and the railways and
faster customs clearance procedures should result in
shorter storage periods.
(ii)   Personnel expenditures consist of a constant part for
administration and overheads, corresponding to SPC staff,
and a variable part which increases with cargo handled
(corresponding to casual labor for cargo handling) but
at about half the rate of traffic growth.
(iii)   Stores and fuel consuLimption for existing equipment
are based on present use, and increased in relation
to port throughput. For new equipment, requirements
at full capacity operation was estimated; the ratio
of yearly consumption to full capacity consumption
is then assumed to remain equal to the ratio of
yearly tonnage of cargo handled to full capacity
tonnage.
(iv)   Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis,
based on the estimated useful economic life of the
assets and historica:L costs. These are slightly lower
than rates presently used by SPC which are too high.



- 37 -
(v)   As agreed during negotiations, the proposed IDA Credit
will be on-lent at 8% interest with a four-year grace
period, plus 16 years for repayment. It was also agreed
during negotiations that all other foreign loans/grants
would be on-lent to SPC at an interest rate of not less
than 4%; for purposes of financial analysis, however,
these loans have also been assumed to be on-lent to SPC
at 8%, with four years' grace and a further 16 years for
repayment.
(vi)   Financing arrangements with the Kuwait Fund (US$0.5 million)
and the German Government (DM7.0 million) were confirmed
during negotiations. The Sudan Government expects to
conclude shortly financing arrangements with ODM (U.K.) for
US$9.6 million equivalent; the effectiveness of these
arrangements as well as the signing of a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement between the Government and SPC are conditions of
Credit effectiveness.
(vii)   SPC will finance all local expenditures related to the
proposed project -- including taxes and duties -- from
its own resources.  The Government confirmed during negotia-
tions that all expenditures for the construction of a new
port at Suakin will be financed as an equity contribution
to SPC.
(viii)   The Government is paid a 5% dividend on its equity as re-
quired by law. Called interest on capital, this is treated
as an appropriation of income.
C. Projected Income Statements
5.07      Based on the above assumptions, SPC's income statement with
improvements at Port Sudan and without Port Suakin shows a net income of
approximately ES 2 million per year:



- 38 -
SPC Income Statement
With Proposed Project, 20% Tariff Increase in 1980,
and Excluding Port Suakin
Operating Expenses         Net
Operating  Excluding                  Operating Interest                 Operating
Year  Revenue   Depreciation Depreciation  Revenue   Charges  Net Income   Ratio
------------------------------(000 IS)----------------------------
1978    8,604      6,778            360        1,466        50        1,416        .83
1979    9,024      7,137            233        1,654       175        1,479        .82
1980   11,000      7,641            358        3,001       922        2,079        .73
1981   12,055      7,902          1,149        3,004    1,205         1,799        .75
1982   12,442      8,047          1,361        3,034    1,208         1,826        .76
1983   12j353      8,047          1,372        2,934    1,167         1,767        .76
1984   12,262      8,047          1,370        2,845    1,124         1,721        .77
1985   12,175      8,047          1,164        2,964    1,076         1,888       .76
1986   12,096      8,047          1,164        2,885    1,024         1,861       .76
1987   12,019      8,047          1,164        2,808       969        1,839        .77
The slight decrease in operating revenue after 1982 results from decreasing
storage revenues, and not from variations in port traffic.
5.08      With the 20% tariff increase in 1980 and excluding Port Suakin,
the projections show substantial operating and net surpluses. SPC would
achieve satisfactory operating ratios, earn adequate returns on average
net fixed assets in use, and generate sufficient funds to cover all local
costs of its investment program, including taxes and duties, and pay a 5%
dividend to the Government. Siince actual results will depend on traffic
volumes and the level of tariff-s will have to be adjusted from time to time,
assurances were obtained from the Government and SPC during negotiations
that SPC will take all measures necessary to achieve net operating revenues
sufficient to yield annual rates of return on net fixed assets in use, as
periodically revalued to reflect current replacement costs, of not less than
8% until Port Suakin becomes operational, not less than 3% for five years
thereafter, and again not less than 8% beyond that period.



- 39 -
D. Projected Cash Flows and Financing Plan
5.09      The annual cash flows are expected to remain positive for most
of the projection period. In 1980 and 1981, large disbursements in local
currency for Port Sudan development will result in a cash deficit of
MS 4.7 million and L2S 0.4 million respectively, but, by drawing on its opening
cash balance of MS 7.0 million, SPC should be able to meet all commitments.
Thereafter, annual cash surpluses exceed bS 2.0 million, which will enable
SPC to contribute towards debt service for Port Suakin.
5.10      The projections assume that all operating revenues will be
collected within 45 days of the date of billing. In the past, however,
SPC has had difficulties in collecting revenues from some port users,
particularly from Government agencies. In May 1977, the account receiv-
ables had reached iS 5.5 million, or over two-thirds of yearly revenues.
During negotiations, SPC agreed to ensure that all accounts are kept on a
current basis, and to collect all arrears outstanding as of the date of the
Project Agreement by June 30, 1979. Incidentally, as most parastatal organi-
zations in Sudan face a similar problem, the Government is trying to deal
with it on a broader basis.
5.11      During the implementation of the project (1978 to 1982), the
funds required and their sources are projected as follows:



- 40 -
Total
1978    1979      1980     1981    1982   1978-1982
Funds Required ('000 ES)
Port Sudan improvements           227    2,473   16,279   6,529         82    25,590
Sources of Funds
Surpluses from Operations   1,825    1,888    3,359   4,153         4,396   15,621
Less Debt Service              75      200       950   1,725      1,769    4,719
Less Dividend to
Government                 323       323       323     323        323    1,615
Net from Operations       1,427    1,365    2,086   2,105        2,304    9,287
Foreign Financing                 275    1,625    9,350   3,550           70   14,870
Decrease in Working Capital         0    3,732       129      447         8    4,316
Total Funds Available    1,702    6,722   11,565   6,102         2,382   28,473
Annual Cash Surplus
(Deficit)                     1,475    4,249   (4,714)   (427)    2,300    2,883
Opening Cash Balance            7,065    8,540   12,789   8,075       7,648    7,065
Closing Cash Balance            8,540   12,789    8,075   7,648       9,948    9,948
5.12      SPC can contribute about 42% for financing of the proposed project,
but some 6% would have to come from a decrease in working capital. The
amount of accounts receivable (ES 5.5 million in May 1977) is expected to be
substantially reduced through an aggressive collection policy. SPC also could
draw on its large cash deposits in the Bank of Sudan, amounting to ES 7.0
million in 1977. Either way, SPC appears able to meet all local expenditures
and debt service related to Port Sudan improvements.
5.13      In order tc safeguard SPC's cash flow position during the period of
implementation of the proposed. project, the Government and SPC agreed,
during negotiations, to consult the Association whenever investments beyond
those included in the proposed project are estimated to exceed ES 500,000
(US$1.25 million equivalent) per annum in total.
5.14      SPC should maintain a reasonable relationship between net cash
revenue and debt service requirements. During negotiations, it was agreed
that, unless otherwise agreed with the Association, SPC would not incur any
debt if its net cash revenue for the fiscal year or the twelve consecutive
months immediately before the date of occurrence whichever is greater, would
be less than 1.5 times the maximum debt service requirements of any succeeding
fiscal year.



- 41 -
E. Projected Balance Sheets
5.15      SPC's projected balance sheets with Port Sudan improvements, but
excluding Port Suakin, are shown below. They indicate that SPC should
be able to maintain a strong financial position with the proposed project.
SPC Summarized Balance Sheet
Port Sudan Only
1978    1980    1982    1984    1986
 ------------( 000 'S)--- -
Fixed Assets and Work
in Progress (at current value)            7,394  25,555  29,656  26,915  24,588
Current Assets (net)                      13,298   8,973  10,392  14,720  18,690
20,692  34,528  40,048  41,635  43,278
Financed By:
Equity:  Government Capital             6,462   6,462   6,462   6,462   6,462
Reserves                      12,815  15,727  18,706  21,550  24,654
Debt                                     1,415  12,339  14,880  13,623  12,162
20,692  34,528  40,048  41,635  43,278
Current Ratio                              4.4     4.0      3.6     4.7      5.5
Debt/Equity Ratio                         7/93    36/64   37/63   33/67   28/72
Return on Average Net Fixed
Assets in Use (%)                           19      11       10       10      12
F. Financial Internal Rate of Return
5.16      The financial internal rate of return to SPC on improvements to Port
Sudan versus the do-nothing alternative is 7%, assuming a 20% increase of
tariffs in 1980. In fact, most of the project benefits -- savings in ship
waiting and servicing time, reductions in freight rates etc. -- are not
reflected in SPC accounting unless port tariffs are adjusted. SPC could
obtain a rate of return on investments well in excess of 7% by increasing its



- 42 -
tariffs substantially, thus also recapturing a larger portion of the benefits
which might otherwise accrue to the-ship-owners (ship time savings) and to
consumers/producers in the country (reduced freight rates and elimination of
freight surcharges and demurrage charges) (see also para. 5.19).
G. Port Suakin Impact on SPC Finances
5.17      The completion of Port Suakin by the end of 1982 will have a major
impact on SPC finances because of the lumpy nature of the port infrastructure
investment needed to create the necessary additional berthing capacity. The
additional potential capacity will not be fully utilized for a long time,
and another tariff increase of about 10% will be needed in 1983 to enable SPC
to cover all operating expenditures, including depreciation and debt service.
Assuming that all costs of the Suakin development are met by the Government as
a contribution to SPC's equity, and assuming identical tariffs in both ports,
SPC's projected income statement showsnet operating revenue consistently above
ITS 2.6 million, while the net income remains above LS 1.4 million.
SPC - Port Sudan and Port Suakin
Operating Expenses          Net
Operating    Before                   Operating Interest  Net   Operating
Year     Revenue  Depreciation Depreciation  Revenue  Charges  Income   Ratio
---------------------------('000  S)-------------------------
1983    14,318        8,731         2,926        2,661    1,168    1,493    .81
1984    15,194        9,447         2,925        2,822    1,123    1,699    .81
1985    16,069        9,759         2,718        3,592    1,076    2,516    .78
1986    17,050       10,084         2,718        4,248    1,024    3,224    .75
1987    18,143       10,432         2,718        4,993       969    4,024    .72
5.18      Without the 10% tariff increase in 1983, SPC would have to draw
heavily on its opening cash balance, which would fall to fS 1.6 million in
1985, increasing to bS 2.5 million by the end of the projection period.
Projected balance sheets for SPC, when both Port Sudan and Port Suakin are
developed, would be as follows:



- 43 -
SPC - Projected Balance Sheets
When Port Sudan and Port Suakin are Both Developed
(ES '000)
1978    1980    1982    1984    1986
Fixed Assets and Work in
Progress (at Current Values)            8,294  45,855  92,687  86,835  81,397
Current Assets (Net)                    13,253   7,822   3,820   4,657   7,423
21      53677  96,507  91,492  88,820
Financed From:
Loans                                  1,415  12,338  14,880  13,623  12,160
Equity                                20,132  41,339  81,627  77,869  76,660
21      53,677  96,507  91,492  88,820
Current Ratio                            4.3       3.5      1.9     2.0      2.4
Debt/Equity Ratio                        7/93   23/77   15/85   15/85   14/86
Rate of Return (%)                         19       20        5        3       5
5.19      In spite of a low return on average net fixed assets in use - as
should be expected because Port Suakin is a lumpy investment whose potential
will not be fully realized for many years - SPC's financial situation remains
satisfactory. However, its cash and liquidity position should be carefully
monitored, since even a small deviation from the assumptions could result in
cash shortages. If the current ratio comes too close to 1, payment of Govern-
ment dividends could be deferred or SPC could further increase its tariffs.
When Port Suakin's utilization improves with traffic growth, the rate of
return is also expected to improve. With higher tariffs, a satisfactory
return could be achieved much earlier; this will also enable SPC to pay higher
dividends to Government on its equity.
5.20      Cash flow projections with both Port Sudan and Port Suakin develop-
ments being implemented show that SPC should be able to finance local expen-
ditures for, and meet debt service for the foreign costs of, Port Sudan.
This would reduce SPC's iS 7.0 million opening cash balance to I,S 4.0 million
in 1984, but the cash balances are restored to almost their original level by
the end of the period. However, it is essential to review carefully the
impact of the proposed development at Port Suakin to ensure the financial
viability of SPC; this was agreed during negotiations.



- 44 -
H. Impact of Inflation on SPC's Finances
5.21      To assess the impact of inflation on SPC's finances as projected
in the forecasts, a 9% rate of price increase in 1978 and 1979 for foreign
costs, and 7% thereafter until 1983, has been assumed. Local inflation rates
have been projected at 13% in 1978, 11% in 1979, and 8% thereafter until 1983.
These rates are identical to those used for providing price contingencies in
project cost estimates. No allowance was made for inflation in the last four
years of the forecast.
5.22      The above rates of inflation would increase SPC's operating expendi-
tures by ES4.1 million in 1983 (from bS8.7 million without inflation to IrS12.8
million with inflation), while revenues would increase from LS14.3 million to
IS18.9 million without any tariff adjustment beyond the increases of 20% in
1980 and 10% in 1983 already assumed. As quay dues for imports are based on
the value of cargo, the increases in revenues and operating expenses about
compensate each other, so that SPC's financial situation appears unchanged.
5.23      However, if fixed assets are revalued to reflect inflation and
depreciation is increased as required to ensure SPC's long-term viability,
the depreciation provision in 1983 should be LS3.9 million compared to 16S2.9
million with no inflation. Even though interest and debt service remain
constant, the increase in the depreciation provision results in a negative
income for 1983 and 1984, while the rate of return on average net fixed
assets in use falls below 3% from 1983 to 1986. Increases in quay due
receipts arising from the impact of inflation on the value of imports do
not, therefore, provide adequate protection against inflation.
5.24      If all tariffs except quay dues on imports are adjusted yearly to
reflect the international price increase in the previous year -- in addition
to the 20% tariff increase in 1980 and 10% in 1983 already assumed -- SPC's
cash balance in 1983 will be ES9.0 million, compared to LS4.0 million with no
inflation. However, the rate of return on average net fixed assets in use and
most of the other financial indicators (excepting debt service and interest
coverage) remain unchanged compared to the no-inflation situation. This shows
that inflation does not change SPC's financial situation significantly,
provided tariffs are adjusted adequately.
VI. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During negotiations agreement was reached with the Government and
SPC on the following matters:
(a)  cargo clearance from port area (para. 2.19);
(b) insurance (para. 2.33);
(c) arrangements regarding grain silo (para. 3.16);



- 45 -
(d)  operational targets (para. 3.17);
(e)  pollution control (para 3.19);
(f)  financial targets and future tariff adjustments (para.
5.08);
(g)  revaluation of assets (para. 5.08);
(h)  maintenance of accounts and collection of arrears (para.
5.10);
(i)  investments outside project (para. 5.13); and
(j)  debt limitation (para. 5.14).
6.02      Agreement was also reached with the Government on:
(a)  allocation of foreign exchange to SPC for spare parts
(para. 3.18);
(b)  relending terms of IDA credit and other foreign loan/grant
proceeds to SPC (para. 5.06(v));
(c)  financing arrangements for the balance of the foreign
cost of the project (para. 5.06(vi));
(d)  financing of Port Suakin development (paras. 5.04 and
5.06(vii)); and
(e)  review of impact of construction of Port Suakin on SPC
finances (para. 5.20).
6.03      Project progress and completion reporting requirements were
agreed with SPC during negotiations.
6.04      On the basis of the above, the proposed project provides a suitable
basis for an IDA Credit of US$22.0 million to the Government of Sudan.






AM=
SUDAN
APPRAISAL 0P A PMo! POJzCT
Past Bank Group Financed Transport Projects in Sudan
Credit/
Year    Loan            Amount                                                                                          Status
(US$ million)
1958    Loan            39.0        (i)  the acquisition and operation of diesel locomotives and rolling                Satisfactorily
202-SU                           stock;                                                                        completed in 1964
(ii) the improvement, modernization and expansion of various railway
facilities, including repair shops, workshops, marshalling yards,
station loops and signialling equipment;
(iii) the relaying with 75-pound rail of approximately 400 km of the
Sennar-Haiya line and the use of the rails and other salvageable
materials taken up from such line in carvying out items (iv) and (v)
below;
(iv) the completion of construction of the Western extension, from
Babanusa to Nyala, and installation of necessary operating facilities;
(v) the construction of the Southern extension, from Babanusa to Wau,
and installation of necessary operating facilities;
(vi) the modernization and expansion of Port Sudan by the construction of
two cargo berths for ocean-going vessels, installation of necessary
operating facilities and dredging for a third berth; and
(vii) the acquisition of passenger and cargo barges, diesel engines and
equipment and materials for the improvement and modernization of
river transport services.
1965    Loan            31.0        (i)  the procurement of mainline and shunting diesel locomotives and of             Satisfactorily
440-SU                           diesel railcar sets;                                                          completed in 1972
(ii) the procurement, construction, and improvement of rolling stock;
(iii)- the relaying with 90-pound rails of about 500 km of the Khartoum-
Atbara-Port Sudan line;
(iv) the acquisition of one dredger, and of equipment and materials for
the improvement of river transport services; and
(v) the completion of two cargo berths and the construction of a cargo
shed at Port Sudan, and the procurement of tugs, barges, cranes
and cargo-handling equipment.
1972    Credit           7.0        (i)  consulting services to the Department of Roads for:                            In progress, com-
331-SU                           a)  improving its organization and operations (with emphasis on                pletion expected
highway betterment and maintenance);                                      in Jume 1978
b) identifying high priority road construction projects; and
c) carrying out feasibility studies of about 500 km of roads
identified under b) above, followed by detailed engineering of
about 350 km of the highest priority roads;
(ii) purchase of spare parts for highway maintenance, workshop and labora-
tory equipment; new equipment in these categories with related spare
parts; and materials and supplies for highway betterment works and
workshop construction; and
(iii) technical assistance to the Ministry of Transport in transport planning
and coordination, as well as staff training.
1973    Credit          24.0        (i)  financing of Sudan Railways Corporation's investment program up to             In progress, com-
457-SU                           1975, including:                                                              pletion expected
a)  for the railway: track renewal, structures and communications,            in June 1978
locomotives and rolling stock, and a central training school;
b) for Port Sudan: cargo-handling equipment, facilities and
structures, and technical assistance;
(ii) equipment and technical assistance for the River Transport Corporation;
(iii) preinvestment studies for future airport development; and
(iv) training for the staff of the Auditor General.
1976    Credit           4.0              Technical assistance to increase the capacity of Sudanese institutions   Credit became
614-SU                           to execute preinvestment work in all sectors.                                  effective in
October 1976
1976    Loan            20.0         (i)  the construction of two regional airports, at Wau and Port Sudan,              Loan/credit beca.e
1287-SU/                         and upgrading of Juba and Malakal Airports;                                    effective in
Credit           9.0       (ii)  supervision of the construction/reconstruction in (i) above;                   Jsuuery 1977
643-SU                    (iii)  the provision of maintenance, and navigational and communications
equipment to the project airports; and
(iv) technical assistance and staff training for the Civil Aviation
Department.
1977    Credit 727-SU/   8.0        (i)   completion of training school;
Loan 1467T-SU   12.0       (ii)   construction of diesel and wagon workshops;                                    Credit/Loan
(iii)   flood protection works;                                                        signed in
(iv)   track upgrading of about 850 km; and                                           July 1977
(v)   provision of locomotives and wagons, track maintenance, workshop,
and signalling and communications equipment.
Pebruary 1978



ANNEX 2
SUDAN
Appraisal of a Port Project
Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
1.  "Port Development Studies", Report by Livesey and Henderson in
cooperation with Coopers and Lybrand, March 1977.
2.  "Technical Assistance", Report by Livesey and Henderson in cooperation
with Coopers and Lybrand, Mlarch 1977.
3.  "Feasibility Study - Deep-water Port New Suakin", Report by Rhein-Ruhr,
October 1976.
4.  "Evaluation of Grain Elevator Operation and Equipment Needs" by
C.W. Betts, Consultant, August 1977.
5.  "Evaluation of Cargo Handling Equipment Maintenance Needs" by D.F. Hill,
Consultant, August 1977.
6.  Livesey and Henderson's contract for technical assistance to SPC,
January 1978.
7.  Livesey and Henderson's draft proposal for consulting engineering services
to SPC.
8.  SPC's Annual Report for 1975-76.
9.  SPC's Half-yearly Report for July-December 1976.
10.  SPC's Quarterly Report for January-March 1977.
11.  Detailed Project Cost Estimates.
12.  Notes on Traffic Forecasts.
13.  Details of Economic Evaluation (Computer Runs).
14.  Details of Financial Projections (Computer Runs).



[BRC 12b[.5
'S D
B Y,
INFRA, TOO T
R",5,,l nx ls Al Uo,-
H   A,
ovnio'
If
E
e,h
z,
E-      H       0   P   I  A
R X 'L
F bk
E"






____  _________            - N      OD     ------                                           --,
If 4                         {A\I)
C2~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Oc~/I! 
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oQ 
,~~~~----~~~~~~  -~~~~   I,                        /~~~~~~~  ii t   
H                        -~~~~~~~3 
1 0-   o-     f   7  
10   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  0   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                             _~~~~a1
N  ~ ~
'    PD                                                                                                   C
_    ~~S ~~-2rU=0                                              V                                              E-i



