Document of
FILE COPY X                        The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.
P-2177a-SU
REPORT AND RECOMYENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR A
PORT PROJECT
March 2, 1978
This document his a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =    Sudanese Pounds (ES)
US$1             =    ES 0.400
ES 1             =    US$2.50
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)               =    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       2  =    0.62 miles (mi)
I square kilometer (km ) =    0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 kilogram (kg)           =    2.2 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (ton)        =    2,205 pounds (lbs)
1 feddan                  3    1.038 acres (ac)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
SRC    -  Sudan Railways Corporation
SPC    -  Sea Ports Corporation
ILO    -  International Labour Organization
UNDP   -  United Nations Development Programme
RTC    -  River Transport Corporation
CAD    -  Civil Aviation Department
RBPC   -  Roads and Bridges Public Corporation
SRMTC  -  Southern Region Ministry of Transport
and Communications
ADAR   -  Associates for the Development of Arab Resources
ODM    -  Overseas Development Ministry (U.K.)
GOVERNMENT OF SUDAN
FISCAL YEAR 1/
July 1 - June 30
1/ Years given in this report refer to the 12 months ending June 30
in the year mentioned.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SUDAN
PORT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            The Democratic Republic of the Sudan
Beneficiaries:       Sea Ports Corporation (SPC), and the Agricultural Bank
of Sudan (ABS)
Amount:              US$22 million equivalent
Terms:               Standard
Re-Lending           The proceeds of the credit will be on-lent by the Republic
Terms:               of Sudan to SPC and ABS at 8% per annum, for a term of 20
years, including 4 years of grace
Project
Description:         The proposed project is a major step in the modernization
and improvement of Port Sudan to increase its physical
capacity, operational productivity and management capa-
bility, to relieve congestion and increase throughput.
It includes mechanization of cargo handling and movement,
improvement of layout and working surface, improvement
of bulk, container and Roll on/Roll off facilities and
management assistance and training. Ic is designed to
expand the capacity of Port Sudan up to a point where the
physical capacity of the site is almost reached; further
expansion in port capacity for the long-run needs is
planned at a different site 40 kilometers to the South
at Suakin. The major risk is that project implementation
would disrupt traffic excessively and that SPC's opera-
tional efficiency would not respond adequately to the
project. These factors have been taken into account in
the planning and phasing of the project and its associated
technical assistance and training programs.
Project              To permit SPC to undertake timely procurement of both
Preparation          civil works and equipment an advance of US$500,000 from
Facility:            the Bank's Project Preparation Facility (PPF) has been
approved for consultant services to prepare designs and
specifications. This advance will be repaid from the
proceeds of the proposed credit as soon as it becomes
effective.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Summary of
Project
Costs:
US$ million
Local       Foreign        Total
Cargo handling equipment              5.3          9.6          14.9
Marine equipment                      2.3          4.2           6.5
Other equipment                       1.4          2.8           4.2
Civil Works                          11.5         10.8          22.3
Engineering and Design                0.6          2.0           2.6
Training and TechnicaLl Assistance  0.9            2.7           3.6
Base Cost                22.0         32.1          54.1
Contingencies:
Physical                           2.3           2.1           4.4
Price                               2.5          3.0           5.5
Total Cost including
taxes and duties              26.8         37.2          64.0
Total Cost net of taxes
and duties                    13.5         37.2          50.7
Financing:                                   US$ Million
IDA                         22.0
ODM                          9.6
KfW                          3.5
Kuwait Fund                  0.5
SPC                         15.1
Total                  50.7
US$ Million
Estimated
Disbursements:                             1979        1980        1981        1982
Annual               3.00       12.00        6.80        0.20
Cumulative           3.00       15.00       21.80       22.00
Rate of
Return:              43%.
Appraisal:           Report No. 1761-SU dated February 17, 1978.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
OF THE SUDAN FOR A PORT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development Credit to the Democratic Republic of the Sudan for the equivalent
of US$22.0 million on standard IDA terms to help finance a port project. The
proceeds of the Credit would be relent to the Sea Ports Corporation (SPC), and
the Agricultural Bank of Sudan for 20 years, including 4 years of grace, with
interest at 8 percent per annum. The balance of the total net project cost
would be financed by a grant of US$ 9.6 million equivalent from the Overseas
Development Ministry (U.K.); a US$3.5 million equivalent loan at an interest
rate of 3/4 of 1 percent per annum for 50 years including 10 years of grace
from the Federal Republic of Germany, and a US$0.5 million equivalent loan at
an interest rate of 1-1/2 percent per annum for 40 years including 10 years of
grace from the Kuwait Fund. The ODM grant and the loans from the Federal
Republic of Germany and the Kuwait Fund would be relent to SPC for 20 years,
including 4 years of grace, with interest at not less than 4 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The Economic Memorandum distributed to the Board in September 1976
(Report No. 1273a-SU) provides an assessment of the economic situation and
prospects of the Sudan. Prior to that, Bank staff had participated in the
ILO Comprehensive Employment Strategy Mission in 1975 and played a major role
in both the conception and execution of the mission's work. Whilst the
mission was an employment strategy mission, its focus, as with previous ILO
missions, was on the overall problem of income creation for low-income earners
in the context of a more rapidly growing economy. The mission's report is
comparable to a Bank basic economic report and its analysis and conclusions
are the basis both for our developing dialogue on economic policy issues with
the Government and for the development of our program of operations. The
report has been influential in stimulating discussion of development policy
issues in the country. A special government working group reviewed the report
and prepared a substantive and lengthy evaluation of its analysis and conclu-
sions. The report also provided a major input into the preparation of the Six
Year Plan for 1977-83. An updating economic mission is scheduled for May
1978. Social and economic data on Sudan are attached as Annex I.
3.        Sudan, with an area of 2.5 million square kilometers, is the largest
country in Africa, with a population of about 15.9 million. Much of the
country is unoccupied or very sparsely populated, and in contrast to many
developing countries, there is little population pressure on presently dev-
eloped land. Although a large part of the country consists of desert or
1/   Parts I and II and Anne) s I and II of this report are identical to those
in the separate President Report on the Livestock Marketing Project.



semi-desert, the Sudan nevertheless has great untapped potential for agricul-
tural development. Estimates indicate that about one-third (85 million
hectares) of the total land area is suitable for crop or pastoral production,
and only a small fraction of this land is under intensive use. In addition,
the White Nile and the Blue Nile provide an abundance of water which has
enabled the country to develop the largest irrigation system in tropical
Africa. The Sudan has increased its use of the Nile water to two thirds of
that allocated to it under the Nile Waters Agreement with Egypt, but there
remains room for considerable further expansion in irrigation. The proximity
of Sudan to markets in the Middle East and Europe places it in a good position
for agricultural exports, and oil-producing Arab countries have increasingly
come to consider Sudan as a primary future source of agricultural products.
4.        In spite of the large potential for development, the Sudan is still
a poor country and is classified by the U.N. as a least developed country.
The most recent estimate of per capita GNP of $290 (1976) is based upon esti-
mates of national accounts of questionable reliability and appears to exagger-
ate the standards of living of the people of Sudan and the state of develop-
ment of its economy. Certainly, there are large areas of the country where
most of the people have very low Lncomes. The economy is still heavily
dependent on exports of cotton, wlhich is the major commodity produced on
irrigated land, and also exports of gum arabic, sesame and groundnuts. Its
considerable grazing resources have hardly been tapped. The manufacturing
sector is relatively small and, apart from the processing of some agricultural
commodities, it is limited to the production of consumer goods and building
materials. There have been some exports of chrome ore and further development
of these deposits is taking place. The public sector has long been important
in the Sudanese economy. It embraces all modern irrigation facilities, the
railways and virtually all power and water supply. With the nationalization
measures of 1970/71, a significant proportion of industry, commerce and
finance was also transferred to the public sector. Although some industrial
enterprises have been returned to the private sector, about half of the
GDP is still generated within the public sector.
5.        While the basic physical and human potential of Sudan is consider-
able, its economic performance has been disappointing. During the sixties
and early seventies, the economy grew by little more than the rate of growth
of the population. This was primarily due to the depressed level of invest-
ment, both public and private. While the Government was successful in
achieving a high growth rate of revenue, the rise in recurrent expenditure
absorbed most of it, and development expenditure decreased. The growth of
current expenditure was caused by increasing security expenditures, the
policy of hiring all post secondary school graduates and converting casual
labor on public projects into permanent government employees and rapidly
increasing transfers to local government. Further, savings generated by
public corporations also declined because of inefficiency and rigid pricing
policies. Public sector deficits were increasingly financed through
excessive credit expansion. Prices rose steadily, and the external position
was under pressure owing to the rapid growth of imports and a stagnation of
export volume.



-3-
6.        The period since 1973 contrasts sharply with the preceding decade
in many important respects. First, there has been a sharp increase in invest-
ment, especially in the public sector, with expenditures directed at the
priority sectors--transportation and other infrastructure, agriculture and
agricultural processing industries. Second, there has been a serious concern
with developmental issues reflected most prominently in widespread discussion
at the political and technocratic level of the problems of economic growth
in the Sudan since the ILO issued its report in 1975. Furthermore, the
Government has shown a willingness to discuss its economic problems openly.
Not only is this reflected in the continuous and serious dialogue on these
problems in which the Bank has been engaged with the Government over the
past two years but it has been most strongly reflected in the very frank
report which the Government prepared for the Consultative Group meeting in
November 1976. This report and the Bank's own critical evaluation of
Sudanese development performance and prospects were freely discussed by the
Government with delegations to the CG meeting. In January 1977, the Govern-
ment organized an informal meeting of representatives of national and interna-
tional financial institutions, chaired by President Nimeiry and attended
by all the economic ministers at which a frank presentation of the develop-
mental issues was encouraged. Whilst all this increased interest in devel-
opmental issues does not substitute for action, it is a necessary precondi-
tion for action and certainly represents a marked change from the situation
existing a few years ago.
7.        This concern over developmental issues is being institutionalized
through the development of an effective planning machinery, with the assis-
tance of a UNDP planning project of which the Bank is the executing agency.
The Six-Year Plan covering the period 1977-83 launched in July 1977 is the
most immediate and important outcome of this effort. A comprehensive educa-
tion sector review conducted with Bank and UNESCO assistance has also been
completed, and an exercise to develop a primary health care program has been
completed with the help of WHO.
Recent Economic Developments and Issues
8.        Over the five year period ended June 1975, it is estimated that
GDP in real terms grew at an average annual rate of 4.5 percent--a growth
rate consistent with growth trends in the agricultural sector, which accounts
for 40 percent of national income, and the spurt in development expenditures
in other key sectors of the economy. Public investment, which increased
from US$75 million in 1973 to about US$300 million per annum in the years
1975-77, has been concentrated on the highest priorities.  Sugar imports
should be eliminated by 1979 and sugar will be available for export by 1980,
reaching an estimated volume of 0.5 million tons in 1987. Textile and sacking
imports will be much reduced by 1979. Medium staple cotton, groundnuts and
some other commodities will be available for export in larger quantities, an
oil pipeline has recently been commissioned, and both road and rail capacity
are rising, helping to ease the transport bottleneck. All the data on private
investment are poor, but it seems that private investment has expanded rapidly
also.



-4-
9.        While the increased rate of investment on the part of the public
sector, which is bringing about significant structural changes in the econ-
omy, is in sharp contrast with the relative stagnation of the late sixties
and early seventies, in most other respects, the standard of economic man-
agement needs improvement. In particular the budgetary situation is a
matter of concern. Despite a good record in revenue raising, which is
reflected in a revenue/GDP ratio currently about 20%, the public sector
continues to be a net dis-saver. As a consequence, public investment has
had to be financed entirely through domestic and foreign borrowing. The
resulting credit expansion has been an important contributory factor to
domestic price increases averaging over 20% per annum in the last three
years.
10.       Externally, the increased pace of public investment coincided
with the higher rates of international inflation, which began in 1973,
and the recession in industrialized countries, which adversely affected
export earnings. The volume of cotton exports in 1975 was 45% below
the average of the preceding three years. A number of domestic factors,
including an unfavorable cost-price structure, also contributed to this
decline. As a result, the foreign exchange constraint to growth and the
budgetary difficulties were exacerbated. A major consequence of these devel-
opments was a resort to foreign lborrowing to finance development expenditures
and to support the balance of payments. From an average of $50 million per
annum in 1971-73 gross disbursements of foreign loans rose to $450 million in
1974, and in the last three years have been of the order of $300 million,
annually. Excluding 1974 when t!he severity of the terms of borrowing reduced
the grant element of loan commitments by about half, Sudan has managed to
borrow on relatively concessionary terms, reflected in average terms of 4%
interest rate, 24 years maturity and 6 years grace in the period 1970-75.
Nevertheless, the sharply increased borrowing in the last few years, a sig-
nificant proportion of which was in the form of quick-disbursing cash loans,
has resulted in a quadrupling of external public debt between 1972 and 1975
and has imposed a heavy debt servicing burden on the country (see para. 14).
Furthermore, the Central Bank has repeatedly had to borrow abroad in order
to finance the increasing overall deficit. As a result, Sudan's net inter-
national reserve position moved Erom net liabilities of less than $45 mil-
lion at the end of December 1970 to $525 million in March 1977.
11.       Confronted with these problems, the Government of Sudan took a
number of measures. So far as internal fiscal management is concerned,
consumer subsidies have been sharply reduced, defense expenditure was re-
strained and railway and utility tariffs increased. Tax measures introduced
in the 1977 budget are estimated to have added about 10 percent to Govern-
ment revenue. In 1977, these meiasures were supplemented by additional mea-
sures designed to increase tariffs and other indirect taxes on luxury consumer
goods, while reducing those on essential consumer goods. The net effect of
these measures is a small increase in revenues. In any case, with the Govern-
ment already absorbing about 20 percent of GDP in the form of current receipts,
it would be unrealistic in the slhort run to expect any significant increase in
the level of taxation, and essential improvement in Government savings and



-5-
reduction in credit expansion will have to come from holding the growth of
recurrent expenditures below the growth of revenue. In a significant move in
October 1977, the Minister of Finance ordered a 10% cut in recurrent expen-
diture of Government ministries.
12.       So far as the current budget is concerned, an improvement is re-
quired in financial control mechanisms to ensure that actual expenditures
do not exceed appropriated amounts. Additionally, budgetary transfers from
the central to provincial and, through them to local governments need to be
placed on a basis which is permanently sustainable. So far as the capital
budget is concerned there is a danger of over-commitment with too many proj-
ects being started and their completion delayed. In this connection, the
recurrent expenditure implication of public investment outlays needs serious
consideration.
13.       On the revenue side, the main objective of reforms in the tax system
should be to make it development-oriented. This requires a reduction in the
reliance on foreign trade taxes, development of broad-based consumption taxes
and extension of direct taxes, especially to capture the growth in the modern
agricultural sector. Another important aspect of resource mobilization is
the role of parastatals. While the public sector in Sudan dominates all non-
traditional economic activities, public enterprises have failed to generate
adequate surpluses to finance development expenditures, and their operational
deficits have become a drain on the Government budget. The Government is
carrying out a comprehensive review of the operations and performance of
parastatal organizations. Bank staff have been assisting in the review.
14.       Finally, the recent build up of external public debt and the for-
eign liabilities of the banking system underscore the need for improved debt
management and a further strengthening of the external debt control machinery.
In particular, in view of the rapidly rising debt service burden, which
reached 24 percent in 1977 and was projected to peak at about 31 percent in
1978, and in order that the debt service ratio falls to more manageable levels
in the early 1980's, it is essential for Government to borrow on concessionary
terms and to restrict borrowing to that required for priority investments. In
addition to factors described above (para. 10) which were responsible for the
build up of external public debt, the debt management problem in Sudan is also
one of knowledge - the multiplicity of agencies in the Government dealing with
some aspects of data collection or debt management makes it difficult to
obtain a comprehensive and accurate picture of Sudan's external debt trans-
actions. New procedures to ensure better debt management were introduced by a
decree issued in February 1976 which confined the authority to contract
foreign loans to the Ministry of Finance, Planning and National Economy. The
Bank in July 1976 presented the Sudanese Government with an analysis of
Sudan's debt data and made recommendations for the centralization and analysis
of such data. Further discussions on this question are planned for May 1978.
Short- and Long-Term Prospects
15.       The preceding discussion shows the Sudanese economy to be in a
transitional situation from a slowly growing economy, heavily dependent



-6-
on the fortunes of a single crop (cotton) and hindered by physical bottle-
necks, especially in transportation, to a more rapidly growing economy
with more diversified production and exports. The process of change is
hindered by serious deficiencies in the policy framework and is accompanied
by serious financial problems. While the budgetary and balance of payments
problems facing the economy are acute and deeply rooted, it is nevertheless
imperative for the Government to take steps to improve parastatal efficiency,
encourage public sector savings, and maintain more effective balance of pay-
ments and debt management policies. The IMF is currently having discussions
with the Government on the short-run economic problems.
16.       The medium- to long-run objectives of the Sudanese Government, as
expressed in the Six-Year Plan, whose implementation began on July 1, 1977,
include a rapid increase in the growth of GDP (7.5% per annum in 1977-83), and
emphasis on redressing regional inequalities in incomes. During the plan
period, development strategy will continue to emphasize agriculture as the
leading sector, but its structural interdependence with other sectors, par-
ticularly manufacturing will be stressed through agricultural processing,
the production of basic agricultural inputs and implements, and the promotion
of small scale and cottage industry. Considerable investment will also go
into further reduction and removal of critical bottlenecks in physical and
institutional infrastructure.
17.       Because of the balance of payments and budgetary difficulties, the
growth prospects of Sudan depend significantly on foreign capital inflows and
on policies to encourage private investment. Indeed, one of the crucial
assumptions underlying the Government's plan is the expectation of large in-
flow of loan and equity capital. The realization of this expectation, in
turn, will depend significantly on the role played by the oil-rich Arab
countries. In the last few years the Arab countries have emerged as the
largest source of capital assistance to Sudan. On a disbursement basis,
Arab aid (excluding a $200 million Euro-dollar loan guaranteed by Saudi
Arabia) increased from $33 million in 1972 to a peak of $220 million in 1974.
Whilst a large proportion of these disbursements has been for balance of
payments support, Arab assistance has been vital in such key projects as
the Rahad Irrigation Project, the oil-pipeline, the airport at Port Sudan, a
number of highway projects, sugar schemes and a microwave project. For the
future, of much potential significance is the ten-year Basic Agricultural
Development Program for the Sudan, prepared by the Arab Fund for Social and
Economic Development.  Over the next six years (1977-83) a First Phase Invest-
ment Plan, which forms the core of Sudan's Six-Year Development Plan and
consists of some 61 projects selected from the basic program, is expected to
be implemented at a total cost of about $2 billion. To help implement the
agricultural program, twelve Arab Governments on November 1, 1976 signed an
agreement establishing an autonomous body, the Arab Authority for Agricultural
Investment and Development (AAAID). The authorized capital for AMID has been
established at US$510 million, of which 75 percent has been subscribed. The
Authority is limited to a debt/ equity ratio of 2:1. Ratification of the
AAAID agreement is at an advanced stage and steps are being taken to commence
operations.



-7-
18.       To support the directly productive investment envisaged by the
Arab Fund's program, large amounts of concessionary loans and grants will
be needed to finance infrastructural projects. Official bilateral and multi-
lateral agencies, including Arab agencies, are expected to contribute to
the program. Several donor agencies which have lent to Sudan in the past
are expanding their programs and others are starting programs in Sudan for
the first time. Local cost financing is justified in certain cases for
projects with a high local cost component and which are designed primarily
to benefit the poor. These are likely to be located primarily in Southern and
Western Sudan, to least development areas of the country.
19.       In summary, after a number of years of low and fluctuating rates
of savings and investments, momentum has been injected into Sudan's economic
development by a considerable expansion in domestic investment during the last
three years. However, Sudan faces severe balance of payments and domestic
resource mobilization problems in the short run. Whilst these are familiar
problems in several developing countries, they are especially acute in the
Sudan. The country's medium-term prospects, however, look particularly
bright. These opportunities derive not only from the availability of foreign
capital, but also from the basic agronomic and human potential of the country.
However, basic policy decisions, some of which have been outlined in the
preceding pages, will have to be made if these prospects are to be realized.
The Government has shown its willingness in recent months to discuss openly
the economic problems facing the country, and it is our hope that it will
follow this up with policy measures to address them. For the immediate
future, the Bank can assist the Sudan to maintain the momentum of develop-
ment by helping channel resources into the priority sectors in our project
work, by extending technical assistance to improve project identification,
preparation and implementation capacity, and by continuing the dialogue on
policy issues.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE SUDAN
20.       Since the Sudan's Independence in 1956, the Bank Group has helped
to finance various development projects with commitments totalling $377.1
million. Emphasis in our past lending has been on irrigated agriculture and
railway development, but other projects financed have included two power
projects, two education projects, a highways project, a domestic aviation
project, three agricultural projects, two credits to a development finance
company and a technical assistance credit. Annex II contains a summary
statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of January 31,
1978 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. The Bank/IDA share
of debt service is 10% and of debt outstanding is 11% (1976). We estimate the
Bank/IDA of debt service will fall to about 5% in 1985, when the Bank/IDA
share of debt outstanding would be about 12%.
21.       Physical progress in implementing Bank group operations in the
Sudan varies, but in general is quite good. Most projects have experienced



- 8 -
difficulty in getting key materials such as cement, motor fuels and timber,
of which there is a nationwide shortage. Most projects have also experienced
delays in delivery of equipment and supplies due to transportation deficien-
cies. But, with the exception of the First Education Project, whose imple-
mentation difficulties have been compounded by very weak management, these
difficulties have been manageable. The Rahad Irrigation Project, which
earlier experienced numerous diff:Lculties, is being constructed with real
determination, and phase 1 was inaugurated in December by President Nimeiry.
Although physical progress under ithe Third Railway Project is satisfactory,
progress in achieving the operational improvement has been disappointing.
Disbursements on IDA credits to Sudan are running at a rate of about $35
million per annum.
22.       In view of the improved availability of funds for investment in
Sudan, the Bank Group can render a useful service by assisting with the
identification and preparation of a relatively large number of projects,
and by actively associating bilateral and other multilateral sources with
the financing of these projects. The Technical Assistance credit approved
by the Board in February 1976 is designed to assist in this way. The pro-
gress of this project is good and several preparation studies have been
authorized under this credit. The Consultative Group last met in November
1976, and the various agencies represented indicated levels of lending to
Sudan which will make a significant contribution to maintaining the level
of investment. The timing of the next consultative group meeting is under
discussion.
23.       The Bank Group's lending strategy in Sudan will continue to empha-
size agriculture and infrastructure investments. Within agriculture we
expect to continue with a two-pronged strategy of investment to realize
existing production potential in the modern sector, while laying the founda-
tions for future production increases in the traditional agriculture sector.
We are assisting the Government in preparing projects in irrigation and
mechanized farming and agricultural research. A Livestock Marketing Project
is being presented to the Board separately. The Second Education Project
now under implementation emphasizes training in the rural areas. Identi-
fication of future education projects on the basis of the recently completed
sector survey is making headway. Lack of transport facilities continues to
hamper movement of goods within the country and to the outside world. A
second highway project is under appraisal, and included in most agriculture
projects is a feeder road component. A fourth railway project was approved
by the Board in June 1977. With the two credits to the Industrial Bank of
Sudan, the Bank Group is supporting private investment in the growing indus-
trial sector. Other projects under consideration include power and water
supply and agricultural credit.
PART III - TRANSPORT SECTOR
24.       Both the Bank and the Government are fully convinced that adequate
and efficient transport facilities are critical to the economic development of



-9-
Sudan. This is reflected in the growing volume of public sector investment
in the transport sector, increasing from under LS5 million/year during 1966-70
to around ES50 million/year since 1974. The rate of investment will increase
even further during the 1977-83 Six-Year Development Plan, to above ES70 mil-
lion/year. The importance attached by the Bank to improved transport facili-
ties is reflected in the fact that the Bank Group has so far financed four
railway projects (three of which included assistance to Port Sudan), one
highway project and a domestic aviation project.
25.       With increased inter-modal competition, transportation planning is
becoming more complex. Questions of intermodal choice, timing of investments
and pricing policies are emerging. Analyses of the investment needs of the
sector over the next 10-15 years have recently been carried out by the Associ-
ates for the Development of Arab Resources (ADAR) who prepared a transportation
master plan for the Sudan with Kuwait Fund financing, and by the ILO Compre-
hensive Employment Survey Mission. The ADAR study contributed to the analysis
of the transportation needs of agriculture contained in the Arab Fund report
on the agricultural prospects of Sudan. Steps have been taken to create an
improved planning capability in the sector, and EDI has conducted three
transportation project analysis courses in Sudan during 1975-77, and another
is planned for 1978. A planning unit was recently created in the Ministry of
Transport, which will be able to continue the work initiated by the ADAR
study. Meanwhile, the Ministry of National Planning undertook some transport
planning studies in connection with the preparation of the Six-Year Develop-
ment Plan.
26.       The Sudan Railways Corporation (SRC) continues to be the backbone
of Sudan's internal transportation system, carrying about 70% of all freight
and passenger movements in Sudan. However, it continues to operate at a
relatively low level of efficiency, and until recently investments have
been limited. As a result, SRC has not been able to carry all the traffic
offered and has been providing poor services. In short, the capacity of the
railway has limited economic growth. The Government's response has been
threefold: first, to authorize investment in the railway to eliminate equip-
ment deficiencies and shortages; second, to commission a detailed analysis of
SRC's technical operations to determine the causes of low efficiency and to
plan for improved training facilities; and third, to authorize investment in
other transportation facilities (an oil pipeline and a major road) to reduce
the economy's dependence on the railway system in the critical Port Sudan-
Khartoum traffic corridor.
27.       The analyses of SRC's technical operations, carried out by the
Australian Railways and by a workshop specialist, identified a variety of
operational deficiencies. Training and upgrading of technical skills for both
operations and maintenance are planned to help overcome these deficiencies.
SRC's recent reorganization is also intended to improve management responsive-
ness to day-to-day needs. Recent investments on the railways included a 50%
increase in mainline diesel locomotives, additional shunting engines, wagons,
equipment upgrading and telecommunications. SRC is hopeful that, with this
investment, and the investments to be undertaken under the Fourth Railway
Project, approved by the Board in June 1977, its operating efficiency will
improve.



- 10 -
28.       At present, Sudan is heavily dependent on the railway line to and
from Port Sudan for the movement of foreign trade traffic. Comprehensive
development of the transportation system to meet expanding needs is required.
Two major investments are an oil pipeline from Port Sudan to Khartoum, which
will release both railway capacity for general freight and oil wagons for
upcountry distribution, and the Port Sudan-Wad Medani road, which will pro-
vide the first all-weather road between the port and the most productive
regions of Sudan.
29.       The Roads and Bridges Public Corporation (RBPC) is responsible for
the national highway network. At present, there are about 900 kilometers of
bitumenized road. Ongoing investments are, however, rapidly increasing the
length of modern roads. Apart from the Port Sudan-Wad Medani Road, which is
expected to cost in excess of $250 million, other road projects under imple-
mentation include roads to serve major agricultural areas in the Blue Nile
region, and the upgrading of regional access roads in the Nuba Mountain
region, in Darfur and in Southern Sudan. Partly as a result of the lack of
railway capacity and partly due to the current investment activity, there has
been a major increase in long-distance motor vehicle use. Despite the rough
road conditions, the number of road vehicles entering and leaving Port Sudan
on long-distance journeys increased from about 1,300 vehicles a month in 1971
to about 8,000 vehicles in 1976, an increase of over 500%. Feasibility and
engineering studies for additional components of the trunk road network are
underway and are expected to lead to further major investments within the
next two years. More attention wiLl be given to the need for rural access
roads as the agricultural investment program is implemented. Clearly, the
maintenance capacity of RBPC and the provincial highway authorities will re-
quire upgrading. This was a principal focus of IDA's first highway project
and will be emphasized in the proposed second project.
30.       Port Sudan, the only port in the country, is managed by the Sea
Ports Corporation (SPC). While the port can handle the current level of
foreign trade traffic with some changes in cargo handling methods, the invest-
ment underway and planned elsewhere in the economy dictates the need for
additional port capacity. Two recently completed consultants' studies provide
the basis for investment planning, both at Port Sudan and at Suakin, a new
port 40 kilometers further south.
31.       Southern Sudan is served by two methods of moving lower-value
freight--the railway branch to Wau and river transport to Malakal and Juba.
A recently completed study has provided the basis for planning future invest-
ment in river transport and has identified technical assistance requirements.
A large investment program in barges and tugs is currently nearing completion
on the river, but a more important need is for the River Transport Corpora-
tion to make better use of its existing plant and equipment.
32.       In view of the size of tlhe country, over 2,000 kilometers long and
1,800 kilometers broad, aviation is likely to play an increasing role, and
it offers major advantages when one looks at the cost of creating alternative
surface transport and at travel time. To facilitate the use of faster, more
efficient aircraft for more hours per day, the Government decided to upgrade,



- 11 -
first of all, three southern airports, and Port Sudan airport, the busiest of
the regional airports. It has also acquired two new aircraft for domestic
services, to expand the capacity of the Sudan Airways. The Bank/IDA financed
part of the airport development program through a loan and a credit in June
1976.
33.       Apart from road transport, all modes are owned by public corporations
which are revenue earning enterprises, and which should be able to contribute
to the financing of transportation investments. Their financial position is
examined below. The largest corporation is Sudan Railways Corporation (SRC).
Between 1972 and 1975 SRC incurred losses. The causes of the losses were
declining traffic; poor maintenance; sharp cost increases, notably in oil
products; and tariff levels which still reflected Government endeavors to
minimize price increases affecting the cost of living. Since July 1975, SRC's
financial results have been better, and with the increase in tonnage carried
recently, SRC became profitable again in 1976, when operating revenues covered
all operating expenses, including depreciation and interest. However, the
lines extending to the west and south of the country are likely to require
cross-subsidization by the rest of the network until the traffic volumes on
those sections reach higher levels.
34.       Port Sudan has been consistently profitable for several years, and
SPC should be able to generate adequate surpluses to support future expansion
at Port Sudan and to some extent at Port Suakin. The River Transport Corpora-
tion has operated for the last ten years at a loss varying between 20% and 60%
of operating costs. The Corporation has a virtual monopoly where it operates.
The regions served are among the poorest and most remote in the country, and
the Government is purposely subsidizing transport services as a contribution
to their development. RBPC has no significant revenue and operates virtually
as a Government department.
35.       Analysis of the Civil Aviation Department's (CAD) revenues and ex-
penses, shows that the Department generates a small surplus after deprecia-
tion. As a result of the higher level of investment now underway, CAD is
projected to earn a profit after depreciation and interest payments from
about 1985. Sudan Airways, with several years of unprofitable operations,
turned the corner in 1975 and is now projected to generate surpluses adequate
to cover its depreciation and interest payments and pay a dividend to the
Government.
36.       Experience in implementing past transport projects in Sudan has
been satisfactory, except for the persistent problems of the low operational
efficiency of the railway, due to continuing shortage of locomotive spare
parts, unsatisfactory control of train operations and poor communications
equipment. Railway capacity is expected to increase with the implementation
of the Fourth Railway Project (approved by the Board in June 1977), and
completion late last year of a white petroleum products pipeline from Port
Sudan to Khartoum will release oil wagons for upcountry distribution. Given
the critical importance of transport to the economy, constant attention will
continue to be paid to the operational and financial efficiency of these
Corporations.



- 12 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.       The proposed project fits into the development strategy of the
Government of Sudan reflected in the Six-Year Development Plan for 1977-1983.
To support the scale of industrial and agricultural development envisaged
and to maintain the viability of the Sudanese economy after that period,
Sudan will have to import increasing volumes of investment goods as well as
intermediate goods (such as fertilizer) and consumer goods (such as petroleum
and petroleum products).  To pay for these, it will have to rely on an
expanding export trade.  As the present facilities in Port Sudan are operat-
ing close to capacity, the country urgently needs to improve and expand its
port facilities.
38.       The proposed project to improve Port Sudan is based on consultants'
studies financed from the Third Railways Project (Credit 457-SU). It would
complement the railway improvemenats being financed under the Fourth Railway
Project (Credit 727-SU and Loan 1467T-SU) and the road and pipeline projects
nearing completion in the Port Sujdan -Khartoum traffic corridor. The project
was appraised by the Bank in July 1977. Negotiations took place in Washington
in January 1978. The Sudanese delegation was led by Dr. Wahab, the Under
Secretary of the Ministry of National Planning and included the Acting General
Manager of the Sea Ports Corporation. A report entitled "Appraisal of a Port
Project" (No. 1761-SU, dated February 17, 1978) is being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
Background
39.       Port Sudan is currently Sudan's only deepwater port.  It has
limited ship maneuvering room, anad few opportunities for physical expansion,
as it is located within and immediately adjoining the city of Port Sudan.
The only specialized berths are fEor oil imports and bulk grain. Port Sudan
has been developed exclusively as a rail-served port. Quay areas have exten-
sive rail networks, with only limited areas where rail tracks are flush, re-
sulting in limited mobility for wheeled vehicles, and much potential operating
and storage area is lost to rail track. The port is thus ill-suited to accom-
modate the growing truck traffic, which is expected to increase significantly
when the all-weather highway to the interior is completed in 1978.
40.       The labor-intensive cargo handling operations at Port Sudan have
remained largely unchanged for decades. Pallets and such equipment as fork-
lift trucks, tractors and trailers are not used. Bulk cargoes, except for
grain and oil, are handled in bags. General cargo is handled principally as
break-bulk with very little unit:Lzation and mechanization. Handling rates are
generally low and damage is high. The port operates throughout the year. It
normally works two shifts per day, except for some third shift work on 3-4
berths. There is inadequate labor for a full third shift, and local labor has
little enthusiasm for it.
41.       Clearance of cargoes from the port and the surrounding city area
has been a problem, because of inadequate rail capacity for the volume of
incoming cargo. This should be alleviated by the completion of a petroleum



- 13 -
products pipeline and of an all-weather highway to the interior next year, and
by operational improvements now under way on the railway.
42.       Currently the port capacity is saturated.  For the medium and long
range, the Government's objective is to provide a new port at a presently
undeveloped site some 40 km south of Port Sudan, at Suakin. For the short
term, the Government's aim is to increase the productivity of Port Sudan to
handle future foreign trade traffic until the new port becomes operational,
after which the two ports will complement each other. The key features of this
investment decision involved the timing of the development of the new port at
Suakin, and the need to avoid development works which would interfere with
Port Sudan operations. Various options were considered from immediate devel-
opment at Suakin to postponement until 1990. A computer simulation of Port
Sudan's operations indicates that the new port facilities would be needed not
later than 1984. In view of the long lead time for development of the new
port, the Bank concurs in Sudan's decision to seek financing for immediate
development of Suakin. Meanwhile, to meet the needs of the rapidly growing
foreign trade traffic, investments at Port Sudan to expand the efficiency and
thus the capacity of that port are urgently required.
Objective and Description
43.       The proposed project would modernize and improve Port Sudan to
increase its physical capacity, operational productivity, and efficiency.
The principal objective is to increase cargo handling capacity and to relieve
the present congestion. Civil works at the Port would be confined to those
necessary for operational improvements at existing facilities. A major factor
underlying the proposed modernization at Port Sudan is the necessity to avoid
disrupting ongoing operations to an unacceptable degree.
44.       The principal items to be financed under the project are cargo
handling equipment; equipment for handling containers and bulk commodities;
civil works for improvements to berths, work areas and storage; marine
equipment; workshop expansion and equipment; training, technical assistance
and consultant services.
Cost Estimates and Financing
45.       The total project cost at mid-1978 prices is estimated to be US$50.7
million, including provision for contingencies but excluding, US$13.3 million
representing local taxes and duties. The estimated foreign exchange cost
is US$37.2 million equivalent to 73% of total net project cost. A 20%
physical contingency is provided for civil works. Price contingencies are
calculated in accordance with Bank Group escalation rates. The IDA credit
would finance about 43.3% of the foreign exchange costs. It is proposed to
finance the project in the following way:



- 14 -
US$ Million
Local  Foreign  Total    %
IDA                                   -     22.0    22.0    43.3
ODM                                   -      9.6      9.6    18.9
KfW                                   -      3.5      3.5      7.0
Kuwait Fund                           -      0.5      0.5     0.9
Sea Ports Corporation/Govt.          13.5    1.6*   15.1    29.9
Total                            13.5   37.2    50.7   100.0
* Contingency provision for ODM/KfW financed items.
The IDA credit would be on-lent by the Government to the Sea Ports Corpora-
tion and to the Agricultural Bank of Sudan at an annual rate of interest of
8.0% for 20 years, including four years grace (Section 3.01(b) and 3.02(a) of
the Credit Agreement). The ODM grant and the loans secured from KfW and the
Kuwait Fund would be made available to SPC for the same term, but at an annual
interest rate of not less than 4 percent (Section 3.01(b) of the Credit
Agreement). The ODM grant will finance cargo handling equipment. Funds for
marine equipment and for the first year of technical assistance will be
provided by KfW and the Kuwait Fund respectively. Effectiveness of the IDA
credit would be conditional upon the execution and delivery of the Project
Agreement between the Association and the Sea Ports Corporation and the
Subsidiary Loan agreement between the Government and SPC, and finalizing
the necessary arrangements for securing the ODM grant (Section 5.01(c) of the
Credit Agreement). All the local costs would be met by SPC.
Organization, Management and Staff
46.       Until 1974, Port Sudan was a department of the Sudan Railways
Corporation (SRC), at which time the Sea Ports Corporation was established
to administer the sea ports under the Ministry of Defense. In 1977,
ministerial responsibility for SPC was transferred to the Ministry of
Transport. The SPC Chairman, with headquarters in Khartoum, is respon-
sible for planning, direction and control of sea port affairs, while
the General Manager at Port Sudan is the Chief Operating Officer, with
five directors for shore operations, marine operations, engineering, finance
and personnel, respectively, to assist him. The port staff is deficient in
some management areas, particularly those in which SPC formerly depended on
SRC: procurement and stores, equipment maintenance, financial management,
and personnel affairs. SPC has also had recruiting difficulties for super-
visory positions, and a retention problem as well, due to the high salaries
and wages available in nearby Arab countries.
47.       SPC is the principal employer in Port Sudan, providing employ-
ment, directly and indirectly, to some 10,000 workers, including full-time
port staff, and casual labor involved in cargo handling, stevedoring, ware-
housing and transport. The personnel are oriented to an operation which
is labor-intensive and only minimally supported by equipment. With the



- 15 -
project's implementation, a considerable training effort will be required to
develop the required new skills. The establishment of training facilities
is provided for in the proposed project. Although the mechanization to be
introduced under the project will displace some unskilled labor, it will
increase the need for skilled and semi-skilled employees. Overall, employment
opportunities will increase due to the construction of the new port at
Suakin, the forecast growth of traffic through the port, and planned indust-
rial expansion in the Port Sudan area.
Project Implementation
48.       The project would be executed by SPC.  SPC does not have the
engineering capability to supervise execution of the civil works, nor is
there an appropriate public works agency which could act for SPC. Accor-
dingly, SPC would rely on the services of a consulting firm for supervision.
A Sudanese resident engineer would be appointed to represent SPC within the
consulting engineer's resident staff. This arrangement worked satisfactorily
on two previous expansion works at Port Sudan. For this work, SPC is negotia-
ting with the same consultants (Livesey and Henderson, U.K.) who carried
out the feasibility study. Their qualifications and experience are accept-
able to the Bank Group. SPC would be responsible for the carrying out of the
improvements to the grain silo belonging to the Agricultural Bank of Sudan.
Procurement and Disbursement
49.       All contracts for civil works and equipment to be financed from
the proposed Credit, except for contracts up to $100,000 equivalent, would be
tendered on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank Group guidelines. The equipment would be tendered on the basis of
separate packages for: (i) cargo handling, (ii) pollution control and emer-
gency services, (iii) facility maintenance and repair, (iv) marine, and (v)
workshops, in order to facilitate co-financing arrangements. Three of the
five packages are expected to be financed by co-financing agencies. Domestic
preference of up to 15% would be applicable for equipment financed by the IDA
Credit. The civil works would be bid as a single contract, except for the
grain silo upgrading which, on account of its special engineering require-
ments, would be a separate package. A single package for the main civil works
contract is considered necessary to provide a contract large enough to attract
foreign contractors. Prequalification would be required for both the grain
silo and other civil works packages. Domestic preference of 7-1/2% for the
civil works would be applicable; however, it is considered unlikely that
Sudanese contractors would qualify for the general contractor role.
50.       Disbursements from the proposed credit would cover 100% of the
foreign expenditures for equipment, technical assistance and training. For
civil works, disbursements would cover 80% of the cost of the oil berth
improvement, Berth 16 conversion to Roll on/Roll off, piping changes, grain
elevator modernization, and 60% of surfacing, layout changes and buildings.
51.       In view of the urgency of Sudan's need for increased port capacity,
detailed engineering and preparation of tender documents for the civil works



- 16 -
and preparation of specifications and tender documents for the equipment
will begin shortly, with an advance of US$500,000 from the Project Pre-
paration Facility.  This amount would be rep:Id fr 
credit when it becomes effective. In addition, retroactive financing of
approximately US$150,000 for continued consultants' eer--4           4- ;  --commendeid
Retroactive financing would be limited to expenditures made after February 1,
1978.
Accounts and Audit
52.       SPC's accounts follow an acceptable commercial format.  The annual
accounts are submitted, along with a general report on SPC's activities, to
the Minister of Transport and to the National Legislature. The accounts
are audited by the Auditor General. This arrangement is satisfactory.
Financial Evaluation
53.       SPC's financial position has been strong for several years, and
its cash position is excellent; the working ratio has remained under 0.46
since 1971. As assets are valued at historical costs, they remain under-
valued, and since few assets have been renewed recently, the return on net
fixed assets has been above 50%.  Although existing tariffs at Port Sudan
provide adequate revenues for SPC, they contain an element of cross-subsidi-
zation among services and the structure is excessively complex. They should
be revised in order to eliminate cross-subsidization between services and
simplify the calculations required for billing. A tariff specialist will
be hired as part of the proposed project to assist SPC in this task.
54.       SPC would finance all local costs of the proposed improvement
works at Port Sudan, including taxes and customs duties. However, a tariff
increase of at least 20% around 1980 will be required to maintain satisfactory
liquidity, and to obtain a financial internal rate of return on the project
of at least 7%. With this increase, the operating ratio should remain below
0.80 and the liquidity ratio above 3.20.
55.       The construction and operation of Port Suakin is the main cause
of financial uncertainty for SPC. The timing of this project has not been
finalized yet, but it was agreed during negotiations that the new port will
be entirely financed by the Government and, when completed, transferred to
SPC as a Government contribution to its equity. The construction and equip-
ment cost for the new port are estimated at IS 63 million, including taxes
and duties. Assuming that tariffs are identical in both ports and that the
new port starts operation in early 1983, the projections show that SPC's
financial situation would remain satisfactory. However, a tariff increase
of about 10% would still be requiredi in 1983 to obtain a working ratio of
less than 0.70, and a return on average net fixed assets in use of at least
3%. This low return should be expected because the new port is a lumpy
investment whose potential will not be fully realized for many years. The
rate of return will improve, however, with increasing traffic. The Project
Agreement requires SPC to take all measures necessary to achieve net operating
revenues sufficient to yield annual rates of return on net fixed assets in
use, as periodically revalued to reflect current replacement costs, of not



- 17 -
less than 8% until the new port becomes operational, not less than 3% for five
years thereafter, and again not less than 8% beyond that period (Section 4.03
of the Project Agreement).
56.       The Sea Ports Corporation has had difficulties in the past in col-
lecting its receivables from some port users including the Government agencies.
As of May 1977, the accounts receivable, had reached ES 5.5 million. All
arrears would be collected by June 30, 1979 (Section 4.05 of the Project
Agreement).
57.       The prompt supply of spare parts will be crucial to SPC's ability
to maintain the higher productivity resulting from the proposed project.
Assurances were therefore obtained from the Government that adequate foreign
exchange would be made available promptly to SPC for this purpose as and when
needed (Section 3.02(c) of the Credit Agreement).
Economic Evaluation and Risks
58.       The general case for improving and expanding Sudan's port faci-
lities in the context of the Government's Six-Year Development Plan is
overwhelming. With the current level of foreign trade traffic of around 3.5
million tons, Port Sudan is increasingly becoming congested. Ship waiting
time exceeds 3 days on the average, and conference lines have imposed a 15%
surcharge, involving additional ocean freight cost to Sudan of US$14 million
annually. With the anticipated growth in import and export traffic to over
7.4 million tons by 1987, the situation would worsen unless urgent action is
taken to deal with the problem. The project is aimed at improving the effi-
ciency of operations through improved facilities, both at sea and onshore for
handling cargo, to meet the immediate critical needs at Port Sudan, without
interference with ongoing operations. The major benefits will come from
reduction in ship waiting time for berths, which is the principal cause for
liner surcharges and demurrage charges; reduction in ship time at berth for
both loading and unloading cargo; reduction in damage to cargo; and reduction
in freight on crude petroleum. The economic rate of return on the project is
a very high 43% and the first year return 28%, indicating that the proposed
improvements are long overdue. At market prices, the return is marginally
lower. Even without any traffic growth, the returns would be 28% and 24%,
respectively.
59.       The major risk in project implementation is that investment at
Port Sudan would disrupt traffic excessively and that SPC's operational
efficiency will not respond adequately to the project. These factors
have been taken into account in the planning and phasing of the project
and its associated technical assistance and training programs, and we
consider these measures provide adequate assurance that these risks will be
minimized. Despite these risks, it is essential that this project does
proceed, to ensure that the port does not become an increasing bottleneck
to the movement of foreign trade traffic, with great damage to the Sudanese
economy.



- 18 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.       The draft Credit Agreement between the Democratic Republic of the
Sudan and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association
and the Sudan Sea Ports Corporation, and the Report of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Associa-
tion, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately. Special
features of the Credit Agreement are referred to in Section 3 of Annex III.
Effectiveness of the IDA credit would be conditional upon the execution and
delivery of the Project Agreement between the Association and the Sea Ports
Corporation, and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and SPC,
and finalizing the necessary arrangements for securing the ODM grant.
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - R]ECOMMENDATION
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Washington, D.C.
March 2, 1978



- 19-                                                MNEX I
Page 1 ot    sages
TABLE 3A        SDT   HE
SUDAN               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)
--------~~~----                                  SUDAN                                REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL     2505.8                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      315.0                      1960       1970   ESTIMATE           KENYA          EGYPT          MOROCCO**
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     130.0*   160.0*    290.0*/a              140.0*     170.0*      290.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR, MILLION)           11.2       14.0      15.9 /a             11.2        33.3        14.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        4.0        6.0        6.0/a             19.0        33.0        33.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        37.0       46.0      51.075             113.0      1172.0        74.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         50.7       48.9       47.8               49.0        42.1        49.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU.AV)          24.7       20.2       17.5               17.0        17.0        18.5
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)       159.0         ..      132.0                          116.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       41.1       46.1       48.6               49.1        49.9        50.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 ..       3.4        3.4                3.4         3.0         3.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                 2.3        2.2**      2.2**              3.1         2.6         2.4**
URBAN                                   ..       5.5        2.2                6.3         3.6         4.0
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)           8.6       11.8        4.6                9.9        42.1        32.2
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       47.o/a    45.0        45.0               48.4        44.0        46.4
15 TO 64 YEARS                       51. 07a    52.0       52.0               48.0        52.0        51.1
65 YEARS AND OVER                     2.01o      3.0        3.0                3.6         4.0         2.5
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     1.O/a     0.9        0.9                 1.1         0.9         1.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO          1-.57           1.5/a       *-                 1-1/a       1.7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            ..        ..         ..               66.1       488.0        68.1
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..        ..         ..                  ..         ..         3.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         3700.0    4500.0          ..             5100.0/b   8300.0/a,b        -
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)         86.0       80.0                          90 o0.o7F   53'0/a b
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)             .. ..                ..                  ..
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-                                                                             0/a
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS            20.9/c                  ..               20./C                   20
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            50.1/C    49.2/b        ..                                             - .,  49,075
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             5.07E      5.175       ..                3.97C        ..         4.075
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS            13.9c    14.5b          ..               11.7/Cc                 12.0/a
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
______________________________
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS              ..        ..         ..                  ..
X OWNED BY F-IALLEST 10% OWNERS           ..        ..         ..                  ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            27820.0/a 14200.0  10880.0                7830.o/d   1910.0/C  12650.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        3030.075ad 1740.0    1360.0/b            1470.0oa   1640.07E          .
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           950.07a-e 930.0/C   960.0                770.0-      460.0       660.0/b
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         81.0       72.0       88.0               98.0        106.0      102.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              55.0       63.0       60.4               71.0        66.0        64.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           ..       24.0/d   23.0                 29.0        16.0        14.0/c
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4               ..        ..         ..                 1.9
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       25.0       33.0       40.0               64.0        69.0        52.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                      3.0        7.0       11.0                 9.0       33.0        13.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             12.0       12.0       12.0               13.0        12.0        12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                      3.0        1.4/e      3.0/c              2.0        18.0         2.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                   .-      15.0         ..                30.0          ..       21.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                  ..       2.s/d       ..
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                        ..       36.0/d f   *-                    **
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(X OF ALL DWELLINGS)                            26.O /df
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRIC TY (%)                     ..         ..         ..                  ..          .
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           1.0        ..       Bo.o/d              48.0       132.0        60.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            1.0        2.0       2.07wT              9.0         4.0        15.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)             8.0         ..      20.0                68.0       228.0       128.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                0.1        0.2       0.2                 0.5         1.0         0.2
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



-    20-                                    ~~~~~~~~~~Page 2 of 4 pages
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted. data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961. for 1970 betweea 1968 and 1970. and for Most Recent Estimate between
1973 and 1975.
* GNP per .&pita dats are based on the World Bank Atlas methodology (1974.-76 basis).
~nDue to smigration population growth rate is lmowr than the rate of natural increase.
5*Morocco has been sclected as an objective cou;ntry because of certain clailaritias (elne of population, lack of population pressure, importance of
agriculture. nenber of Arab world, mnd access to OPEC assistance), and has reached a siage of devalopuent to which the Sudan might aspire in the
medium terms.
SUDAN        1960    /a  1962;    lb  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total l.abor force;    Ic  1963. Omdurman urban;                    Id  Including
"eisatant nurses;    /a  Government hospital establishments.
1970    /a  Ratio of population undar 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;   I/b  1967-68;    Ic  Government hospital establishments;
/d  1964-66;    /s  Beginning 1970. the duration of general secondary education .ea redu.ced fron 8 to 6 years;    If  Urbon
only.-
MOST RECENT ESTIKATE:    la  1976;    /b  Including midwives and assistant nureses;    Ic  Beginning 1970. the duration of general
secondary educatIon was reduced from 8 to 6 years;    /d  1972.
KENYA        1970    /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 sond over to labor force age 15-59 years;    /b  Labor force age 15-59 yearn;    /c  Urban
only;    Id  Regiatered, not all prao-ticing in the country.
EGYPT        1970    /s  1966;    lb  Relates to 12 to 64 years of age;    /c  Registered. not all practicing in the coun try.
MOROCCO      197      La  Consumption expenditure of household:,;    /b  Government hospital est.blishments only;    .Lc  1964-66.
RiO., February 22, 1978
MDUINITIOU OF SOCIAL flSDICATORS
Lacd free (thou k=)                                                                          Ponultin  per .cr.1na parso   - Populetict, divided by number of practicing
Total   Tote1 ourfss eros comprtiscg Send ares and ilansd waters,                             ml aI dfaml. gradu.t.nrss  "trained' or  certified- nurs ...o.d
Agric. -Most recent ..tiaace of sgricu1tur1 sees useed tamporarily or peom-                   auneiliary p-roneli with training or experience.
neatly ror crops, psetures, market 6 kitchen gardens or to ILe fallow.                     fponlation ear hospital bed - Populatton divided by nasbar of hospit.l bode
available in public end priv-te general and specislised hospitsl end
GNP nor c.oiti (Us$) - Gli per ..pit. ..timetee .,tc.rrant sarkt prices,                       rehabilitation centers; ... od..  -urIng bones and estebli.hmsento for
calculated by esae covver.ie  method as World Usnb Atle  (1973-75 basis);                    cwatodial end preventive oars.
i960; 1970 sad 1975 data.                                                                 Per ..pit. sootpy of calories (7. of rseuirenent) - Conputed fron enegy
equiv.lent of net food supplies eveilable i. country par capits pee dey;
Popul.tion end vite1 teteiotio!                                                                availble supplies comprine domestic production, inports leen exports, and
Pooclation (adve illion) - A. of July first:  if not  -vilabls, averge                         changes in etock; net supplies seclude .nia-1 feed, .eede, quantitiec oned
of tMo and-year saiee;1460, 1970 and 1975 d.t..                                              to food proceening end loans.. in distribution; requirements ware eetisated
by FAO hose d on phyniologiosl needs for normal activity and hoaltb coneid-
Pop.istion de...Irv -- per sousre ha - Mid-year population per eqosre kilometer                snig eavirometal temperstura, body weights, agoeand se  diatributions of
(100 hectaroe) of total ares.                                                               population, end allowing 10%X far waste et household lava.
P.pulation density - per Q-ar ho of sarc, leand - Conputd as shove far                       Per capita supply of protein fxram  per day) - Protein cotent of per capita
agricultural land only.                                                                     net supply of food per day; net supply af food is defined as abov; raq.irr-
mantsfor all coestrias eatebliehed by EOSSA Economic Re.serch Services
Vitol statistice                                                                               provida for a  Laminoa  allowance of 60 gr-s of tota1 protein per day, .rd
Crude birrh rate per thound   aare - Annul live births per thou~sad of                         20 grna of animal and pulse protein,, of which 10 grn should be acinel
aid-year papulatian; con-yea"r rittastic aversgea ending in 19,50 and 1970,                  protein; those stadarda are lowr then thuse of 75 grame of total protaic
and five-yea   --ors  ending in 1975 for most reent estimate.                                and 23 gram  of animal protein asaeverage for the world, proposed by FAO
Credo death rate per thouosnd. averane - Annual deaths per thoussod of eid-yaar                in tha Third World Food Survy.
population; ten-year srithmerio  -veaga ending in 1960 end 1970 end firs-                  Pe  aia rti            upIV frmaimlad  u    - Protnin supply of food
paravrgeeding in 1975 far most racent estimate,                                             deive  fromsI:aladf pue  in gram  per day.
J.cfat nortality rate f/thou) -Annual deaths of infant. under ona year of age                Dsath rate (/thno5 ease 1-4 - A-.#uI daaths per thousan.d in age group 1-4
par thousand live births.                                                                    per,to children in this age group; suggested nenindicator of
Lifn erpcto...y so birth fyrs) -Aversea  nenber of yasra of life raaning at                    malntrition.
birth; usually five-year av Sere  anding in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develp-
ing ooore.Education
Cr-. -rc-d-ction raten- Avorego ntabr of hioc dsughtaraeomewill hoer                         Adjusted enoisn  eo-primac school -E ...olant of all ages us pe-
in ber noma  reproductive period if she experiences present age-specific                     centsgs ofprmy scol-g _. populetionm;nludee children aged 6-l1 years
ferttllty eaten;  -1us1y five-year "ereages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1875                    but adjunted for different lengtha of primary education; for countries cith
for devnloping countries.                                                                    universal education, enrollmet may exceed 100X since em  pupils or  below
P.pulation, oroth rsta (%l - total -Compound ennoel growth ret.,, of aid-year                  or shove the offticia  -uche1 ag..
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 end 1970-75.                                               Adiusted enrollmet ratio - secondary school - Computed as above; secondary
Pporl.tion Aorwth rate(.) -rban - Computed lika growth rete of' total                          aduostion requirs.eat lIsst four year  of  pprsod primary instruction;
,popletion; different definitious of urban areas say affect comparability of                 provides general, voctional or teacher training instructions for pupils
data unonf coutries,                                                                         of 12 is 17 yrears of age; correpondence courese ar  generally exclded.
Urban pop.l.tion (% of total) - Rati  o f urban to total population; different               Year. of schooliox provdd (frtan-so    eel.) - Total yesre of
definitions of urban  -rs. may effect comparbility of data  -mgm countries.                  .chnolig:g ot eecondry level  voctina  instrution may be partially or
Ao trutr t     prcn)    Cidre  (O-14 years), working-eg. (15-64 years),                      V'ctOnal enrollMsnt C  of ...condar)-Voainlntttieicud
sdretired (655 years and over) ses Peretages af mid-year population.                       tacheicl, industrial or sthr progra    hbgh operate ind.psdcctIy or
-o eodoc  otic - Rstis cf popl..leio  under 15 and 65 end over to those                dep-n-t  of secondary inatitutions.
of ag.o 15 trhough 64.                                                                     Adult lItersuy rate (7.) - Literate adults (able to read sod write) so per-
Itocuic donodeoy roic -  atio  f poplatinteder 15 and 65 sod ovr to               ces tage of total adult population eged 15 yeses end over.
facily  lanoino- accenare (c,oulaciv, thou)- Cun,l.tive musher of acceptor,     H.osing
ofbrt-onrldevcsuderaupies                        t nional family planeing program           Parsan  per room (urban)- - Average ember of persons per room  in oncopied
oUnce. ince.ption.                                                                           conventisnal dweIlgngo in urben areas; dnilinge occlde non-peensoet
Fuoily rlaonloc - users Cl of married women) - Percentages of marriad 0mm  of                  structures end ooccupi.d perte.
ohlld-basritg ae(15-44 Y-sr) who  e. birth-tontro1 devicee te all nerried                  Occupied dwellings without niped weter (l) - Occu pied covetional dvoljicgc
com i  am  ago group.                                                                     in urban and  rua   ra    ithaut b-ide or outside piped cater f-ililties
as prentage of all oncpi.d dwelling.
uRMLoYmet                                                                                    Acest.lcrct   lo   l   wllns       ovninldelca00
Tots1 Iehbr forte (tho-sad) - Economically active persons, inclufdgamdeecrct ning                                 ngqCraesepren   f ti ... dwellings I  ors,hc
fo-rces and oceployad hut encluding housenive   atudents,  tcc.; definitions                 rura  -re..
cc-cri.o  countrise are not comparable.                                                    Rural duellinne connected to electricity  (7.) - Computed as above for r-ra
Labor force 10 agriculture Cl) - Agricoltoral labor force- (On fareing, farastry,              dwellings only.
h-cti.g and fishing) as percentage of .tota labor force.
U.Ilnoiycd (7. of labor far-e)   U-Ueployed a-  usoally defined ae persons who               conmption
ace able end willing to taa aJ50, out of s Job on e given day, rmained out                 Radi rciesfathuo)-Altyeofecvraorrdobadcat
of a Job, and ...ebing verb for a specified sinho   period not soceedngonet   eerlpbi  per thous-an  of population; sscldes unlicese.d r.ceiver
ofeb us y mar ho comparable between coutries du  to different defimltions                    in countrie, end in years when registration of radio sets was in effect;
ofueployed end sourc  of date, e.g., amploymat affice atatitice, sample                   data far recent years may net ho cempareble ai-o  ect coutries aboliehad
euvys -oPulsory unemploymet insureno.... licesn.
Pessemeer:cer fea thu o    - P-sasnger car  conpris mator care ...ling
Inom  distribution  - Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind)                     lestensgt  ees;scudsabuacs,hs:s   n  mltr
recei-ed by richest 1%, richest 207., pooreet 201, and pooset 4tyX of house-                 vgtehicles.-bI-s,h.r..ad  1it,
oldo -                                                                                    Electricity fbeh/yrr per nap) - Aonua  consumption of iedustrial, gaseercUo1,
public and private  eletricity L. kilowatt hours per capit., generally
DIetributfon of land  --erhip -  ftr-et.gen of land mond by wealthiest 10%                     baed' onproduction*det, vithaut eownefor lomase 1t grids but allo-
sod poorest 10% of land owners,                                                              fog for imp-ort  end exports of electricity.
4-1th ..d Nutriti-                                                   N~~~~~~~~~~~~lewsprint (ke/yr Pear cap) - Per capita annua  consumption in kilogeem
Povol-rion ocr physician - Population divided by noaber cf pr.ccining                            ti .df-ostcPrd i-Pl                        tIPt   f-p.c
physfician  qoslified from a mdical school et uciverity leve.



-21-                             ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975                                          ANNUAL RATE OF GROWrH (%, constant prices)
US$ Hln.       %                         1970-75            1965 -70           1972
GNP at Market Prices           3,708.4      100.0                         4.5
Gross Domestic Investment        663.0       17.9                        11.4
Gross National Saving            265.0        7.1                         4.9
Current Account Balance       -417.0         11.2
Exports of Goods, NFS           436.5        11.8
Imports of Goods, NFS          790.0         21.3
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975
Value Added!'                 Labor Force-                    V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mfln.     g                  Mln.        %                     US $%-
Agriculture                   1,297.7      41.3                   ..
Industry                        298.5       9.5                   ..
Services                      1,545.9      49.2                   ..
Unallocated
Total/Average
3,142.1    100..                           10.0                               100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Goverwnent                               Central Government
Mlnof GoDPrp(US$  Mln)                                    %of GDP2A'
197      ~~197        196 -7                  l941   FY 1975         F17-7
197         7             -197 4/5  pyyl7 709 72
Current Receipts                      *-            *-           *-                   720.6       19.1          23.3
Current Expenditure                                                                   728.6       19.3          22.4
Current Surplus                       ..            ..           ..                   -8.0         0.2           0.9
Capital Expenditures3/                                                               267.3         7.1           4.3
External Assistance (net)                                                             285.7        7.6           1.1
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                 FY1970        FY1971      FY1972       FY1973       FY1974       FY1975   FY1976
TMllion    -outstanding end periodT
Money and Quasi Money                      123.1         130.6      146.2        190.9         245.2       292.4    368.2
Bank credit to Public Sector                90.1         112.2      139.6        152.6         196.5       329.4    431.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector               60.5          73.1        70.5        92.8         120.3       155.2    216.5
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP           21.1          20.8        18.7        21.9          22.2        20.1       .
General Price Index (1970 - 100)4/         106.7         108.2      120.9        141.6         178.6       221.4    225.1
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                          ..            1.4       11.7         17.1          26.1        24.0      1.6
Bank credit to Public Sector                43.9          24.5       24.4          9.3          28.8        67.6     31.0
Bank credit to Private Sector               -1.0          20.8       -3.6         31.6          29.6       29.0      39.5
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
1/ Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.  "Unallocated" consists
mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
2/ At market prices
3/ Expenditures from Development Budget (includes some capital expenditures by other public entities).
4|/ Refers to low salaried cost of living index.
(Less than Lsd 500 per annum).                 .. not available
not applicable
EACPIB
February 22, 1978



-    -                                                           ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
MUEN OF' PAXNN, 1 U            '33NhL A  8IM     AND MM
(eS in s511=e orf U.S. dotl rs *t cumrent psices)
Avg. Annual
Actual                         lltitd                                        Projected                          Growth Rate
b 973       1g74         iT            19 6           1977        1978         19           1980         1985         1973-1980
S k'PJ OF PAO ITS
Exports. (mnel. ills)                  6,47.5       394.4       436.5         581.7          615.6        703.9        819.7       936.1       1848.7             9.67.
,o,     e t   einc1. ])                399.0        603.4       790.0         867.7          976.9       1113.8       1261.6      1424.5       2587.2           17.27,
-13-         -0r                                        =        - 4-7F.TF                  -7RI.Z        -38.5
inter4est(net)Y                       -12,5        -20.8        -30.2         -57.4          -70.3       -8.          -90         -169         157                .8
ether Factor Payments                  -17.9       -21.0        -27.6         -15.0          -20.O        -20.0       -25.0        -25.0        -25.0            4.3%
Direct Investaent InuorP                -8.2         -8.0       -12.1         -20.0          -20.0        -22.0        -22.0        -22.0       -25.0            13.1%
workers' Remittance                      -            -            -           30.0           34.1         38.7         43.9         49.9         94.5
Curret Tranafere (nMt)                   6.2          0.4       _6.1           12.0           12.0         12.0         12.0         15.0        20.0           11.7%
Wlanes on Current Account- 16.1                    -257.7      _417.0        -6              4           _433.-1      -526.9      -
Private Direct Investsert                 -           4.9         10.0         30.0           34.3         39.2         44.8         51.2         99.9           34.1%
Official Capital (irants                10.0         25.1         10.0         30.0           60.0         84.0         70.0         70.0         88.0           27.5%
Public M66LT Loans
fl1eburseen,t                         66.8        314.2       1602.3        332.9          402.5        458.6        505.6       544.4        729.5            29.5%
-39.8       -37.9        -52.1         -64.2         -114.7      -142.4       -139.1       -135.4       -101.2           15.57.
Net ursellents 27                                                            268.8 287 . 8                            366.5    409.0 628.3                     41.1%
Other M4I1 Loans
Diebursements 
D eb,sunte                           -            -           -
Capital Transactions n.e.i.            -32.6         -8.9       225.8          50.0            52.5        55.1         57 9'        60.8         77.6
Chnnge in Net Eessrves  (.=increase)  -22.5         -39.7         63.0        -42.3           -9.1        -11.0       12i..         -13.6        -24.2
-      =:         =~ua I                      Estimated
CRM  AWD A06N CDCr15NfS                                                                        DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE             1973     1974      1975          1976
Official Grants & (3rant-like           34.0         35.0                       30.0         Public Debt Out. & Disbursed   377.0    723.0    941.7            1259.5
Public M6LT Loans                                                                              Interest on Public Debt        14.8      20.6      40.8           55.4
1mRD                                    -            -            -          20.0           Repayments on PublLc Debt       39.8      37.9      52.1           64.1
IDA                                   46.0         35.0         6(1.0        13.0            Total Public Debt Service      54.6      79.2      92.9          1t9.5
Otber                                   -            -            -                          other Debt Service (net)         -         -         -              -
other Multilateral                      -          81.0         26.0         80.0            Total Debt Service (net)       54.6      79.1      92.9          119.5
Governments                           68.0        170.0        15C.0          91.0
Suppliers                             50.0         54.0         63.0                       Burden on Export Earnings (7,)
Financial 7Intitutions                49.0        352.0         61.0
Bonds                                                                                        Public Debt Service            12.2      22.0      21.3           20.5
Public Lnane n.e.i.                                                                          Total Debt Service                -        -         -              -
Total Publie       IF.- l, Tf                      *8fr2T17                                    TDS+Direct Invest. Inc.         14.0      25.7     24.1           24.0
Actual Debt Outstarding on Dec. 31. 1975                     Average Tems of Public Debt
XTERNAL LENbTed Or                    t                         PRA-r
IPRD                                 741                                                       Int. as % Prior Year DOD       4.5       5.4       5.6            5.9
IDA                                  33.8                       3.6                            Amort. as % Prior Year D06D  12.1        10.1       7.2            6.8
Other Itltilateral                    51.3                      5.5
dovernments                         394.2                      41.9                          IBRD Debt Out. & Disbursed
Suppliers                            81.0                       8.6                            " sa% Public Debt 060           19.6      11.2      7.6            5.6
Financial Cnetitutitns              307.3                      32.7                            " as % Public Debt Service    20.7        19.6     12.6             9.4
Bonds
Public Debts n.e.i                      -                                                    IDA Debt Out. & Disbursed
Total Plablic MiLT Debt             941.7                                                      " as 7. Public Debt 06D          7.8       2.5      3.4            5.0
as % Public Debt 06D          0.5       0.5       0.3            0.3
Other M1LT Debts                        -
Short-tewm Debt (disb. only)
not applicable                                      e  staff estilate
not avai lable                                      - nil or negligible
not available separately                           --  less than lhlf the                                                                            FACPIB
but included in total                                  smalest unit shown                                                                           EACPb
!Febary 22, 1978



-23-
ANNEX II
Page 1
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS - SUDAN
(as of January 31, 1978)
Amount (US$ Million)
(Net of cancellation)
Credit No.      Year   Borrower   Purpose                   Bank   IDA      Undisbursed
Six Loans and one Credit fully disbursed;                  127.2   12.4
Credit 122       1968   Sudan       Education I                      8.5        1.5
Credit 311       1972   Sudan       Mechanized Farming II           11,3        6.2
Credit 331       1972   Sudan       Highway I                        7-0        1.0
Credit 364       1973   Sudan       Rahad Irrigation                42.0        9.5
Credit 364-2    1975   Sudan        Rahad (Supplement)              20.0       20.0
Credit 447       1973   Sudan       Industrial Bank of Sudan I       4.0       0.4
Credit 457       1974   Sudan       Railways III                    24.0        7.4
Credit 476       1974   Sudan       Agricultural Rehabilita-
tion Project                   10.7 2/    6-1
Credit 547       1975   Sudan       Education II                    10. 0       9.6
Credit 564       1975   Sudan       Power II                        23.0       10.3
Credit 589       1975   Sudan       Industrial Bank of Sudan II    7.0          4.5
Credit 614       1976   Sudan       Technical Assistance             4.0        3.9
Credit 643       1976   Sudan)                                       9.0        9.0
Loan 1287T       1976   Sudan)     Domestic Aviation        20.0    -         20.0
Credit 718 3/   1977   Sudan        Savannah Development            17.0       17.0
Credit 727 3/   1977   Sudan)                                        8.0        8.0
Loan 1467T 3/   1977   Sudan)      Railway IV               12.0    -          12.0
Total                                                  159.2  217.9      146.4
of which repaid                                       67.6    3.9
Total now outstanding                                   91.6  214.0
Amount sold                    5.8
of which repaid          l/58                                     2/
Total held by Bank and IDA-'                            91.6  214.0
Total Undisbursed                                       32.0  114.4      146.4
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/   Includes grant participation by Norway $5.35 million, of.which
$2.4 million is undisbursed.
3/   Not yet effective.



-24-
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of January 31, 1978)
Fiscal                                      Type of    (Amount in US$ Million)
Year               Obligor                 Business    Loan   Equity  Total
1964 and
1972      Khartoum Spinning & Weaving Co. Textiles    1.87   0.34    2.21
1976      Cotton Textile Mills                           8.71   1.27    9.98
1977      Seleit Livestock                              11.16   1.48   12.64
Total gross commitments                  21.74   3.10   24.84
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                     4.74   0.07    4.81
Total commitments now held by IFC        17.00   3.03   20.03
Total undisbursed                        10.38   1.59   11.97
C. PROJ]ECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
The Bank and IDA have so far made eight loans and fifteen credits
to the Sudan. Disbursements are either in progress or about to commence for
the following projects.
Credit No. 122    First Education Project; US$8.5 million Credit of June 24,
1968; Effective Date: January 4, 1969; Closing Date:
December 31, 19,'8
Major elements of the project are about 36 months behind schedule.
Delays were caused by belated appointment of consultant architects, dif-
ficulties in establishing project implementation procedures, weaknesses in
management, excessively high quotations received for construction items
necessitating re-tendering of certain project components, difficulties in
obtaining deliveries of materials, and late arrival of technical assistance
personnel. Work is now proceeding more satisfactorily although supply
shortages continue to interrupt construction. Recently changes were made in
project management.  Cost overruns have been met by reducing the scope of
the project. We are continuing to monitor the project closely with a view
to ensuring that the project is ccmpleted by the new closing date.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



-25-
ANNEX II
Page 3
Credit No. 547   Second Education Project; US$10.0 Million Credit of
May 1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project will help meet priority education needs, principally
in Southern Sudan. It provides among other things for development of a new
type of school, the Integrated Rural Education Center for schooling in the
rural context. Good progress has been made on the design work and in site
selection and the education sector survey supported under the project has been
completed.  Tendering is now under way and costs for some components are prov-
ing to be high.  Implementation of the construction program as expected is
proving to be difficult due to the widely scattered locations, but various
expedients are being tried.
Credit No. 311   Second Mechanized Farming Project; US$11.25 Million Credit
of June 12, 1972; Effective Date: April 24, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The first mechanized farming project (Loan 556-SU) to establish
about 140 farms of 1,000 feddans each (1 feddan = 1,038 acres) was completed
in July 1971, one year ahead of schedule and with substantial savings.
Encouraged by this success, the area of the original project was extended by
75,000 feddans and a second mechanized farming project covering a further
420,000 feddans was approved for which Credit 311-SU was signed on June 12,
1972. Implementation is going well, after some initial delays. Land clear-
ing and area under production are ahead of schedule and cooperation of other
agencies involved in the project, especially agricultural research, road con-
struction and water supplies has greatly improved, although progress on road
improvements and, in particular, construction of a training center are still
behind schedule. Feasibility studies for further expansion of mechanized
farming have been completed. Disbursements are proceeding steadily. A recent
appraisal of the Mechanized Farming Corporation has revealed some weaknesses
which are being addressed in the context of a third project.
Credit No. 364   Rahad Irrigation Project; US$62 Million Credit of March 20,
and            1973 and June 30, 1975; Effective Dates:  August 29, 1973
364a            and November 17, 1975; Closing Date:  June 30, 1980
The project will irrigate an area of about 300,000 acres which are
now sparsely populated semi-desert on the East Bank of the Rahad River. It
will use water pumped from the Blue Nile and will include the construction
of irrigation supply, distribution and drainage works, the provision of
agricultural processing equipment, storage facilities, and the settlement of
about 14,000 tenant families (about 70,000 people) with all the necessary in-
frastructure and supporting services. The Kuwait Fund and USAID participated
in the initial financing of this project by providing a loan of US$11 million
each. Significant cost increases, stemming from various causes, occurred
and an increase in the IDA credit of $20 million to $62 million was approved



-26-
ANNEX II
Page 4
by the Executive Directors on June 26, 1975. The remaining increase of $81.5
million in the foreign exchange cost is being financed by the Kuwait Fund
($39 million), the Saudi Fund for Development ($28 million) and the Arab Fund
($14.5 million). The Government will meet the increased local cost of the
project, totalling $80 million. Although work got off to a slow start in
1974, there was good progress in earth-moving, design work and procurement
of equipment in 1975. Since October 1975 implementation has been proceeding
energetically and the settlement and agricultural programs are proceeding on
the revised schedule. Diversion of the first water occurred in July 1977 to
irrigate 60,000 feddans, slightly behind schedule.
Credit No. 476   Southern Region Agricultural Rehabilitation Project;
US$10.7 Million Credit of June 5, 1974; Effective Date:
September 6, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project, which forms part of a larger rehabilitation program,
aims at intensifying food production by (i) providing improved seed to
farmers, (ii) expanding extension services, (iii) establishing a center for
nutrition research, and (iv) improving animal health and livestock production
through a program of vaccination, marketing and research. The project also
aims at rehabilitating the cotton and coffee growing industry, and estab-
lishing the nucleus of a small-farmer dairy industry. Research, credit
and technical assistance, including staff for a Project Development Unit
in the Ministry of Agriculture to implement the project, are also included.
Provision of staff housing and recruitment of staff took some time, but
has now been completed and good progress is now being made. Seed trials
and seed multiplication and cotton planting are under way. Coffee planting
is ahead of schedule. The associated cattle vaccination campaign, financed
largely by the Federal Republic of Germany, is under way, but the dairy and
livestock marketing components have encountered problems. A project review
mission took place in March 1977 and agreement has been reached on a few
modifications to reflect the difficulties encountered and in view of the fact
that the Region is now moving beyond the rehabilitation stage. Disbursements
are expected to be completed shortly behind schedule. The Government of
Norway has taken a participation in this credit amounting to US$5.35 million.
Credit No. 718   Savannah Development Project; US$17.0 Million Credit
approved on May 31, 1977; not yet effective;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project, financed by IDA and the Saudi Fund, will finance a
comprehensive agricultural development program in South Darfur Province,
including crop and livestock development, improved water maintenance, project
related agricultural research and creation of a Western Savannah Development
Corporation. Project implementation is just about to begin.



-27-
ANNEX II
Page 5
Credit No. 331   Highway Project; US$7.0 Million Credit of September 29,
1972; Effective Date: December 29, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
The project comprises assistance to the Roads and Bridges Corpora-
tion in improving its organization, in preparing a highway betterment and
maintenance program and purchases of related equipment, spares and materials.
Also inclded were feasibility studies of about 500 km of roads followed by
detailed engineering of about 350 km and technical assistance to the Ministry
of Transport in transport planning and training of RBPC staff. The project
is approaching completion, excepCt for the technical assistance component.
To provide time for execution of this component, the closing date has been
extended. Detailed engineering is underway on 550 km of roads shown to be
feasible in the feasibility studies. Financing for these roads is under
consideration by IDA and other financial institutions.
Credit No. 457   Third Railway Project; US$24 Million Credit of
January 31, 1974; Effective Date: July 29, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
The project is intended to help improve the Railways' operational
standards and maintain the capacity needed to meet expanding demand on the
trunk routes. It also recognizes the need to develop complimentary trans-
port modes and includes components to assist river transport, port develop-
ment and civil aviation. Supply of much of the equipment financed under
the credit is approaching completion and disbursements are now expected to
be rapid.
Loan No. 1467T   Fourth Railways Project; US$12 Million Loan of July 8, 1977
and          and US$8 Million Credit of July 8, 1977; not yet effective;
Credit No. 727   Closing Date:  December 31, 1982.
The project comprises Sudan Railways' investment requirements during
the first three years (1977/78-1979/80) of the Government's Six-Year Develop-
ment Plan. It includes new workshops, sleeper and rail renewal, completion
of a radio communications network, purchase of 10 locomotives and 400 wagons
and locomotive spare parts, completion of a training school and technical
assistance. Preparation of specifications and bidding documents is now in
progress. Financing to be provided by the Kuwait Fund, Arab Fund, Abu Dhabi
Fund, and the European Development Fund is a condition of effectiveness and,
apart from the FED grant, has been confirmed.
Loan No. 1287T   Domestic Aviation Project; US$20 Million Loan of July 9,
and             1976 and US$9 Million Credit of July 9, 1976;
Credit No. 643   Effective Date:  January 11, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
The project consists of final design and construction of two new
airports and upgrading of two existing airports, complete with terminal and
other facilities; navigational and communication equipment; and certain tech-
nical services. Design work has been completed and tendering is in progress.



-28-
ANNEX II
Page 6
Tendering was delayed by different procurement regulations of the financing
agencies (IBRD, IDA, FED and Saudi Fund). A problem has been encountered
in introducing new accounting procedures, but we expect to overcome this.
Credit No. 447    First IndustriaL Bank of Sudan Project:  US$4 Million Credit
of December 14, 1973; Effective Date: March 15, 1974;
Closing Date: I)ecember 31, 1978
The project was designed to help the Industrial Bank of Sudan to
function more effectively in financing industrial development in the private
and public sectors in the Sudan. The Credit was expected to meet IBS' re-
quirements of foreign exchange for the two-year period through 1975, but
business expanded rapidly and the Association had already approved subproj-
ects exceeding US$3.8 million by early 1975. Disbursements are expected to
be completed in mid-1978. A second credit to IBS was approved by the Board in
November 1975.
Credit No. 589   Second Industrial Bank of Sudan Project; US$7.0 Million
Credit of November 11, 1975; Effective Date: April 14,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project will continue IDA's support for this development finance
company, and will provide foreign exchange for small and medium sized indus-
tries. Together with foreign exchange made available by the Kuwait Fund and
the Government of Germany, the credit is expected to meet the foreign exchange
needs of the Industrial Bank up to late 1978.
Credit No. 546   Second Power Project; US$23.0 Million Credit of June 25,
1975; Effective Date: October 29, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
The project consists of the fourth unit of the Roseires hydro-
electric station, 20 MW of diesel generator capacity, transmission and dis-
tribution lines and a variety of managerial and technical studies and ser-
vices. Implementation of the generation and transmission features of the
project is proceeding generally on schedule although inadequate bids for the
civil works at Roseires delayed implementation of that component. Contracts
have been awarded for most of the main components and these indicate that
there is likely to be a 25% cost overrun. The Government is seeking addi-
tional foreign exchange to meet thease costs. A new management structure
is showing some promise, and good progress has been made in improving the
financial operations. The various studies financed under the project are
either in progress or nearing completion.
Credit No. 614   Technical Assistance Project; US$4.0 Million Credit of
April 7, 1976; Effective Date: October 4, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
The project, financed by IDA and the Kuwait Fund, will finance
preparation studies of high priority projects, to facilitate Sudan's public
investment. The Project Preparation unit has been established and in its
first three meetings, the Project Review Committee authorized eight studies
for financing under the project. EProgress achieved has been good.



-29-
ANNEX III
Page 1
SUDAN
PORT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: Eighteen Months
(b) Preparation by: Livesey and Henderson in Cooperation with
Coopers and Lybrand
(c)  Initial discussion with Bank:  January 1974
(d) First Bank Mission: November 1975
(e)  Appraisal Mission Departure:  July 1977
(f) Negotiations: January 1978
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: September 1978
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
III. Special Conditions
Under the Project Agreement, SPC should adjust its tariffs or
take such other action as may be necessary to achieve and maintain an 8%
rate of return on net fixed assets from 1978, except for the five fiscal
years immediately following the year during which the facilities at Port
Suakin begin operations (para 55).
IV. Conditions of Effectiveness
Under the Credit Agreement, effectiveness of the IDA credit would be
conditional upon the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement between
the Association and the Sea Ports Corporation and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
between the Government and SPC, and finalizing the necessary arrangements for
securing the ODM grant (para. 45).






IlRs,R 12615
~~~~~ ~~~~24                    *29W                                                 32~ -~9                        OP  a               *MUK
|A    R  A         R  E    P  U    B    L   t  C
SUDAN                                           |           O    F      E  G    Y   P    T
MAIN                                            j -rT
TRANSPORTATION                        L I B Y A                                                                                               
INFRASTRUCTURE                                           iR
5     E    A
_ - RiserSorolce               \         '                      _--i_--_1     N O        R   T  E    RN N
.~ ~ ~     ~    ~     ~ ~~*~ F2 p'                                                                     I j|n n   1  S 3 \AU1
Ba-um ne.s Suocfed Roods                                                          I'
Roods und T-dks, All Se(so-                j                           |                             "    Pee 7                                 2<   ii
Roods and Trodks, Dry S-oson               .D-6,
--Interrnot,ool ho,odorsos  C   H  A   D |                             i                          t,-'
. - 6roncoio1ndas                                                                                     '       '-dY:
*   NctionlCIp,tol                                                         :N   I                                                  E
Povinciol Copt
To-no pod VIloaos |-                                        ,edi9J                                                 ' j
5                       \  ~~~~~~~~N O  R T H E R N                K          hO.m.\@8 
/N  0   R  T  H  E  R  N   t    K  0   R  D  0   F  A  N
r.D  A    R  F  U    R                 
t               i    S  O  U  T  H A   K     RU  N   \ ;+,, K      a9D X,? AN.2toct                               >KAS
,/~~~~~~~~L \O r                           /s  I,o \,         - I ,6Ss /                                     1   - 
9,      E
r                                                                     s B A H RNE UN I  E
--'ZJ '_,  X                                                  Edo, /      E/'/   !  t  '   t              2
< ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EL   d 'D.,i
C          SE  N T R A L                                 EYRAT  U               N G  L E         I
,   t S 01                                             %< ~~~W E S T ER N            >        |Tri> E AS T,E RN  L-                                      i
,AFRICAt;-                                                       __>                                             >            f              (-
K  0   R       D  0, ,UGANN .                            K    XE ',N 9!         A       |
0      1T0    2~00    3, 'Q' G H A Z A L
]   0       L ::     2  L ::          21                                21                       , g     >  7                      \3s' _            _ _    _ _ 



