CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 781 SU
Project Agreement
(Port Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
SEA PORTS CORPORATION
Dated June 9, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 781 SU
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 9, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP-
MENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and SEA
PORTS CORPORATION (hereinafter called SPC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between The Democratic Republic of the Sudan (herein-
after called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty-two million dollars ($22,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that SPC agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement between the Borrower
and SPC, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement will be made available to SPC, except for
the amount allocated for Part A (f) of the Project, on the terms
and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS SPC, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. SPC shall carry out the Project described in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist SPC in the preparation
of the plans, specifications and bidding documents for, and in the
supervision of the execution of the Project, SPC shall employ
consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and condi-
tions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
(b) In order to assist SPC in the carrying out of Parts G
and H of the Project, SPC shall employ instructors and experts
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) SPC undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by SPC to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, SPC
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 2.05. (a) SPC shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) SPC shall: (i) maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of the Project including its
cost, (and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
relent to it by the Borrower, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(c) of this Section, enable the Association's representatives to
visit the facilities and construction sites included in the
Project and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds


﻿- 3 -
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to
the Association at regular intervals all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
its cost and where appropriate, the benefits to be derived
from it, the expenditures of the proceeds of the Credit so relent
to it and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, SPC shall prepare and furnish to the Associa-
tion a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation
of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be
derived from it, the performance by SPC and the Association of
their respective obligations under the Project Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
(d) SPC shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, pro-
perty and equipment of SPC and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.06. SPC shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, SPC shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of abrogating, assigning or waiving
the Subsidiary Loan Agroement or amending any of its provisions
in a manner inconsistent with the objectives of the Project.
Section 2.07. (a) SPC shall at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) SPC shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes, or threatens to interfere, with the prog-
ress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by SPC of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of SPC
Section 3.01. SPC shall at all times manage its affairs,
maintain its fincncial position, plan its future expansion and
carry on its operations, all in accordance with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and port practices and
under the supervision of experienced and competent management
assisted by qualified and competent staff.
Section 3.02. SPC shall at all times take all such action as
shall be necessary on its part to acquire, maintain and renew all
rights, powers and privileges which are necessary or useful in
its operations.
Section 3.03. SPC shall at all times operate, maintain, renew
and repair its facilities, plant, equipment and machinery in
accordance with appropriate engineering and management practices.
Section 3.04. SPC shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. For this pur-
pose, SPC undertakes to employ by December 31, 1978, or such other
date as the Association may agree, an insurance expert whose
qualifications, experience and terms of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association in order to advise SPC on its
insurance requirements.
Section 3.05. SPC undertakes: (a) to enforce a system for
ensuring prompt clearance from its quays, sheds, port storage
areas and other facilities under its control, of the cargo
unloaded therein or thereon; and
(b) to establish by June 30, 1979, or such other date
as the Association may agree, regulations providing for waste
disposal and for the control of oil spills in the port facilities
under SPC's control and shall thereafter take all such measures as
may be required for the strict enforcement of such regulations.
Section 3.06. Without limitations or restrictions to the
provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement SPC shall establish
a system to monitor its operations comprising the key indicators
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.


﻿- 5 -
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. SPC shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. SPC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than nine months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited,
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other infor-
mation concerning the accounts and financial statements of SPC and
the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall other-
wise agree, SPC shall take promptly as needed all such action
(including without limitation adjustments of its tariffs or other
charges) as shall be required to provide in any fiscal year an
annual return on the average of the current net value of its
fixed assets in service at the beginning and end of such fiscal
year at a rate of not less than eight per cent (8%), commencing
with the fiscal year starting July 1, 1978, provided, however,
that during the five fiscal years immediately following the year
during which the facilities at the new port referred to under
Section 3.02 (d) of the Development Credit Agreement, shall have
become operational, but not beyond said five fiscal years, such
annual return may be reduced to a rate of not less than three per
cent (3%).
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) the facilities at said new port shall be deemed to
have become operational at such date as the first
deep-sea vessel docks at said port to load or
unload cargo;


﻿-6-
(ii) the annual return specified in this Section shall
be calculated in respect of each fiscal year, by
using as the denominator one-half of the sum of the
current net values of the fixed assets of SPC in
service at the beginning and at the end of each
such year, and as numerator the net operating
income of SPC for the same year;
(iii) the term "current neL value of the fixed assets
of SPC in service" means the gross value of SPC's
fixed assets in service less the amount of accu-
mulated depreciation both as valued from time to
time in accordance with consistently applied
appropriate methods of valuation or revaluation
acceptable to the Association; and
(iv) the term "net operating income" means gross rev-
enues from all sources less all expenditures,
including expenses of administration, adequate
maintenance and taxes or any payment in lieu of
taxes and adequate provision for depreciation
but excluding interest and other charges on debt.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association may otherwise
agree, SPC shall not incur any debt, other than for money borrowed
to finance the Project, unless its net revenues for the fiscal
year next preceding such incurrence or for a later twelve-month
period ended prior to such incurrence, whichever amount is the
greater, shall be not less than 1.5 times the maximum debt service
requirement for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt including
the debt to be incurred.
(b) For the purpose of this Section:
(i) the term "debt" means all indebtedness of SPC,
including debt for the service of which SPC is
responsible, maturing by its terms more than
one year after the date on which it is originally
incurred;
(ii) debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date
of execution and delivery of a contract, loan
agreement or other instrument providing for such
debt; provided, however, that in the case of
guarantee of debt, debt shall be deemed to be


﻿-7-
incurred on the day the agreement guaranteeing such
debt has been entered into but only to the extent
that the guaranteed debt is outstanding;
(iii)  the term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of amortization (including sinking
fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
charges on, debt;
(iv) the term "net revenues" shall mean gross revenues
from all sources, adjusted to take account of
SPC's tariffs or other charges, in effect at the
time of the incurrence of debt even though they
were not in effect during the fiscal year or
twelve-month period to which such revenues relate,
less all operating and administrative expenses and
provisions for taxes, if any, but before provision
covering depreciation and interest and other
charges on debt; and
(v) whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
the Borrower, debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable for the purpose of servicing such debt
or, if such other currency is not so obtainable,
at the rate of exchange that will be reasonably
determined by the Association.
Section 4.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, SPC shall take all such measures as may be required to
collect its receivables within 45 days of the date of billing
and, notwithstanding the foregoing, to collect its receivables
outstanding as of the date of this Agreement by June 30, 1979,
or such other date as the Association may agree.
Section 4.06. In order to ensure that the execution by SPC
of any additional major project would not adversely affect its
financial position, SPC undertakes, until the completion of the
Project, to consult with the Association before undertaking any
such project involving an investment of more than the equivalent
of 500,000 Sudanese Pounds annually.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of SPC thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date 10 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
SPC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿9
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Sea Ports Corporation:
Sea Ports Corporation
P.O. Box 2534
Khartoum, Sudan
Cable address:                    Telex:
MAWANI KM                          464
Khartoum, Sudan
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of SPC may be taken or executed by
the Chairman of the Board of SPC or such other person or persons
as he shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. SPC shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of SPC, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by SPC pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Willi A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
SEA PORTS CORPORATION
By /s/ Omer Salih Eissa
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for civil works shall be awarded in accor-
dance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Cred-
its" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the
Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding as
described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding under the Project, SPC shall prepare
and forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any
event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability
to the public of the first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as z.he case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information
as the Association shall reasonably request; the Association will
arrange for the publication of such notice in order to provide
timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to
bid for the goods and works in question. SPC shall provide the
necessary information to update such notice annually so long
as any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding.
3.   Bidders for the works included in Part A of the Project
shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of
the Guidelines.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
NotwiL standing the provisions of Part A hereof, the Borrower
may award ontracts for goods or civil works estimated to cost
not more than $100,000 equivalent following competitive bidding
advertised locally in accordance with the Borrower's local pro-
cedures; provided that such procedures are satisfactory to the
Association and that the aggregate amount of contracts so awarded
shall not exceed the equivalent of $500,000.


﻿- 12 -
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to -tate in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to the purchaser of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Sudan may be granted a margin of
prefernce in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Sudan if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of Sudan and the Association that
the manufacturing cost of such goods includes a
value added in Sudan equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Sudan.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.


﻿- 13 -
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C
bids shalL be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid
from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preference
for Domestic Contractors
With respect to any contract for civil works included under
Category (2) of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and to be procured in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 of this Schedule, a margin
of preference of 7-1/2% may be granted to domestic contractors, in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a) Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided
in Part A of this Schedule and applicants for qualification
applying also for such preference shall be asked to provide,
as part of the data for qualification, such information, including
details of ownership, as shall be required to determine whether,
according to the classification established by the Borrower
and accepted by the Association, a particular firm or group of
firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding documents
shall clearly indicate the preference and the method that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids -to give effect
to such preference.
(b) After bids have been received and reviewed, responsive
bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.


﻿- 14 -
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.    Review of prequalification. SPC shall, before qualification
is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure
to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications in said
procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. The list
of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and, where applicable, of their eligibility for
domestic preference under Part C.1 above and of the reasons
for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalification and
for such eligibility shall be furnished by SPC to the Association
for its comments before the applicants are notified of the SPC
decision, and SPC shall make such additions to, deletions from,
or modifications in, the said list as the Association shall
reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, SPC shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, SPC shall,
before an award is made, inform the Association of the name
of the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and shall
furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review, a
detailed report, by the consultants referred to in Section 2.02 of
this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, together with the recommendations for award of the said
consultants and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that


﻿- 15 -
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform SPC and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, SPC shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Association of
the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of
such contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform SPC and the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
SPC Key Indicators
In order to assess progress towards enabling Port Sudan to
handle the forecast traffic growth, and to insure that SPC manage-
ment has the nucleus of an information system necessary for
continuing review and evaluation of port operations, the following
targets shall be reached by SPC:
Objective
(a) Equipment (Cargo Handling) Availability:       75%
to measure the effectiveness of the port      (from July
maintenance system                            1980)
(b) Equipment (Cargo Handling) Utilization:        85%
to measure the effectiveness of employment    (from July
of equipment in port operations               1980)
(c) General Cargo Clearance: to measure the       No net in-
effectiveness of movement of import cargoes   crease in
from the port area by rail and highway        accumula-
tion of
general
cargo un-
der con-
trol of
SPC
(d) Average Ship Waiting Time: to measure the     Less than
ability of the port to reduce waiting time    24 hours
in relation to increased productivity, and    average
to assess physical port capacity as re-       per ship
flected in waiting time                       (from Jan-
uary 1981)
(e) Productivity of Ships Working: to measure      5% increase
the rates of unloading/loading of princi-     by July
pal type carrier ships (objective applies     1979; fur-
to general cargo)                             ther 10% by
July 1980;
and further
5% by July
1981


﻿- 17 -
Objective
(f) Gang Shift Productivity: to assess the ex-     As in para-
pected increases in productivity of labor     graph (e)
in handling general cargo when augmented
by mechanical handling equipment


