Page  1
 December 7, 1995
His Excellency Jean Marie Cherestal
Minister of Economy and Finance
Republic of Haiti
Palais de Ministeres
Port-au-Prince, Haiti
Excellency:
Haiti: Port-au-Prince Water Supply Project (Credit No. 2052-HA) -
       Amendments to the Development Credit Agreement
       Please refer to the above captioned Agreement.
       We are pleased to inform you that, as a result of our recent
discussions on the subject, the Association agrees to amend said
Agreement as follows so as to provide for the establishment of an
Special Account and update the provisions on disbursements and
procurement procedures.
1.     Section 2.02 is amended by adding the following paragraph:
       "(c)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
       open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in
       the Borrower's central bank, on terms and conditions
       satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments
       out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with
       the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.".
2.     Section 4.01 is amended to read as follows:
"(a)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
              (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
              with sound accounting practices, records and separate
              accounts reflecting such expenditures;
              (ii)  ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
              bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such
              expenditures are retained until at least one year after
              the Association has received the audit report for the
              fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit
              Account or payment out of the Special Account was made; and
              (iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine
              such records.
       (b)    The Borrower shall:
              (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
              paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for the
              Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
              accordance with appropriate auditing principles
              consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
              to the Association;
              (ii)  furnish to the Association as soon as available,
              but in any case not later than four months after the end
              of each such year the report of such audit by said
              auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
              Association shall have reasonably requested, including a
              separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
              statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
              year, together with the procedures and internal controls
              involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to
Page  2
              support the related withdrawals; and
              (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
              concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof,
              as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
              request.".
3.     A new paragraph 3 is added to Schedule 1 to read as follows:
       "3.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
       Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for
       expenditures under contracts for works, goods and consultants'
       services under such terms and conditions as the Association shall
       specify by notice to the Borrower.".
4.     Part A of Section I of Schedule 3 is amended by replacing the
year "1985" by the year "1995".
5.     Section II of Schedule 3 is amended by inserting the number "1."
in the beginning thereof and by further inserting the following paragraph:
       "2. For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall
       employ such consultants under contracts using the standard
       form of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank,
       with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the
       Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have
       been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard
       forms agreed with the Association.".
6.     A new Section III is added to Schedule 3, to read as follows:
       "Section III.  Special Provisions
              Without limitation or restriction upon any other provisions
       in this Agreement, the following special provisions shall govern
       all procurement of works and goods referred to in Parts A and D of
       Section I hereof:
              (a)   foreign contractors and suppliers shall be allowed to
              bid on all contracts and shall not be required to be
              associated with local contractors or suppliers;
              (b)   except for the use of unskilled labor, there shall not
              be any restriction on sources of labor;
              (c)   there shall not be any restriction on sources of
              materials;
              (d)   no reference, minimum or maximum prices shall be used
              for purposes of evaluation of bids for the supply of goods;
              (e)   bids shall be opened in public and their prices shall
              be read aloud; and
              (f)   contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid was
              evaluated as the lowest and responsive, in accordance with
              criteria clearly set forth in the standard bidding
              documents.".
7.     A new Schedule 4 is added to read as set forth in the Attachment
to this letter.
       Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing
and dating this letter in the spaces provided below.  This amendment letter
shall be executed in two counterparts, each of which shall be an original.
Upon your confirmation, please return one fully executed original to us.
       The provisions of this amendment letter will become effective as of
the date the Association receives one fully executed original of this
amendment letter.
       Because of his interest in the matter we are forwarding a copy of
Page  3
this letter to the General Manager of Centrale Autonome Metropolitaine
d'Eau Potable.
                                    Very truly yours,
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                    Edilberto Segura
                                    Country Director
                         Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Agreed:
REPUBLIC OF HAITI
By:    Jean Marie Cherestal
       Authorized Representative
Date:  December 26, 1995
CC:    Mr. Gerald Jean Baptiste, General Manager
       Centrale Autonome Metropolitaine d'Eau Potable.
ATTACHMENT
                                SCHEDULE 4
                              Special Account
1.     For the purposes of this Schedule:
       (a)    the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
       (b)    the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated
from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
       (c)    the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $750,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; provided,
however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$350,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account
plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $1,500,000.
2.     Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.     After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
       (a)    For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
Page  4
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower
shall have requested.
       (b)    (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                     Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                     for deposits into the Special Account at such
                     intervals as the Association shall specify.
              (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                     Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                     documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                     paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                     payments in respect of which replenishment is
                     requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                     Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                     withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                     the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                     shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
                     said documents and other evidence to have been paid
                     out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective Eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.     For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence
showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
       (a)    if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V
of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
       (b)    if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
       (c)    if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to
the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
       (d)    once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the Eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice
to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible
Expenditures.
6.     (a)    If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A)
Page  5
provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless
the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower
has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
       (b)    If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association
such outstanding amount.
       (c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
     (d)      Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
