Page  1
December 21, 1998
His Excellency Fred Joseph
Minister of Economy and Finance 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Palais des Ministères 
Port-au-Prince Haiti
Ing. Gerald Jean-Baptiste 
Director General 
Centrale Autonome Métropolitaine d’Eau Potable 
Rue des Casernes numéro 104 
Boite Postale 1012 
Port-au Prince Haiti
Re:
HAITI/ Port-au-Prince Water Supply Project (Credit No. 2052-HA); 
Amendment to 
the Development Credit Agreement and Project Agreement
Dear Sirs:
We refer to the Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Haiti and 
the International Development Association (the Association) dated August 9, 1989 as 
amended in December 1995, January 1998 and July 1998 and to the Project Agreement 
between the Association and the Centrale Autonome Métropolitaine d’Eau Potable (CAMEP) 
dated August 9, 1989, as amended in January 1998, for the above Project. Pursuant to 
discussions between staff of the Borrower, CAMEP, and the Association, the Association 
agrees to amend the Development Credit Agreement (the Agreement) and the Project 
Agreement (the Project Agreement) as set forth below: The Development Credit Agreement
1.
In Section 1.02, a new paragraph (q) is added to read as follows: 
“(q)
“Monitoring Indicators” means the indicators set forth in Annex 1 
to this 
supplemental letter.”
2.
Schedule 2 is deleted in its entirety, and the text set forth in Annex 2 to this 
letter is substituted therefor.
The Project Agreement
1.
In Section 2.01 paragraph (a), Section 2.03, and Section 2.05 paragraph 
(c) the text “E.1 and E.2” is deleted and the text “E.1, E.2 and E.4” is substituted 
therefor.
2.
A new Section is added to Article III, reading as follows:
“Section 3.04. CAMEP shall maintain policies and procedures adequate to 
enable it 
to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
Monitoring Indicators, 
the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
its objectives.”
Kindly confirm the agreement of the Borrower and of CAMEP to the terms of this 
letter, including its Annexes, by dating and signing the counterparts of this letter 
in the space indicated below. The above amendments to the Development Credit Agreement 
and to the Project Agreement shall take effect upon receipt by the Association of a 
fully countersigned counterpart of this letter.
Because of his interest in the matter, we are sending a copy of this letter to the 
Minister of Public Works.
Very truly yours, 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  2
By /s/ Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Director, Country Management Unit
Caribbean
Agreed:
Agreed: 
REPUBLIC OF HAITI 
CENTRALE AUTONOME 
  METROPOLITAINE D’EAU 
POTABLE
By /s/ Fred Joseph
By /s/ Gerald 
Jean-Baptiste
Minister of Economy and Finance
General Manager
CENTRALE AUTONOME METROPOLITAINE D’EAU POTABLE (CAMEP)
MONITORING INDICATORS
(PLEASE SEE ORIGINAL FOR MONITORING INDICATORS, 
THE TABLE WILL NOT FIT INTO AGREEMENT)
Port-au-Prince Water Supply Project
Schedule 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to improve the availability of, and to 
expand access by consumers to potable water in Port-au-Prince and vicinity; (ii) to 
support the continued institutional strengthening of CAMEP through enhancing the role 
of the private sector in CAMEP operations; and (iii) to improve sanitary conditions in 
the Project  Area. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower, CAMEP and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Water Supply Infrastructure Investment
1.
Construction of a well field with an average daily capacity of about 19,600 
cubic meters in the part of the Project Area known as Tapage Galette and connection of 
the well field to the water transmission system at the reservoir known as R120 
including:
(a)
Construction of six wells, each with a depth of about 120 meters.
(b)
Acquisition and installation of pumps and related hydraulic and 
electrical equipment for the wells included in Part A.1 (a) of the Project.
(c)
Construction of electric power lines with a total length of about 11 
kilometers and acquisition and installation of electric substations and transformers 
thereof.
(d)
Acquisition and installation of pressure pipes with an aggregate length 
of about 34 kilometers and diameters ranging from 200 millimeters to 800 millimeters 
as follows:
       Diameter                                    
length
     (in millimeters )                    
  (in kilometers)
          200                                         10.54
Page  3
          250                                          9.65
          300                                          4.98
          400                                          5.33
          600                                          2.30
          800                                          2.12
                                                      -----
           Total      
      34.90
(e)
Construction of two pumping stations including electrical equipment to 
improve the supply of water to Reservoirs R120 and Christ-Roi.
2.
Improvement of the water distribution system in the Delmas area.
3.
Replacement or rehabilitation, as appropriate, of existing and construction of 
new, transmission mains conveying water from existing sources to the transmission 
system as follows:
Name/localization     Type             Length             Diameters
                                    (in kilometers)    (in millimeters)
Diquini              Replace            1.55                 200 
Chaudeau             Replace            1.25                 250 
Mme Baptiste          New               2.50                 250 
Mahotiere             New               4.525                400
Part B:
Expansion and Rehabilitation of Water Transmission, Pumping and Storage I
Infrastructure
1.
Construction of about 34.9 kilometers of new, and replacement of about 15 
kilometers of obsolete, transmission mains with pipe diameters ranging from 200 
millimeters to 800 millimeters as follows:
Name/Location Type
R120    
New 
Nazon 1
New 
Bourdon/ Christ-Roi
New 
Christ-Roi
New 
Mme Baptiste
New 
Mahotiere
New 
Secteurs R120-4
New 
Réservoir Nazon
New 
F7
New 
Diquini
New 
Chaudeau
New 
Bel-Air
Replace 
Magloire Ambroise
Replace 
Turgeau
Replace 
Réservoir Bourdon
Replace
2.
Construction of two storage reservoirs with an aggregate capacity of about 5,000 
cubic meters, as detailed below:
Reservoir Name/Localization
Capacity 
  (in cubic meters)
R120
3000 
Christ 2000
3.
Construction of a pumping station in the part of the Project Area known as Nazon 
with a capacity of about 250 cubic meters per hour and a pumping station in the part 
of the project Area known as Delmas, with a capacity of about 200 cubic meters.
4.
Acquisition and installation of monitoring and regulating equipment of CAMEP 
water systems.
Page  4
Part C.
Distribution Network and Connections
1.
Construction of about 67 kilometers of water distribution pipelines each having 
a diameter of less than 100  millimeters.
2.
Acquisition and installation of about 4400 new domestic connections and 1671 new 
non-domestic connections, and rehabilitation of about 2392 existing, domestic and 
non-domestic connections.
3.
Acquisition and installation of about 3600 water consumption meters in the 
domestic connections included in Part C.2 of the Project.
4.
Acquisition and installation of about 16 fire hydrants.
Part D.
Institutional Development of CAMEP
1.
Construction and maintenance of offices and monitoring stations required for the 
maintenance and operation of CAMEP facilities, including the works included in the 
Project.
2.
Acquisition and utilization of equipment, including vehicles and tools, required 
for maintenance and operation of CAMEP water supply facilities including the works 
included in the Project.
3.
Carrying out of a program of technical assistance and training to promote the 
development of management capabilities within CAMEP including the design and 
implementation of management systems and enhancing the role of the private sector in 
CAMEP operations.
Part E.
Technical Assistance
Provision of technical assistance for:
1.
Supervising and engineering of the works included in the Project.
2.
Studies for purposes of developing and designing a follow-up project including 
final designs and specifications.
3.
Studies for the purpose of preparing a plan to improve sanitation and waste 
disposal facilities and services in the Project Area.
4.
Survey of CAMEP customers.
*    *    *    *    *   *    *    *   *   *    *    *   *   *   *    *
The Project is expected to be completed by May 31, 1999.
