Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2052 HA
               (Port-au-Prince Water Supply Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
          CENTRALE AUTONOME METROPOLITAINE D'EAU POTABLE
                       Dated August 9, 1989
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2052 HA
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  August   9,  1989,  between  INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  (the  Association)  and CENTRALE AUTONOME
METROPOLITAINE D'EAU POTABLE (CAMEP).
     WHEREAS  (A)  by   an   agreement   (the  Development  Credit
Agreement) of even  date  herewith  between  the Republic of Haiti
(the Borrower) and the Association,  the Association has agreed to
make available to  the  Borrower  an  amount in various currencies
equivalent to fifteen million two hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 15,200,000), on the  terms and conditions set forth in
the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that CAMEP
agree to undertake such obligations  toward the Association as are
set forth in this Agreement;
     (B)  by an agreement  (the  Subsidiary  Loan Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower  and CAMEP, part of the proceeds
of the Credit provided for  under the Development Credit Agreement
will be made available to  CAMEP  on  the terms and conditions set
forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS CAMEP, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the  Development  Credit  Agreement  with  the  Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01. Wherever  used  in  this  Agreement, unless the
context otherwise  requires,  the  several  terms  defined  in the
Development Credit Agreement and in  the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
     Section  2.01.  (a)  CAMEP  declares  its  commitment  to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and,  to  this  end, shall carry out
Parts A, B, C, D, E.1  and  E.2  of the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in  conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering, water  supply  and sanitary practices, and
shall provide, or cause  to  be  provided, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and  other  resources required for the
the said Parts of the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation to  the  provisions  of paragraph (a)
above, CAMEP shall at all times maintain managers in the positions
of General Manager,  Planning  Manager, Operations and Maintenance
Manager, Commercial Manager  and Administrative/Financial Manager,
all  with  qualifications  and   experience  satisfactory  to  the
Association.
     Section  2.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
     Section 2.03. CAMEP shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,  9.06,  9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and services,
plans and schedules,  records  and  reports,  maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and
Parts A, B, C, D, E.1 and E.2 of the Project.
     Section 2.04. CAMEP  shall  duly  perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except  as the Association
shall otherwise agree,  CAMEP  shall  not  take  or  concur in any
action  which  would  have  the  effect  of  amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the  Subsidiary  Loan Agreement or any provi-
sion thereof.
     Section 2.05. (a) CAMEP shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the  Association with regard to the pro-
gress of the  Project,  the  performance  of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the  Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
     (b)  CAMEP shall promptly inform  the Association of any con-
dition which interferes or  threatens  to  interfere with the pro-
gress of the Project,  the  accomplishment  of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by  CAMEP of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
     (c)  Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section, CAMEP  shall: (a) by May 31 in each
year review with the  Borrower  and  the Association the status of
Page  3
implementations of Parts A,  B,  C,  D  and  E  (1) and (2) of the
Project including any actions that  need  to  be taken by CAMEP or
the  Borrower  in   the   event   of   any  shortcomings  in  such
implementation; and (b) promptly  thereafter take all such actions
as shall apply to CAMEP.
     Section 2.06. CAMEP shall,  for  purposes  of Part D.2 of the
Project:
     (a)  by May 31  in  each  year,  prepare  and  furnish to the
Association a plan  (the  CAMEP  Action  Plan) satisfactory to the
Association, for the  institutional  improvement  of  CAMEP and an
operational and  financial  plan,  including monitoring indicators
and financial projections for such year and for the following five
years; and
     (b)  implement the CAMEP Action Plan in a manner satisfactory
to the Association and  take  all  action  as shall be required to
meet  all   performance   targets   therein   (including,  without
limitation, adjustment of the structure or level of its rates).
     Section 2.07.  Without  limitation  or  restriction  upon its
obligations under Section  II  of  Schedule  3  to the Development
Credit Agreement, CAMEP shall, for purposes of the Project, employ
consultants  having  qualifications,   experience  and  terms  and
conditions of employment, all  satisfactory to the Association for
the preparation of tender  documents  and analysis and supervision
of the construction works.
                            ARTICLE III
                Management and Operations of CAMEP
     Section 3.01. CAMEP shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in  accordance  with  sound administrative, financial,
water supply  and  sanitary  practices  under  the  supervision of
qualified  and  experienced  managers  having  qualifications  and
experience  satisfactory  to  the   Association  and  assisted  by
competent staff in adequate numbers.
     Section 3.02. CAMEP shall  at  all times operate and maintain
its plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time
to time,  promptly  as  needed,  make  all  necessary  repairs and
renewals  thereof,  all  in  accordance  with  sound  engineering,
financial, water supply and sanitary practices.
     Section 3.03. CAMEP shall take  out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other  provision satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation for, insurance against such  risks  and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) CAMEP  shall  maintain records and accounts
adequate  to  reflect,   in   accordance   with  sound  accounting
practices,  its  operations  and  financial  condition,  including
separate  records   and   accounts   to   reflect  the  resources,
expenditures and investments in respect  of  Parts A, B, C, D, E.1
and E.2 of the Project.
     (b)  CAMEP shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  Fiscal  Year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
Page  4
               but in any  case  not  later  than  four (4) months
               after  the  end  of  each  such  Fiscal  Year:  (A)
               certified copies  of  its  financial statements for
               such Fiscal Year as so  audited, and (B) the report
               of such audit by  said  auditors, of such scope and
               in  such  detail  as  the  Association  shall  have
               reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as well  as  the  audit  thereof, as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request.
     Section 4.02. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
agree, CAMEP shall  maintain,  for  each  Fiscal Year after Fiscal
Year 1988, a ratio of  total operating expenses to total operating
revenues not higher than: (i)  90%  in  Fiscal Year 1989; (ii) 75%
in Fiscal Year 1990; (iii)  65%  in  Fiscal Year 1991; (iv) 55% in
Fiscal Year  1992;  (v)  50%  in  Fiscal  Year  1993  and  in each
subsequent Fiscal Year.
     (b)  Before May 31 in each year, CAMEP shall, on the basis of
forecasts prepared by CAMEP  and  satisfactory to the Association,
review  whether  it  would  meet  the  requirements  set  forth in
paragraph  (a)  hereto  in  respect  of  such  year  and  the next
following Fiscal Year, and  shall  furnish  to the Association the
results of such review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any  review  shows  that  CAMEP  would  not  meet the
requirements set  forth  in  paragraph  (a)  for  the Fiscal Years
covered by such review,  CAMEP  shall  promptly take all necessary
measures  (including,  without   limitation,  adjustments  of  the
structure  or  levels  of  its   rates)  in  order  to  meet  such
requirements.
     (d)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The  term  "total  operating  expenses"  means  all
               expenses related  to  operations, including admini-
               stration, adequate maintenance,  taxes and payments
               in  lieu  of  taxes,  but  excluding  provision for
               depreciation, interest and other charges on debt.
         (ii)  The term "total  operating revenues" means revenues
               from all sources related to operations.
     Section 4.03. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
agree, CAMEP shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast
of the revenues and expenditures of CAMEP shows that the estimated
net revenues of CAMEP for each  Fiscal Year during the term of the
debt to be incurred  shall  be  at  least  1.5 times the estimated
debt service requirements of CAMEP in such Fiscal Year on all debt
of CAMEP including the debt to be incurred.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term  "debt"  means  any  indebtedness of CAMEP
               maturing by its terms more  than one year after the
               date on which it was originally incurred.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (A) under a
               loan  contract  or  agreement  or  other instrument
               providing for such debt  or for the modification of
               its terms of payment on  the date of such contract,
               agreement or instrument; and  (B) under a guarantee
               agreement, on the date  the agreement providing for
               such guarantee has been entered into.
        (iii)  The  term  "net   revenues"  means  the  difference
               between:
Page  5
               (A)  the sum of  revenues  from all sources related
                    to operations  and  net  non-operating income;
                    and
               (B)  the sum of all  expenses related to operations
                    including  administration,   adequate  mainte-
                    nance, taxes and  payments  in  lieu of taxes,
                    but  excluding   provision  for  depreciation,
                    other non-cash operating  charges and interest
                    and other charges on debt.
         (iv)  The term "net non-operating  income" means the dif-
               ference between:
               (A)  revenues from  all  sources  other  than those
                    related to operations; and
               (B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
                    of  taxes,  incurred   in  the  generation  of
                    revenues in (A) above.
          (v)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate  of  repayments  (including  sinking fund
               payments,  if  any)  of,  and  interest  and  other
               charges on, debt.
         (vi)  The term  "reasonable  forecast"  means  a forecast
               prepared by CAMEP  not  earlier  than twelve months
               prior to the  incurring  of  the  debt in question,
               which both  the  Association  and  CAMEP  accept as
               reasonable and  as  to  which  the  Association has
               notified CAMEP of  its acceptability, provided that
               no event has occurred since such notification which
               has had,  or  may  reasonably  be  expected  in the
               future to have,  a  material  adverse effect on the
               financial condition or  future operating results of
               CAMEP.
        (vii)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary to value, in  terms of the currency of
               the Borrower,  debt  payable  in  another currency,
               such valuation shall be  made  on  the basis of the
               prevailing lawful rate  of  exchange  at which such
               other currency is, at  the  time of such valuation,
               obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
               or, in the absence of such  rate, on the basis of a
               rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
     Section 4.04. (a) Except  as  the Association shall otherwise
agree and  until  the  Project  has  been  completed,  CAMEP shall
neither commit itself to  nor  make  any capital expenditures (not
required for the Project) which  would  exceed by more than 1% the
current net value of CAMEP's  fixed assets in operation unless the
Association has been furnished  with evidence, satisfactory to the
Association, that the  proposed  expenditures are economically and
technically justified and CAMEP has obtained financing under terms
and conditions which will not  materially and adversely affect its
financial condition or operations,  including  the carrying out of
the Project.
     (b)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term "current net value of CAMEP's fixed assets
               in operation"  means  the  gross  value  of CAMEP's
               fixed  assets  in  operation  less  the  amount  of
               accumulated depreciation,  as  valued  from time to
               time  in  accordance  with  sound  and consistently
               maintained methods of valuation satisfactory to the
               Association.
         (ii)  The   term   "capital   expenditures"   means   all
               expenditures incurred on  account  of fixed assets,
Page  6
               including interest charged to construction.
     Section 4.05.  Without  limitation  or  restriction  upon the
provisions of Section 4.02 (c), and unless otherwise agreed by the
Association, CAMEP shall:
     (a)  commencing on December  15,  1989,  raise its tariffs on
each December 15 by the following percentages:
          (i)  until December 15, 1992,  by a percentage equivalent to
               the inflation rate plus four percentage points; and
         (ii)  thereafter, by a percentage equivalent to the inflation
               rate.
     (b)  maintain, for each  Fiscal  Year  after  Fiscal Year 1988, a
ratio of total metered and unmetered connections under maximum charges
by quality of service to total  connections not lower than: (i) 20% in
Fiscal Year 1989; (ii) 30%  in  Fiscal  Year 1990; (iii) 40% in Fiscal
Year 1991; (iv) 50% in Fiscal Year  1992; (v) 55% in Fiscal Year 1993;
and (vi) 65% in Fiscal Year 1994 and thereafter; and
     (c)  maintain, for each  Fiscal  Year  after  Fiscal  Year 1988 a
number of staff in payroll per 1000 water connections not higher than:
(i) 19 in Fiscal Year 1989; (ii)  18  in Fiscal Year 1990; (iii) 17 in
Fiscal Year 1991; (iv) 16 in  Fiscal  Year 1992; (v) 14 in Fiscal Year
1993; and (vi) 13 in Fiscal Year 1994 and thereafter.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 5.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and of CAMEP thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
          (i)  the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
         (ii)  the date 30 years after the date of this Agreement.
     (b)  If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms  before  the  date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the  Association shall promptly notify CAMEP
of this event.
     Section 5.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 6.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex, telefax or  radiogram  to  the  party to which it is
required or permitted to be given  or made at such party's address
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by  notice  to  the  party  giving  such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
Page  7
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
                INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     For CAMEP:
          Rue des Casernes Numero 104
          Boite Postale 1012
          Port-au-Prince
          Haiti
     Section 6.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or  permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on  behalf  of  CAMEP,  or  by  CAMEP  on  behalf of the
Borrower under the Development  Credit  Agreement, may be taken or
executed by the General Manager  of  CAMEP or such other person or
persons as  CAMEP  shall  designate  in  writing,  and CAMEP shall
furnish to the  Association  sufficient  evidence of the authority
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
     Section 6.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts, each of which shall  be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first hereinabove
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                    CENTRALE AUTONOME METROPOLITAINE D'EAU
                       POTABLE
                    By /s/ Leonce Thelusma
                                         Authorized Representative
