Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2052 HA
               (Port-au-Prince Water Supply Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF HAITI
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated August 9, 1989
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2052 HA
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  August  9,  1989,  between  the REPUBLIC OF
HAITI (the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of Parts B, C, D.1, D.2 and E.3 of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower intends  to  contract  from the Republic of
France, through Caisse Centrale  de Cooperation Economique (CCCE),
a loan (the CCCE  Loan)  in  an  amount equivalent to nine million
five  hundred  thousand  dollars  ($9,500,000)  to  assist  in the
financing of Parts A, D.3, E.1 and E.2 of the Project on the terms
and conditions set forth in an agreement (the CCCE Loan Agreement)
to be entered into between the Borrower and CCCE;
     (C)  Part E.3 of  the  Project  will  be  carried  out by the
Page  2
Borrower through its Ministry of Public Works (MPT);
     (D)  Parts A, B, C, D,  E.1  and  E.2  of the Project will be
carried out  by  Centrale  Autonome  Metropolitaine  d'Eau Potable
(CAMEP) with  the  Borrower's  assistance  and,  as  part  of such
assistance, the Borrower  will  make  available  to CAMEP, part of
the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
     (E)  By an agreement  (the  Project  Agreement)  of even date
herewith between the Association and  CAMEP, the latter has agreed
to undertake the obligations  set  forth in the Project Agreement;
and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and  conditions  set  forth  in  this  Agreement  and in the
Project Agreement of  even  date  herewith between the Association
and CAMEP;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Wherever  used  in  this  Agreement, unless the
context otherwise  requires,  the  several  terms  defined  in the
General Conditions and in the  Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Gourdes"  means  the  unit   of  the  currency  of  the
Borrower.
     (b)  "MPT" means the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works;
     (c)  "CAMEP"  means  Centrale  Autonome  Metropolitaine d'Eau
Potable, an autonomous agency  of  the Borrower established by the
CAMEP Decree (as hereinafter defined);
     (d)  "CAMEP Decree"  means  the  Borrower's  Decret Creant un
Organisme  public,  autonome,  de  duree  indeterminee,  ayant une
personnalite juridique propre et  jouissant de la capacite civile,
denomme "Centrale Autonome  Metropolitaine d'eau potable" (CAMEP),
dated May 13, 1964 and published in  the May 14, 1964 issue of the
Borrower's Journal Officiel de  la  Republique d'Haiti, as amended
on April 6, 1973 and on September 20, 1979;
     (e)  "CCCE" means Caisse  Centrale de Cooperation Economique,
an agency of the Government of the Republic of France;
     (f)  "Project  Area"  means  the  Port-au-Prince metropolitan
area, including the city of  Port-au-Prince and the communities of
Carrefour, Delmas and Petionville;
     (g)  "Project  Agreement"  means  the  agreement  between the
Association and CAMEP of even  date  herewith,  as the same may be
amended from time to  time,  and  such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
     (h)  "Subsidiary Loan Agreement"  means  the  agreement to be
entered  into  between   the   Borrower   and  CAMEP  pursuant  to
Section 3.01 (c) of  this  Agreement,  as  the same may be amended
from time to time,  and  such  term  includes all schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (i)  "Subsidiary Loan" means the  loan provided for under the
Page  3
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
     (j)  "Fiscal Year" means the fiscal  year of the Borrower and
CAMEP which commences on October 1 in each calendar year;
     (k)  "Follow-up Project" means a  complementary project to be
carried out under the  direction  of  the  Borrower in the Project
Area soon after the completion  of  the Project with the objective
of further improving water  supply  facilities and services and of
introducing  appropriate  sanitation  technology,  for  which  the
Borrower intends  to  request  financial  assistance  from foreign
sources;
     (l)  "Cul-de-Sac Aquifer" means  the water-bearing stratum of
permeable rock in the area  known  as  the Cul-de-Sac Plain in the
proximity of the Project Area;
     (m)  "Aquifer Management Study" means  the  study of the Cul-
de-Sac Aquifer currently being  undertaken  under the direction of
the Borrower to substantiate the  safe yield estimates of the said
Aquifer, determine  a  fair  allocation  of  water  from  the said
Aquifer to competing  users,  including  CAMEP,  based on economic
principles and to develop a  management  plan to prevent mining of
the said Aquifer beyond its safe yield;
     (n)  "CAMEP Action Plan" means any  of the annual plans to be
furnished to the Association by CAMEP pursuant to Section 2.06 (a)
of the Project Agreement;
     (o)  "Project Preparation Advance"  means the advance granted
by the Association  to  the  Borrower  pursuant  to an exchange of
letters dated April 9, 1987 and  May 22, 1987 between the Borrower
and the Association; and
     (p)  "Project  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 3.06 (a) of the Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in  various  currencies equivalent to fifteen
million  two  hundred   thousand   Special   Drawing  Rights  (SDR
15,200,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount of the Project  Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstand-
ing as of such date  and  to  pay  all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn  balance  of  the  authorized  amount  of  the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall  be  June  30, 1994 or
such  later  date   as   the   Association  shall  establish.  The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of  the  Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
Page  4
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled;  and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June  30 immediately preceding the accrual date
or at such other rates as may  be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate  set  as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06  of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30, 1988 shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of  any  kind  imposed  by,  or  in  the  territory  of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate  of  three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on  the  principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable  on  each  January  1  and July 1
commencing  July  1,  1999  and   ending  January  1,  2029.  Each
installment to and including the installment payable on January 1,
2009 shall be one percent (1%)  of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consi-
deration by them  of  the  development  of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency  of  the  United States of America
is hereby  specified  for  the  purposes  of  Section  4.02 of the
General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
Page  5
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to  this  end,  shall  carry  out  Part E.3 of the
Project through  MPT  with  due  diligence  and  efficiency and in
conformity    with    appropriate    administrative,    financial,
engineering,  water  supply  and  sanitary  practices,  and  shall
provide, promptly as needed,  the  funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without any limitation  or  restriction  upon any of its
other obligations under this  Agreement,  the Borrower shall cause
CAMEP to perform, in accordance with the provisions of the Project
Agreement, all the obligations  of  CAMEP therein set forth, shall
take and cause to be taken  all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities,  services  and  other  resources,  necessary or
appropriate to enable CAMEP to perform such obligations, and shall
not take or permit to be  taken  any action which would prevent or
interfere with such performance.
     (c)  The Borrower shall relend  to  CAMEP the proceeds of the
Credit required for the carrying out  of  Parts B, C, D.1, and D.2
of the Project, under an agreement (the Subsidiary Loan Agreement)
to be entered into between the Borrower and CAMEP, under terms and
conditions which shall have  been  approved by the Association and
which shall include the following:
          (i)  that the Subsidiary  Loan  shall be denominated and
               repaid in Gourdes;
         (ii)  that CAMEP shall  pay  interest  on the outstanding
               balance of the Subsidiary  Loan  at a fixed rate of
               7% per year;  provided,  however, that the Borrower
               shall deduct from  the  amount  due to the Borrower
               from CAMEP on account  of interest any amounts owed
               to CAMEP by  any  agency  of  the Borrower for more
               than three months; and
        (iii)  that the proceeds  shall  be  repaid  in  a 30 year
               term, including therein a  grace  period of 5 years
               on principal.
     (d)  The Borrower shall exercise  its rights under the Subsi-
diary Loan Agreement in such a  manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the  Credit,  and  except  as  the  Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower  and  the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of  the  General  Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of  goods  and  services,  plans  and  schedules,  records and
reports,  maintenance  and   land  acquisition,  respectively)  in
respect of Parts A, B, C, D,  E.1  and E.2 of the Project shall be
carried out by  CAMEP  pursuant  to  Section  2.03  of the Project
Agreement.
     Section 3.04.  Without  restriction  or  limitation  upon the
Association's  rights  under  Section  9.01  (a)  of  the  General
Conditions, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  not  later  than   June   30,   1990,   furnish  to  the
Association:
          (i)  a report or  reports  in  such  detail  and of such
               scope as the  Association shall reasonably request,
               of the results  and  recommendations of the Aquifer
Page  6
               Management Study and the study included in Part E.3
               of the  Project,  including,  in  the  case  of the
               Aquifer Management Study, adequate consideration of
               the water supply needs of CAMEP; and
         (ii)  a  plan  for  improving   the  development  of  the
               Borrower's water supply and sanitary facilities and
               services outside of the Project area.
     (b)  not later than  September  30,  1990 exchange views with
the Association  on  the  reports  and  the  plan  referred  to in
subparagraphs (a) (i) and (a) (ii), respectively, of this Section.
     (c)  not  later   than   March   31,   1991,   take  actions,
satisfactory to the Association:
          (i)  to implement  the  recommendations  of  the studies
               referred  to  in  subparagraph   (a)  (i)  of  this
               Section, including,  in  the  case  of  the Aquifer
               Management Study,  the  actions  required:  (A) for
               attaining  efficient   allocation   of  groundwater
               resources  from   the   Cul-de-Sac   Aquifer  among
               competing users including CAMEP;  and (B) to assure
               CAMEP's access  to  the  Cul-de-Sac  Aquifer and to
               protect  its  wells  from  interference  from other
               aquifer users; and
         (ii)  for   improving   the   financial,   operating  and
               management   capabilities   of   the   institutions
               responsible  for   the   facilities   and  services
               referred  to  in  subparagraph  (a)  (ii)  of  this
               Section.
     Section 3.05. The  Borrower  shall:  (a)  by  June 30 of each
Fiscal Year review with  CAMEP  and  the Association the status of
implementation of Parts A,  B,  C,  D  and  E  (1)  and (2) of the
Project including the Borrower's  and  CAMEP's compliance with the
provisions of this  agreement  and  the  Project Agreement respec-
tively and, including also any  actions  that  need to be taken by
the Borrower or CAMEP  in  the  event  of any shortcomings in such
implementations  or  of  any   non-compliance;  and  (b)  promptly
thereafter take all such actions as shall apply to the Borrower.
     Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  for the  purposes  of  the  Project,  open  on or before
October 15, 1989 and maintain  an  account  in its Central Bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
     (b)  make adequate deposits into the Project Account; and
     (c)  make payments out  of  such  Project Account exclusively
for expenditures required for the Project.
                            ARTICLE IV
                   Financial and Other Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, separate records and  accounts adequate to reflect, in
accordance  with  sound   accounting  practices,  the  operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of Part E.3 of the Project.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the accounts referred  to  in paragraph (a) of
               this  Section  for  each  Fiscal  Year  audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing  principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association  as  soon as available,
Page  7
               but in any  case  not  later  than  four (4) months
               after the end of each  such Fiscal Year, the report
               of such audit by  said  auditors, of such scope and
               in  such  detail  as  the  Association  shall  have
               reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     Section 4.02. The Borrower  shall, promptly as required, take
all actions necessary  on  its  part  to  enable  CAMEP to set and
maintain the level of  rates  required  to enable CAMEP to fulfill
its obligations under Sections  2.06  (b),  4.02, 4.03 and 4.04 of
the Project Agreement.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  CAMEP shall have failed  to  perform  any of its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement.
     (b)  As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement,  an  extraordinary  situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that  CAMEP will be able to perform
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
     (c)  The CAMEP  Decree  or  the  legislation  referred  to in
Section 6.01  (c)  of  this  Agreement  shall  have  been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived  so as to, in the opinion
of the Association, affect materially and adversely the ability of
CAMEP  to  perform  any  of  its  obligations  under  the  Project
Agreement or to limit its management and operational autonomy.
     (d)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any  action  for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of CAMEP or for the  suspension  of its operations or for the
limitation of its operational autonomy.
     (e)  The CCCE  Loan  Agreement  shall  have  failed to become
effective  by  December  31,  1989,  or  such  later  date  as the
Association may agree; provided,  however,  that the provisions of
this paragraph shall not apply  if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction  of  the  Association  that  adequate  funds  for the
Project are available to the  Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent  with  the  obligations  of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
     (f)  (i)  Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
               (A)   the right  of  the  Borrower  to withdraw the
                     proceeds of the CCCE Loan or of any loan made
                     to the  Borrower  for  the  financing  of the
                     Project shall have  been suspended, cancelled
                     or terminated in  whole  or in part, pursuant
                     to  the  terms  of  the  agreement  providing
                     therefor, or
               (B)   any  such  loan  shall  have  become  due and
                     payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
         (ii)  Subparagraph (i) of this  paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the   Association   that:   (A)   such  suspension,
               cancellation,  termination  or  prematuring  is not
               caused by the  failure  of  the Borrower to perform
               any of its  obligations  under  such agreement; and
Page  8
               (B) adequate funds for the Project are available to
               the Borrower from other sources on terms and condi-
               tions  consistent  with   the  obligations  of  the
               Borrower under this Agreement.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  the event specified in paragraph  (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall  occur  and  shall  continue  for a period of
sixty days after  notice  thereof  shall  have  been  given by the
Association to the Borrower;
     (b)  the  events  specified  in  paragraphs  (c)  and  (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
     (c)  the  event  specified   in   subparagraph  (f)(i)(B)  of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso
in subparagraph (f)(ii) of that Section.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section  6.01.  The   following   events   are  specified  as
additional  conditions  to  the  effectiveness  of  this Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement  has  been  executed on
behalf of the Borrower and CAMEP;
     (b)  the  CCCE  Loan  has  been  approved  by  the  Board  of
Directors of CCCE; and
     (c)  the Borrower  has  enacted  legislation, satisfactory to
the Association, granting  management  and operational autonomy to
CAMEP.
     Section  6.02.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to  be  included  in  the  opinion  or  opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
     (a)  that the Project Agreement  has  been duly authorized or
ratified by CAMEP, and is legally binding upon CAMEP in accordance
with its terms;
     (b)  that  the  Subsidiary  Loan   Agreement  has  been  duly
authorized or ratified by  the  Borrower  and CAMEP and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and  CAMEP in accordance with its terms;
and
     (c)  that the legislation referred to  in Section 6.01 (c) of
this Agreement has been duly enacted.
     Section 6.03. The date  November  9, 1989 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
     Section 6.04.  The  obligations  of  the  Borrower  under the
provisions of  Section  4.02  and  of  paragraphs  (a)  and (b) of
Section 5.02 of this  Agreement  shall  cease and determine on the
date on which this  Agreement  shall  terminate  or on the date 30
years after the date  of  this  Agreement,  whichever shall be the
earlier.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Minister  of  Economy  and  Finance  of the
Borrower is designated as  representative  of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Page  9
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Economy and Finance
          Palais des Ministeres
          Port au Prince
          Haiti
          Fax Number:                         Telex:
               509-1-24420                       203-0347
                                                 ____________
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first hereinabove
written.
                    REPUBLIC OF HAITI
                    By /s/ Leonce Thelusma
                                         Authorized Representative
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                    By /s/ Shahid Husain
                                           Regional Vice President
                                   Latin America and the Caribbean
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Works                   5,680,000           80%
(2)  Goods                   6,060,000           100%
Page  10
(3)  Consultants'              160,000           100%
     Services under
     Part D.3 of
     the Project
(4)  Refunding of              600,000           Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
     tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
                                                 Agreement
(5)  Unallocated             2,700,000
                             _________
     TOTAL                  15,200,000
                            ==========
2.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals shall be made:  (a)  in  respect  of payments made for
expenditures prior to  the  date  of  this  Agreement;  and (b) in
respect of Category  (1)  unless  consultants  satisfactory to the
Association have been employed by  CAMEP  for purposes of Part E.1
of the Project and for the design and implementation of management
systems included under part D.3 of the Project.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the  Project  are  to:  (i) assist CAMEP to
become an  operationally  more  efficient  and  financially viable
entity;  (ii)  improve  and  expand  water  supply  and sanitation
services  in  the  Project  Area;  and  (iii)  prepare  plans  for
improving sanitary  conditions  in  the  Project  Area through the
introduction of appropriate and affordable waste water and excreta
disposal mechanisms.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Water Supply Infrastructure Investments
1.   Construction of a well  field  with an average daily capacity
of about 20,000 cubic meters in the part of the Project Area known
as Tapage Galette and connection  of  the  well field to the water
transmission system at the reservoir known as R120 including:
     (a)  Construction of six wells,  each  with  a depth of about
120 meters.
     (b)  Acquisition  and  installation   of  pumps  and  related
hydraulic and  electrical  equipment  for  the  wells  included in
Part A.1 (a) of the Project.
     (c)  Construction of electric power lines with a total length
of  about  11  kilometers  and  acquisition  and  installation  of
electric substations and transformers thereof.
     (d)  Acquisition and installation  of  pressure pipes with an
aggregate length of about 10 kilometers and diameters ranging from
200 millimeters to 600 millimeters as follows:
                 Diameter                  Length
             (in millimeters)          (in kilometers)
                      200                    2.4
                      300                    1.7
                      350                    0.4
                      400                    0.8
                      450                    0.9
                      600                    4.0
Page  11
                            Total           10.2
     (e)  Construction of  protection  and  control structures for
the pumps and electrical  equipment  included  in Parts A.1 (a) to
(d) of the Project.
2.   Construction of catchment  and  protection  structures at the
spring in the part of the Project Area known as Gentil.
3.   Replacement or rehabilitation,  as  appropriate, of existing,
and construction of  new,  transmission  main conveying water from
existing sources to the transmission system as follows:
  Name/Location      Type           Length          Diameters
                                (in kilometers) (in millimeters)
   Diquini           Replace          2.40               600
                                      1.55               250
   Chaudeau          Replace          1.25               200
   Leclerc           Replace          0.85               300
   Plaisance-        Replace          1.85               250
   Cerisier
   Gentil            New              0.85               250
   Mme. Baptiste     New              2.00               250
   Corosol           New              0.40               200
   Corosol           New              1.00               150
Part B:   Expansion  and  Rehabilitation  of  Water  Transmission,
          pumping and storage infrastructure
1.   Construction of about 25  kilometers  of new, and replacement
of about 15 kilometers  of  obsolete, transmission mains with pipe
diameters ranging from 200 millimeters to 800 millimeters.
2.   Construction of three  storage  reservoirs  with an aggregate
capacity of about 5,000 cubic meters, as detailed below:
        Reservoir Name/Location              Capacity
                                         (in cubic meters)
              R120                               3000
              Gentil                             1000
              Mme. Baptiste                      1000
3.   Construction of a pumping station  in the part of the Project
Area known as Gentil with a capacity of about 200 cubic meters per
hour.
4.   Acquisition and  installation  of  monitoring  and regulating
equipment of CAMEP's water systems.
Part C:   Distribution network and connections
1.   Construction of about  120  kilometers  of water distribution
pipelines each having a diameter of less than 100 millimeters.
2.   Acquisition  and  installation  of  about  4400  new domestic
connections   and   600    new   non-domestic   connections,   and
rehabilitation of about  5200  existing, domestic and non-domestic
connections.
3.   Acquisition and installation of  about 2500 water consumption
meters in the domestic  connections  included  in  Part C.2 of the
Project.
4.   Acquisition  and  installation  of   about  2600  water  flow
regulating devices in non-metered  domestic connections to prevent
overflow of water from storage tanks.
5.   Construction of about 150  new,  and the improvement of about
50 existing, public water standpipes.
Page  12
6.   Acquisition and installation of about 50 fire hydrants.
Part D:   Institutional development of CAMEP
1.   Construction  and  maintenance   of  offices  and  monitoring
stations required for  the  maintenance  and  operation of CAMEP's
facilities, including the works included in the Project.
2.   Acquisition and utilization  of equipment, including vehicles
and tools, required for maintenance and operation of CAMEP's water
supply facilities including the works included in the Project.
3.   Carrying  out  of  a  program  of  technical  assistance  and
training to  promote  the  development  of management capabilities
within CAMEP including the design and implementation of management
systems.
Part E:   Consultants' services
1.   Supervision and  engineering  of  the  works  included in the
project.
2.   Studies for purposes of  developing and designing the Follow-
up Project including final designs and specifications.
3.   Studies for  the  purpose  of  preparing  a  plan  to improve
sanitation and  waste  disposal  facilities  and  services  in the
Project Area.
Part F:  Acquisition of Land
    Acquisition of land required for the purposes of the Project.
                           *   *   *   *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1993.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part  D  hereof,  goods and works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured under
contracts awarded in  accordance  with  procedures consistent with
those set forth  in  Sections  I  and  II  of  the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  goods  manufactured  in Haiti may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, Haiti may grant a margin of preference
to domestic contractors in  accordance  with,  and subject to, the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and para-
graph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
     Contracts for civil works estimated to cost not more than the
equivalent of $500,000, up  to  an  aggregate amount not to exceed
Page  13
the equivalent of $1,000,000, and contracts for goods estimated to
cost not more than the equivalent  of $100,000, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the  equivalent  of $500,000, may be procured
under contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of  competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance  with procedures satisfactory to
the Association.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   The procedures set forth in paragraphs  2 and 4 of Appendix 1
to the Guidelines shall apply to  all contracts for works or goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II:  Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the Borrower and CAMEP in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower  and  CAMEP  shall  employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms  and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the  Association. In addition, in respect
of the consultants to be  employed  under Part E.3 of the Project,
the Borrower shall  select  such  consultants,  in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory  to  the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the  Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World  Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
