Dommet of
The World Bank
FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
Rqort No.  13817
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURKINA FASO
FERTILIZER PROJECT
(CREDIT 1550-BUR)
DECEMBER 29, 1994
Agriculture Operations Division
Sahel Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
US$1.00(1985) = CFAF378.10
US$1.00(1986) = CFAF 322.80
US$1.00(1987) = CFAF 267.00
US$1.00(1988) = CFAF303.00
US$1.00 (1989) = CFAF 289.40
US$1.00(1990) = CFAF252.50
US$1.00(1991) = CFAF259.00
US$1.00(1992) = CFAF 275.30
US$1.00(1993) = CFAF 278.00
US$1.00(1994) = CFAF 590.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
BUNASOLS   National Soils Laboratory
CFD           French Development Bank
(Caisse Francaise de developpement)
CIRAD         French International Center for Agricultural Research and Development
(Centre de cooperation internationale en recherche agronomique pour
le developpement)
CNCA          National Bank for Agricultural Credit
(Caisse Nationale du Cr6dit Agricole)
CRPA          Regional Center for Agricultural and Livestock Development
(Centre Regional de Promotion Agro-Pastorale)
DIMA          Agriculture Inputs and Equipment Department (Ministry of Agriculture)
FAC           French Aid Agency Fund
(Fonds d'aide et de cooperation)
GTZ           German Technical Cooperation
IBF           Integrated Biological Farming Company Inc.
INERA         National Institute of Agricultural Research
(Institut National d'Etudes et de Recherches Agricoles)
ORD           Regional Development Authority
(Organisme Regional de Developpement)
PCU           Fertilizer Project Coordination Unit
PASA          Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program
(Programme d'ajustement sectoriel de l'agriculture)
SAGOP         Organization and Project Management Support Service
(Ministry of Agriculture)
SISP          Monitoring Service of Externally-funded Projects
(Ministry of Planning and Development)
SOFITEX       Mixed State Cotton Company
(Societe burkinabe des fibres textiles)
SOSUCO        Comoe Sugar Company
(Societe Sucriere de la Comoe)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by rFpiOnts ocipin the p.fOmD*C of their
official duties. Its oontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Banlc authortzSon.



I



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 29, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Burkina Faso
Fertilizer Project (Credit 1550-BUR)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Burkina Faso-Fertilizer Project
(Credit 1550-BUR) prepared by the Africa Regional Office. Part II was prepared by the
Borrower. The project was cofinanced by France (CFD and FAC) and the Netherlands.
Comments from the cofinanciers are not reported.
The objective of the project was to improve the pattern of fertilizer use by removing
subsidies and pursuing other reforms designed to orient fertilizer use towards domestic sources of
supply such as rock phosphate, and promoting increased use of animal manure and other organic
materials. The project financed fertilizer imports (on a declining basis in line with the phase out
of subsidy), fertilizer field trials, a range of training for the agencies involved, a feasibility study of
a fertilizer mixing plant (which proved to be unviable), and provided a fund for short term credit.
There proved to be little demand for short term credit, and most of the funding for this
component was cancelled, as was that for the fertilizer plant. The remaining elements of the
project were successfully implemented. Despite the increase in price, fertilizer use has increased
and the potential for using local organic materials (e.g., sugar waste) as fertilizer, and of
composting, have been demonstrated. The project outcome is rated as satisfactory, institutional
development as modest and sustainability as likely.
The completion report provides an adequate account of project implementation. An
audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
|official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.l






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURKINA FASO
FERTILIZER PROJECT
(Credit 1550-BUR)
Table of Contents
PREFACE ....................................................i
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ....................................................u
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE   .                                                                    .......................1
A. Project Identity ....................................................1
B. Background ....................................................1
C.  Project Objectives and Description ....................................................2
D.  Project Design  and  Organization ...................................................4
E.  Project Implementation ...................................................6
F. Project Results ....................................................8
G. Economic Analysis ................................................... 13
H.  Project Sustainability ...................................................                                                      13
I.  Bank Performnance ....................................................                                                          14
J.   Borrower Performance ...................................................                                                       15
K.  Lessons Learned  ...................................................  16
PART H: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE    .. 17
A. Major Obstacles ...................................................                                                              17
B.  Review   of Donor Performance ................................................... 19
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION ...................................................                                                     21
1.  Related  IDA  Credits ...................................................                                                      21
2.   Project Timetable ...................................................                                                          22
3.   Cumulative Estimated  and  Actual Disbursements ..............................................    22
4.   Project Costs and  Financing ...................................................                                               23
5.   Status of Credit Covenants ...................................................                                                 25
6.   Use of Bank  Resources ....................................................                                                    26
ANNEXE S
Annex  1.  Fertilizer Project:  Disbursement of IDA  Credit .................                                  ................ 27
Annex  2:  Crop  Price Movements .................................................... 28
Annex  3:  Fertilizer Price Movements ...................................................                                     29
Annex  4:  Consumption  of Fertilizers ...................................................                                    30
Annex 5: Table of Project Costs and Financing (in CFAF millions)                                                              32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performan&c of their
official duties.  Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURKINA FASO
FERTILIZER PROJECT
(Credit 1550-BUR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for a Fertilizer Project in
Burkina Faso, for which Credit 1550-BUR in the amount of SDR 13.8 million (US $13.7
million equivalent) was approved on February 26, 1985. It was signed on April 18, 1985,
and became effective on November 4, 1985.
The project was co-financed by Caissefranfaise de developpement (CFD)
in an amount of FF 30 million approved on April 16, 1985, by Fonds d'aide et de
coop&ration (FAC) in an amount of FF 16 million approved on November 19, 1985, and
by the Netherlands, under arrangements to provide assistance in kind to a value of HFL
7.5 million and by the Federal Republic of Germany for $ US 2.0 million equivalent.
After three extensions and four amendments, this IDA Credit Agreement
was closed on June 30, 1993, 18 months later than initially anticipated. The last
disbursement was made on November 4, 1993. The project cycle thus extended over an
eight-year period.
SDR 7.7 million was disbursed, SDR 4.5 million was cancelled in
November 1986, and SDR 1.6 million remained undisbursed.
The PCR (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Part I, and Part III) was prepared
by the Agriculture Operations Division of the Bank's Sahelian Department, and at the
Bank's request the Government of Burkina, as Borrower, prepared Part II.
The PCR is based on: (i) such documents as the Credit Agreement and
amendments to it, the President's Report, working documents, memoranda, supervision
reports, project progress reports, and correspondence; (ii) discussions with project
officials; and (iii) the findings of a project completion mission to Burkina Faso.






- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURKINA FASO
FERTILIZER PROJECT
(Credit 1550-BUR)
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Background
i)           The project was designed to address the problem of fertilizer subsidies
encountered under the rural development projects the Bank was financing in the
Bougouriba, Volta Noire and Hauts Bassins departments. The cotton parastatal,
SOFITEX, provided fertilizer to farmers for cotton production at subsidized prices that
covered only about one-third of their real cost. SOFITEX was virtually the sole supplier
of fertilizer in the country. To the extent these fertilizers were actually applied to cotton,
the subsidy did not pose a problem since SOFITEX recuperated it by lowering the price it
paid for seed cotton. Farmers, however, increasingly began to apply SOFITEX-supplied
fertilizer to food crops and by 1982, 55 percent of all fertilizer was used for the
production of cereals. SOFITEX could not recuperate the subsidy on fertilizers applied to
food crops and it claimed compensation from Government. When fertilizer use for cereals
was small, this did not pose a problem and Government duly compensated SOFITEX.
However, fertilizer use for food crops mushroomed because of its low price and ready
availability. Soon, subsidy amounts became too large for Government to pay; arrears
began to accumulate and the situation became untenable. The Bank, therefore, proposed a
proje.ct to eliminate the fertilizer subsidies over a period of five years and to finance some
accompanying actions to improve the fertilizer subsector.
Objectives
ii)          The principal objectives of the Project were to improve fertilizer subsector
policies and the structure of fertilizer use by removing subsidies and other distortions, by
identifying and providing better and cheaper fertilizers and by eliminating supply
inadequacies. The project was designed to use policy reforms to orient fertilizer use for
cereal increasingly toward domestic sources of supply (animal manure and other organic
matter; rock phosphate). In the process, the project would help create a pattern of
fertilizer use for food crops whereby farmers use the type best suited to their particular
crop and soil condition, thereby lowering the cost of fertilization for the country as a
whole.



- iii -
iii)         To achieve the objectives, the project would finance fertilizer imports (the
counterpart funds of which would be used for financing the residual subsidy), fertilizer
field trials, a credit component, the continued production of rock phosphate and training
of accountants responsible for administering fertilizer transactions. The project would
also study the feasibility of a fertilizer plant and finance its construction if found feasible.
Implementation Experience
iv)          The Credit became effective on November 4, 1985, about three months
after the planned effectiveness date. The Credit Closing Date was extended, first by six
months to allow for completion of analysis of fertilizer test results and the prefeasibility
studies on the economics of chemical fertilizer production in Burkina Faso, then by nine
months to complete the final audit and the study on the impact of the removal of fertilizer
subsidies on cereals fertilizer consumption and cereals production and finally by three
months for the same purpose. The Credit Agreement was amended four times (para. 20).
On the disbursement side, a savings of an estimated SDR 1.6 million was made, which was
cancelled at Closing Date. The savings were attributable to the cancellation of the
fertilizer plant component, exchange rate differentials and unused balances from the
fertilizer imports component.
v)           Overall project implementation proceeded satisfactorily, but project start-
up was difficult due to lack of adequately trained local manpower for project coordination
and for adequate supervision of the fertilizer field trials. Other problems concerned the
fertilizer trial programs, which experienced a shortage of raw material inputs (inoculum
and raw phosphates) during critical stages of the composting work, failure to focus
composting trials on sewage and other organic materials that are more easily accessible to
the farmer than the residue of the sugar plant and shortage of adequate water input for
composting, especially during agricultural campaigns with poor rainfall.
Project Results
vi)          The project's primary objective of eliminating subsidies on imported
fertilizers, and thereby removing an unsustainable financial burden on the Government,
was achieved one year earlier than projected. This was possible because of low
international fertilizer prices, which caused the 1988 unsubsidized price to be somewhat
lower than the 1987 price with 20% subsidy. As a result, it was decided not to apply the
10% subsidy scheduled for that year.
vii)         The fertilizer trials program financed under this project produced excellent
results for the production of organic fertilizers from waste products of the country's sugar
mill, using modern composting techniques which were developed in California and which
today are used in many developing countries. The field trials on the application of natural
phosphates indicate that the local rock phosphate is technically more effective and cheaper



- iv -
than triple super phosphate (TSP) in hydromorphic and acid soils and as effective as TSP
in zones with precipitation levels of less than 800mm. These results have led to the
development of fertilizer formulas for cultivation of millet, sorghum and maize in the
different agro-ecological zones of the country. Similarly, the trials on organic fertilizer
production, which entailed using inocula as activator to accelerate decomposition of
animal waste and crop residues, notably rice and maize stalks and chaffs, and sawdust
have produced very encouraging results. The preliminary results of these trials show that
the combination of compost and domestic rock phosphate is cheaper than NPKI and
reduces processing time by half These trials have been well received by the participating
farmers. Many of the activities that have been financed under this project are sustainable,
provided certain follow-up actions are taken to ensure sustainability.
viii)        On the institution-building side, this project has been a success. It has
greatly contributed to: (a) strengthening the capacity of the agricultural ministry through
significant improvements in the accounting and managerial skills of staff of the rural
development agencies (CRPAs), by modernizing the accounting and financial management
systems of these agencies and the Agricultural Ministry and by providing a core of staff
with the basic technical skills to help in the formulation, execution and monitoring of the
Government's future fertilizer sector policies and programs; (b) enhanced operational
efficiency of the Ministry of Planning by reinforcing capacity in public investment
planning, execution and monitoring; and (c) improved capacity of the Ministry of the
Budget by computerizing the budgeting system and technical assistance support to transfer
know-how on the associated computer skills. Future capacity-building efforts need to
focus on developing a cadre of staff in the agricultural ministry with strong background in
agricultural economics and knowledge of the technologies of compost production and in
creating private sector capacity, including farmers' associations, especially in activities
related to fertilizer importation, transportation and distribution.
ix)          The credit component experienced difficulties in that there was little
opportunity to use the short term credit subcomponent, because CNCA (the executive
agency) considered many of the autonomous regional rural development agencies not
creditworthy and because it had no regional network of offices to deal directly with
farmers. With regard to medium term credit for base rock phosphate dressings, there was
no demand from farmers for it because of its questionable usefulness.
x)           Regarding the fertilizer plant, no technology was identified that could have
been applied in the country. Initially, the focus was on a dry blending plant and, when this
was found unjustified on a phosphate acidulation plant, the funds allocated to the possible
construction of a plant were cancelled in 1986.
lDesignation of chemical fertilizers containing Nitrogen, Phosphate and Potassium (Kalium).



Sustainability
xi)          Many of the activities that have been financed under this project are
sustainable, provided certain follow-up actions are taken. First, Government no longer
carries the unsustainable financial burden of subsidizing fertilizers. Sustainability of this
accomplishment hinges on successful dissemination and adoption of cheaper local
fertilizers and on improvements in the incentive framework for agricultural supply
response, through price and market liberalization policies, improvements in market and
rural infrastructure, and in rural financial intermediation. Second, the encouraging
agronomic results obtained from the fertilizer production component, especially from the
composting trial program, represent a potential breakthrough, with Sahel-wide
implications, and could significantly contribute to sustainability, if the results become more
conclusive. This is being pursued under two ongoing IDA-financed agricultural extension
and research projects. To obtain definitive results, additional on-farm trials need to be
carried out on a much larger scale, for at least another four successive agricultural
campaigns. Sustainability at the farm-level could be ensured if the existing constraints on
local fertilizer production are removed, including: (a) lack of adequate and regular supply
of the critical raw material inputs, such as inoculum and raw phosphates; (b) lack of focus
on organic materials for composting that are easily accessible to the small farmer, such as
urban/rural sewage and waste materials and semi-industrial residues relative to those from
the sugar cane factory; and (c) lack of adequately trained manpower in fertilizer
production. Third, the project has successfully transformed an important department of the
Ministry of Agriculture (SAGOP) into a service delivery agency in the areas of
accountancy and financial management training as well as in monitoring the practical
application of the skills in these professions. The operating cost of this agency is very high,
however. It is sustainable, provided: (a) its main clients, the rural development agencies,
Government departments and project units, are required to pay the full costs of the
services rendered to them, or (b) Government agrees to completely privatize the agency,
in order to permit it to compete in both the local and regional markets for its services.
Lessons Learned
xii)          There are four key lessons to be learned from this project. These are:
(a)    Close supervision of projects affecting large groups of people is a
necessity. During the entire implementation peiod, the project was closely
supervised, especially at the beginning when the fertilizer subsidy reduction
was underway. The Bank was the lead institution for the project and it
took care to keep other donors informed and involved. The Borrower
acknowledges the value of the Bank's leadership role in its evaluation.
(b)    The project shows that a complex project can be brought to a successful
end if Government is dedicated to it, if it is closely supervised and if the



- vi -
right kind of expertise is brought to bear on it. In this case, Government
valued the project highly. The issues involved were at times highly
technical, but the Bank supervised it closely with the required technical
expertise.
(c)    This was a hybrid project consisting of policy reforns and investment
components. The project demonstrates that such a combination can be
viable.
(d)   With respect to the fertilizer plant, experts have been saying since the
earliest stages of project preparation that such a plant could not be
justified. Under pressure from Government, the Bank, nevertheless, agreed
to study the feasibility of a plant and, if found justified, finance its
construction. This component has been the subject of many studies,
discussions and arguments and, for the results obtained, has been costly.
The Bank should have been firmer in its belief in the lack of justification of
the component and not have agreed to include it in the project.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURKINA FASO
F'ERTELIZER PROJECT
(Credit 1550-BUR)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. PROJECT IDENTITY
Project Name:      Fertilizer Project
Credit Number:     1550-BUR
RVP Unit:          Africa Regional Office
Country:           Burkina Faso
Sector:            Agriculture
B. BACKGROUND
1.          Agriculture is the backbone of the Burkinabe economy. It employs more
than 80 percent of the labor force and provides 45 percent of GDP and 65 percent of
exports. About 90 percent of cultivated land is under cereal crops. In the southwest,
cotton is grown by small-holders. Sugar cane is cultivated on an irrigated factory-owned
plantation and by small-holders.
2.          Fertilizers were introduced for cotton cultivation. There was and is no
domestic fertilizer production, apart from a small quantity of low grade rock phosphate.
Supplies were imported by the Socikte burkinabe desfibres textiles (SOFITEX), the
country's cotton ginning and exporting company. Fertilizer grants to the Government,
mostly by Japan and the Netherlands, were also channeled through SOFITEX, which
handled all fertilizer distribution. There was virtually no private fertilizer trade until the
late 1980s.
3.          SOFITEX, on Government orders, provided fertilizer to farmers for cotton
production at subsidized prices that covered costs for only about one-third. To the extent
these fertilizers were actually applied to cotton, the subsidy did not pose a problem since
SOFITEX recuperated it by lowering the price it paid for seed cotton. Farmers, however,
increasingly began to apply SOFITEX-supplied fertilizer to food crops and, by 1982, 55
percent of all fertilizer was used for the production of cereals. SOFITEX could not
recuperate the subsidy of fertilizers applied to food crops, because it could not impose a
compensating levy as in the case of cotton. It claimed, therefore, compensation from



- 2 -
Government. When fertilizer use for cereals was small, this did not pose a problem and
Government duly compensated SOFITEX.
4.           However, fertilizer use for food crops mushroomed because of its low
price and ready availability. Soon, subsidy amounts became too big for Government to
pay, arrears began to accumulate and the financial situation of SOFITEX (which had to
finance the cereal fertilizer subsidy with bank credits) became affected. Shortages of
fertilizer threatened. The fertilizer subsidies had other adverse effects. First, because of
the low price of chemical fertilizers, farmers had insufficient incentive to use manure and
other organic matter for fertilization. Composting was not much practiced. Secondly,
farmers used fertilizers on cereals in cases where it was not economically justified, i.e.
where the value of the incremental cereal production due to fertilizer use was less than the
full cost of the fertilizer itself
5.           In the early 1980s, the Bank was involved in several rural development
projects, principally in cotton-growing regions. These projects depended on the
availability of chemical fertilizers. IDA, therefore, proposed to Government a project to
eliminate fertilizer subsidies and to address some other questions relating to the fertilizer
subsector. Government was receptive to the idea.
6.           The proposal to totally eliminate fertilizer subsidies was initially received
with some reservations both within and outside the Bank. Many feared that it would be
disastrous for cereals production. The project preparation team had, therefore, to
convince Govermmeni, other donors and Bank staff that this would not be the case. They
demonstrated that only a small part of cereals production was attributable to fertilizer use.
A great deal of analytical work was done with respect to farm models, fertilizer response
factors and price projections. Finally, to avoid later controversies, it was decided to get all
other donors engaged in the fertilizer subsector involved in the project.
C. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
Objectives
7.           The objective of the project was to improve fertilizer subsector policies and
the structure of fertilizer use by removing subsidies and other distortions, identifying and
providing better and cheaper fertilizers, and eliminating supply inadequacies.
Project Components
8.           The project consisted of eight components. Total project costs were
allocated as follows over the various components:



(a)   Fertilizer imports US $6.4 million (28%). Financing of part of fertilizer
imports for cereals cultivation on a declining linear scale starting with 40
percent in Project Year 1 (PY 1), decreasing to 0 percent in PY5. The cost
to which the financing percentages was to be applied was the average cost
delivered to the SOFITEX warehouse. The counterpart funds would be
applied to financing the residual subsidy on cereals fertilizers;
(b)   Fertilizer Plant US $7.5 million (3 1%). This component would finance
feasability studies for, and construction of, a fertilizer mixing plant, if found
feasible.
(c)    Credit US $1.0 million (4%). This component would provide funds to the
National Agricultural Credit Fund (CNCA) which would be on-lent as
seasonal cereal fertilizer credit to regional development organisms (ORDs)
or the regional development agencies (CRPAs) at 14 percent interest.
(d)   Fertilizer Field Trials US $2.4 million (10%). This would finance the cost
of implementing a program of tests of various NPK formulations and
domestic rock phosphate by the National Research Institute and other
subcontractors, notably the Sugar Company (SOSUCO). This included
equipment, materials and supplies, import of inoculum and residues from
the sugar plant for composting and incremental operating costs. The tests
were expected to identify cheaper organic fertilizer formulations for cereal
cultivation, in comparison with the commonly applied cotton NPK, as well
as improved rock phosphate formulations through mixing with other
fertilizers.
(e)    Training US $2.4 million (16%). This comprised consultants' and experts'
services for the training of ORD and CRPA accountants responsible for
fertilizer bookkeeping, as well as incremental staff costs, vehicle operating
costs, materials, office supplies and other operating expenses of SAGOP
and of the Agricultural Inputs Department (DIMA). The training of these
accountants was essential for the proper recording of fertilizer and money
streams in the ORDs and CRPAs. This had caused problems.
(f)    Studies US $0.6 million (2%). Consultants' services for project-related
studies to be identified.
(g)   Rock Phosphate Promotion US $2.0 million (8%). This component
comprised the continued production and marketing of domestic rock
phosphate under a German-financed project.



- 4 -
(h)   Management US $1.6 million (7%). This component would finance the
Project Management Unit.
D. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
Project Composition
9.           The initial and main purpose of the project was to eliminate the constraint
posed by the fertilizer subsidies. However, in the course of preparation many add-ons
were demanded by Government, cofinanciers and Bank staff. In the end, the project had
seven rather diverse components. This necessitated the creation of a Project Coordination
Unit (PCU) within the Ministry of Agriculture. Including the PCU, the project had eight
components.
10.          Government had particularly insisted on including a fertilizer dry blending
unit. This plant would have imported the individual nitrogen, phosphate and potassium
ingredients of NPK and mixed them in various combinations and strengths to adapt them
to the requirements of various crops. Bank staff was of the opinion that such a plant
would most probably not be economically feasible. Nevertheless the Bank agreed to
include in the project the cost for a feasibility study as well as the cost of construction for
a plant if found feasible.
The Subsidy Elimination Component
l.          Under the Bougouriba II project, Government had already agreed to
reduce fertilizer subsidies from 64 percent of ex-warehouse cost to 35 percent; at the time
the Fertilizer Project took over, they stood at 49 percent. During further appraisal work
for the Hauts Bassins and Volta Noire extension projects, which depended heavily on the
propagation of fertilizer use for both cotton and cereal cultivation, it became apparent that
total elimination of the subsidy was required if scarcities of fertilizer were to be avoided.
The Bank, therefore, proposed a project to eliminate the fertilizer subsidy over a period of
five years, with subsidy percentages not exceeding 40, 30, 20, 10 and 0 percent of ex-
warehouse cost during project years 1 to 5. The Bank would, during the elimination
period, finance the import of fertilizers to an amount equivalent to the remaining subsidy
for fertilizers used on food crops and allow Government to use the counterpart funds to
finance that subsidy. Government would pay its subsidy arrears to SOFITEX from its own
resources.
12.         It was expected that elimination of subsidies would not only restore the
financial equilibrium, but also lead to a more rational fertilizer use. As subsidies were
reduced, farmers would increasingly use local sources of supply (animal manure and other
organic matter and rock phosphate) which were cheaper than imported chemical fertilizers



- 5 -
and better suited to their particular crop and land. Uneconomic fertilizer use would be
eliminated.
13.          The following components were added in support of the central objective
of rehabilitating the fertilizer subsector, namely: (a) a program of field trials to identify
more suitable and cheaper fertilizers for cereal cultivation to be conducted by INERA; (b)
a feasibility study for a small fertilizer production unit that might produce fertilizer at
lower cost; (c) a credit component for financing application of dressing on rock phosphate
and to help farmers finance fertilizer purchases; (d) a component for the training of
accountants of the regional development agencies responsible for managing the fertilizer
distribution program; and (e) project unit and studies component.
Responsibilities
14.          The Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Resources had responsibility for
implementing the project. The Ministry created a project coordination unit, with
responsibilities for supervision and overall coordination of project activities. The head of
this unit (Project Director) reports directly to the Director of the Agricultural Inputs
Department of the above ministry (DIMA), in the latter's capacity as nominal Project
Coordinator. In addition, the PCU established a monitoring and evaluation department to
monitor implementation performance, with emphasis on: (a) monitoring the development
of private commerce in fertilizer importation and distribution; and (b) gathering and
analyzing data on fertilizer demand, quality, prices, consumption and profitability at the
farm-level, as well as coordinating procurement and contract management. The PCU
delegated implementation responsibility of the fertilizer trial program to the Research
Institute (INERA) and the accounting training program to the Organization and
Management Support Service of the Ministry of Agriculture, SAGOP. The PCUs
operating costs were financed by the project's co-financiers, CCCE (CFD) from the
effective date to end 1991 and subsequently from the IDA credit. The project
implementation experience shows that DIMA did not have adequately trained and
experienced staff to perform satisfactorily all of the tasks assigned to the PCU. This design
oversight problem was redressed during the first one-year extension of the Closing Date
through training and short-term technical assistance support to the personnel of DIMA
and the PCU.
15.          SOFITEX would import fertilizers and distribute them through the ORDs
and CRPAs. The credit component would be administered by CNCA. The German
Government (GTZ) would continue their pilot scheme for producing domestic rock
phosphate. The responsibility for the studies component would be assigned at the time the
studies were identified.



-6 -
Project Documentation and Data
16.          No Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) was prepared. The project was executed
on the basis of a President's Report supported by nine detailed working documents on the
costs and technical execution of the project. These documents became gradually outdated
due to the extensive restructuring that was done during implementation.
Cofinancing
17.          There were three other donors interested in the fertilizer subsector. These
were the French Government, which had been assisting Government on an ad-hoc basis in
paying the cereal fertilizer subsidy, the German Government, which financed a small pilot
unit for crushing phosphate rock to be used as fertilizer and the Dutch Government, which
had occasionally provided fertilizer in kind on a grant basis. They all participated in the
project as follows: CFD - US $3.2 million; the Netherlands - US $2.1 million; FAC - US
$1.7 million; and Germany - US $2.0 million. Government contributed US $1.4 million.
All financing was on a parallel basis. Germany later withdrew from the project. France,
represented by the CFD and FAC was very active during the first four years of
implementation, especially in providing technical assistance to the Ministry of Agriculture
and financing the importation of fertilizers, but later relaxed their involvement.
E. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
General
18.          The Credit became effective on November 4, 1985, eight months after
Board approval and about three months after the planned effectiveness date. The delay
was due to the fact that effectiveness of the IDA credit was contingent on the signing of
funding agreements with the other donors and to delays in compliance with other IDA
effectiveness conditions, in particular the establishment of the Project Coordination Unit
(PCU).
19.          The Closing Date, originally set for December 31, 1991, was extended,
first by six months to allow for completion of the analysis of fertilizer test results and the
prefeasibility studies on the economics of chemical fertilizer production in Burkina Faso,
then by nine months for the same purpose and finally by three months to complete the final
audit and the study on the impact of the removal of fertilizer subsidies on cereals fertilizer
consumption and cereals production.
20.          The Credit Agreement was amended four times. The first amendment was
made on February 27, 1986, enabling the financing of a unit responsible for monitoring
externally-funded projects in the Presidency. The second amendment occurred on
November 14, 1986 cancelling the Fertilizer plant component on the grounds that it was



- 7 -
not economically justified. The third amendment was on October 14, 1987. This
amendment allowed the Borrower to add a new component to finance office equipment
and consultant services for strengthening the Ministry of the Budget. The fourth
amendment was in June 1993, which enabled the Borrower to finance: (a) credits by
CNCA to cotton growers2; and (b) vehicles and office equipment for a National Fertilizer
Secretariat to be set up within DIMA.
21.          SDR 1.6 million was cancelled at the Closing Date, in addition to the SDR
4.5 million for the fertilizer plant cancelled on November 14, 1986. The extra savings
were attributable to exchange rate differentials and savings on the fertilizer import
component.
Consulting Services
22.          The Project has financed both external and local consultant services mainly
for conducting studies, but also as short-term technical assistance to the accountancy
training program and to help with computerization of the budget process of the Ministry
of the Budget. The procurement of consulting services did not always go as smoothly.
This was due in part to the PCU's unfamiliarity with the Bank's procurement requirements
and partly to problems posed by the Government's highly centralized procurement system.
Specifically, there was disagreement between Government and the Bank on the
recruitment procedures for a consultant to study the feasibility of phosphate acidulation in
Burkina. The Borrower was intent on awarding the contract to a firm, which was
associated with one of the processes to be studied. The Bank maintained that it would not
finance the study if done by the firm in question because of lack of impartiality of the
consultant and that, should the study be financed from another source, it would not
finance the construction of a plant if found feasible.
23.          Many of the initial implementation problems have been resolved in the
course of the last three years of the implementation period, through the combination of
program restructuring, intensive supervision and improvements in coordination and
procurement management by the PCU. In order to consolidate the positive agronomic
results obtained under this component and to ensure the sustainability of the fertilizer
production program, further action is needed to remove certain outstanding constraints,
including: (a) lack of adequate technical expertise in both chemical and organic fertilizer
production and in financial and economic analysis of test/research findings; (b) absence of
a properly designed mechanism for dissemination and adoption of proven fertilizer
products and method; (c) uncertainty about adequate supply and accessibility of raw
materials for composting; and (d) limited private sector involvement in subsector
activities, especially in domestic fertilizer marketing and transportation as well as in
importation.
2The original credit component envisaged only credits to non-cotton growing ORDs.



- 8 -
24.          Project management performance, however, improved from moderately
satisfactory during the first five years after the Effective Date to satisfactory during the
remaining three years. On-the-job training and recruitment of a Project Director with
several years of experience in managing Bank-financed projects in the agricultural sector,
partly accounted for this progress by helping to enhance work programming and project
coordination capabilities. The disbursement rate also increased sharply from a low of 29
percent in 1989 to 61 percent by the end of the first extension of the Closing Date in 1992,
also due to on-the-job training and procurement assistance from the Resident Mission.
Training support from the Accountancy Training Program was helpful in bringing about
modest improvements in project accounting and financial management and, hence, in
enhancing the PCU's capabilities for clearing the back-log of unrecorded project
transactions and in preparing timely financial statements for the annual audits of project
accounts. The other factor that contributed to improvements in implementation
performance was the training and technical assistance support provided by the IFDC
through project financing. This support was designed to equip the personnel of DIMA and
the PCU with the necessary technical skills in fertilizer policy analysis and formulation as
well as in monitoring the fertilizer supply and distribution system. With the successful
integration of the PCU within DIMA before the Project Completion Date, the Ministry of
Agriculture now has a specialized unit, with the potential to play the lead role in designing
and implementing the Government's strategy for the future development of this subsector.
The need for such support was identified during project supervision, as the original project
design did not include any provision to train PCU personnel in carrying out the functions
assigned to it at appraisal. This design oversight may be explained by insufficient attention
to the institutional aspects of the project during project preparation in comparison with the
thrust on fertilizer subsidy removal.
F. PROJECT RESULTS
General
25.          Despite its complexity, project implementation went well, albeit with some
delays in a few components. The credit financed a few items not related to the fertilizer
subsector, in particular, offices in the Presidency and the Ministry of Finance (see para.
20).
Project Coordination Unit
26.          The task of the PCU was to prepare annual work programs and issue
progress reports, which contained useful statistical data on fertilizer consumption and
prices. In addition, the PCU prepared performance reports and the supporting
documentation for each full supervision mission. It also coordinated procurement,
prepared disbursement requests and maintained the accounts.



-9 -
27.          Most of the personnel of the PCU lacked the basic technical and
management skills required to manage an operation as complex as this project. The PCU
was well equipped with sophisticated computer technology, which, for the most part, was
underutilized and poorly maintained for lack of the necessary know-how. This problem of
inadequately trained manpower affected the unit's implementation capabilities, especially in
accounting and financial management, procurement and contract management, preparing
and monitoring project studies and coordinating the financial and administrative aspects
of implementing the components which it had delegated to other Government services.
Changes of Project Director, which occurred three times during critical periods of the
implementation process, caused delays in adopting the corrective measures recommended
by various supervision missions.
Subsidy Elimination
28.          The project's primary objective of eliminating subsidies on imported
fertilizers was achieved one year earlier than projected. This was due to low world market
fertilizer prices, which caused the 1988 unsubsidized consumer price to be somewhat
lower than the 1987 consumer price with 20% subsidy. As a result, it was decided not to
apply the 10% subsidy scheduled for 1988 but to eliminate the subsidy entirely one year
ahead of schedule.
29.          One of the project's main objectives was to avoid scarcities. In this respect
the project was most successful. While before 1985, fertilizer consumption had hovered
around 20,000 m.t. per year, consumption rose sharply as soon as Government had been
relieved of the subsidy burden. Consumption in 1985 amounted to 21,400 m.t. and in
1991 to 50,600 m.t.
30.          The financial impact on the budget was significant: these subsidies stood at
about FCFA 1.5 billion at project preparation in 1982. They were reduced to zero by
1988/89. In addition to the substantial savings realized from the removal of subsidies, the
Government has been gaining fiscal revenues from the subsector through the tax levied on
imported chemical fertilizers; the tax rate was about 6 percent during the 1993/94
agricultural campaign.
31.          The eliminatiofi of fertilizer subsidies was expected to eliminate a major
constraint on the development of the agricultural sector, and ultimately to lead to
enhanced producer-incomes through increased fertilizer consumption and cereals
production. On the basis of the evidence from an impact evaluation study that was
conducted at the end of the project, however, the revenue impact cannot be ascertained
for the following reasons. To begin with, the time-series data analyzed covers only the
period of the subsidy-removal date, 1988/1989 and 1991/1992, which is the latest period
for which there is reliable data. The analysis should be based on a larger time series (at



- 10 -
least 10 years), in order to properly evaluate the revenue impact. Secondly, the cereals
production effect is directly linked to the impact on cotton, as these two crops are grown
in rotation. Therefore, the quantity of fertilizer devoted to cereals depend, to a great
extent, on the quantity available for cotton. Thus, any decline in fertilizer consumption for
cotton, due to high fertilizer prices, will induce a concomitant decline in fertilizer
consumption for cereals. Moreover, only about 5 percent of farmers outside the cotton
zone actually use imported fertilizers in cereals. The impact evaluation showed cotton
production to have increased between 1988/89 and 1990/91. However, this increase is
attributable more to the expansion in the number of new cotton farmers than to the
reduction of the subsidies. This number grew by an annual average of about 30 percent
from 1987/88 to 1990/91, consisting mainly of immigrants. Thirdly, productivity gains
may depend on other factors, such as animal traction, application of insecticides and other
phytosanitary products, organic fertilizers and improved cultural practices. On the basis of
the above, it should be noted that the removal of subsidies on imported fertilizers could in
the future actually have a negative impact on farmers' incomes if fertilizer prices tend
upward, while the cotton producer price remains constant or tends downward. The
positive revenue effects on cereals producers could be significantly enhanced with
measures to ensure cereals producers' access to credit and improved markets as well as to
low-cost fertilizers.
Fertilizer Field Trials
32.          This component consisted of the following fertilizer trial programs: (a)
fertilizer formulations for cereals conducted through an Agreement between the PCU and
the National Research Institute (INERA), (b) application of natural phosphates on
hydromorphous plains, implemented first by GTZ technical assistance under their rock
phosphates project and subsequently by INERA, and (c) organic fertilizer production from
residues of the country's sugar factory. The implementation of this component
encountered problems consisting of flawed procedures for contract management, lack of
coordination between trial programs, difficulties in selections of trial sites, shortage of
local know-how on the basic technology of compost production and unavailability of
adequate supply of the raw material inputs for the composting work, such as inoculum,
raw phosphates and semi-industrial waste from the sugar plant. There were other factors
unrelated to design oversight that also hampered satisfactory implementation perforrnance,
such as shortage of water for composting due to droughts, delays in obtaining equipment
and assigning competent staff and slow performance of some agencies - especially the
PCU, BUNASOLS and the Agro-Meteorological Service.
33.          Nevertheless, the fertilizer trials program produced excellent results for the
production of organic fertilizers from waste products of the sugar mill, using modern
composting techniques which were developed in California and which today are used there
and in many developing countries. The field trials conducted in the sugar production zone
of Banfora showed the effectiveness of organic fertilizers, with and without the addition of



- 11 -
local rock phosphates. Preliminary results of the tests on the application of natural
phosphates indicate that the local rock phosphate is technically more efficient and cheaper
than TSP in hydromorphic and acid soils and as effective as TSP in zones with
precipitation levels of less than 800mm. These results have led to the development of
fertilizer formulas for cultivation of millet, sorghum and maize in the different agro-
ecological zones of the country. Similarly, the trials on organic fertilizer production, which
entailed using inocula as activator to accelerate decomposition of animal waste and crop
residues, notably rice and maize stalks and chaffs, and sawdust have produced very
encouraging results. The preliminary results of these trials show that the combination of
compost and domestic rock phosphate is cheaper than NPK and reduces processing time
by half The trial results have been well received by the participating farmers.
34.          There is every indication that once the field trials have been completed,
these organic/rock phosphate mixtures will fulfill one of the purposes of the project,
namely to give farmers access to cheap and effective locally produced fertilizers. In order
to obtain conclusive results from the fertilizer trials, however, further tests need to be
conducted on a larger scale for at least another three to four successive agricultural
campaigns. In this regard, it is important to note that the key raw materials required for
these trials, namely, raw phosphates and inoculum, should be available on time and in
sufficient quantities in order to ensure sustainability of the fertilizer production effort. The
lack of these critical inputs during important stages of composting have in the past caused
long delays in implementing the fertilizer tests program. More effort is also needed to
identify local raw materials that are easily accessible to the small farmer, such as sewage
and other waste materials, for organic fertilizer production. Furthermore, the encouraging
agro-economic results which have been achieved need to be subject to more rigorous
economic analysis in order to determine on-farm profitability for investing in these local
substitutes for imported fertilizers.
Fertilizer Plant
35.          The project's objective of helping Burkina to locally produce chemical
fertilizers by constructing a fertilizer plant was not achieved, however. Burkina Faso, in
common with most other countries with their own low grade, local phosphates, has found
it impossible to compete with lower cost, more reactive and higher grade phosphates
available in the world market. It was assumed during implementation that because of the
interest in the development of a mining operation which would utilize the ore near Perkoa
to produce a zinc concentrate for sale in the international market, the associated pyrites
would be available as a byproduct at a low cost and could be used to produce sulfuric
acid. Consequently, the project financed an IFDC-CIRAD preliminary feasibility study of
full acidulation, using the sulfuric acid from Perkoa. In a report issued in March 1992,
IFDC-CIRAD concluded that for Burkina to be competitive in sulfuric acid production, it
would have to construct a production unit of 16,600 m.t. per year of acid and that the unit
would need to operate at near 100 percent of capacity utilization. At the present rate of



- 12 -
annual fertilizer consumption), about 6,500 m.t. of sulfuric acid could be used; in order to
support a plant producing 16,000 m.t. per year of acid, annual fertilizer consumption
would be required to rise to 120,000 tons. If an estimate of 6 percent annual rate of
growth in consumption were used, a level of 120,000 m.t. per year would not be reached
until 2008.
36.          As recommended in the above study, local production of sulfuric acid
needs to be studied again after the mining operation at Perkoa begins or upon the
discovery of another source of sulfur or pyrites. More important, the IFDC-CIRAD
calculations show that all of the crops grown in Burkina Faso, and particularly cotton over
a long period, would have benefited had there been a local source of the recommended
fertilizers available. Continuing Government commitment to the objectives of the fertilizer
trial programs is central to consolidation of the accomplishments and successful
completion of the ongoing tests that are being carried out through the Agricultural
Research Project. The private sector should also be encouraged to invest in Bank-financed
subsector activities, in order to enhance efficiency in fertilizer production and distribution.
Training of Accountants
37.          The accountancy training program was implemented by the Organization
and Management Support Services Department (SAGOP) of the Ministry of Agriculture.
The overall implementation performance of this component was consistently satisfactory.
Unlike the other components, SAGOP was equipped with well-trained staff,
complemented by private consultants who were recruited occasionally, to provide services
to their clients. The program succeeded in: (a) training the accounting staff of the regional
development agencies and the PCU, (b) installing computerized accounting systems for
these beneficiaries, and (c) establishing a system for monitoring application of the software
and accounting procedures, in general. The project has also contributed to strengthening
the administrative capacity of MAAH by providing a core of staff with the basic technical
skills to help in the formulation, execution and monitoring of the Government's future
fertilizer sector policies and programs.
38.          The project has also enhanced the operational efficiency of two ministries
not involved in the fertilizer subsector. These interventions were made possible through
amendments of the DCA (see para. 20). The project was used for this because the credit
contained sufficient funds. This concerned the Ministry of Planning by reinforcing
capacity in public investment planning, execution and monitoring and the Ministry of the
Budget by computerizing the budgeting system and technical assistance support to transfer
know-how on the associated computer skills. Future capacity-building efforts need to
focus on developing a cadre of staff in the agricultural ministry with technical skills and
knowledge of the technologies of compost production and in creating private sector
capacity, including farmers' associations, especially in activities related to fertilizer
importation, transportation and distribution.



- 13 -
Credit
39.          The implementation of the agricultural credit component was delegated to
the Agricultural Credit Bank (CNCA). The short-term credit to the CRPAs to assist
individual farmers and village cooperatives to purchase fertilizers for cereals production
was virtually untouched by the fourth year after the Effective Date, because: (a) the
CNCA felt it did not have the necessary infrastructure and regional representation to on-
lend to the intended beneficiaries and (b) small farmers, who had very limited capacity for
indebtedness, were reluctant to borrow due to their misapprehensions about the
profitability of fertilizer use outside the cotton zone. The medium-term credit to finance
application of base dressing on rock phosphate was not used, simply because there was no
demand for it. This implementation experience points to inadequacies in the original
design.
Project Cost and Financing
40.          The Project cost at appraisal was estimated to be US $24.1 million, or
CFAF 1 I billion (at the appraisal exchange rate of US$1 = CFAF 460). Actual project
cost was lower. Total project expenditure at the Closing Date amounted to CFAF 5.41
billion, or about half the appraisal estimate. The difference is explained by: (a) the lower
US$/CFAF exchange rates in 1985 and 1986 of US$1 = CFAF 450 and 350 respectively
for the importation of fertilizers, which generated savings (the exchange rate used at the
time of writing the first draft of this report in 1993 was US$1 = CFAF 278); and (b)
cancellation of Credit proceeds originally allocated for construction of a fertilizer
production unit and the balance from the fertilizer importation fund, equivalent to SDR
4.5 million. The balance at Closing Date was SDR 1.6 million (equivalent CFAF 656
million).
G. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
41.          Because of the many imponderables in the project, no economic rate of
return was calculated at appraisal and none has been calculated for this PCR.
H. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
42.          Many of the activities that have been financed under this project are
sustainable, provided certain follow-up actions are taken to ensure sustainability. First the
Government no longer carries the unsustainable financial burden of subsidizing fertilizers,
thanks to support from this project. Sustainability of this accomplishment hinges on: (a)
continued social peace and political stability in the rural areas, (b) successful dissemination
and adoption of cheaper local fertilizers and (c) improvements in the incentive framework
for agricultural supply response, through price and market liberalization policies,



- 14 -
improvements in market and rural infrastructure and in rural financial intermediation.
Second, the encouraging agronomic results obtained from the fertilizer production
component, especially from the composting trial program, represent a potential
breakthrough, with Sahel-wide implications, and could significantly contribute to
sustainability, if the results become more conclusive. In order to obtain definitive results,
additional on-farm trials need to be carried out on a much larger scale, for at least another
four successive agricultural campaigns. Sustainability at the farm-level could be ensured if
the existing constraints on local fertilizer production are removed, including: (a) lack of
adequate and regular supply of the critical raw material inputs, such as inoculum and raw
phosphates; (b) lack of focus on organic material inputs for composting that are easily
accessible to the small farmer, such as sewage, waste materials and semi-industrial
residues relative to those from the sugar cane factory; and (c) lack of adequately trained
manpower in fertilizer production. Third, the project has successfully transformed one of
the Government departments (SAGOP) into a service delivery agency in the areas of
accountancy and financial management training as well as in monitoring the practical
application of the skills in these professions. The operating cost of this agency is very high,
however. It is sustainable, provided: (a) its main clients, the rural development agencies,
Government departments and project units, are required to pay the full costs of the
services rendered to them, or (b) Government agrees to completely privatize the agency,
in order to permit it to compete in both the local and regional markets for the services in
which it can demonstrate to have a comparative cost advantage.
43.          The key implementation problem identified may be traced to the issue of
sustainablity of the training services provided by SAGOP, for the following reasons. First
because of the increasing demand for accountants, trained personnel of the regional
agencies tend frequently to transfer to the private sector, where the incentives appear to be
more attractive. This hampers the transfer of know-how and capacity-building at the local
level as most of the private accounting firms operate mainly in the urban areas, notably,
Ouagadougou. Second, there is no arrangement for cost-recovery for the services
provided by SAGOP to the CRPAs. Without cost-recovery to finance the high operating
costs of SAGOP or the eventual privatization of the above function of SAGOP, this
component is not likely to be sustainable. Third, there is very limited capacity within
SAGOP and the public sector in general in maintenance of the installed hardware. This has
led to frequent breakdown and deterioration of expensive computer technologies during
project implementation. The local suppliers appear to have limited capacity to meet the
rising demand for such services. Sustainability cannot be assured without corrective
measures to deal with this outstanding implementation problem.
I. BANK PERFORMANCE
44.          Relationships between Government and donors on project matters were
good. Following the successful elimination of fertilizer subsidies in 1987, the other donors



- 15 -
began to focus more on their bilateral projects, subsequently phasing out their involvement
in project implementation during the last three years of the implementation period.
45.          Supervision included twelve missions between November 1985 and May
1993, or an average of one mission every eight months. In addition, there were three
missions by local researchers to Burkina and California to gather information on
composting, two external training missions by personnel of DIMA and routine field
supervision by the Resident mission to check on implementation performance between full
supervision missions. The thrust of the supervision missions during the first three years of
implementation was on monitoring progress on fertilizer subsidy elimination. Once this
objective was accomplished, Bank supervision missions began to pay much closer
attention to design features of the other components, leading to a mix of restructuring and
redesign initiatives intended to steer the project towards achieving its development and
performance objectives. The flexibility which allowed the Task Manager to do so paid a
high dividend as it permitted proper identification of important design flaws and corrective
measures to be taken. For instance, the fertilizer trial program was restructured to expand
the composting trials and to entrust implementation to the National Research Institute
(INERA) rather than with three separate entities: GTZ, FABCON/IBF and INERA,
agreement was reached with Government to expand the subsidy-removal agreement to
include other agricultural inputs; the credit component was redesigned in response to its
non-performance and additional components were added to reinforce the capacity of other
Government Ministries and to finance preparation of new operations in the sector. Quality
control of the execution of the fertilizer trial program may have suffered due to the
unavailability of Bank agronomists or fertilizer industry specialists to participate on all full
supervision missions.
J. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
46.          Despite the political upheavals during the early phase of project
implementation, the Government kept its commitments and was active at all times in
moving the project forward. From the outset, contacts with donors were handled by high-
level authorities and public officials. The initiative for holding the project negotiations in
Paris came from the Government. The wrap-up sessions held at the end of supervision
missions were attended by the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock and usually concluded with a working visit to the Minister. The Government
influenced many of the restructuring initiatives taken during implementation and was very
persistent in pressing for the prefeasibility study for construction of a local plant for
chemical fertilizer production, following the Bank's decision to cancel the fertilizer plant
component and to finance sector-related studies. While the Government recognized the
importance of training, it tended to perceive capacity building and enhancement largely in
terms of more equipment (vehicles and computer hardware) and more staff. Government
ownership was consistently demonstrated throughout the project cycle. In this regard, it
should be noted that every living government official who had been involved with this



- 16 -
operation, since the preparation phase, actually participated in the final project supervision
mission.
47.           The Government fully complied with obligations to make counterpart
contributions to project cost. The financing arrangements are summarized in Part III,
Table 4B.
48.           About one year prior to the final supervision mission, the Borrower
undertook a full evaluation of the activities financed under the technical component. The
report of this study was useful for the work of the above mission. The project also
financed a detailed review of the performance of the accountancy training component.
The results of this review are contained in a report available in the project files here at the
Bank and in the Ministry of Agriculture.
K. LESSONS LEARNED
49.           There are four key lessons to be learned from this project. These are:
(a)    Close supervision of projects affecting large groups of people is a
necessity. During the entire implementation peiod, the project was closely
supervised, especially at the beginning when the fertilizer subsidy reduction
was underway. The Bank was the lead institution for the project and it
took care to keep other donors informed and involved. The Borrower
acknowledges the value of the Bank's leadership role in its evaluation.
(b)    The project shows that a complex project can be brought to a successful
end if Government is dedicated to it, if it is closely supervised and if the
right kind of expertise is brought to bear on it. In this case, Government
valued the project highly. The issues involved were at times highly
technical, but the Bank supervised it closely with the required technical
expertise.
(c)    This was a hybrid project consisting of policy reforms and investment
components. The project demonstrates that such a combination can be
viable.
(d)    With respect to the fertilizer plant, experts have been saying since the
earliest stages of project preparation that such a plant could not be
justified. Under pressure from Government, the Bank, nevertheless, agreed
to study the feasibility of a plant and, if found justified, finance its
construction. This component has been the subject of many studies,
discussions and arguments and, for the results obtained, has been costly.



- 17 -
The Bank should have been firmer in its belief in the lack of justification of
the component and not have agreed to include it in the project.
PART E[: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
50.          This review will: (a) examine the major obstacles encountered during the
course of the project; (b) evaluate the results of the project and the roles played by donors;
and (c) outline the actions needed to consolidate project gains.
A. MAJOR OBSTACLES
51.          The major obstacles adding to the difficulties of project implementation fell
into three categories. Four of these obstacles were attributable to the design of the
project. In the first place, the project was regarded in Burkina as an agricultural
development project, although it was really a structural adjustment operation focused
chiefly on the elimination of government subsidies on fertilizers, its other components
simply being supporting measures. Secondly, certain ambiguities arose out of the fact that
the fertilizers the project was supposed to concern itself with were defined as "foodcrop
fertilizers;" because Burkina's cotton-growing zones are also its biggest producers of
cereals and that they account for close to 90 percent of fertilizer consumption, it seemed
injudicious to confine project activities to non-cotton-growing zones alone, particularly
where the distribution of credit facilities was concerned. Thirdly, although institutional
arrangements for official supervision of the various project components were fairly well
defined, there was some confusion over the links between the Project Coordination Unit
and the groups responsible for implementing those components. Finally, despite the
complementary nature of the Fertilizer Project and the Phosphate Project, the fact that
Germany was not formally associated as a donor with the former precluded the kind of
synergy between the two ventures that would have given their results greater value.
52.          Organizational and institutional obstacles arose in three areas. (1) The
Project Coordination Unit exercised two functions (attending to the administrative and
financial aspects of the project on the one hand and to its studies component on the other),
but under less-than-ideal conditions. For one thing, the autonomy the project enjoyed
precluded its integration with the government technical departments responsible for
formulating sectoral agricultural development policies (e.g. on fertilizers); it would have
been wiser to place the project in the hands of the Agricultural Inputs Service, which in
fact had been the original intention (so that the Service could be developed institutionally).
For another, the manpower resources (both Burkina nationals and foreign technical
assistants) available to the project were limited. (2) The project suffered the effects of
institutional changes that occurred during its execution period: (a) elirnination of the
ORDs and their (tardy) replacement by the CRPAs; and (b) staff turnover in the Project



- 18 -
Coordination Unit and related government departments and agencies. (3) Administrative
and financial procedures used were ill-adapted to project requirements: (a) competitive
bidding was lengthy and slow-paced, which led to significant delays in the procurement of
project goods and services; (b) certain matters were not dealt with as speedily as
necessary; and (c) there were delays in recruiting contract personnel for the Coordination
Unit and some project components.
53.          On the financial side, the Special Account, amounting to CFAF
82,627,790, proved insufficient to finance certain project component activities, even
though it was clear they were important.
54.          Review of Project Results: The following observations apply to the
components of the project and to agricultural policy.
55.          In terms of its original objectives, the project produced five major
achievements. (1) Government fertilizer subsidies were totally eliminated by the 1987/88
crop season. (2) The field trials conducted at locations throughout the country generated
very valuable formulations for affordable cereal fertilizers suited to different ecological
zones; the same was also true of the tests on organic fertilizer/domestic rock phosphate
combinations. However, knowledge of these results has still not been disseminated among
farmers (non-availability of new cereal fertilizers, failure to acquaint farmers with new
composting procedures, and non-availability of composting inoculum). (3) Modern
improved accounting.procedures and systems have been adopted by the CRPAs and other
departments and agencies of the Ministry of Agriculture, and the necessary related training
has been provided for their staff. However, it still remains to get the SAGOP Training
Center (built with project support) into operation and to write its Operating Rules (giving
it administrative and financial autonomy). (4) Since the results of the experimental
component of the project have indicated that potential exists for developing and enhancing
the value of the country's rock phosphates, an important national resource, a feasibility
study on a fertilizer formulation unit is absolutely necessary. (5) Thanks to the body of
data collected and analyzed by the Project Coordination Unit, the prerequisites exist for
drafting of a national fertilizer policy. Local project staff and DvIMA staff have received
training to equip them for administration and management of the fertilizer subsector, while
the fact that DIMA has been strengthened will enable it to continue discussions with the
various parties participating in the subsector and to act on the specific recommendations
of the Agricultural Inputs Seminar held in December 1992.
56.          In the case of Burkina's agricultural policy, the Fertilizer Project has
provided an impressive example of structural adjustment incorporated without difficulty.
It has also made a significant contribution to drafting of the country's Agriculture Sector
Structural Adjustment Program, by funding preparations for the Cereal Plan-which, as
part of efforts there to ensure improved use of the means of production (and particularly
fertilizers), will comprise measures advocated by the Fertilizer Project.



- 19 -
B. REVIEW OF DONOR PERFORMANCE
57.          The Fertilizer Project was funded jointly by the World Bank, CFD, FAC,
the Netherlands, and the Government of Burkina Faso, which all contributed to varying
degrees.
58.          The World Bank attended fully to its responsibilities as principal project
donor through its regular periodic monitoring of both the physical and financial aspects of
the undertaking. Its recommendations regarding management and technical
implementation of the various components improved general project performance. In the
main, the World Bank contributed significantly to the project. However, it may be pointed
out that: (a) Washington took too long over the approval of certain technical questions,
thereby often compromising the process of project implementation; and (b) the lack of
consensus between Burkina and the Bank on the choice of the acidulation process to be
used with rock phosphates mined at Kodjari, and also on the recruitment of consultants to
study the feasibility of the proposed fertilizer production unit, was a considerable obstacle
in the search for more affordable fertilizer formulations than "cotton" fertilizer, especially
examples incorporating natural phosphates.
59.          CFD/FAC: This major financial contribution funded the operations of the
Project Coordination Unit, implementation of the experimental component, and the
support provided by expatriate personnel. The speed with which reimbursement
applications were attended to by CFD/FAC facilitated project implementation. However,
not all the support (supervise, advise) project officials were entitled to expect from
CFD/FAC was forthcoming.
60.          Netherlands: This contribution, also a major one, in the form of grants of
fertilizer, facilitated implementation of the project. However, this donor did not take part
in the periodic monitoring and supervision of the project.
61.          Government of Burkina Faso: The Borrower made the services of the
necessary civil service personnel available for project purposes and met its financial
commitment to the experimental component. However, here again the complexity of
administrative procedures (especially those related to procurement) did nothing to
facilitate the achievement of certain investment goals.
62.          Action Required to Consolidate Project Gains: It is consistent with the
above review of the history of the project that the Burkina authorities should propose the
following steps to consolidate its achievements: (1) Execution of the feasibility study for a
unit to produce fertilizer formulations based on use of the country's rock phosphates. (2)
Continuation of experimental activities with a view to (a) identifying composting



- 20 -
processes and methods geared to existing farming conditions, and (b) supporting pre-
extension trials of the most affordable cereal fertilizers with the necessary auxiliary
measures. (3) Strengthening DIMA by providing the logistical resources, equipment and
funding that will enable it to take part in the development of a national fertilizer policy and
to make the fertilizer subsector attractive to private business promoters.



- 21 -
PART m: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.    Related IDA Credits
Credit Number                                           Year of
Project Title           Purpose of Project              Approval      Status
Credit 1097-BUR         Continuation of integrated rural    6/30/81   Completed
Bougouriba II           development in the Bougouriba
Agricultural Development  region
Project
Credit 1284-BUR         Improvement of cereal production,  6/28/82    Completed
Volta Noire Agricultural   cotton exports and rural standard
Development Project     of living
Credit 1285-BUR         Strengthening integrated rural  7/27/82       Completed
Hauts Bassins           development in the Hauts Bassins
Agricultural Development  region
Project
Credit 1293-BLUR        Identification of system to prevent  9/21/82  Completed
Koudougou Agricultural   or curb soil erosion
Pilot Project
Credit 1482-BUR         Assistance for Burkina with the  5/24/84      Completed
Mining Exploration and    technical and economic appraisal
Technical Assistance -  of the Perkoa zinc niines, and
Project                 promotion of their development by
the private sector
Credit 1896-BUR         Strengthening agricultural research  4/19/88  In progress
Agricultural Research   and its links with extension
Project
Credit 1979-BUR         Strengthening of rural support  1/17/89       In progress
Agricultural Services   services
Project
Credit 2229-BUR         Improvement of natural resource    4/25/91    In progress
Environmental           management by village
Management Project      communities and throughout the
country
Credit 2381-BUR         Reforms in the agricultural sector   6/9/92   In progress
Agricultural Sector     to eliminate distortions
Adjustment Credit       undermining its effectiveness and
sound operation
Credit 2414-BUR       j Strengthen food security        7/9/92        In progress
Food Securitv          |institutions and ana1Svtical ability  



- 22 -
2.    Project Timetable
Item                 Planned Date       Revised Date    Actual Date
Identification        10/82                             10/29/82
Preparation           3/82                              3/82-2/83
Appraisal Mission    6/83                               6/83-10/83
Negotiations          End 84                            11/27-30/84
Board Approval        1-3/85                            2/26/85
Credit Signature     Prior to end FY85                  4/18/85
Credit Effectiveness  8/16/85           11/15/85        11/4/85
Credit Completion    6/30/91            12/31/91        12/31/92
9/30/92
12/31/92
Credit Closing        12/31/91          6/30/92         6/30/93
3/31/93
..___ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ __ _ __ _   6/30/93  .
3.    Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements (US$ million)
IDA FY        Appraisal    Actual         Actual as %
Estimated     cumulative   of estimate
.________  (cumulative)  at 9/30/93
1986               1.9            1.6     89
1987               4.3            1.8     42
1988               8.1            2.6     32
1989              11.1            3.2     29
1990              12.9            4.8     38
1991              13.7            5.9     43
1992                              8.2     61
1993                             10.2     76



- 23 -
4.    Project Costs and Financing
A. Proiect Costs (US$ millions)
Component                            Appraisal          Actual
Estimate
Fertilizer imports                           6.4             5.6
Credit                                       1.0             2.5
Promotion of rock phosphates                 2.0             0.0
Experimental program on multi-site field     2.4             2.3
trials
Industrial                                   7.5             1.0
Accounting training                          2.4             1.9
Management                                   1.6             2.5
Studies                                      0.6             0.7
PCU Support La                               0.0             0.5
TOTAL                        23.9             17.0
a/ See para. 23
B. Project Financin2
Appraisal    Actual
Estimate
IDA                       13.7          10.2
CFD                        3.2           3.0
FAC                        1.7           0.6
Netherlands                2.1           2.1
Fed. Rep. of Germany       2.0           0.0
Burkina                    1.4           0.9
TOTAL               24.1          16.8



- 24 -
C. Cost Covered by World Bank
(US$ thousands)
Category                    Appraisal    Revised Figures                                  Actual
Estimate                                                     Figures
1/86      11/86      10/87       6/93
1. Vehicles & equipment for  361          399         435        472         507          1,132
field trials                                                              .    . _
2. Fertilizer
(a) 84-86 seasons        1,606         1,776       1,936      2,096       2,256        1,638
(b) following seasons    301           301         363        393         423          222
3. Credit                   903           1,000       1,089      1,180       1,269        1,515
4. Operating costs of field  1,606         1,776      1,936      2,100       2,256        1,900
trials & training
5. Consultants on           703           800         847        917         987          1,800
accounting training &
SISP
6. Studies                  502           555         605        655         705          427
7. Fertilizer production unit
(a) civil engineering    1,305         1,443       -          -           -            -
(b) vehicles & equipment   1,908       2,109       -          -           -            -
(c) consultants          402           444         1,452      1,572       1,692        885
(d) working capital      2,108         -           -          -           -            -
8. PPF reirnbursement       502           555         605        655         705          120
9. Special account          201           222         242        262         282          0
10. Unallocated             1,446         1,443       1,573      655         705          0
11. Goods & services for    -             156         170        184         200         436
SISP
12. Goods & services for                                         1,050       1,128       230
Ministry of Budget
TOTAL              13,854        12,979      11,253     12,191     13,115
Note:  SDR Equivalents are:
January 1986             SDR 1 = US$1.11
November 1986            SDR I = US$1.26
October 1987             SDR I = US$1.31
June 1993                SDR 1 = US$1.41



- 25 -
5.      Status of Credit Covenants
(Development Credit Agreement between IDA and the Borrower)
SECTION  COVENANT                                        STATUS OF    REMARKS
COMEPLIANCE
3.01        Borrower to establish Project Coordination Unit   Complied with
3.02        Borrower to employ consultants & experts in  Complied with
accordance with Bank guidelines
3.03(b)     Borrower to use all goods & services financed  Complied with
out of Credit proceeds exclusivelv for Project
3.04(a)     Borrower to provide plans, reports & all other  Complied with
documentation as Bank shall request
3.04(bXi)   Borrower to maintain records                 Complied with
3.04(bXii)   Borrower to allow visits to Project facilities and   Complied with
construction sites, and inspection of Project
goods                                                  .
3.04(bXiii)  Borrower to provide IDA with information on  Complied with
Project costs and benefits as requested
3.04(c)     IDA may publish descriptions of contracts    Complied with
awarded by Borrower
3.04(d)     Borrower to provide report on completion of  In progress
Project
3.05        Borrower to provide credit, acting for purpose  Complied with  Contrary to original
through CNCA                                                   Agreemnent, most credit was
made available in cotton-
growing zones
3.06(a)     Borrower to apply uniform rates of subsidy   Complied with
3.06(b)     Borrower td reduce subsidies on fertilizers  Complied with
3.07        CRPAs to cover costs through fertilizer sale  Complied with
prices
3.08(i)     Borrower to provide evaluation of results of each
crop season, plus work program for following
season
3.08(ii)    Borrower to provide annual report on Project  Complied with
activities
3.09(a)     Borrower & IDA to review Project results, agree   Complied with
on fertilizer prices and discuss work program
every November/December
3.09(b)     Borrower & IDA to consult each year on       Complied with     These consultations
quantities of fertilizers to be imported                       continued until 1987/88,
when all subsidies were
abolished
3.10        Borrower to cause SOFITEX to buy, stock and  Complied with
distribute domestic rock phosphate
3.11        Borrower to present feasibility study and plan of  Not complied  Prefeasibility study
action for fertilizer production unit       with               concluded by CIRAD/IFRAC,
but Project closing date
prevented completion of full-
scale feasibility study



- 26 -
6.    Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle              Man/week   Remarks
Preparation                            72.5
Appraisal                              46.0      Appraisal proceeded in several stages.
Negotiations to presentation to        32.1      Negotiations took place in Paris, with all
Board                                            cofinancing present.
Effectiveness                            2.0
Supervision                            76.2
Completion                               8.0     End-of-project mission took place with
full participation of all Burkina officials
concerned.
TOTAL                                 236.8
B. Supervision Missions
Date   No. of       Staff Days    Specialization
I Persons    in Field
11/82   1               1 i      Agric. scientist
5/82    1               11       Agric. scientist
11/86   1                9       Agric. scientist
5/87    2               10       Agric. scientist, mission leader
2/88    2               10       Economist, mission leader
2/89    1                8       Economist
11/89   1                3       Economist
5/90    2                8       Economist, mission leader
11/90  2                 7       Economist, mission leader
7/91    2                2       Economist, mission leader
5/92    2                4       Economist, mission leader
5/93    4               15       Economist, mission leader,
task manager, agric. research
expert



- 27 -
Annex 1: Fertilizer Project: Disbursement of IDA Credit
(US $ millions)
Disbursements   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88  FY89   FY90   FY91  FY92  FY93
Estimate          0.1      1.90    4.30    8.10   11.10   12.90   13.70
Revised                    1.61    2.31    2.91  14.31    5.51    7.03    8.53   9.23
esimate           =        1.60    176    2       3.92
Actual                     1.60    1.76    2.61   3.26    4.87    5.92    8.82  10.2
________________                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~0



- 28 -
Annex 2: Crop Price Movements
(FCFA/kg)
80/SI    81/82    82183    83/84    84/85    85/86    86/87        87/88     88/89    89/90    90/91    91/92    92/93
Cotton        55       62        62        70       90        100       100       95        95       95        95        95
Sorghum       45       50        58        64       80        80       40         50        45       50        65        65
M&ilet        45        50       60        66       80        80        40        50        45       50        65        65
iaize         45       50        55        60       85        80       40         50        45       50        65        65



- 29 -
Annex 3: Fertilizer Price Movements
(CFAF/kg)
80/8   81/8  82/8  83/8  84/8  85/8  86/8  87/8  88/8  89/9  90/9  91/9  92/93
1     2      3      4      5      6      7      8     9      0      1      2
NPK    40     40    43.6  62    78    90    114   91    96    105   98             109
Urea   45     45     60    62    66_   78 _   85    66    77    94    88    96.5



- 30 -
Annex 4: Consumption of Fertilizers
85/86     86/87      87/88     88/89      89/90     90/91       91/92
Table 1: All crops
Total Fertilizer Consumed
(in metric tons)
NPK                                17,771     24,002    24,460    27,657    30,504    31,364       41,063
UREA                               3,617      6,204     7,662      8,914     8,452      10,431     9,558
Burkinaphosphate                   626        545       311        670       1,219      0          640
Table 2: All crops
Fertilizer Consumed (in
kg/ha)
NPK                                                     8.7       7.9        10.3       14.0       12.3
UREA                                                    2.7       2.5        2.9       4.7         2.9
Table 3: Cotton
Fertilizer Consuned (in
kglha)
NPK                                                     109.9      108.9     117        111.6      86.5
UREA                                                    26.5      30.0       25        33.4        18.3
Table 4: Cereals
Fertilizer Consumed (in
kg/ha)
NPK                                                     2.2       2.5        2.9       4.7         2.9
UREA                                                    0.7       0.8        1.0       1.8         1.5
Table 5: Cotton
Fertilizer Consumed (in
kg/ha) in Main Cotton-
Growing Zones
NPK                                                     116.9      117.4     125.0      115.9      94.6
UREA                                                    25.4      32.9       26.5      34.9        19.7
Table 6: Cereals
Fertilizer Consumed (in
kg/ha) in Main Cereal-
Growing Zones
NPK                                                     5.2        10.9      13.7       11.9       25.2
UREA                                                    1.7       3.3        3.0       4.0         5.4
Table 7: Relationships between NPK
Consumption and Cotton
Production
Total consumption NPK for cotton (t)                               17,566    17,966    21,115
Total cotton (t)                                        152,211    180,994    185,560   216,000    242,200
Table 8: Relationships between NPK
Consumption and Cereal
Production
Total consumption NPK for cereals (t)
Total cereals (t)                    .                  1,470,00   2,074,88   1,951,90   1,517,900   2,454,900
Maize (t)                                               0         8          0         257,900    315,200
Sorghum (t)                                                                            750,500     1,238,300
Millet (t)                                                                             449,000     848,500
Table 9: Relationships between NPK
Consumption and Cereal
Production in Maior
Growing Zones



- 31 -
NPK (t)                                      5,523     4,740     6,983     9,615      8,160      18,392
Ccreals (t)                                                                          535,100    805,900
Maize (t)                                                                            169,000    217,600
Sorghum (t)                                                                          212,000    352,000
Milet (t)                                                                            107,000    203,000
I  



- 32 -
Annex 5: Table of Project Costs and Financing
(CFAF millions)
Components              IDA    CFD    FAC  Netherlands  Burkina  Total    % of
Project  Total
Costs    Project
.____    Costs
A. Fertilizer imports    665    481      -     571                    1,717    32
B. Field trips & training  892    23     67                           982       18
C. Promotion of rock     0
phosphates                    _
D. Study fertilizer      295    500                                   795       15
production unit
E. Credit component      333    319                                   652       12
F. Agricultural Inputs   122                                          122       2
Service
G. Accounting training   535                                          535       10
H. Project monitoring    177             71                 383       631       11
information &
Coordination Unit
Total Project Costs      3,019   1,323   138   571          383       5,312     100
% of Total Project Costs  56.8   24.9    2.6   10.7         7.2       100



