Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3827-BUR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 13.8 MILLION
TO THE
BURKINA FASO
FOR A
FERTILIZER PROJECT
February 5, 1985
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
SDR 1.00 = US$1.00 = CFAF 458
US$1.00   = CFALF 460 = SDR 0.996
CFAF 1000 = US$2.17 = SDR 2.18
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I metric ton = 0.98 long ton (2,205 lbs.)
1 hectare    = 2.47 acres
1 kilometer = 0.62 mile
1 meter      = 3.28 feet
ABBREVIATIONS
AVV       Volta Valley Development Authority
BOAD      West African Development Bank
CNCA      National Agricultural Credilt Bank.
FAER      Rural Equipment Fund
HER       Water Supply Division
ICRISAT   International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics
IRAT      Tropical Agronomic Research Institute
IVRAZ     Agronomic and Zootechnical Research Institute
MAAH      Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Husbandry
OFNACER   National Cereals Agency
ORD       Regional Development Organization
RDF       Rural Development Fund
SAFGRAD   Semi-Arid Food Grain Research and Development
SOFITEX   Burkinabe Textile Fiber Company
FISCAL YEARS
Government:  January 1 - December 31
Project:     January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BURKINA
FEPT eLIZER PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                 Burkina Faso
Berneficiarv:             Ministry cf Agricultiure and Animal Husbandry
Amount:                    SDR 13.8 million (US$13.7 million equivalent)
Terms:                    Standard
Project Description:      The  proiect seeks to  reform fertilizer subsector
policies and the, structure of fertilizer use by
removing subsidies and other distortions, identi-
fying and providing better and cheaper fertil-
izers, eliminating supply inadequacies, and thus
implementing a sound policcy framework for fertil-
izer usage.
Benefits:                 The  preseni  system and  pattern of fertilizer use
for cereal cultivation is not sustainable in the
long run and does not lend itself to further
expansion.   The policy reforms tc be implemented
under the pro½ect will make possible more wide-
spread and efficient use of fertilizers and lay a
sound basis for increasing cereal productioni. The
project would remove the heavv recurrent burden on
Government  of  firancing  cereal  fertilizer  sub-
sidies, encourage more effective application of
fertilizer resulting in higher yields per input
unit, as well as reduce thfe costs of fertilization
for the country as a whole through less expensive
fprtilizer   formulations   and   greater  use   of
domestic inputs.
Risks:                    The  project faces  no special risks,  although it
will require perseverance  of the Government  in
implementing  politically  diffirult  measures.   A
cortinuing dialogue and formal consultations will
provi0e the necessary support for this.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii~ -
Estimated Project Costs: (Net of taxes and duties from which the project
would be exempt.)
Local            Foreign           Total
U-------- 11S$ million ------------
Fertilizer imports                       C.7                4.4              5.1
Credit                                   0.7                 -               0.7
Fertilizer field trials                  0.5                1.3               1.8
Rock phosphate promotion                 0.2                1.5              1.7               X
Fertil'zer production unit               1.7                3.5              5.2
Training and manatgement                 0.7                2.1              2.8
Studies                                  0.2                0.2              0.4
Base cost                                4.7               13.0             17.7
Physical contingencies                   0.5                1.2              1.7
Price cortingencies                      1.7                3.0              4.7
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                    6.9               17.2             24.1
Financing Plan: 1/
Local            Foreign           Total
…----------- US$ million ------------
Government                               1.1                0.3              1.4
IDA                                      4.5                9.2             13.7
France - CCCE                            0.5                2.7              3.2
- FAC                            0.2                1.5               1.7
Netherlands                              0.3                1.8              2.1
Fed. Rep. of Germany (GTZ)               0.3                1.7              2.0
TOTAL                                  6.9               17.2             24.1
Estimated Disbursements:
FY86      FY87       FY88       FY89       FY90      FY91
…-------------------- US$ million --------------------
Annual                  1.9        2.4        3.8        3.0        1.8      0.8
Cumulative              1.9        4.3        8.1       11.1       12.9     13.7
Economic Rate of Return: Because of the project's policy reform nature and
methodological difficulties in defining precisely
its cost/benefit assumptions, no economic rate of
return has been calculated.
1J   A tabie giving the firnncing plan by project component is given in
Annex V.



- iii -
Appraisal Report:         No appraisal report has been prepared.
Project Completion Date: June 30, 1991
Map:                      IBRD 15166R1
I






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECODIENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE F.XFCUTlVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO BURKINA FASO
FOR A FERTILIZER PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation onk a proposed
development credit to Burkina Faso in an amount equivalent to SDR 13.8
million (US$13.7 million) on standard IDA terms to help finance a Fertil-
izer Project. The French Government wil1 contribute US$4.9 million equiva-
lent,  comprising  of  a  loan  from  the  Caisse  Centrale  de  Cooperation
Econonique (CCCF) and a grant from the Fondl's d'Aide et de Cooperation
(FAC). The loan is expected to be on terms of 1.5-2.0 percent interest per
annum with repayment over 30 years, following a ten-year grace period. The
Kingdom of the Netherlands will provide a grant of US$2.1 riillion equiva-
lent, and the Federal Republic of Germany will contribute an additional
grant of US$2.0 million equivalent.  The ahove cofiranciers wijl finance on
a parallel basis.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum entitled "Upper Volta: Investment
in Human Resources " (4040-UV) was distribuited to the Executive Directors
on September 5, 1983.  The following paragraphs are basedl on this report
and on subsequent economic updates bv Bank staff.
Background
3.        With a GNP per capita of S180 in 1983, Burkina (population 6.7
mnillion) is one of the poorest countries in the world.  As in most of the
Sahelian region, this poverty is largely the result of a limited resource
endowment.   Soils  are  gcrerally  shallow,  poorly  structured  and  easily
depleted by traditional methods of cultivation.   Rainfall is scarce and
highly variable both among regions and from yea-i to year.  The lack of a
permanent water flow in the countrv's  river system severelv limits the
potential for irrigation and lhydroelectric power.  The mining cost of known,
mineral deposits (e.g. zinc, silver, phosphorus) is relatively high.  The
country's landlocked position, scarcity of roads and long distances from
seaports  further  constrain  the  country's  development  potential  in  all
sectors.
4.        An estimated  80-90 percent  of the population  clepends for its
livelihood  on  the  predominantly  subsistence-oriented  agricultulre  and
livestock sectors.   Concentration of over half of the popultation oT the
central plateau has resulted in declining fallow, rapid deforestation and
deteriorating soil fertility in this region.   The impoverishment of the
central region has given rise to spontaneous resettlement to the south and
west, areas recently freed of riverblindness (onchocerciasis), and to
emigration to coastal countries, primarily the Ivory Coast.  Approximately
0.6 percent of the population emigrates each year and roughly half of the
emigrants are working age males.   Emigration has provided  the required
safety valve for population pressture and has resulted in an annual inflow



-2-
of remittances of about 8 percent of GDP.  Both demographic movements,
however, represent only partial and temporary solutions to the challenge of
raising the living standard of the population which is growing at
approximately 2 percent annually (adjusted for emigration).
Past Economic Performance and Recent Developments
5.        The 1970's was a period when Burkina's economic performance was
good in comparison to other Sahel:Lan countries with a 3.9 percent annual
growth in GDP from 1970-1979 (2.0 percent per capita).  This was due to
substantial inflows of foreign aid, the rapidly expanding production of
cotton - the major export crop - the increasing importance of workers'
remittances which accounted for the bulk of the gains in national income,
and, last but not least, the relative absence of pricing and other policy
distortions.  Deficits in the national budget, amounting to approximately
1-1.5 percent of GDP, however, began to appear in the second half of the
decade  reflecting  weaknesses  in  planning  and  budgeting  of  public
expenditures.
6.        Between  1980 and  1983, political  instability and  turnover of
government leadership caused a rapid deterioration in the economy. In late
1980, a new military government came to power which departed from the
conservative financial management practices of the past three governments.
The Government undertook a number of questionable investments and increased
its debt burden by expanding the recurrent budget, borrowing from local
commercial banks and contracting i-oreign loans on non-concessional terms.
As a result of these policies, the budget deficit reached a level of 4.2
percent of GDP in 1983.   State enterprises,  also, were affected by the
financial decline resulting in reciprocal payment arrears between the
enterprises and the Treasury and an increasing demand for bank credit. In
additior,  political uncertainties  contributed  to a decline  in workers'
remittances.  Because of poor weather, cereals harvests fell steadily from
the peak reached  in 1981,  thereby aggravating the recession.   Overall,
there was a deterioration in investment - approximately 50 percent between
1980 and 1982 - and GDP grew marginally in 1982 and fell by 1-1.5 percent
in 1983.
7.        The present military Government came to power in August 1983 with
the primary objective of establishing a solid political base. Consequently,
a clear delineation of economic policies was delayed until mid-1984, when
the  growing  deterioration  in  the  economic  situation  compelled  the
Government  to formulate a preliminary set of development  and financial
stabilization  objectives.   The  first  concrete  step  was  to  pass  an
"austerity budget" which curtailed government salaries and recruitment and
reduced materiel expenditures.   Subsequently, the Government started the
implementation of the "Programme Populaire", a program of small investments
and operations at the village level, and began taking firmer actions to
direct foreign assistance inflows into the priority sectors of agriculture
and human resource development.  It also started the formulation of a new
Development Plan.   Thus,  the Government appears to be making a serious
effort to redress the economic and public finance situation. For all these
efforts, however, the budgetary deficit has continued to widen, with a
financial shortfall of approximately 4 percent of the GDP estimated for
1984.  In addition, recent indicators are that GDP growth did not recover
in 1984.



-3-
Ecnomic Policy Issues
8.        To reverse the deteriorating trend of the economy and public
finances, policy issues need to be addressed regarding public financial
management, investment priorities and state enterprises.  Corrective action
in these areas would also allow the Government to initiate discussions with
the IMF on a possible Standby Arrangement.
9.        Financ-ial Management.  Restoring balance to the public finances
will inevitably require actions to cut back budgetary expenditures in
several areas.  Although the 1984 budget included important measures in
this respect, as outlined above, restraints also need to be extended to
defense spending and public transfers, notably student stipends. Moreover,
debt service payments on internal and external borrowings have recently
become a serious problem, primarily due to the expiration of grace periods
on foreign concessional loans obtained after the 1973-74 drought.  Debt
service payments amounted to CFAF 6 billion in 1983, with a sharp increase
projected for subsequent years.  ln addition to rescheduling some of the
non-concessional debt incurred during 1980-82, a general improvement in
public debt management is necessary to avoid the recent recurrence of late
payments to foreign creditors.  Despite the limited tax base, some scope
exists for increasing budgetary revenues by raising import taxes or the
indicative prices of imported consumption goods and petroleum products and
by strengthening tax administration.
10i.      Aside  from  inappropriate  expenditure and revenue measures,  a
majaor cause for the deficitary trend in the budget is the weakness of
financial control and expenditutre planning, particularly in the areas of
external debt and public recruitment.   Also,  there is  no budgeting or
accounting system to monitor the large share of public investment financed
from abroad;   accordirgIv,  the related  expenditure obligations  for the
Government, both counterpart contributions and recurrent costs, are poorly
estimated. The authorities have recently taken steps to tighten control of
personnel expenditures and of contracts for procurement and technical
assistance. The adoption of the reformed budget nomenclature advocated by
the IMF will improve the budget as a tool for expenditure analysis.  With
IDA-financed technical assistance, the Government has also obtained a
thorough accounting of project counterpart payments due in 1984. An
essential, complementary measure would now be the elaboration of an annual
comprehensive investmeTnt budget which would enable the authorities to
assess the country's capacity for absorbing new investment and the ensuing
recurrent costs.
]3.       Tnvestment Priorities.  Only limited attention is being paid to
formal planning and ranking of public investment projects.  So far, the
Government has given major emphasis to promoting a few highly visible
investments whose priority and feasibility in economic terms remain
uncertain.  The largest and most controversial of the proposed projects,
representing a total cost of about $320 million, is the Tambao project
involving the Ouagadougouj-Kaya-Dori railroad extension, development of a
manganese deposit at Tambao and construction of related infrastructure.
The Government is contemplating two other major investments whose economic
justification remains to be established: the Sourou Valley and Bagre
irrigation projects.  On the other hand, the Government has initiated a
thorough evaluation of the feasibility of exploitation of the zinc/silver



- 4 -
deposit at Perkoa.   Also a program of rural self-help projects has been
drawn up as a vehicle for development by the coantry's ownX means.  Although
much more appropriate in the Burkinabe context, this program appears overly
ambitious (in terms of both number of projects and timing) in light of the
limited implementation capacity of the Government and the small absorptive
capacity of the rural communities.
12.       Since the Government's own investment resources are small, the
size and quality of public  investment will  continue  to depend  on the
decisions  of  the donor  community.   Despite  the  lack of  an  investment
strategy, the Government has placed emphasis on taking a firmer hand in
directing development assistance in the country, an objective which will
indeed prove to be increasingly important as the recurrent financing
requirements of past investments place tighter limits on the absorptive
capacity for new projects.   To improve the efficiency of overall public
investment,  the  Government  will  need  to  review  and  rank  investment
proposals on the basis of clearly defined development priorities, estimated
economic impact and budgetary implications.
13.       Public Enterprises.   Burkina has a number of major parastatals
which are managed quite efficiently and, in fact, could serve as models to
similar entities in the West Africa region - notably VOLTELEC, OPT, and
ONE,   the   electricity,   teleconmunications,   and   water   utilities,
respectively, and SOFITEX,  the cotton market:ing organization.    However,
most of the public enterprises suffer from lax financial accounting and
reporting to the central government, which makes it difficult to assess the
overall impact of their operations on the consolidated public financial
situation. The increasing financial troubles of the sector in recent years
are rooted partly in the liquidity problems of the Treasury and partlv in
inadequate policies relating to price and tariff issues, employment and
internal management.   To improve the financial performance of the public
enterprise sector, the newly created Ministry of State Erterprises should
take prompt action to ensure realistic pricing, curtail excess employment
and strengthen public enterprise finances, generally.
Long-Term Development Prospects
14.       Although steps have already been ta'ken towards solving the most
pressing economic issues, the country still lacks a workable strategy for
long-term economic growth.  From the above, it is clear that in devising
this strategy, the Government will have to pay special attention to
agricultural and human resources development issues.
15.       Burkina's  growth  prospects  depend  in  the  first  instance  on
reversing the deterioration of renewable agricunltural resources - ground
water, topsoil and forest cover - which has occurred as a result of
pressure from the growing human and livestock populations.  The abandonment
of traditional shifting cultivation, overcutting of forests and brush to
meet fuelwood demand, and uncontrolled grazing have combined to create
nearly irreversible damage to the carrying capacity of parts of the central
plateau.   To arrest this environmental degradation and eventually raise
productivity requires erosion control and replacement of organic matter in
the soil by integrating crop cultivation with reforestation and livestock
husbandry.  More and better  focused research is needed to overcome the
technical and economic constraints to the intensification of crop/forest/



- 5 -
livestock production systems.  Difficult social and political issues also
need to be addressed, particularly concerning land tenure and communal
responsibility for management of forests and grazing areas.
16.       A second major challenge for the country is to accelerate the
development of its human resources.  Expanding access to primary education
and improving health status through better primary health services, water
supply and sanitation, and nutrition will be critical to raise productivity
(and permit the application of new agricultural technologies as these are
developed) and reduce poverty.  Progress in these areas will require policy
reforms aimed at reducing unit costs, redirecting budgetary resources
towards primary services and increasing cost recovery.   More widespread
primary education is also an important means of changing attitudes
regarding high fertility.  The current rate of population growth outpaces
the expansion of agricultural output under existing conditions and makes it
especially  difficult  to  adopt  measures  to  preserve  the  embattled
agricultural  resource  base.    Reduction  of  population  growth  should
therefore be an important priority.
17.       Other elements of a long term strategy must include exploration
and, where economically feasible, development of the country's mineral
potential,  to generate public revenues, diversify exports and reduce the
country's  vulnerability  to  the uncertainty  of  its  climate.   With  the
exception of Tambao, the Government is pursuing a rational approach to
commercial development by focusing on the most accessible and highest value
deposits.   Finally,  development  of  transport  iDfrastructure - with  an
emphasis on ensuring adequate maintenance and rehabilitation of existing
assets - is needed to complement actions in the directly productive
sectors.
Foreign Assistance and Aid Coordination
18.       Notwithstanding the absence of a distinct  investment program,
Burkina has received, and continues to receive, a considerable volume of
external assistance - accounting for an estimated 80-90 percent of the
country's total public investment in the past several years.  The bulk of
this assistance is on highly concessional terms.  However, the increasing
constraints on counterpart contributions and recurrent expenditures due to
the tight budgetary situation call for a more selective and coordinated
approach in planning foreign assistance, on the part of the Government and
the donor community alike. Moreover, because of the budgetary constraints,
local cost financing and high cost-sharing ratios will continue to be
necessary features of external assistance to the country.
PART II - WORLD BAKK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BURKINA
19.       The Bank Group's commitments  in Burkina,  as of September 30,
1984, amounted to US$250 million for twenty-eight IDA credits.   IFC has
made one investment.  About US$143 million have been disbursed.  The IDA
credits   include   fourteer   projects   in   agriculture   (including   one
supplementary  credit),  six  projects  in  transportation  (including  one
supplementarv credit), two projects in education, three projects in
telecommunications and one project each in industry, mining exploration,
and urban development. The IFC investment was made for the production of



- 6 -
plastic products destined for the local market. Burkina is also one of the
major beneficiaries of the Onchocerciasis Control Programme financed by IDA
and other donors. Annex II contains a surnmary statement of IDA credits and
IFC commitments.
20.       Project implementation has generally been satisfactory over the
past fifteen years.  However, the recent political turmoil and resulting
administrative and personnel changes have slowed the implementation or
start-up of many projects, in some cases necessitating the extension of
closing or effectiveness dates.   Also, project implementation has been
hampered by the Government's fiscal management problems which have made it
difficult  to meet  promptly counterpart  funding obligations.   Burkina's
disbursement rate, which historically has compared favorably with that of
other  countries  in  the  region,  has  deteriorated  in  recent  months.
Disbursements are expected to return to normal levels, however, as the
political and administrative environment stabillzes.
21.       The Bank's operational strategy in Burkina is two-fold: to assist
the Government in the formulation and implementation of macro-economic and
sectoral policy reforms; and to help the country address its long-term
growth and development constraints.  As for policy reform, recent lending
operations  , inter alia, in mining and rural development have addressed
sectoral policy and strategy issues such as sector investment priorities,
institutional development questions and appropriate financial policies.
The proposed Fertilizer Project, in particular, involves major changes in
fertilizer subsector policies including pricing and institutional issues.
Depending on the Government's commitment to macro-policy reform, future
IDA-assistance could include a Technical Assistance Project to strengthen
the  public  administration  and  assist  the  Government  in  designing  an
appropriate economic adjustment program.
22.       As for support for long-term development,  IDA's operations in
Burkina have - and will continue to be - focussed on the priority sectors
of rural development and human resources. Besides the proposed Fertilizer
Project, agricultural projects under preparation are aimed at improving
the  delivery  of  agricultural  research  and  extension  services  and
strengthening livestock production.  A third Education Project and a first
Health Project scheduled for FY85 would expand primary school enrollments
and improve rural health care services. Each of these projects will have a
heavy policy orientation, as outlined above.  Other sectors earmarked for
Bank   Group   involvement   are   highway   construction   and   railroad
rehabilitation.   Progress  towards  the formulation of projects in these
areas, however, is contingent upon the resolution of issues concerning
investment  priorities  in  the  transport  sector,  i.e.  the  economic
feasibility of the Tambao project, mentioned in paragraph 11, and the
currently inadequate maintenance of existing infrastructure.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Sector Background
23.       Economic progress in Burkina is necessarily closely linked to
growth of the agricultural  sector.   Agriculture  is the most  important



sector, employing 80-90 percent of the population and accounting for about
one third of GDP and almost all exports. Yet the country is constrained by
poor agricultural resources, particularly in those regions where most
people live.  Rainfall is uncertain in much of the country.  Evapotrans-
piration is extremely high.   Soils are generally shallow,  poorly struc-
tured, acidic, deficient in phosphorous, and often eroded.  The potential
to augment resources by irrigation is economically limited because of the
costly investments required. Under the circumstances, yields are generally
low and variable.
24.       Almost 90 percent of cultivated land throughout the country is
devoted to cereals. Although cotton, grown mostly in the southwest, is the
major export crop, its aggregate cash value to farmers is worth no more
than one third to one half of that earned from the marketed share of
cereals.  Thus, cereals, while most important as a subsistence food crop,
are also important as a cash crop.
25.       The  trends  in  agricultural  production  appear  discouraging,
although there are some bright spots and the sector has perhaps performed
as well as could have been expected given the severe constraints to its
development.   Total cotton acreage expanded rapidly until  1968 and has
since then changed very little.   However,  there have been interregional
shifts.  While cotton acreage continued to increase in the southwest, it
declined and virtually disappeared elsewhere, as cotton was replaced by
cereals  due to increasing need for food crops.   Since  1968, moreover,
yields of cotton have risen markedly due to the shift to more fertile areas
and the increased use of fertilizers and insecticides, coupled with
extension programs.
26.       While  data  on  cotton  production  are  reliable,  statistics  on
cereals output contain a considerable margin of uncertainty. Output of the
three main cereals (sorghum, millet and maize) has probably grown at about
the same rate as population (estimated at about 2 percent per year,
adjusted for emigration), with yield increases confined to sorghum and
maize in the southwest, reflecting relatively good results attainable from
the application of fertilizer to these crops in that region and the
expansion of cultivation into more fertile areas.  Yields in the center
have stagnated or declined, however, as a result of increasing soil
deterioration.   On balance the country still satisfies all but a small
share of its consumption of cereals and other agricultural products from
local production in years of normal rainfall, but this has only been
achieved through increasing dependence on the southwest as a source of
food, which tends to limit the resources available in that region for
cotton production.
Development Options
27.       The following actions could in principle increase agricultural
production  in  Burkina:   (a) application  of  additional  land  and  labor
resources; (b) adoption of more intensive production techniques through the
introduction of new inputs and better agricultural practices to raise
productivity of land and labor; or (c) a change in the crop mix to raise
the value of output obtained from a given amount of resources.



28.       With  respect  to the  first  option,  Burkina has  by and  large
reached the limits whereby it can significantly increase output by
extending prevailing production techniques.  With regard to land, this is
not only true for the Central Plateau, but also for the southwest and the
east.   However,  there  is  still  some  scope  for  extending  traditional
cultivation to these latter regions, especially into those areas where
riverblindness has been brought under control and population density is
still low.  Even in these areas, however, long--term sustainable production
increases can only be obtained through the adoption of more intensive
cultivation techniques. Accordingly, these areas should be considered as a
buffer against population pressures and their development should proceed as
such  techniques  are being developed  and  find wider acceptance  amongst
farmers.  As for labor, this has up to now been the constraining factor.
As population increases, the land constraint is gradually gaining in
importance relative to the labor constraint and in some densely populated
areas has already overtaken it.
29.       The  second  option  offers  somewhat   greater  possibilities.
Improved agricultural techniques such as land. preparation,  planting and
weeding  are  the most  fundamental  approach.   Bunding  and  other  erosion
control measures will conserve land resources and increase yields.   The
introduction of new crop varieties and the provision of improved seeds and
chemical fertilizers or rock phosphate can be important ways to increase
production and farmers' incomes.  There is only limited scope for irriga-
tion but  some possibilities  do nevertheless  exist.   For  the livestock
sector, preventive health care (not only for large stock but also for
poultry), development and protection of wqater sources and grazing grounds
and provision of feed supplements offer development  opportunities.   An
important development possibility can be found in the integration of animal
husbandry and crop cultivation (manure collection, draft animals, fat-
tening).   Extension  services  are  the  principal  avenue  to  adoption by
farmers and herders of new methods leading to more intensive production
techniques that will gradually permit more people to be supported by the
country's cultivable land.
30.       Although  the  third  option would  conceptually  seem to present
possibilities, its potential in practice is very limited due to marketing
constraints.  Most new high value crops and livestock products that can be
produced  in Burkina would need  to be marketed abroad.   Due  to fierce
international competition and long distance from markets, this option
cannot be expected to offer (except for cotton) much development potential
in the foreseeable future.
31.       Tn conclusion, agricultural development possibilities in Burkina
are limited.  Those that do exist have to work against a slowly deterio-
rating environment regarding soil depletion, land erosion and possibly
declining rainfall, the negative effects of which have first to be offset
before  production  and  income  gains  can  be  realized.   To  develop  the
potential that does exist to its fullest exteant, a strong technical and
financial base of the sector as well as a sound policy framework are
required.



-9-
The Fertilizer Subsector
32.       The use of imported chemical fertilizers began in Burkina in the
mid 1960s, rose steadily in the 1970s and is now about 22,000 m ton/year at
a c.i.f.  cost of some US$7 million.   The rapid rise was the result of
intensive promotion of their use for cotton cultivation and of direct price
subsidies that increased rapidly following the 1973 oil crisis to reach
almost two thirds of their c.i.f. cost by the early 1980s (see Annex IV).
33.       The combination of rising quantities and ircreasing subsidies per
unit caused total fertilizer subsidy amounts to grow rapidly to the point
where they are no longer financially sustainable. Subsidies have had other
adverse effects as well. They have distorted relative prices of different
kinds of fertilizers, causing more expensive types to be promoted over
cheaper ones (especially imported fertilizers vis-a-vis organic ones and
domestic rock phosphate).  To limit the total subsidy amount, Government
has been obliged to curtail use of imported fertilizer by restricting
deliveries to cotton growing areas only.
34.       To the extent imported fertilizers are used for cotton cultiva-
tion, there has been no financial cost to the Government since the subsidy
is recovered from cotton sales proceeds (and passed on to farmers in the
form of a reduced cotton producer prices).   Nevertheless,  even in the
cotton subsector, fertilizer subsidies have constituted a disincentive to
greater productivity.
35.       Fertilizer subsidies for cereal cultivation have created serious
financial problems since they cannot be recovered as there is no way to
apply an offsetting levy in the cereals market.  As the importing agency,
SOFITEX  1/, continues to supply fertilizers for cereals in cotton-growing
areas at the request of Government, the latter has to pay the corresponding
subsidies; in 1983 these amounted to US$2 million.  The Government has been
able to reimburse SOFITEX for the subsidy only with great difficulty from
extraordinary reverue:  loans from France, a grant from the Netherlands,
STABEX payments and surpluses from the agricultural price stabilization
fund.
36.       However  disruptive  the  financial  consequences  of  fertilizer
subsidies may be, more fundamental are their effects on the pattern of
fertilizer use that is being established.  High fertilizer subsidies have
been detrimental to the adoption of other means of fertilization such as
the use of manure derived from the integration of animal husbandrty and crop
cultivation and the use of locally produced rock phosphate.   The first
1/  "tSociete Burkinabe des Fibres Textiles"  (SOFITEX)  is the national
cotton ginning and marketing company, which imports virtually all
chemical fertilizers for both cottor. and cereal cultivation. There is
no formal legal monopoly on inputs distribution, although one exists
in practice for fertilizer due to the present subsidies which are
available only to SOFITEX. Once the subsidies are removed it would be
possible for private sector importers to supply fertilizers at prices
competitive with SOFITEX.



- 10 -
process involves the stabling of animals for manure collection and com-
posting of bedding material and other organic matter as well as the culti-
vation   of   fodder   crops.    This   process   requires   few   investments
(construction of stables or pens anid composting pits), most of which can be
made by the farmer himself. Foreign exchange outlays are negligible. The
feasibility cf integration has been demonstrated elsewhere in Africa, in
particular in neighboring areas of Mali.   The IDA-financed agricultural
development projects of Hauts-Bassins and Volta Noire, the Koudougou Pilot
Project and Third Rural Development Fund Project all have animal husbandry
integration components.  But an important obstacle to more rapid adoption
of crop/animal integration is the availability of subsidized imported
chemical fertilizer, which discourages adoption of the more laborious
methods  of  animal  husbandry  integration.   High  subsidies  on  imported
fertilizers have also adversely influenced the use of domestically produced
rock phosphate.   Finally, there are technical limitations on the use of
imported chemical fertilizers as the adverse effects  (acidification and
toxicity) of their use on the fragile soils of Burkina cannot be
overlooked.
The Proposed Project's Contribution to Agricultlural Development
37.       The proposed project falls in the second category of development
actions  at  paragraph 27  above.   It  aims  at  assuring  a  steady  and
uninterrupted supply of fertilizer in all parts of the country, including
those not presently served, by rationalizing the underlying policy
framework and eliminating distortions.  Moreover it will try to identify
new types of fertilizer, which are cheaper and better adapted to cereal
cultivation.
38.       The most important distortion to be removed under the proposed
project is the fertilizer subsidy.  As it is eliminated and prices go up,
farmers will find the profitability of fertilizer use changed.  This will
affect cotton and cereal farmers in different ways.  For cotton, no dis-
incentive effects are anticipated sinre SCIFITEX intends to increase
producer prices to offset higher fertilizer costs and thereby maintain the
profitability of intensive cotton cultivation.  Projections indicate that
SOFITEX will have the financial means to do so.  Moreover, following the
increases in fertilizer prices that began in 1982, farmers will have a
clear incentive to apply chemical fertilizer more accurately, and thereby
to increase its productivity.  In the long run, cereal cultivation should
benefit because limitations on fertilizer availability will be removed. It
is difficult, however, to predict short run effects.  Initially, some drop
in fertilizer use for cereal cultivation is nol: excluded but the effect on
production is bound to be limited since fertilizer use accounts for less
than 3 percent of total output.  Other influences such as rainfall, sales
of food aid and commercial imports/exports will be far more important. It
is not possible to influence significantly cereal producer prices because
they are largely determined by the free mar]ket.   Therefore,  it is not
possible to compensate cereal farmers for higher fertilizer costs as in the
case of cotton.



- 11 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Hi st ory
39.       The Fertilizer Project has evolved out of lengthy discussions
between the Government and the Bank about production incentives and notably
fertilizer subsidies. These discussions led to a formal agreement under
the FY81 Bougouriba II Project to reduce fertilizer subsidies from 64
percent of the ex-warehouse cost in  1981 to 32 percent in 1985.  The
Fertilizer Project was subsequently identified on the basis of the
appraisal work for the Hauts-Bassins and Volta Noire agricultural develop-
ment projects and the conclusions of the Agricultural Issues Study of
October 29, 1982 (Report No. 3296-UV), which recommended the phasing out of
subsidies on chemical fertilizers.
40.       The Government is on schedule in reducing fertilizer subsidies
according to the Bougouriba II credit agreement. The subsidy was reduced
to 49 percent in 1983 and has been further reduced to 40 percent for the
1984 crop season. However, Government considers that the Bougouriba II
covenant focuses solely on subsidies and does not address the need for
other reforms and improvements in the fertilizer supply and distribution
system. Government therefore requested the Association, during preparatory
discussions for the Hauts-Bassins and Volta Noire projects, to consider
financing part of fertilizer imports as well as other actions aiming at
improvements in fertilizer use. The Association agreed but requested the
Government to gradually but completely eliminate fertilizer subsidies.
Objective
41.       The project seeks to improve fertilizer subsector policies and
the structure of fertilizer use by removing subsidies and other distor-
tions, identifying and providing better and cheaper fertilizers, and elimi-
nating supply inadequacies. The present system and pattern of fertilizer
use for cereals is not sustainable in the long run and does not lend itself
to further expansion. Through policy reforms, the system is to focus
increasingly on domestic sources of supply (animal manure and other organic
matter; rock phosphate) and, where economically justified, on cheaper kinds
of imported chemical fertilizers. In the process, the project will create
a pattern of fertilizer use for food crops whereby farmers use the type
best suited to their particular crop and land, thereby lowering the cost of
fertilization for the country as a whole.
Project Description
42.       The project would finance:
(a) part of the cost of importing chemical fertilizers for
cereal cultivation over a four-year period during which
fertilizer subsidies would be eliminated;
(b) a five-year program of field trials to identify more
suitable fertilizers for cereal cultivation;



-- 12 -
(c)  a feasibility study for a small fertilizer production unit
and, if found technically and economically justified, its
construction;
(d) the promotion of domestic rock phosphate use;
(e) a five-year credit component to finance fertilizer distribu-
tion and help farmers finance fertilizer purchases;
(f)  a unit  to  coordinate,  monitor  and evaluate  the proposed
project;
(g) a component for the training of ORD and project accountants;
and
(h) studies.
Detailed Features
43.       Reform of the fertilizer subsector is an integral part of the
project. To this end the principal undertakings of the Government are the
following:
(a) progressive reduction of fertilizer subsidies leading to
their complete elimination (Section 3.06(b) and Schedule 2
of DCA);
(b) institution of uniform subsicly levels (expressed as a
percentage of ex-warehouse cost price) for different kinds
of fertilizer (Section 3.06(a) of DCA); and
(c)  full recovery by the distributing agencies of their costs
directly    attributable    to    fertilizer    distribution
(Section 3.07 of DCA).
44.       The project would finance a declining percentage of fertilizer
imports for cereal cultivation (estimated at 14,000 m tons over a four-year
period at a base cost of US$5.1 million), namely 40 percent of the ex-
warehouse cost in 1984, 30 percent in 1985 and 20 percent in 1986 and 10
percent  in  1987.   With  regard  to  subsidies,  a two-phased  approach  is
proposed.   The  first  phase would  consist  of a reduction in fertilizer
subsidies from 40 to 20 percent during crop years 1984-1986 at the rate of
ten percentage points per annum.  The second phase would lead to complete
subsidy elimination but the exact schedule would be agreed upon between the
Government and IDA at the end of 1986, taking into account the progress in
the achievement of project objectives and possible unforeseen effects of
previous subsidy reductions.  Correspondingly, credit funds for fertilizer
imports would be released in two tranches.  The first tranche of US$1.6
million would cover the agreed share of imports during crop years 1984,
1985 and 1986, and the second tranche would be available for later crop
years upon agreement on phase two.
45.       The elimination of subsidies will make fertilizers more expensive
to farmers.  As cereal producer prices are essentially set by the free
market, cereal farmers cannot be compensELted for higher fertilizer costs.



- 13 -
Therefore, the proposed project contains three components which aim at
identifying and providing cheaper fertilizers, namely:
(a) a national program of fertilizer field trials;
(b) the promotion of domestic rock phosphate; and
(c)  a feasibility study and possible construction of a small
fertilizer production unit.
46.       The field trials will comprise tests over a five-year period on
sites throughout the country at a base cost of US$1.5 million. A five-year
period has been chosen in order to establish adequately tested fertilizer
recommendations to be extended to farmers as improvements over the current,
single nationwide formula.   The purpose is to try and identify for dif-
ferent climatic and ecological zones kinds of fertilizer for cereal culti-
vation which are cheaper and more effective than the presently used type of
compound fertilizer.  The only fertilizer formula presently available was
selected for cotton cultivation; it is an optimal formulation for cotton,
but while it is useful for cereals it is certainly not optimal.  Trials for
cereal cultivation with other fertilizer formulae have not been conducted
in  Burkina.   The  trials  will  also  include  tests  with  domestic  rock
phosphate.
47.       Domestic rock phosphate has been made available to farmers since
1978 under a pilot project with technical and financial assistance from the
Federal Republic of Germany (FRG). Results have been mixed. Technically,
the product has showr. to be effective under Burkinabe conditions. However,
it has found only limited acceptance among farmers. To some extent this is
due to the nature of the product (a powder which is difficult to apply;
slow action in contrast to fast-acting chemical fertilizer), but the
distortions to be removed under the proposed project have probably been the
most  important  factor.   Imported  chemical  fertilizers  have  been  more
heavily   subsidized   and   therefore   relatively   cheaper.    Moreover,
inadequacies  in marketing  made  rock phosphate  less  readily  available.
Considering the experience, the German Government initially considered
terminating its assistance to the project at the end of 1983.  In view of
the reforms to be implemented, it has agreed to continue its assistance for
two more years (and, subject to a favorable outcome of the ongoing further
appraisal, beyond 1985) provided it will be integrated into the proposed
project. The rock phosphate component will include technical assistance in
production, and in on-farm application, as well as financing of the
uncovered part of production costs during the subsidy elimination period.
Base costs are estimated at US$1.5 million.
48.       The fertilizer production unit would produce fertilizer on the
basis of domestic rock phosphates.   A study (to be financed by the PPF)
showing its economic justification and technical feasibility is to be
available to IDA by August 31, 1985, and an action plan (including
financing, organization, legal framework and an implementation timetable)
by December 31, 1985 (Secticn 3.11 of DCA).  The unit is expected to reduce
the country's  import dependency and lower the cost of fertilizer.   The
proposed project includes US$5.2 million (base cost) for its construction
and initial operation in the event that it is found to be feasible.   If
not, these funds would be cancelled (Schedule 1, para 3 of DCA).



- 14 -
49.       Under the project,  short-term credit will be extended to non
cotton producing Regional Development  Organizations  (ORDs)  1/ for  the
purchase of fertilizers, to be resold to individual farmers for cash or to
farmers' village groups for cash or credit. Presently, these ORDs lack the
liquidity to purchase fertilizers.  Credit to village groups will be made
selectively and no new credit will be extended unless 90 percent of
previous years' credits have been repaid. Credits to the ORDs will be made
at 11 percent per year, which is higher than past, present and projected
inflation (about 10 percent per year) and consistent with other rates for
short-term  credit  (11-15  percent  per  year).   The  base  cost  of  the
short-term  credit  component  is  US$0.6  million.   Moreover,  medium-term
credit will be extended on a pilot basis for the application of a base
dressing of rock phosphate (base cost:  US$0.1 million).  Burkinabe soils
are very deficient in phosphate.   Credilt to purchase the necessary rock
phosphate will be extended to qualifying Village Groups, at 11 percent for
three years.  Both credit components will be administered by the "Caisse
Nationale  de Credit Agricole"  (CNCA),  which  will  act  for account  of
Government and will receive for this four percentage points of the interest
received from farmers (Section 3.05 of DCA).
50.       Within the Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Husbandry (MAAH),
an Agricultural Inputs Unit ("Service des Intrants Agricoles") was estab-
lished in 1982, with French financial and technical assistance, to devise
and administer policies relating to agricultural inputs.   The unit has
helped prepare the proposed project.  Under thie project, the unit will be
strengthened with staff and equipment for performing the following tasks:
(a)  coordinate,  monitor  and  evaluate  the  proposed  project
(including an evaluation of its possible impact on cereal
consumer and producer prices), and prepare reports and
materials for the annual consultations;
(b)  coordinate assessments of requirements, orders, supplies and
distribution of fertilizer and at a later stage of other
inputs as well; and
(c)  prepare  policy  proposals  and  supervise  policy  measures
initially concerning fertilizer but at a later stage other
agricultural inputs (seeds, insecticides, sprayers, animal
husbandry products, cereal conservation products, etc.) as
well.
51.       The proposed project will includes a component for the training of
ORD and project accountants. The ORDs are instrumental in the distribution
of fertilizers and other agricultural inputs.  It is therefore important
that the administration of stocks and supp:Lies be well organized. There is
a severe shortage of accountants for public sector positions as the private
sector offers better salaries. Under this component, consultants will draw
1/   ORDs are public entities, primarily responsible for extension but also
for  many  other  tasks,  notably  fertilizer  distribution,  credit
administration and support to Village Groups.



- 15 -
up a uniform accounting system for all ORDs and organize and conduct a
two-year course (including the writing of manuals and course material) in
which accountants will be trained in the application of the system. After
two years, local personnel with the help of two technical assistants will
continue the course for new trainees and will recycle previous students.
The component will also provide funds for an external audit of all ORDs not
covered under other IDA-financed projects.
52.       The proposed project would also finance a number of studies (base
cost $0.4 million)  regarding population and migration, agricultural land
reform, fertilizer use, agricultural statistics, and project preparation.
This component would also include a small amount (about $75,000 base cost)
for the Ministry of Planning and Development to establish a system for
monitoring foreign assistance.
Project Implementation
53.       The project will be executed by MAAH.  Normal day-to-day opera-
tions will be coordinated and supervised by a Project Coordination Unit,
consisting of a Project Coordinator, whose qualifications and experience
shall be acceptable to the Association, assisted by an accountant and a
small support staff (Section 3.01(b) of DCA). The Project Coordinator will
normally be the Head of the Agricultural Inputs Unit which will prepare
bi-annual reports, organize the annual consultations and in general provide
logistical support to the Project Coordination Unit.
54.       Fertilizers  will  be  imported  under  the  project  by  SOFITEX.
Domestic rock phosphate will be produced with German technical and finan-
cial assistance. Both imported fertilizers and domestically produced rock
phosphate will be distributed by the ORDs.  The credit components will be
administered by CNCA and the field trials executed by the "Institut de
Recherches Agronomiques et Zootechniques" (IVRAZ). The training of accoun-
tants will take place within the Directorate of Management Control of MAAH.
The feasibility study for the fertilizer dry blending unit will be con-
ducted under the auspices of the Agricultural Inputs Unit; the legal
position and organization of the plant itself, should it be constructed,
will be decided in agreement with the Association after the recommendations
of the feasibility study are available, but no later than December 31, 1985
(Section 3.11 of DCA).
55.       There will be consultations between the Government and IDA during
November or December of each project year to review project achievements
during the preceding crop season, determine fertilizer prices to farmers
for public announcement before year end, and discuss the work program for
the coming year. It is not anticipated that circumstances would arise that
would warrant a deviation from the agreed subsidy reduction schedule.
However, the annual consultations will provide an opportunity to discuss
and agree upon possible adjustments and improvements in the many elements
covered by the project for which the need may arise (Section 3.09 of DCA).
56.       To  help  project  implementation,  an  IDA  Project  Preparation
Facility of US$500,000 has been granted to finance the following activi-
ties:
(a) a feasibility study for a small fertilizer plant; and



16 -
(b) start-up of the fertilizer field trials during the 1985
cropping season.
Project Costs and Financing
57.       Project costs  (based on mid-1983 prices), net of identifiable
taxes and duties, from which the project would be exempt, are estimated at
US$24.1 million, of which US$17.2 million, or 71 percent, are foreign
exchange. A summary breakdown is shown in the Credit and Project Summary.
Cost estimates for fertilizer imports are based on Bank commodity price
forecasts.  Local operating costs reflect prevailing prices, based on the
experience of previous agricultural projects. Physical contingencies have
been calculated at 10 percent.   Price contingencies are based on annual
local cost increases of 10 percent per year during 1985-1989 and foreign
price increases of 8.5, 9.0, 9.0, 8.25 and 6.75 percent respectively for
the years 1985 through 1989, with the exception of imported fertilizers for
which, in addition, real price increases as projected in the Bank commodity
price projections have been taken into account (about 2 percent per year
for compound fertilizer and 6 percent for urea'.
58.       The proposed IDA credit of US$13.7 million equivalent would cover
57 percent of costs. France would contribute US$4.9 million equivalent (20
percent of project costs) of which US$3.2 million in the form of a CCCE
loan (interest 1.5-2.0 percent, amortization over 30 years with ten years'
grace) and US$1.7 million as an FAC grant. The Netherlands would provide a
grant equivalent to US$2.1 million (9 percent of project costs). The grant
of the Federal Republic of Germany is subject to a favorable outcome of the
ongoing reappraisal of the rock phosphate project. This may also influence
the composition of the component.   It is presently anticipated that the
Federal Republic of Germany would contribute a grant of US$2.0 million (8
percent of project costs).  All cofinanciers will finance on a parallel
basis. The fulfillment of conditions for disbursements under the agree-
ments with CCCE, FAC and the Netherlands is a condition of effectiveness of
the IDA credit  (Section 6.01 of DCA).   The Government's contribution of
US$1.4 million (6 percent of project costs) wculd cover salaries of local
staff and the provision and preparation of a terrain for the fertilizer
production unit, if found feasible.
59.       The combined external financing of US$22.7 million would cover
all foreign exchange costs (US$17.2 mil:Lion) plus US$5.5 million or 80
percent of local costs (US$6.9 million).  IDA would finance 65 percent of
local costs.   Local cost financing is recommended because Government is
facing severe budgetary constraints and is short of resources for invest-
ment, which would also make it difficult for Government to provide the
working capital necessary for project execution.  In view of this, it is
recommended that US$200,000 from the IDA credit be deposited immediately
upon receipt and approval of the withdrawal application in a' Special
Account (Section 2.02(c) of DCA).
Procurement, Disbursements, Audits
60.       Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below, with
the figures in parentheses showing respective amounts financed by IDA:



- 1 ' -
Procurement Method
Total
Project Element                     ICB      LCB      Other      N.A.       Cost
--------------- US$ million --------------
Fertilizer imports                  2.1       -        4.3        -         6.4
(2.1)     ()        ()-)                (2.1)
Civil works                         1.4       -        0.4        -         1.8
(1.4)     ()        ()-)                (1.4)
Vehicles & equipment                2.6       -        0.4        -         3.0
(2.6)     ()_)_                         (2.6)
T.A., consultants & studies          -        -        5.1        -         5.1
(-)   (-)    ~(1.9)     ()        (1.9)
Credit                                        -         -        1.0        1.0
(-)   (-)   (-)     ~( 1. O)    ( 1. O)
Operating costs                               -        6.3        -         6.3
(_)  (_)    ~(4.2)      ()        (4.1)
PPF refinancing                               -         -        0.5        0.5
(-)  (-)    (-)    ~(0.5)       (0.5)
TOTAL                            6.1        -       16.5        1.5     24.1
(6.1)     (-)      (6.1)    (1.5)    (13.7)
All major IDA financed items would be procured in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Contracts which after grouping are estimated to cost less than
US$54,300 equivalent but more than US$10,900 equivalent would be procured
after  local  competitive  bidding.   Contracts  which  after  grouping  are
estimated to cost less than US$10,900 equivalent would be procured domes-
tically  on the basis of not  less  than three quotations.   Items to be
financed by the other cofinanciers would be procured under procedures
acceptable to them.
61.       The IDA credit would be disbursed on the basis of 100 percent of
cost net of identifiable duties and taxes.   For fertilizer imports, cost
would be ex-warehouse of the importing agency.  CCCE, FAC, the Goverrnent
of the Netherlands and the Government of Germany would disburse on the same
basis. All disbursements from the Credit account would be fully documented
except for operating costs and credit by CNCA, which would be against
certified statement of expenditures.
62.       Separate  accounts would be kept and disbursement  applications
prepared  by  SOFITEX  for  fertilizer  imports,  CNCA  for  credit  and  the



- 18 -
Agricultural  Inputs  Unit  for  other  IDA  financed  expenditures.   The
Government  would  select  an  independent  auditor  satisfactory  to  the
Association to prepare annual audits of these accounts (Section 4.01 of
DCA). In addition the Agricultural Inputs Unit would prepare the following
reports for submission to IDA:  (a) annual evaluation reports of project
results as of March 31; (b) interim evaluation reports of the past crop
season and work programs and budgets for the next season to serve as base
material for the annual consultations to be he:Ld in November or December of
each project year.
Economic Justification, Benefits and Risks
63.       The economic justification for the project lies in the benefits
and savings to be derived from the removal of the distortions in the
fertilizer subsector, which can be grouped under the following four
headings:
(a) appropriate price incentives to farmers, in order that they
will use the type of fertilizer and method of fertilization
(including use of organic matter and animal manure) best
suited to their land, crops and agricultural techniques;
(b) the dynamic effects of increasing the cost of chemical
fertilizer, which would encourage more accurate application
resulting in higher yields per inaput unit;
(c)  the savings that wil:L arise from elimination of submarginal
use of chemical fertilizer by farmers for whom it is profit-
able at subsidized prices, but which represents a loss for
the economy as a whole; and
(d) regularity of chemical fertilizer supplies through the
elimination of the recurrent financing problem posed by
cereal fertilizer subsidies.
No economic rate of return has been calculated for this project since its
main impact would be obtained through policy changes and it is accordingly
very difficult to specify the without and with project scenarios. Without
the project, fertilizer supplies to cereal farmers would likely deteriorate
as funds for financing the subsidy become increasingly scarce, but the pace
of this deterioration is hard to gauge. W-ith the project, effective demand
would be met and incentives set in place to stimulate more efficient
fertilization, but it is again very hard to gauge the pace of adoption of
more cost-effective fertilizers and the rate at which the dynamic effects
of more costly chemical fertilizers will be realized.  As a consequence,
the fundamental assumptions behind a rate of return calculation would be
too imprecise.
64.       There is little risk that the above benefits will not be realized
under the proposed project.  There is a possibility that the field trials
will not result in the identification of significantly cheaper chemical
fertilizers, that the study for a fertilizer production unit will not find
it feasible, or that the German reappraisal of the rock phosphate component
will find it not justified leading to a discontinuation of their
assistance.   However,  even in those cases, most of the above mentioned



- 19 -
benefits can be achieved. Perhaps the greatest risk is the hesitations the
Government might have in taking the politically difficult measures required
for  the  long-term  reorientation  of  fertilizer  use.   The  continuing
discussions and formal annual consultations, supported by conditional
disbursements, are designed to provide a safeguard against this.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between Burkina Faso and
the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
66.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Conditions of effectiveness would be the opening of a Special
Account (para 59), establishment of the Project Coordination Unit and
appointment of the Project Coordinator, and fulfillment of all conditions
precedent to disbursements under the FAC and Dutch grants and the CCCE
loan.
67.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
68.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
February 5, 1985



--20 -                                                            ANNEX I
TABL e                                                             Page  1  of L
-BURKINA               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTtD AVERGNTS) Ia
MOST                 (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) lb
RECENT      LOw LNCOHE AFRICA          MIDDLE INCGKE
1960/b     1970/b     ESTIMATF/b    SOUTH OF SAHAlA         AFRIrCA S. OF SAHARA
ARIA (T3DSWh   s.m)
TOTAL                                 274.2       274.2        274.2
AGRICULTURAL                          119.9       L22.4        L26.3
Gp pa CAPT  ($)                           60.0        80.0        210.0             249.1                     1112.9
ina0 cinwTIO: FM CAPITA
(KILOGRAS OF OIL EQUIVALENT)            3.0         9.0         22.0              62.8                     529.0
PODATIOIN AM VaTAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MIO-EAR (THOUSANDS)     4164.0       5071.0       6493.0
UR8AN POPULATION (s OF TOTAL)           4.7         6.8         1D.9              19.2                      29.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEA" 2000 (MILL)                                1O.O
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                  34.7
POPULATION MCKENTIB                                            L.7
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KH.                          15.2        18.5         23.1              32.5                      55.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRI. LAND               34.7        41.4         50.1             119.2                     111.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (2)
0-14 YXS                            42.8        43.9         44.7              45.6                      45.4
15-64 YRU                           54.3         53.2         51.9              51.5                      51.7
65 AND ASOVE                          2.9         2.9          2.8               2.9                       2.9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (2)
TOTAL                                 1.9 /c      2.0 Ic       2.1 /c            2.8                       2.8
URSAIf                                5.7         5.7          6.0               6.2                       5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)           48.6        48.0         47.9              48.6                      47.0
CRUDE DEATHL RATE (PER THOUS)          26.8        23.8         21.3              17.7                       15.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                 3.2         3.2           3,2              3.2                        3.2
FAMILY PLANHING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)              ..
USERS (Z OF MARRIED WOffEN)            ..          ..
FOOD AN  NUrTION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-7L-100)                         0L1.O       (02.0         95.3              85.8                      91.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIRS (1 OF REOUIReiEN7S)        92.0         89.0         95.0               '.)                      98.2
PROTtINS (RAIMS PER DAY)             71.3        69.0         72.0              -49                       56.7
OF ',HICH AHLMAL AND PULSE         [i. 3        9.2         13.0 A'            .. 3                     17.3
CHILD (AOES 1-4) DEATH  -47E           11.0        49.0         36.3              23.3                       18.7
ALTN
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)          37.5        42.0         44.3              4d8.                      51.7
INFANT MORT. RATE (PER THOcS)        234.0        188.0        157.0             117.5                     102.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER ( POP)
TOTAL                                 ..         12.0         25.0 /e           21.8                       35.6
URBAN                                 ..         35.0         50.0 /e          61.5                       54.1
RURAL                                 ..         10.0         23.0 /e           14.2                      27.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(I OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  *-         4.0          4.0 /e           32.0
UR                                    ..         49.0         47.0 7:           69.2
RURAL                                  ..          ..           ..              24.8
POPULATION PEC PHYSICIAN           81650.0      87430.0      48510.0           27477.8                   11948.3
POP. PE  NURSINC PERSON              3980.0 /f   3980.0       4950.0            3396.2                    2248.9
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              1720.0      1580.0       1600.0 /d         1089.0                     986.9
URBAN                              210.0 jj    270.0         370.0 7:          395.2                     368.7
RURAL                              3090.0      2460.0       2470.0 7i         3094.0                    4012.1
ADMISSIONIS PE  HOSPITAL BED             ..          ..
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 7.5 /h       ..
URSa                                   ..          ...
RUAL                                   ..          ...
AVERA(C ISO. OF PCXSONS/ROQI
TOTAL                                 ..           ..
UA                                     ..          .....
RURAL                                  ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                  ..          ..
URO.                                   ..          ...
RURAL                                  ..          ..



- 21 -
ANNEX I
T A B L E  3A                                               Page  2  of 5
WRKINA                - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) la
MOST                 (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
RECENT      LOW INCOME AFRICA          MIDDLE INCOME
1960!/b    1970/b     ESTIMATE/b    SOUTH OF SAHARA          AFRICA S. OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRLIARY:   TOTAL                      8.0         12.0         20.0              69.2                        91.0
MALE                      12.0        16.0          26.0              78.8                       90.5
FEMALE                     5.0         9.0          15.0              57.6                       73.6
SECONDARY: TOTAL                      1.0          1.0           3.0             13.1                        17.4
NALE                       1.0         2.0           4.0              17.6                       23.7
FEMALE                      ..          1.0          2.0               8.3                       14.8
VOCATIONAL (2 OF SECONDARY)            21.2         14.7          18.7               7.2                        5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              47.0         44.0          54.0             46.1                        38.6
SECONDARY                            20.0         23.0          20.0 /e          25.9                        24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (2)                  1.5 /g      5.0 /i        8.8 /e           44.3                       35.6
cONsaRTOU
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP             0.4          1.3           2.0 j.            3.8                       20.7
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP            0.7         17.2          17.9             41.9                       100.8
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                0.1         1.2           1.6               2.0                       18.5
NEWSPAPER ('DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                ..          0.3           0.2 Ik           5.4                        17.2
CINEHA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA          ..          0.2           0.7 7iV           1.4                        0.3
iR  FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)            2380.0       2779.0        3320.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     47.1         46.8         46.1              36.5                        33.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                92.0         87.0          82.0             77.4                        57.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                    5.0          8.0         13.0               9.8                        17.4
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 57.2        54.8          51.1             41.0                        36.3
MALE                                 60.8         58.8          55.3             52.1                        47.6
FEMALE                               53.5         50.9          47.0             30.2                        25.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.8          0.9           0.9               1.2                        1.4
INCH  DISTUBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST SE OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..            .
HIGHEST 20Z OF HOUS_HOLDS               .           ..             .
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..           ..
LOWEST 4OZ OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..           ..            ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED A8SOL 'TE POVERTY LNCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..         164.0 /k         168.3                       525.3
RURAL                                   ..          ..        1o5.0 /k           90.8                      249.0
ESTLMATED RELATIVE POVERTY [NCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                  ..           ..            ..            107.7                       477.4
RURAL                                   ..          ..          53.0 /k          65.0                       186.0
ESTLMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOMtE LEVEL (2)
URBAN                                   ..          ..            ..             34.7
RURAL                                   ..          ..            ..             65.4
NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted, 'Data for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; -Data for 1970' between 1969 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1980 and 1982.
/c   Due to emigration populatlon growth rate Is lower than rate of natural Increase; /d 1977; /a 1975; If 1963;
L/  1962; /h 1964; Li 1972; li  1978; /k 1979.
JUNE, 1984



22                                                    ~~~~~~ANNEX I
-22-                                                      ~~~~~Page 3of5
A1t.  -thoft  th   aa. d.I    drua  -rtoor.gsrly(do    t. S   ohrotn.4rlal                                         t.OId .1.0  be  ...Od tho  they otyoa  ho tg-ra -oalty
o .1rbl: W-c-.  of        Iwe10   faadrtaddfttoi   0    otptawa                             diff-ron   -oott.  torlato    ie40.    Th. daao.   oaf-la.ntlt
Th. rg.ea   rop    r 1) tO.                  -,crottr  grop of the gotbj.bI  -oaoor d (2) a  --oiy aro    lt.oafa   iae   era -                      00..L-  e  the    Ior   ropo   t.
tabar  cunryleocot  or-dgit100   0              ....r..r aroo  `ft.  itddO. ilcm   Worth A!,tra  tod ttddl. taat  I. choeao  M---t. If -tr-ger  -Ot-oltel..I
afiotis)   t   heofoto.aro  dt  tearrae   eapaoato   eihtd   rth.tc                             aaIo  ot  todlca-o   -,d aftat otol  .fie  -oJ.rt   fSieomiao0
gro    a   aafor that lodiator.  STor   h    oc.to   orra   aajOt  nlaoa4(..o   h  to  aiiyo   aaedt   o Ietor._.000   Iat6
ae.ciedto  e(itaaorcaaof eg lt Ortrtoao               ,e.tt.. toaagm   are 1rbWi          tato:. to  oorItt   5   ao    fon   nleo                u -1.   non  the r-I":r  .0
1970 .od 19A1 dlt..                                                                                  fOtooAOf0yOt  Porlo   (ergo  - rb lttOS  41010.4  by tobto  (aton
Oat±trl      atae  0arrltrlo.  *0   epratyo   .rattymaeti.E .t oIr  tot.bWtIatorge    rot.  toIf                                                             n
for -oc-1t.  oEtro, a-       r f  04 ktrhe        ..ardt  I.... I-ivtatoo  -Oh-O,                       tortn   000  It de.;
tOll *0  1091data.                                                                        ot.aiatoo Ot  iloaptet td -.......or... ..             ror.l- potoattog-total
arha. at  0*01) dotde    0,terraorteo2e   t                  pttbd
904  (90.  to  192   -ot                                                        i                  hy it tao.: ,5IIIycttt9to.           I.thtiitto     L. LtgotOto y   -fatdta
totoCY COotlTl'ltt rft COP`TA - 0001 arariooaPI'lo  ofrr iol                                                aala   etr   oiteaot(    itfdh       hor    (hot by a aadtral
aId  -.te,ba-                                                             -pitt,y)t   Iora.o   i  ooolo  ptoot; 19h.9,  pr-od., o  Litltd  rooo of .ed-Ia f-lIt, L'.
190 M0  1991 dat.c.aaal.   Rr , tl.rta  bad     T-tl,    W oa bor0   diaoo  t   rd.hr
POPULATION 000  fITAL. STATISTIOC
T-1 .ftp(fl.tiI((.tld-Y- .tiooad.) - 00 of J.1, it  ff60. 1900. aS  19602aSlitt
dat..                                    MI.                                                             taWbc cS it. ot -aoooadtol   (ttor  co    .othoo  -          ho'.oOo.adto
a-M  bIdntrl.o 194  (t111oO   04 1992 do.,.I rho-toehod  ..t  .....ttlt  rooz                                                                   oo.
ear b~.Lb  yM 100Coro   poottonttetto                    r  hado  19100                      of -lereottef  or 0-p a I-ty Sit obato  -n trl" ot.       ado.eOta
aScuting 901mg  o fa"I tt   aroordltg  M0 tcootbeateod-oat   Iei
ttataoe, ooettttoo- t  om  It ohtrh ag-   a    eca.   I  motaitFOIso-t  rhotL - tro.  tt   -d O                                            L.at    Cr-.  total  51. aod tecal
caprodarttoe   rota     .  I  S,ta p,o             chio .to btttih ratsI Igoo...t                      rear  hu   dOS         . Oo   ltaII.   rgheo-ttaycdtto                    o
drottr roteL  ....0. The afot ioar  (OylatIonL itae  -~ e.t Icad   h0e.                                .10 c-        rr I t..    .  I   -r  halo  . o   ho    heo a  et-oo  ag..
bot  ofteooeld   hrrmteo f 11                   the-d.   roeaoro   On I                                                    totraralnar   ool      00   01   0  fel  Cooatd caae;  modarr
100, 00d 01ct50. of darlin oftrttirato    oa.atba,                                                     bd rclo   Loor.a    t            o    r o         orodrigytatOiO
prano   000.- Ia the  Iad ...y fr  or -tIhtdrt Itootlo-prodet,eoot   OotOa.0  t-eher  fottd   ttOti                                                                     0
Ia. areo after the Oct rafto4aottot rat. hoe octo bed onito.  Otto              V frtotOIlyoL_                      .    ---.
Oh. Oatttyto  ch., II   IllOt                                                                                                                --O1,0   tlrmt    00110   arSldroot    o   adrr.ooo   eod-I 001
_-oad, 1901 IOta.                                                                                  _ol-orhr.i-rlo,r     --oodo-                                            _.Ioodrtortd i
rool    --o eoly                                                                                                  --000to  ood-or -  deetla 11,45d toIo       r-h-oIt   to oho
P-oolatto  Al  Strrfog  otr-   - Childro  10-to y-arg,  -krOlt-.ga  (11--                            COoftrtPTtl
60 rara1,  n  roIr       65O y.ara aad  0.1a       rcagofOd-,..r                                   0e..aor   2acZe 0000   ooa o I-   P-aagror  rrc                                to
pocoar_t  1960  19101  .041992 Oa.                                                                   oac   st o  Io  tha  egI            rercot;0014.         IeonO.   taSca
Oo-o1--o Ir,-h lata loSrotn   -.,.I - lo-oI grouth rete  f t-t1 .04-                                     clitrah-..dle
,.Foronott   .for11-             1990-01  .0   10-0.taI  teeo.                                                      alo  rOtaO    oor   ol-OlL tya                   f roer.f. rdio
oo. -alo.  o   UI1-6.  190.0.aa           19009.alteedOSOnr  if" rounola  hod It ;.er  aha  rett                                                                         oo   f  ai
rear ppuator  1991-6, 1970   o   99   aa                                                             ooodtnoLthe   tI..iog
potttol10,1900  9, en  1992 data.                                                            ga-ara  tb.ito  itt  .... ttdpota  0,orodegttaodV   ca
lootours  rapodoolh--d010   It She                   Ib-~   dtotne  (eto    g -otrlO           tIaoeaa--Ctrltl-    (o.r ..         adteaalfJ-Oo.   h   .r
of htrOt-ooaIOt dcotoc ordaraoooloe  of oaTnoat foty      nt97,                           biot 0.01  tnooao  no   CotatoOa-hnd0   h    tbt
rootta.,y Ithe.Sod   oio   terfr.lold0tdtSaog   o   fnctnOI                                                                                 Iot
featlo tldontnS-UaotS  logrooto of Sattlad oeoenl l- Ocporgi,oto-gd.   X.--I -                                                               If SarIole-
oOs  o btIh-ld-bea(09it afo  re  Torloog   r  ltoa   eaend   a
prartotn                                                                                                              d-inor  oI000tiay  tt-o Ilsf10.ostI050on -  i-Ot00-
?hLI,dPIa..lngag   erg g          Ioal  tIfm -gId  -10-9  altoug         for so                        fl'hr  o9jtoag4j-   ttalalyatn   oaoa    ttalg 
=Ootooeacold-   Itirt oe.t  I. iaOa         ,. to   otteog  -000d5    -or.adatSlydtt.0004OtaSte,to.i,eo,Ont
oooal  otortoo  f  ll  oo   ooodtto.  toaoltotolocu   nd  rdOg1~ol47jj0nrooj  lao                       d00000   to Imb;,            , Io.at .,tato   coO
taa-  an Ia  0  aeT       a  ra  ha..Ccotia    o-0prmoygod  lg                                           fojo    5  0050 (0o  tto    000900;   0,091 0-19  lO
[,Id..   af. i.tcdo   0.>obrtoe.   le a16            rid-00   000001  torre.. - a.I.                  ?.-I.r   torit -  -1.   I..0 000I f.-010I ...tutln   snLt-rfotng-
0(0.10   -at-ou  a..rege . ooa p         ttoo,I   otgl.to; l961-65. 1970, and 1982                     .419
aOarDaqolataoOof of.fedaaio.aaat   IOueytroa.tr                                                 tatuc-ga     do toSt. st   an  fasot  (nolato  of01  g.  epeiey
dy        alaaatit.   optod0-..at  prod4rtlot,  mpr-  t..190  19000.0419   o.                                                            ha   r   ead0   10    aOOtt0    a
taactltleaooOd      P Itfodpocattntd   aoat  darboto                  oot-                       .te-toa.aetr.nftnloArs
s a    re gtaadb00haodL -- n or.ytoota   neade for totoal                                    60000.10ttttr 901 z ot,O   oo_t0    oe  I   f   O.0                             00t
a-tloty  .04   aat     b I  rotidgltacottoota    t.ortoe   bett  acgha,00  ttdoggg65Ootato  Itoe  aeII-h
ojc.04.Sedtertbrto   ofonpl-te, a,l 011.00   10(ern  f.t  e.ta.
at hoehold lo.-I; 1961-65, If70 oud 1990 dora                                                      11000  21970051fo4
'ePre    ", ost  of-P",oltigttdr       rOOtr0at  ftt000                                         PornaO    fOrer  lre   IWO  Lt coeh 004 hOi) - beoSota  by oloftaee
Ia otl   f food aray         taaly tIodtoctot L               o  hot.-   9-                      (ern.rr t00aret  p00-   20  .ron.,ad roo-a  90 toeot  of
q ratsof.  al r1    to.  etbta-dbyf00              d004   for  -Iomo                             hoogohId..
elluuo   of6   ra   of tta-ltral(t day Sd 2  gt.   f  01     .0d
i              Lbdrd   0t    0.,thothtc _f75 joa   of 01.St p,4traa   sd 23 dtaae                 tOeftb.o    siae   r   ay.rotasoe    f pot-ro   tat. 
of  0001prOco o  o  araa   orto  ool.  ropSe  b  00  o  he                                    heldbeItoth.td   tt  oo.th-hl dotot
TlId 1.01. rood topyty   SOt-65.  0970 .00 1990 done.                                               0.15.   .oaS00.0    outai10  oar tI.2itt  -                                M =otod001 
ta    gtOea ..neP ly freaII04ot. - oetn auppl If  f fod                                                       "Y i.00  bot    a ta  100.    -lal helm; thl  a  tn                I
dtioa   foot 001st. .04tt.   ogrsptdy   1961-65. 1970 .04  1977                                         -otiltlo Ily aeot  dte    o   aI          aoto  oaf.fd                     L.ttOStS1  00
data.                                                                                                   tffordatl..
Chtld Ioam 1-01  0.000 faalerroua                 -      1dta  Octh  rot  heoad In                     fItt-ata       o      P-vate 100.-Ittlf   a   si                   - Uae  and toal-I
ad    ioI-i4or.t   tld.   ntt   d  tOtlttme   altng901tolo                                                           ory 00.0   10.  1 0 "a.tIlt  of  verge   .r  an
dontt. .dt  dorld foo  lItf  tablOel 1960, 197  an  IfI  4.0.                                      e ta   500a  the rou fny   Utbc               - I. .tt  do-tr    ft..Ib -vIr
at~ htriNht 1960, '1901 04  _28 dat.                                                                    000
Infont flt-tttS  900It. (       hu1-    l-aaoa  deahs of lefen-  ted.,u
root of ago ret thou d Lit- 0100.1  1960, 1070 .0d 1991 dat.-
fottaty v.11.1  a   erta .a  o  theIr totetlo             poltlOot ,         _
hn.  toI foSa I     -.hoae`d breogo oh.- oul             .......of.  rba-o, and  foa
.0d  oa..ttby o.tot-bra              t.s I. the ot f (It  -roia an



- 23 -
ECONOMIC INDICATORS                                              ANNEX  I
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1984 Ia                                          Annual compound rate of growth (Y, constant 1980 pricesl
USS Mln.     1                       1970-82  1970-76  1977-i2  1979-84
GNP AT MARKET PRICES                             1012.1    100.0                         3.5       3.5      3.1       1.9
GROSS DOMESTIC INVESTMENT                         139.5     13.8                         2.9      13.5     -3.6      -2.4
GROSS NATIONAL SAVINGS                            -26.3     -2.6                        -1.4      12.1     19.2      11.3
CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE                           -67.4     -6.7                         4.5      15.1   -16.5   -15.5
EXPORTS OF GOODS, NFS                             151.0     14.9                         4.7       3.9      2.4      3.4
IMPORTS OF GOODS, NFS                             381.4     37.7                         3.6       6.5     -5.3       1.2
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY
VALUE ADDED IN 1984 /a  .  LABOR FORCE IN 1982 /b       V.A. PER NRKER IN 1982 /b
US$ Min.     7                  MIn.     Z                US$         1
AGRICULTURE                                                368.6     41.0               .2.7      81.8             152.7      50.6
INDUSTRY, MINING, UTILITIES, CONSTRUCTION                  156.5     17.4                0.4      12.1             379.3    125.8
SERYICES                                                   373.1     41.5                0.2       6.1            2470.2    819.0
TOTAL/AVERAGE                                            898.2    100.0                3.3    100.0              301.6    100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE Ic                                            CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
CFAF billion                                            I of GDP
1980     1911     1982      1983     1984  le           1980     1981      1982     1983       1994 /e
CURRENT RECEIPTS                41.2     44.9      50.2     52.2     57.4               14.5      13.8     13.9     13.9      13.8
CURRENT EXPENDITURES            33.4     36.7     56.8      64.7     51.4               11.7      11.2     15.7     17.2      12.4
CR  NT SURPLUS                   7.8      8.2     -6.6    -12.5       6.0                2.7      2.5      -1.8     -3.3       1.4
CAPiTAL EXPENDITURES /d          5.2      7.3       4.7      3.3      3.6                1.8       2.2      1.3      0.9       0.9
OVERALL BALANCE                  2.6      0.9    -11.3   -15.8        2.4                0.9      0.3      -3.1     -4.2       0.6
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES /f                                1980     1981      1982     1983      1984 gl
(Billion CFAF Outstanding End Period)
MONEY AND QUASI-MONEY                                       53.2     63.7      71.4     80.1      85.9
BANK CREDIT TO PUBLIC SECTOR                                -3.4      1.6       0.6     -6.9     -9.4
BANK CREDIT TO PRIYATE SECTOR                               59.0     62.0      71.0     73.7      71.9
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
MONEY AND DUASI-MONEY (Z GDP)                               18.7      19.5     19.8     21.3      20.7
IMPLICIT GDP DEFLATOR 11980=1001 /h                        100.0    110.0    121.2    130.9    138.5
Annual Percentage Changes in:
SDP DEFLATOR /h                                             10.0      10.0     10.2      8.0      5.8
BANK CREDIT TO PUBLIC SECTOR                               -47.8    147.1    -62.5  -1250.0   -244.4
BANK CREDIT TO PRIYATE SECTOR                                7.2      5.1      14.5      3.8    -10.1
la/ Froe 'Recent Economic Developments', August 1984. IMF staff estiaates for 1984 figures; 1983 data are provisional.
lb/ Last census was in 1975; latest available estimates only for 1982.
Icl 1980 and 1981 figures from the CEM, Septeeber 1983; for later years, see /a/ above.
Idl Excluding externally financed investment expenditure.
fe/ 1984 budget.
If/ From International Financial Statistics, January 1994.
/g/ 1984 figures as of the end of March.
Ih/ For 1980-82 from the CEM; for later years see /a/ above.                                                                 DATE:   1/1/85



- 24 -
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS                                              ANNEX  I
Page 5 of 5-
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS la                                                                            JERCHANDISE EXPORTS (Average 1982-84) la
1981     1982      1983      1984/b
-----    -----    -----                                                  USS M.         I
Million US5                                                                  --------    -----
EXPORTS OF BOODS & NFS                    173.0    142.1    154.9    151.0                        LIVESTOCK PRODUCTS                34.8      29.0
IMPORTS OF GOODS & NFS                    483.7    438.1    392.6    381.5                        COTTON                            34.3     28.5
RESOURCE GAP                             -310.7   -296.0   -237.7   -230.5                        SHEANUTS                          11.8       9.8
OTHER GOODS                      39.3      32.7
NET FACTOR INCOME /c                       -7.6    -10.7    -12.1        -7.4
of whichx MLT int. payments /d              6.2       7.6       7.4      10.7                     TOTAL                            120.2    100.0
NET TRANSFERS /e                          115.2      89.B      81.9      72.1
BALANCE ON CURRENT ACCOUNT               -203.1   -216.9   -167.9   -165.8
EXTERNAL DEBT (DECEMBER 31, 1983) Id
OFFICIAL GRANT AID                        147.2    124.8    112.8        98.4                                                             USS Mln.
NET OFFICIAL MLT BORROWING Id              69.9      78.7      82.7      84.1                     PUBLIC DEBT, INCL. UNDISBURSED            681.2
Disbursements                            78.4      87.8      89.3    109.3                      NONGUARANTEED PRIVATE DEBT
Amorti-zation                             8.5       9.1       6.7      25.2
TOTAL OUTSTANDING & DISBURSED             398.4
NET CREDIT FROM THE IMF                     1.8       0.0       0.0       0.0
OTHER CAPITAL (NET) If                    -17.3    -11.1    -42.3    -25.5
CHANGE IN RESERVES (increase   -)           1.5      24.5    -14.7       -8.8
.IMPORTS OF PETROLEU" PRODUCTS /a          50.1      51.7      48.5     52.6                      DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1983 /g
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                                                  PUBLIC DEBT, lNCL. GUARANTEED                9.1
US5 1.00 = CFAF                           271.7    328,6    381.1    437.0
IDA LENDING IDECEMBER 31, 1983) Id
USS Mln.
-OUTSTANDING & DISBURSED                   112.6
/al Data are froa 'Recent Economic Developments', August 1984,                                    UNDISBURSED                               121.2
except as indicated otherwise.
/b/ IlMF staff estisates.                                                                         TOTAL                                     233.8
Ic/ Excluding remittances.
Idl Froa IBRD Debt Reporting Service (DRSJ; projections for 1984.
/el Including remittances, pensions, etc.
Ifl Including errors and osissions, direct investment, short-term capital,
discrepancy between ORS and Government-reported debt, etc.
/gi MLT interest payments plus amortization as a proportion of
exports of goods and non-factor services.
Not available.
DATE:  119/85



- 25 -
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BURKINA
A. Statement of IDA Credits (as of September 30, 1984)
Borrower: BURKINA FASO
(US$ Million) a/
(less cancellation)
Number    Year                  Purpose                    IDA      Undisbursed
Thirteen Credits fully disbursed                           71.4
557-UV   1975       Livestock Development                  6.0        0.01
744-UV   1977       Regional Railway                       5.2        0.04
759-UV   1977       Small & Medium Scale Enterprise        3.3        0.56
766-UV   1978       Urban Development                      8.2        2.02
956-UV   1979       Education II                          14.0        7.36
982-UV   1980       Forestry                              14.5       10.17
1013-UV   1980       Niena Dionkele Rice Development        6.5        3.98
1097-UV*  1981       Second Bougouriba Agri. Dev.          16.0        8.26
1164-UV   1981       Fourth Highway                       46.0        28.75
1218-UV   1982       Third Rural Development Fund          16.0       11.15
1235-UV   1982       Third Telecommunications              17.0       12.11
1284-UV   1982       Volta Noire Agricultural Dev.          6.8        5.49
1285-UV   1982       Hauts-Bassins Agri. Dev.               4.7        3.66
1293-UV   1982       Koudougou Agri. Pilot Dev.             7.0        5.80
1482-UV b/1984       Perkoa Mining Explor.& Tech. Assis. 7.4           7.40
TOTAL                                          250.00
of which has been repaid                      1.89
TOTAL now held by IDA a/                       248.11
TOTAL undisbursed                                          106.76
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of September 30, 1984)
Amount in US$ Millions
Year      Obligator       Type Business  Loan        Equity          Totals
1978     SOVOLPLAS, S.A.   Plastic       .41           .14              .54
a/  Prior to exchange adjustment.
b/  Not effective.
*   Beginning with Credit 1097-UV, credits have been denominated in Special
Drawing Rights. The dollar amounts in these columns represent the
dollar equivalents at the time of credit negotiations for the IDA
amounts and the dollar equivalents as of September 30, 1984, for the
undisbursed amounts.



- 26 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
1.   Identification:   Fertilizer subsidies have been the subject of
discussions between the Bank and Government since the late 1970s.
The project was specifically identified during appraisal of the
Hauts-Bassins and Volta Noire projects and in the sector study
(Agricultural Issues Study) of October 29, 1982.
2.   Project  preparation:    Ministry  of  Agriculture  and  Animal
Husbandry,  Agricultural  Inputs  Unit  and  IDA;  March  1982  -
February 1983.
3.   Appraisal:   June  1983.   A post-apparaisal mission visited the
country in October 1983 following a change of Government to
ascertain the new Government's commitment to project objectives.
4.   Negotiations:  November :27-30, 1984.
5.   Target effectiveness:  June 1985.
Section II: Special Project Implementation Action
Feasibility study of fertilizer production unit.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.        Conditions of effectiveness:
(a)  opening of a Specia:L Accotnt (para 59);
(b)  fulfillment  of  conditions  for  disbursement  under  the
agreements with the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the CCCE and
the FAC (para 58); and
(c) establishment of Project Coordination Unit and appointment
of Project Coordinator (para 53).
2.        Other conditions:
(a) funds would only be disbursed for the proposed fertilizer
production unit af-ter .it has been proven economically
justified   and   technically   feasible.    Moreover,   the
feasibility study is to be available before August 31, 1985
and  other  preparatory  work  has  to be  completed  before
December 31, 1985 (para 48);
(b) Government will gradually reduce fertilizer subsidies to 20
percent in 1986 and a f-urther schedule towards complete
elimination  will  be  agreed  upon  during  the  annual
consultations of 1986; the Association may refrain from
participating in the financing of fertilizer imports in case
the stipulated subsidy reduction schedule is not adhered to
or if no agreement towards complete elimination is reached
in 1986 (para 44);
(c)  until subsidy elimination, Government will institute uniform
subsidy levels for all kinds of fertilizers (para 43);



- 27 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(d)  distributing  agencies  will  fully  recover  their  costs
directly attributable to fertilizer distribution (para 43);
(e) Government and the Association will consult with each other
annually until the completion of the project to discuss
project achievements, possible improvements, adjustments and
production incentives (para 55).



-- 28 -
ANNEX IV
Page 1o f 5
FERTILIZER SUBSECTOR
Quantities
1.        Chemical fertilizers were introduced in Burkina for the purpose
of  cotton  cultivation.   Cotton  farmers  soorL discovered  the beneficial
effect of cotton fertilizer on food crops. However, the cost of fertilizer
to the farmer was high in relation to the value of cereals and until the
1970s their use for cereal cultivation was negligible.   Aided by rising
fertilizer subsidies, fertilizer use f'or cereal cultivation increased
rapidly after 1975 and by 1981 more than half of all imported chemical
fertilizer  was  applied  to  food  crops  (see  attached  Table 1).   Total
compound fertilizer use amounted to about 22,000 m tons in 1983, of which
an estimated 60 percent was applied to cereals.
2.        Other  chemical  fertilizers  in  Burkina  are  urea  and  rock
phosphate.  However, so far their use has been rather unimportant.  Urea
has been imported and distributed erratically and quantities have generally
been less than 1,000 m tons per year.  Under the proposed project, urea
requirements will be more comprehensively assessed and supplies assured
accordingly.  Rock phosphate use has not surpassed 1,000 m tons per year
for reasons explained in paragraph 47 of the main report. Some additional
fertilizer is imported for specific purposes like plantation sugar
production and fruit cultivation.
Prices
3.        Prior   to   1973,   fertilizer   subsidies   were   insignificant.
Following fertilizer price rises on the world market as a result of the
first oil crisis, Government wishes to maintain the old prices for farmers
and  the  1972 domestic  price  of  CFAF 35/kg was maintained until  1979.
Consequently, the subsidy amount per unit rose rapidly and so did the total
amount, including that on fertilizer use for cereal cultivation, which is
to be paid by Government (see paragraphs 34 and 35 of the main report). In
1980, as a result of the dialogue wit'h the Bank on the subject, the
Government began a series of price increases, which were nevertheless
insufficient to stem the rise in either the per unit or total subsidies.
Only after the price increases in accordance with the covenant of the
Bougouriba TI credit agreement came into effect, were reductions in both
the per unit and total subsidies achieved (see attached Table 1).
Project's Effect on Production
4.        Under the proposed project, fertilizer subsidies will gradually
be removed (see paragraph 44 of the main report).  As this is done and
fertilizer prices go up, farmers will find the profitability of fertilizer
use changed. This will concern both cotton and cereal farmers. Its likelv
effect on production and prices in each of these two subsectors is
considered below.
5.        It is essential that cotton production be maintained as it is the
principal source of foreign exchange and, therefore, that cotton growers be
compensated for the increased fertilizer cost. However, a mere increase in
cotton  producer  prices  to  just  offset  higher  fertilizer  costs  is



- 29 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 5
insufficient.   Cotton growers will spend larger sums for fertilizers and
run greater financial risks in case of crop failure.  Therefore they will
have to receive higher output prices.   It has been calculated that if
fertilizer subsidies are to be eliminated and the cost/benefit ratio
maintained at its 1983 level, cotton producer prices in constant 1983 terms
would have to rise to about CFAF 135/kg (1984 cotton producer price:
CFAF 90/kg).  It may not be necessary to maintain fully the cost/benefit
ratio at its old level to keep farmers interested in cotton, but if it were
needed,  projections  on  the  basis  of Bank  commodity  price  projections
indicate that SOFITEX could pay such prices.   These calculations assume
that cotton output would remain at its present level, yet the
proportionally higher producer prices may well cause a production increase,
causing a reduction in fixed costs per unit of production.  Moreover, the
projections do not take an expected higher ginning yield irto account.
With a judicious pricing policy, no adverse effects on the cotton sector
should therefore be anticipated.
6.        In  the  cereals  subsector,  farmers  cannot  be  compensated  for
higher fertilizer costs by fixing higher producer prices, as these are
essentially  set by  the  free market.   However  the  quantity  of  cereals
accounted for by the use of fertilizers is relatively small, namely, about
35,000 m tons per year on a total production of 1.3 million m tons and a
marketed quantity of perhaps 250,000 m tons.  While not unimportant, the
influence of fertilizer use on domestic food availability is by far
overshadowed byfluctuations in rainfall, food aid and commercial food
imports.   Given  the  fact  that  fertilizer  subsidies will decrease  only
gradually, a possible decline in fertilizer use for cereal cultivation will
also be gradual.   Therefore,  there  should be no discernible  effect on
cereal  consumer  prices.   Table 2  gives  the  production  volume  of  the
principal agricultural products since 1970.
Other Project Considerations
7.        As  shown  above,  the  effect  of  fertilizer subsidies  at their
present level on food availability is insignificant. The subsidy amount is
already more than the country can afford and cannot be further increased.
Therefore,   fertilizer   subsidization   cannot  provide   an  avenue   for
significantly increasing food production.  However there are other, more
viable ways to do so.
8.        Cereals producer prices in Burkina are principally determined by
free market forces.  The regional market (Burkina, Niger, Mali, Ghana and
Ivory Coast) has a structural food deficit. Burkina is well placed in this
respect as it is to a greater extent self-sufficient in food than most of
its neighbors.   It tries to isolate itself from regional scarcities by
prohibiting food exports.  In addition, it has been importing significant
amounts of cereals (mostly food aid) which have tended to depress both
producer and consumer prices. Nevertheless, the tendency over a prolonged
period has been for food prices to rise faster than the general price
level, reflecting an underlying scarcity.   Under the circumstances,  the
Government has at its disposal two instruments to assure a cereals producer
price which will motivate farmers to grow food, namely:   (a) a flexible
approach concerning food exports, permitting sales to foreign traders in
surplus periods; and (b) limiting imports and sales of food aid in times of
sufficiency.  A judicious use of these instruments would also resolve the



- 30 -
ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 5
problem of cereal price stabilization through the National Cereals Office
(OFNACER).   Neither  fertilizer  subsidies  nor  OFNACER  interventions  can
compensate for the inappropriate use of the above pricing instruments. In
particular, OFNACER does not have sufficient funds to absorb all surpluses
irt a good crop year and cannot outbid private traders in a bad season.
Whereas  those  donors  presently  involved  in  OFNACER  are  keeping  these
questions under frequent review, the Bank would, in addition, follow up on
these matters through our country economic and sector dialogue and the
annual consultations provided for under the project.
9.        In summary, if it is necessary to provide a stimulus to farmers
for food production, the best and only sustainable way to do so is through
the producer pricing mechanism.  Fertilizer subsidies are an inappropriate
instrument for this purpose because of:
(a) the inherent limitations posed by the capacity to finance
them;
(b)  the  inefficient  and  economically  non  justified  use  of
fertilizer they inevitably entail; and
(c) the distortions they cause in the pattern of fertilizer use.
10.       Finally,  fertilizer subsidies might be regarded as a means of
income  transfer  to  the  rural  sector,  even  though  they  were  never
deliberately  instituted  for  this  purpose.   However,  if  the  Government
wishes to have a policy of income transfer to the rural sector, the
numerous different possibilities to this end should be considered and the
one best suited to the Government's objectives chosen. It is unlikely that
fertilizer subsidies would emerge as the chosen form of income transfer in
any such deliberate consideration as they have one important disadvantage.
Their distribtution is very uenven as they accrue mostly to the more
prosperous farmers in the relatively affluent southwest.



BURKINA FASO
FERTILIZER PROJECT
Compound Fertilizer Statistics
Subsidy                   Consumption a/                          Total subsidy
Cost price      Sales price
Year       c.i.f. B.F.        to ORDs         CFAF/m ton        %        Cotton   Cereals    Total             Cotton        Cereals    Total
(CFAF/m ton)    (CFAF/m ton)                                  --------- m ton - ---                          CFAF million - ---
1976           73,908         35,000             38,908        53         3,810      1,793    5,603             148.2          71.0       219.2
1977          71,880          35,000             36,880        51         5,277      3,432    8,709             194.6         127.0       321.6
1978          74,035          35,000            89,035         53         5,930      5,545   11,475             231.5         218.0      449.5
1979           79,494         35,000            44,494         56         7,607      6,464   14,071             338.5         286.6      625.1-
1980          94,609          40,000             54,609         58        9,569      7,955   17,524             515.1         433.2       948.3
1981         111,341          40,000             71,341        64         7,539      8,438   15,977             534.2         557.9    1,092.1
1982         120,582          43,494  b/         77,088  b/    64         8,162    10,151   ].8,313             652.6  b/    786.0    1,438.6
1983         120,730          62,000             58,730        49         8,712    13,103   21,815              511.7         769.5    1,281.2
1984  c/     129,000          78,000             51,000        40         9,398    12,200   21,598              479.3         622.2    1,101.5
a/   Excluding rural stocks.
b/   Prices were increased from CFAF 40,000/m ton to CFAF 55,000/m ton in the middle of the fertilizer distribution period.  4,265 m
tons were sold at the higher price. This entire quantity at the new price and lower subsidy has been attributed to cereal
cultivation.  Average sales prices to ORDs have therefore been CFAF 40,000/m ton and CFAF 46,302/m ton for cotton and cereal
respectively.
c/   Estimates.
Source:  SOFITEX.                                                                                                                                   x ;-|R
-n



32 -
BURKINA FASO                                  ANNEX IV
Page 5 of 5
FERTILIZER PROJECT                               Table 2
PRODUCTION OF PRINCIPAL AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS
(1,000 m tons)
Cereals
Millet/                                                               Groundnuts          Seed
Year                 Sorghum           Corn         Rice        Total        Beans          (shelled)          cotton
1970                      941            55           34        1,030          16                68              23
1971                      973            55           36        1,064          41                66              28
1972                      912            59           30        1,00:l         37                60              33
1973                      734            58           31          82:3         14                63              27
1974                    1,075            62           36        1,173          42                65              31
1975                    1,000            62           40        1,102          51                80              51
1976                    1,123            46           41        1,210          44                87              55
1977                      960            50           23        1,033;         50                85              38
1978                    1,025           101           32        1,058          52                70              60
1979                    1,041           105           47        1,193          53                70              78
1980                      889            98           29        1,016          54                53              63
1981                    1,114           132           29        1,275          52                78              58
1982                    1,027           141           39        1,207          53                83              76
1983                      980           120           35        1,135          52                75              70
Source: Ministry of Agriculture and Animal Husbandry (MAAH).



- 33 -
BURKINA FASO                                     ANNEX V
FERTILIZER PROJECT
Financing by Project Compolnent (incl. contingencies)
Gov't                     France
B.F.       IDA       CCCE       FAC        Netherlands        GTZ      Total
Fertilizer imports                   -         2.1        2.1        -             2.1                       6.4
Credit                               -         1.0         -         -              -                        1.0
Fertilizer field trials            0.1         1.6        0.1       0.7             -              -         2.4
Rock phosphate promotion             -          -          -         -              -             2.0        2.0
Fertilizer production unit         1.2         6.3         -         -              -              -         7.5
Training                             -         1.9         -        0.7             -              -         2.4
Management                          0.1         -         1.1       0.3             -              -         1.6
Studies                              -         0.6         -         -             _              -          0.6
TOTAL                            1.4        13.7       3.2        1.7            2.1           2.0        24.1
N.B. Rows and columns may not add up to given totals due to rounding.



I
I



r)          5,                                                                            4°                                                                                  no 2 / 7-  =  4 .  IB R D   1 5 1 6 6 R 1
BURKINA                                                                                     >                                             -ICOH
AGRICULTURAL RESOURCES                                                                                                                             _Ml9eLBPIA 
PHYSICAL FEATURES                                                                  r                                                                                                     GUINEAoroe  I    ,               RIEA
RESSOURCES AGR/COLES                                                                                                                                                                                  I OAST m,HA I
ASPECTS PHYS/QUES                                                                     .A/-,R I4BIA= -S
t u ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20  4 C} Bp    sod oH                                                                                                                                                                 _2 .- 2
V~~ W OUA~HIGOUYA .~. _
MBA L I / -\    3 ,,Borsologho /.    \                                                  .H 1oB4
13                                                                                      -\                          0Bgo B                           3-w1
.2                                                                                                                                 Ko,   SIll   ,       ?        tK                    PAD    'GURMA 
I\-   0  -                                  &                =:                     <!                                          ;                                   X\ ; +  so ~~~~~~~~~-4-om~~.~ 
BOR  DIC1ULASO                                                                                                                                                                                                  13
EBN IN
rANF R                                                                                          NRHR   'I  "   RUDL  UTVTO
eL UMA                    L LlIOJ%                                   <                                         LIMITE DU NORDf!} CTUBt1 I'll CATON                                     .      AF .....
BARTIRERN Li MT IF M~,ZE UATIVATUO                                             ROULTESBLTURTEEA
L,MITEDUNNORM  EL4CULTUREDUAlBI                                               UNPAVE,  IOAS (NAT ONL- PRIMARYrSLCSOBTA"LO   A I WEARIY USE
,NKRTHERN LIMIITOF S1BEAN CULT VAT ON                                          POUIES NON  LTUaFFS (NATIONALES PeRAI 4RES SECONDARLPS, FUSICt TrOUTES
NIORgOII                                                00440UoR1L~UTUEUS1                                                                                    .         NPAAEDnRoADS PRIMARY ,NRB-OC 1ANBRR  INTERM TTENT AUL              SUITORS
I                                        9                                         NlongoloF>v \ ' _.- W - 9   t700.UO  5  .  IMORTHERN L MITOI RAM L TU OAT AV D  RALNVATIPRR,{REENTSLCLNALAES, USAAENT ER/TENT
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L t5 I -_1LMlTIIU   10DDDLACULTUREDl';NAME                                                               FEI NASDF3
~~~Vv L D""b ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CHEMISN BE CERS
39~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZNSV R---                                                                                                           ITERS                                                                  IT-
MAJOR   RIGABTITY~ NITF  RIES R STOOLI                                        'LE VES
TO9    p     \                                                          -- I<    SEER  RERS)SITFS                    0SD15RGELATN ETUDBES                                               REGIONAL DEVELOBNMET UF AR      ,ATION IORBI CAPITALS1
MAJOR F RICATION S TEN PARTIALL0 ORTr  L COMPLETED                            SIEGE OFLE BBGAhLIBRE ROB/BAWL "I OLE VEL PPEMRENT LORAN
S,EES MAUEtDRS BRRGAE'ON PRR  LEC EPENTOUC MPLETE4RENTM,SI                     RE_  _ NA DEV LOPMENT BRANIZATIN I  SR DlBOUNDRIF,S
16RIUL.TURAL ZONER                                    EN 021 EL/A             101.05PDSOBRGANOSMES AEAION/IUO  AEOELBPFMELTf,TICRB
ZONESAGRIRCLES                                                                INTERNAT IONA  BOUNDAR ES
,.., *     TA SH ETS IN MILLIMETERS LAVERA .L NN,AI R0 EFLLI                    -         FRONTREES LNTERNATO2NALES
SAR ELS ENMLLLIMERLN rOUANL1TEMT1LLNEDEPLUAEANAUEL)
v    0     R                C   0     A    S   T                                             ISO, , ETS_ IN0IL 11MB ALPS BATERSE,RDNAlIStILL ' LI NF I
--  TBAOEO S EN MA, LRFETREA(IBUANTITE BE 0U,ONE ANNISUEE SUE C BA 01I
JANUARY 1985



I
I



