OFFICIAl" CREDIT NUMBER 1550 BUR
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Fertilizer Project)
between
BURKINA FASO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                             , 1985


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1550 BUR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      A  1r     I                , 1985, between
BURKINA FASO (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from the French
Republic through the Fonds d'Aide et de Coop6ration (hereinafter
called FAC) a grant (hereinafter called the FAC Grant) in an
amount of 16,000,000 French francs to assist in financing part of
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement
(hereinafter called the FAC Grant Agreement) to be entered into
between the Borrower and FAC;
(C) the Borrower intends to contract from the French
Republic through the Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
(hereinafter called CCCE) a loan (hereinafter called the CCCE
Loan) in an amount of 30,000,000 French francs to assist in
financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth  in  an   agreement  (hereinafter  called   the  CCCE  Loan
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and CCCE;
(D) the Borrower also intends to contract from the Kingdom
of the Netherlands through the Directoraat Generaal voor Inter-
nationale Samenwerking a grant (hereinafter called the Dutch
Grant) in an amount up to 7,500,000 guilders to assist in
financing part of the Project on the terms and conditions set
forth in an agreement (hereinafter called the Dutch Grant
Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and the
Netherlands; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development


﻿-2-
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said  General   Conditions  Applicable   to  Development  Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Service" means the Service des Intrants Agricoles of
the Ministry of the Borrower responsible for agriculture and
animal husbandry;
(b)  "CNCA" means the Caisse Nationale de Crfdit Agricole,
the agricultural credit bank of the Borrower established under
Decree No. 313-79/PRES/DR of August 14, 1979;
(c)  "Directorate" means    the  Directorate  of  Management
Control of the Ministry of the Borrower responsible for
agriculture and animal husbandry;
(d) "IVRAZ" means the Institut de Recherches Agronomigues
et Zootechniques of the Borrower;
(e) "Ministry"   means   the   Ministry   of  the   Borrower
responsible for agriculture and animal husbandry;
(f) "ORDs" means the Borrower's Organismes R6gionaux de
D6veloppement or such other entities by which the Organismes
R6gionaux de D6veloppement may be replaced;
(g)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project pre-
paration advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated July 22, 1983 and
August 4, 1983, between the Borrower and the Association;
(h)  "SOFITEX" means   the   Soclft6  Burkinaba  des  Fibres
Textiles, a Soci6t6 d'Economie Mixte established pursuant to
Decree No. 79/DR/CODIM/MF of August 31, 1979;


﻿-3-
(i)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement;
(j) "CFAF" means the currency of the Borrower;
(k) "Crop Year" means the period from April 1 in the given
year to March 31 of the following year; and
(1)  "Project Coordination Unit" means the unit to be estab-
lished pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE I
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to thirteen million eight hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 13,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the prin-
cipal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges there-
on. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the
Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
(c)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in CFAF a special account in a commercial bank
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿-4-
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1991 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time.     The commitment charge shall accrue
from a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit
Agreement to the respective dates on which amounts shall be
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be
cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the   Association  shall  reasonably  request;   (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be desigiated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 1
and October 1 commencing April 1, 1995, and ending October 1,
2034, each installment to and including the installment payable
on October 1, 2004, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.


﻿-5-
Section 2.09. The currency of the French Republic is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
the Ministry, IVRAZ, CNCA, and SOFITEX with due diligence and
efficiency   and  in   conformity  with   appropriate  technical,
administrative, financial and economic practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services,
staff and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall establish, and thereafter maintain,
a Project Coordination Unit within the Ministry for the purpose
of administering, coordinating and monitoring the Project. Said
Unit shall be headed by a Project Coordinator, whose qualifica-
tions and experience shall be acceptable to the Association, and
shall comprise a suitably qualified accountant and such other
support staff as may be required. In addition, said Unit shall be
provided with such resources by the Service as shall be necessary
for the proper execution of its duties.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants and
experts whose selection, qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Associa-
tion. The consultants and experts to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be employed in accordance with
principles and procedures described in the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.


﻿-6-
(b) The   Borrower   shall  cause  all  goods  and  services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof,
the name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall, through the Project
Coordination Unit, prepare and furnish to the Association a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Association of their
respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.


﻿-7.
Section 3.05. The Borrower, acting through CNCA, shall
provide credit under Part E of the Project. Such credit shall be
provided on terms and conditions and in accordance with proce-
dures satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall apply uniform rates of
subsidy, expressed as a percentage of the SOFITEX ex-warehouse
cost, to sales of cotton and cereals fertilizer, including
domestically produced rock phosphate.
(b) The Borrower undertakes to reduce subsidies for cotton
and cereals fertilizer in accordance with a schedule of reduction
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause the ORDs and other
public agencies involved in the distribution of fertilizer under
the Project to include in the sale prices of fertilizer a margin
sufficient to cover at least their costs incurred in, and
directly attributable to, the acquisition and distribution of
fertilizer. Such margin shall be reviewed annually as part of the
consultations referred to in paragraph (a) of Section 3.09 of
this Agreement.
Section 3.08. The Borrower, acting through the Project
Coordination Unit, shall furnish to the Association: (i) until
completion of the Project, as soon as possible after the close of
each crop season and in time for submission to the annual
consultations referred to in paragraph (a) of Section 3.09 of
this Agreement, an interim report evaluating the results of the
past crop season together with draft work programs for the next
crop season; and (ii) not later than May 15 of each year until
completion of the Project, an annual report as of March 31 of
such year setting forth the final results of the past crop season
together with the work programs for the next crop season as
approved by the Ministry.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall
consult with each other in the course of the months of November
or December of each year until completion of the Project: (i) to
review project results during the past crop season in light of
the objectives set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement; (ii) to
agree, subject to the provisions of Section 3.06, on the fertili-
zer prices to farmers to be announced before the end of such
year; and (iii) to discuss work programs for the next crop
season.


﻿-8-
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall consult with
each other annually before the month of August until the comple-
tion of the Project, to determine the quantities of fertilizer to
be imported for cereal cultivation during the next crop season
and to be partly financed under the Project.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall cause SOFITEX to stock and
offer for sale in its wholesale fertilizer outlets adequate
amounts of domestically produced rock phosphate.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall forward to the Association
the feasibility study referred to in Part D (1) of the Project as
soon as available but in any event not later than August 31,
1985. If the outcome of said study is deemed satisfactory by the
Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall provide the
Association, by December 31, 1985 at the latest, with an action
plan satisfactory to the Association. The Borrower shall carry
out Part D (2) of the Project in accordance with the action plan
approved by the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project,   of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof and
shall   cause   the  Project   Coordination   Unit   to  maintain
consolidated accounts for all parts of the Project.
(b) Without limitation to the foregoing, the Borrower
shall: (i) ensure that all operations and accounts of the
Service, CNCA, the Directorate, IVRAZ, the ORDs and SOFITEX
relating to the Project be kept separate from their other opera-
tions and accounts; (ii) maintain or cause to be maintained
separate accounts reflecting all expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure; (iii) retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit
Account   on  the   basis  of  statements   of  expenditure;   and
(iv) enable the Association's representatives to examine such
records.


﻿-9-
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;   (ii)  furnish  to  the  Association, as   soon   as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, a certified copy of the report of such
audit by such auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested, including without
limitation to the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors
in respect of the expenditures and records referred to in
paragraph (b) (iii) of this Section as to whether the proceeds of
the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account on the basis of
statements of expenditure have been used for the purpose for
which they were provided; and (iii) furnish to the Association
such other information concerning said accounts, records and
expenditures and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. (a) For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that subject to
paragraph (b) of this Section:
(i) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of the FAC Grant, the CCCE Loan or the Dutch Grant
shall have been suspended, cancelled or terminated
in whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreements providing therefor; or
(ii) the CCCE Loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(i) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is
not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.


﻿- 10 -
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that the event speci-
fied in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement
shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (b) of that
Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Association has been notified by the Fonds d'Aide
et de Coop6ration that all conditions precedent to the first
disbursement of its grant to the Borrower for the Project, except
for the effectiveness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled;
(b) the Association has been notified by the Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economique that all conditions precedent
to the first disbursement of its loan to the Borrower for the
Project, except for the effectiveness of this Agreement, have
been fulfilled;
(c) the Association has been notified by the Directoraat
Generaal voor Internationale Samenwerking that all conditions
precedent to the first disbursement of its grant to the Borrower
for the Project, except for the effectiveness of this Agreement,
have been fulfilled;
(d) the Special Account has been opened pursuant to Section
2.02 (c) of this Agreement; and
(e) the Project Coordination Unit has been established and
a Project Coordinator has been appointed pursuant to Section 3.01
(b) of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date                            is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Con-
ditions.


﻿- 11 -
Section 6.03. The provisions of Section 5.02 of this Agree-
ment shall cease and determine on the date on which the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years
after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
financial resources is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere des Ressources Financiares
Ouagadougou
Burkina
Cable address:                       Telex:
MINIFINANCE                         5256
Ouagadougou                        MIFICOM
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
BURKINA FASO
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By          jWttz
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Vehicles and                360,000         100%
equipment
for Parts B
(except for
meteorological
stations and
test equipment),
G and H of the
Project
(2) Fertilizer under
Part A of the
Project:
(a) Crop Years 1984      1,600,000      )
through 1986                       )
) 100%
(b) Subsequent             300,000      )
Crop Years                         )
(3) Credits under               900,000         100%
Part E of the
Project
(4) Incremental                1,600,000        100%
operating
costs for
Parts B and
G of the
Project


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(5) Consultants'                  700,000        100%
and experts'
services for
Parts G and H
of the Project
and training
(6)  Studies                      500,000        100%
(7) Part D of the
Project
(a) civil works            1,300,000        100%
(b) vehicles and           1,900,000        100%
equipment
(c) consultants'             400,000        100%
and experts'
services
(d) working                2,100,000        75%
capital
(8) Refunding of                  500,000        Amount due under
Project Prep-                               Section 2.02 (b)
aration Advance
(9)  Special Account              200,000        Amounts to be
deposited pur-
suant to para-
graph 3 (a) of
Schedule 4 to
this Agreement
(10) Unallocated                1,440,000
TOTAL                13,800,000


﻿- 15 -
For the purposes of this Schedule, "incremental operating
costs" means operating costs incurred specifically for the
execution of the Project.
2.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or in-
creases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
Category as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Association.
3.     Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 1,100,000, may be made in
respect of Sub-category (2) (a) on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after November 1, 1983;
(b)    Sub-category  (2) (b) until the Borrower and the
Association shall have agreed on a schedule to further reduce
fertilizer subsidies after Crop Year 1986; and
(c) Category (7) until the Association shall have approved
the conclusions of the feasibility study and the action plan
referred to in Part D (1) of the Project.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that
the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated


﻿- 16 -
shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to
such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
diture for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to improve the patterns of
fertilizer use for food crops through a gradual reduction and
ultimate elimination of subsidies and other distortions and to
identify and introduce better and cheaper types of fertilizer for
cereal cultivation.
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:   Fertilizer Imports
Importation  by   SOFITEX  of   fertilizer  for  cereal
cultivation.
Part B:   Field Trials
Field trials, including the installation and operation
of agro-meteorological stations, to be conducted by
IVRAZ in accordance with a five-year program to test
and identify various types of fertilizer for cereal
cultivation in different climatic and ecological zones.
Part C:   Rock Phosphate Production and Promotion
Production of rock phosphate from domestic sources,
improvement of its quality through granulation and
other means, and promotion of its application.
Part D:   Fertilizer Production Unit
(1) Preparation of a feasibility study and an action plan
for the construction and operation of a fertilizer
production unit.
(2) Subject    to   the  Association's   approval   of   the
conclusions of the feasibility study and of the action
plan described in Part D (1) above, construction and
operation of the fertilizer production unit.
Part E:   Credit
(1) Extension of credit to farmers and village groups for
the purchase of fertilizer for cereal cultivation as


﻿- 18 -
follows: (i) short-term credit through all ORDs except
the ORDs of Bougouriba, Hauts-Bassins and Volta Noire;
and (ii) medium-term credit for rock phosphate base
dressings through all ORDs.
(2) Extension of Credit to agricultural cooperatives for
the purchase of fertilizer for cereal cultivation as
follows: (i) short-term credit; and (ii) medium-term
credit for rock phosphate base dressings.
Part F:   Service des Intrants Agricoles
(1) Coordination    of   estimated   requirements,   orders,
supplies and distribution of fertilizer and other
agricultural inputs.
(2) Preparation of study proposals, execution of studies
and preparation and supervision of the implementation
of policy measures concerning fertilizer and other
agricultural inputs.
Part G:   Training of Accountants
Training by the Directorate of ORD and other public-
sector accountants, formulation of a uniform accounting
system for ORDs and guidance and supervision of ORD
accountants in applying the system.
Part H:   Ministry of Planning and Popular Development
Strengthening of the investment programming and monitoring
functions of the Borrower's Ministry of Planning and Popular
Development through the introduction of automation and related
staff training.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1991.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1984 (the Guidelines).
2.    Contracts for vehicles, equipment, materials and supplies
shall, to the maximum extent practicable, be grouped for the
purposes of bidding so as to permit bulk procurement.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the pro-
cedures described in Part A.1. of this Schedule, goods manu-
factured in Burkina may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A.1. of this Schedule, the Borrower may
grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in accor-
dance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Contracts for civil works and for the purchase of goods
estimated to cost less than CFAF 25 million equivalent may be
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally
and pursuant to procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.   Contracts for works and for the purchase of goods estimated
to cost less than CFAF 5 million equivalent may be awarded on the
basis of price quotations from not less than three suppliers.


﻿- 20 -
E.   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of CFAF 25 million or more, the procedures set forth
in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply; provided, however, that where payments for such contract
are to be made out of the proceeds of the Special Account, the
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to
the Association, pursuant to paragraph 2 (d) of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines, shall be furnished to the Association prior to the
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect
of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply; provided, however,
that where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
proceeds of the Special Account, the two conformed copies of the
contract required to be furnished to the Association, pursuant to
paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines together with the
other information specified therein, shall be furnished to the
Association as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on the
basis of statements of expenditure.
2.   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix I to the Guidelines.


﻿- 21 -
SCREDULE 4
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "Category" means a category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit as set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to Categories (1) through (6) in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount in
CFAF equivalent to the amount allocated to Category (9) which is
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) to this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclu-
sively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provi-
sions of this Schedule.
3.   (a) For purposes of withdrawal of the Authorized Alloca-
tion, the Association shall, on the basis of a request or
requests by the Borrower and evidence satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdraw
on behalf of the Borrower from the Credit Account and deposit
into the Special Account such amount or amounts of the Authorized
Allocation as the Borrower shall have requested, up to the total
of the Authorized Allocation.
(b) For purposes of withdrawal of proceeds of the Credit to
replenish the Special Account, the Association shall, on the
basis of requests by the Borrower furnished to the Association at
such intervals as the Association shall specify, withdraw from
the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such
amounts as shall be required to replenish the Special Account
with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments made out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures. Except as the Asso-
ciation may otherwise agree, each such deposit after the initial


﻿- 22 -
deposit shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective Categories (1) through (6), and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified
by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   Prior to or at the time of each request by the Borrower for
a deposit by the Association into the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association in respect of each payment made by the Borrower
out of the Special Account such documents and other evidence as
the Association shall reasonably request, showing that such pay-
ment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Sched-
ule, no further deposit into the Special Account shall be made by
the Association (a) when the Association shall have determined at
any time that all further withdrawals can be made directly by the
Borrower from the Credit Account in accordance with the provi-
sions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement, or (b)
unless otherwise agreed by the Association, when the total un-
witharawn amount of the Credit allocated to Categories (1)
through (6) minus the amount of any outstanding qualified agree-
ment to reimburse made by the Association and of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the
Project, shall be equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of
the Authorized Allocation, whichever shall be sooner. Withdrawal
from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of
the Credit allocated to Categories (1) through (6) shall follow
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower and shall, except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, be made only after and to the extent the Association shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice have been or
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   If the Association shall have determined at any time that:
(a) any payment out of the Special Account (i) was made for
any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to para-
graph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association and,
unless otherwise agreed by the Association, prior to any further


﻿- 23 -
deposit into the Special Account by the Association, deposit into
the Special Account or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified; or
(b) any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not
be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
and unless otherwise agreed by the Association, refund to the
Association such amount then outstanding in the Special Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198
FOR SECRETARY


