Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
' -'  - '!   , " ; ' !    I   i ' : .:  aReport No. 10384-LA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
PROVINCIAL GRID INTEGRATION PROJECT
August 10,1992
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
(At Appraisal - November 1991)
Currency Unit            =     Kip Nationale (Kn)
US$1.00                  =     Kn 700
Kn 1,000                 =     US$1.43
Weights and Measures
m            =     Meter (3.2808 feet)
km           =     Kilometer (0.6214 miles)
kV           =     Kilovolt (1,000 volts)
kVA          =     Kilovolt-Ampere
MVA          =     Megavolt-Ampere (1,000 kVA)
KW           =     Kilowatt (1,000 watts)
MW           =     Megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
kWh          =     Kilowatt-hours (1,000 watt-hours)
MWh          =     Megawatt-hours (1,000 kilowatt-hours)
GWh          =     Gigawatt-hours (1,000,000 kilowatt-hours)
Abbreviations and Acronyms
ADB          =     Asian Development Bank
CIF          =     Cost-Insured-Freight
EdF          =     Electricite de France
EdL                Electricite du Laos
EGAT         =     Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
ICB          =     International Competitive Bidding
IDA          =     International Development Association
IRR          =     Internal Rate of Return
IS           =     International Shopping
Lao PDR      =     Lao People's Democratic Republic
LCB          =     Local Competitive Bidding
LIB          =     Limited International Bidding
MIS          =     Management Information System
MOI          =     Ministry of Industry and Handicrafts
O&M          =     Organization and Management
SIDA         =     Swedish International Development Agency
SPE          =     Southern Provinces Electrification Project
TCE          =     Tata Consulting Engineers (India)
TNB          =     Tenaga Nasional Berhad (Malaysia)
UNDP         =     United Nations Development Programme
VPRE         =     Vientiane Plain Rural Electrification Project
EdL's Fiscal Year - January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
LAO P.D.R.
Provincial Grid Integration Project
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           The Lao People's Democratic Republic (Lao PDR)
Beneficiary:        Electricite du Laos (EdL)
Amount:             SDR 25.3 million (US$36 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard, with 40 years maturity
Onlending Terms:  The proceeds of the credit will be onlent by the Government to EdL,
under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, with a 20 year term (including five
years of grace on repayment of principal) and an interest rate of 8%
per annum. EdL will bear the foreign exchange risk.
Project Objectives: The objectives of the proposed project are: (i) extending electricity
supply to more consumers in the Southern and Central Regions of the
Lao PDR; (ii) enhancing the quality of supply for existing consumers in
those provinces; (iii) developing additional power export prospects for
the Lao PDR; (iv) improving EdL's system efficiency; and
(v) continuing EdL's institutional development.
Project Description: The proposed project includes: (a) A provincial electrification compo-
nent, including construction of: (i) one 115 kV and three 22 kV over-
head river-crossing lines, to interconnect disaggregated local networks
with the Thai grid, and (ii) extension of the 22 kV networks in six prov-
inces of the country's central and southern regions. (b) A system effi-
ciency component, including: (i) action programs for EdL to reduce
system losses, improve billing and collections, and reduce arrears from
Government agencies, and (ii) equipment and materials to strengthen
EdL's operation and maintenance services, particularly at its provincial
subsidiaries. (c) An institutional development component that includes
equipment, material and services, and needed technical assistance for
upgrading the skills of EdL's staff and its training facilities. (d) A fu-
ture project development component that includes a feasibility study for
the installation of additional capacity at the Nam Ngum hydro station.
Benefits:           The main benefit of the proposed project would the extension of elec-
tric networks in dispersed areas in the country's central and southern
regions, thereby making already healthy economic activity in those
areas more cost effective. Additional benefits include (i) improving the
reliability of supplies to consumers throughout EdL's networks; (ii)
increasing the technical competence at all levels of EdL; and (iii) trans-
ferring to EdL new techniques for managing a dispersed enterprise.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance   I
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Risk:              The proposed project faces no major risks. Possible risks include minor
construction delays if: (a) EGAT does not complete its portion ot the
interconnecting links on time; (b) constraints persist in the supply of
cement; and (c) drought conditions so limit the availability of energy
for export and consequently EdLIs capacity to generate counterpart
funds. The proposed project includes measures to mitigate these risks.
Rate of Return:    16.6% (Weighted Average)
Estimated Costs: L
Lcal    Foreign    Total
----- ---US$ Million----------
Provincial Electrification                        4.6      24.7       29.3
System Efficiency Improvements                    0.2       3.4        3.6
Institutional Development                         0.0       3.3        3.3
Project Engineering                               0.0       1.8        1.8
Base Cost                                     4.8      33.2       38.0
Physical Contingency                          0.2       1.4        1.6
Price Contingency                             1.9       3.6        5.5
Total Project Cost                       6.9       38.2      45.1
Interest During Construction                  3.8       0.4        4.2
Total Financing Requirements            10.7       38.6      49.3
Financing Plan:
Local    Foreikn    Total
----US$ Million----------
IDA Proposed Credit                             0.0      36.0       36.0
EGAT                                            0.0       2.2        2.2
EdL                                            10.7       0.4       11.1
Total                                        10.7      38.6       49.3
Est. Disbursements:   FY93    FY94   _FY9S        FY96    .FY97    F98
---..----------------(US$ million)-----------------
Annual                 1.7      4.4       9.2       9.2      6.4      5.1
Cumulative            17       6.1       15.3     24.5    30.9       36.0
/a   The proposed project is exempted from duties and taxes.



LAO TP.D.R1
Provincial Grid Integrat:on Project
Staff Appraisal Report
Table ot Contents
PWe
CREDrr AND PROJEU  SUM.MMARY ......................................
THE ENERGY AND POWER SECrORS . ................................ --
A. Overview ..........................                                                           -1.
B. The Power Sector ....................................                                         -2-
C. Power Sector Development Strategy ........                   ..............                   -5-
D. Major Sector Issues ....................... -8-
E. Past Bank Group Involvement in the Sectorr ....................................   - 9-
F. Rationale for Continuing Involvement ................................   -
THE BENEFICIARY .......................................-11-
A   Background .................................................-11.
B. Organization .......................................-12-
C. Fnancial Management .......................................                                    14-
THE PROJECT- ................................................ 17-
A. Origin and Status of Preparation .................................. -17-
B. Objectives ................................................. -17-
C. Project Description ..................-....................  17-
D. Cost Estimates ........................................                                       21-
E. Fnancing Plan                     ............................. 23-
F. Engineering and Implementation ................................... -23 -
G. Procurement ................................................ -24-
H. Disbursements ..................................   ............. -25-
L Monitoring and Reporting ........................................-26-
J. Environment .................................................-26-
This r5p~rt was pttpsred by Messrs. Jamil $o~h.~, BIip~ne Liur4, Xatl 3~ha.......?..
Caroty  Tage, w1a~viMko   ~h LaoFR  oap.s.             .Iiiibr191
MatiaEdnodaprwde  vie  as. taeatka.itts   ?sr*w a 9M4br
Messr . .c MIt   lado!.radr ..                       nd ..b~ta  7.dca3n    a
.... ....r.  Vinest                   ""to  ( j .( .. ....) .
.alsta B.Mdv   )rco,Cityeymst1  M    sa~dPdi    q



- iv -
H    lNANCE  .................................... -28-
A.  Introduction  ................................... -28-
B. Past and Present Financial Performance ............................. 28 -
C   Tarifs    ...................................................... -32-
D. Financing Plan ...............................-33-
E. Future Fmance ............................. -35-
ECONOMIC JUSIFICATION   .-.................................. 37-
A. Electricity Demand .....................................37 -
B. Least-Cost Supply                          ........................... 38-
C  Economic Rate of Return ....................................     38 -
D. Benefits and Risks                          ........................... 39-
E. T dsff and Cost of Supply ....................................... -40-
AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION ............................... -43-
A. Agreements ..................................... 43-
B. Recommendation ............                                  ....................... -45 -



Annexes
1.1   Existing Generation Faudlities
1.2   Electricity Demand
1.3   Power Sector Investment
2.1   Electricite du Laos - Existing Organization Chart
2.2   Electricite du Laos - Proposed Reorganization
2.3   Electricite du Laos - Distribution of Staff by Department and Skill Level
3.1   Scope of Works of Provincial Electrification Components
3.2   Computation of System Losses in the Vientiane Area, 1985-90
3.3   Program for Loss Reduction
3.4   Equipment and Material for System Efficiency Improvement
3.5   Terms of Reference for Finance, Accounting and Computerization Consultancy
3.6   Terms of Reference for Organization and Management Study
3.7   Training 'Upgrading Program
Part A - Progratn Constituents
Part B - Terms of Reference for Training Center Advisor
3.8   Technical Cooperation Arrangement Between TNB and EdL
3.9   Terms of Reference for Feasibility Study for Nam Ngum Power Station Extension
3.10  Detailed Project Cost Estimates
3.11   Procurement Arrangements and Schedule
3.12   Project Implementation Organization
3.13   Project Implementation Schedule
3.14   Credit Disbursement Schedule
3.15   Schedule of Supervision Activities and Missions
4.1   Electricite du Laos - Annual Financial Statements - 1988-s000
4.2   Action Program for Reducing Arrears from Government Agencies
5.1   Project Area Demand Projections
5.2   Economic Benefits
5.3   Project Internal Rates of Return
6.1   List of Documents in Project File
Map
EBRD 23467 - Activities Included in the Provincial Grid Integration Projects



1. THE ENERGY AND POWER SECTORS
Overview
1.1       The Lao PDR, a land loc :d country with an area of 236,800 km2 and a
population of 3.6 million, is one of the poorest in the world, with a per
capita Gross Domestic Product of US$210 per annum (1990). The largest city is
Vientiane, the capital, with a population of abouc 381,000. Some 40X of the
population lives in, and much of the country's economic activity centers
around, two narrow ribbons of development: (i) along the Mekong River and in
close proximity to the Thai border in the south, and (ii) in the Vientiane-
Luang Prabang corridor in the north. These two ribbons are clearly separated
from each other; elsewhere, the country is characterized by difficult terrain
(including rugged mountains and dense tropical jungle), sparse population, and
meager infrastructure.
1.2       The Lao PDR has identified deposits of coal, lignite, iron, copper,
lead, tin and other metals, many of which are unexploited. The country also
has vast forest reserves with about 130,000 km2 (some 58X of the land area)
under effective forest cover. About 90X of the energy consumed in the Lao PDR
is produced from fuelwood, with electricity providing 51, and petroleum prod-
ucts providing the remaining 51.
1.3       The Lao PDR has rich hydroelectric resources within its borders.
These resources have a potential of over 18,000 MW, of which only about 200 MW
have been so far been developed. Several studies of potential sites on dif-
ferent rivers are being conducted; however, because the country's sparse popu-
lation is widely scattered about a country characterized by rugged terrain and
deep forest cover, any hydroelectric development must be designed to export
electricity to Thailand over and above meeting modest domestic demand,/.
Some of the sites under study are very large, and their prospective develop-
ment as export projects offers the Government considerable potential to real-
ize foreign exchange earnings. However, the implementation of major export
projects requires (i) innovative institutional structures involving the Thai
Government (or agencies thereof), and third parties; and (ii) sophisticated
financial engineering. Hence, even the most attractive of these export pro-
jects involves a high degree of uncertainty. The Bank Group has recently
served as executing agency for a United Nations Development Programme (UNDP)
financed feasibility study of the Nam Theun II project, a highly promising
major export prospect.
1.4       In contrast to the abundance of fuelwood and hydroelectric poten-
tial, the Lao PDR imports all of its petroleum needs. Efforts to encourage
exploration for domestic hydrocarbons are in an early stage.
I/   Over the last ten years, electricity has been the Lao PDR's leading ex-
port. In 1990, electricity accounted for 281 of Lao export revenues.



- 2 -
B. The Power Sector
1.5       Electric power falls under the Ministry of Industry and Handicrafts
(MOI), which Is the parent for Electricite du Laos (EdL), the country's na-
tional utility. EdL has been responsible for (i) preparation, construction
and operation of all major generation and transmission facilities nationwide,
and (ii) distribucion of electricity in Vientiane and the Vientiane Plain.
Elsewh(re, electricity service had been provided by provincial utilities; on
June 30, 1991, EdL acquired tb- five utilities (para. 2.5) serving the prov-
inces receiving benefits from the IDA-financed Southern Provinces Electrifica-
tion Project (Credit 1826-LA) (E 'j and the Asia.k Development Bank (ADB) fi-
nanced Northern Transmission Line Project. Electricity is readily available
in Vientiane and availability is expanding in the Vientiane Plain, both of
which are served by the country's major existing grid. Champassak and Sara-
vane provinces in the South are supplied by the new Xeset hydro plant (para.
1.25), supplemented by seasonal imports from Thailand through a grid that is
growing. Only small amounts of electricity are produced and consumed in other
provinces. Outside these two areas, electric service consists of (i) scat-
tered small generating sets serving the small surrounding communities, and
(ii) in areas along the Mekong River in Savannakhet and Khammouane Provinces,
two interconnections with the Thai grid supplying power to the towns of Thak-
hek and Savannakhet, and surrounding communities (paras. 1.12 and 1.13).
Electricity Generation and Consumption
1.6       All major Lao electricity distribution grids are linked to the Thai
grid, either importing from or exporting to it. The present installed gener-
ating capacity in the Lao PDR is about 211 MW, consisting of about 200 MW of
hydro generation and the remainder of small diesel plants. Annex 1.1 shows
details of the location and capacity of the public electric services operated
in the various provinces. Power consumption within the Lao PDR, at about 50
kWh per person per year (1.989), is among the lowest in Asia. In addition, the
distribution network is limited, and only about 17% of tLe population current-
ly has access to electricity supplied from three small, separate grids that
are interconnected to the Thai system, but not to each other. This low con-
nection rate results from local supply constraints nationwide. Even where
grid supplies are available, networks can be extended to serve nearby, dis-
persed population pockets only when justified by economic activity. In turn,
the areas beyond the two ribbons of development (para. 1.1) have very limited
economic prospects; thus, extending the electric grids to serve those areas is
not expected to be economically feasible in the foreseeable future.
1.7       The 150 MW lam Ngu  hydroelectric station, which is operated by
EdL, i3 the most important facility in the power sector. Domestically, that
station supplies electricity to an integrated urban and rural electricity
system in the Vientiane Prefecture. From 1993 onward, Luang Prabang will be
integrated into this grid. However, most of Nam Ngum's production is exported
to Thailand.  Revenues from electricity sales to the Electricity Generating
Authority of Thailand (EGAT) in 1990 were about US$18 million.
1.8       In the late 1980s, the total energy generated annually at the Nam
Ngum hydro station ranged between 700 and 900 GWh, of which 130-160 GWh was
consumed locally and 500-700 GWh was exported to Thailand. Distribution loss-



- 3 -
es were about 30-40 GWh, which amounted to about 20X of domestic consumptlon.
Compared with the Vientiane area, electricity consumption in other areas of
the country is relatively small and accounts for about 20X of the total elec-
tricity sold within the Lao PJR. About 70X of the electricity consumed out-
side the Vientiane area is imported from the Thai grid. A summary of elec-
tricity generation and consumption in the Lao PDR for 1990 is presented in
Table 1.1, a more detailed account appears in Annex 1.2. Because of steadily
growing local demand, exports to Thailand have been decreasing from a high of
790 GWh in 1979 to about 600 GWh in 1990.
Table 1.1: ELECTRICITY GENERATION AND CONSUMPTION IN THE LAO PDR
(1990)
Generation                       Consumption
Area           Source       GWh     Percent       Source      GWh  Percent
Vientiane    Hydro          820          95      Vientiane    165       21
Export       595      74
Other Areas  Import          28           3      Other Areas   40        5
Hydro/diesel   12            2
Total                860          181
Local Electricity Service
1.9          EDL's main transmission system, which runs through the Vientiane
Prefecture, consists of 115 kV single circuic and double circuit transmission
lines (Map IBRD No. 23467). Both the double and single circuit lines transmit
energy from Nam Ngum, via the Phone Tong substation and the overhead Mekong
River crossing at Thanaleng, from where it connects to the Thai grid. From
the border, the lines travel within Thailand to the EGAT substations at Udon-
thani. A 22 kV distribution system, and 400/230 V distribution lines supply
electricity to consumers in Vientiane and surrounding areas.
1.10         In Luang Prabang Rrovince, electric power is being supplied from
the Nam Ndong 1,000 kW hydroelectric station, which was commissioned in 1971.
This is supplemented by a diesel station of 675 kW installed capacity. The
transmission line now under construction will connect the Vientiane area grid
with Luang Prabang town in 1993, expanding the integrated grid that will con-
tinue to be dominated by consumption in Vientiane. The inclusion of Luang
Prabang will add about 5 GWh per year to the approximately 170 GWh per year
then expected to be consumed in the Vientiane area. Consumption in Luang
Prabang is expected to grow quic'ly after interconnection. The current 3,500
consumers represent less than half of the potential connections in a town of
50,000 inhabitants. In addition to the growth expected in residential and
commercial demand, which is expected to reach about 11 GWh per year by the
late 1990s, an additional 18 GWh per year could be needed to supply a new me-
chanical workshop that is under construction in Luang Prabang and a new cement
plant planned for Vang "ieng. By the late 1990s, the annual generation re-



- 4 -
quired to supply domestlc needs from the Nam Ngum grid could amount to some
320 GWh of the 700 GWh projected annual production, leaving only about 380 GWh
for export to Thailand from this grid. ADB-financed investigations are now
under way to determine whether the two minor load centers of Savabouri and
Xiang Khoang, with aggregate demand of about 1 GWh per year, currently being
supplied by small diesel sets, should be connected to the grid.
1.11         SanAkhA ,   Paksa   .  These two isolated load centers, located
on the Mekong about 150 km upstream and downstream from Vientiane, are within
reasonable reach of EGAT substations at Loei and Bung Khan, respectively.
Sanakham, with about 1,500 households, has 250 connections being served by a
100 kW dissel set. A distribution substation across the Mekong is fully load-
ed, but the EGAT substation at Loei could be tapped with a 50 km tran.-4ssion
line.  Paksane town, with a population of about 28,000, is served by         0 kW
diesel se*, but could eventually consume about 6-7 GWh per year, wit!  . addi-
tional 6-l GWh consumption coming from productive uses and nearby settlements.
1.12         Thakhek.  The capital of Khammouane province is one of the two
load centers in central Laos that is connected to the Thai grid by underwater
Mekong River crossing links. The existing transmission line from EGAT's
Nakhon Phanom substation has a capacity of about 10 MW, and serves a current
peak demand of about 2.5 MW in Thakhek, mainly from residential and commercial
consumers. Recent consumption growth has been about 20X p.a., reaching about
5 GWh per year. That growth reflects rapid economic development of Thakhek
itself, and the southward expansion of the distribution network to serve small
load centers and the Se Bang Fai Plain, a center of irrigation investment.
Further growth in this expanding system, along with implementation of new
irrigation and industrial projects, could result in annual consumption of
about 25 GWh by the late 1990s, possibly supplemented by some 5-6 GWh from the
connection of a tin mining area in Phonetiou.
1.13         Savannakhlet.  This provincial capital and major load center is
connected to the Thai grid at its Mukdahan substation by an identical link to
that serving Thakhek; its peak demand is somewhat more than 4 Mti, and it cur-
rently imports about 18 GWh per year. Consumption growth during the 1980s was
about lOX p.a., and is likely to accelerate to reflect the recent spurt of
economic activity in the area. The expansion of the distribution network to
the east, north, and south was proceedirg steadily in any case, and it accel-
erated as a result of the availability of finance from SPE. With continued
growth and expansion, this network may reach a consumption level of 40-50 GWh
per year in the late 1990s, at which time the capacity of the transmission
link with Thailand will no longer be adequate.
1.14         Champassak/Saravane.  The economic development of these two dy-
namic southern provinces has been hampered by a lack of access to electricity.
Pakse, the capital of Champassak, has been dependent on the 2 MW Selabam hydro
plant, generating barely 5 GWh per year to serve a suppressed demand of per-
haps 7-8 GWh. Similarly, the town of Saravane and other smaller locations in
the area are supplied by small diesel sets that cover only part of potential
demand. The new Xeset hydro nower plant of 45 MW capacity, together with the
IDA-financed (i) export transmission line through Pakse, and (ii) ongoing pro-
vincial electrification program, will enable both provinces to increase s;-
plies substantially from 1991/92 onwards. By the year 2000, domestic demand
in the new grid is likely to reach 50 GWh per year.



-5-
1.15         The remaining southern provinces of Attopeu and Sekong are thinly
populated and remote, and are supplied by small diesel sets for a few hours
per day. Road access for diesel supply is difficult, particularly in the wet
seasan when the population center of Attopeu (about 40,000 inhabitants) is
completely isolated. The present supply of about 1 GWh per year in both prov-
inces is inadequate to satisfy the suppressed demand, which could reach about
5-6 GWh by the year 2000. The supply options are (i) the extension of the
Xeset grid to these two provinces, (ii) the development of small isolated
hydro supply, and (iii) the expansion of isolated diesel based supply, as
investments in roads make the delivery of diesel easier in the medium-term.
C. Power Sector Development Strategy
1.16         In the past, the development of the Lao power sector had been
troubled by the difficulty of integrating independent project proposals into
an internally consistent strategy. A multiplicity of project-specific studies
prevented easy comparison and prioritization, and the pro4eets that actually
were implemented were the ones for which the Government succeeded in raii.in,
concessional finance. In recent years, the Government and EDL have made sig-
nificant progress in formulating an integrated sector investment strategy.
1.17         1he Drinciples and criteria of EdL's investment strategy reflect
the importance of interlinkages with the nearby Thai grid. In comparison to
the small Lao power sector, the integrated EGAT system has about 8,000 MW of
installed capacity and generates about 45,000 GWh per year; it has been grow-
ing at close to 15% p.a. recently. This major system may reach retail sales
of about 100,000 GCh by the year 2000, and serve a peak demand of perhaps
16,000 to 19,000 MW. In view of tha close link between the Thai and Lao sys-
tems, and the relatively marginal nature of the individual Lao grids in rela-
tion to the dominant EGAT grid, investment planning on the Lao side should be
based on the following principles:
(a)    Large-scale proposed joint hydro projects of an international
character should be treated separately from the normal ongoing
EdL investment program, as they require different institutional
and financing techniques, and function essentially as enclaves or
border projects for the EGAT grid. However, EdL should be close-
ly involved in the preparation of these projects.
(b)    Medium-sized hydro sites within easy reach of existing grids
should be optimized with respect to lowest unit cost (presumably
corresponding to maximum economic installed capacity), in order
to provide competitive additions to exportable surplus from these
grids, and to ensure low-cost domestic supply in the long run.
(c)    Service to remote rural areas, accessible only through difficult
terrain, should only be provided by extending existing grids if
the economic development and suppressed observed demand of those
areas are sufficient for the connection to be economically justi-
fied. Supplying these areas with micro-hydro projects should be
considered with utmost caution, as the high unit cost of such
supplies often makes them uneconomic. Electrification invest-
ments can contribute significantly to integrated rural develop-



-6-
ment programs if they are well coordinated with other infra-
structure investments. In turn, such integrated rural develop-
ment programs do address issues of poverty alleviation.
(d)    Transmission and distribution investment should be tailored care-
fully to the modest needs of small, scattered load centers, by
avoiding premature investment in long domestic transmission
lines, and by seeking mediumi-term, lower cost options such as
improved cross-river l',nks with the EGAT grid.
Major Joint Projects
1.18         Potential large-scale hydro projects, entirely or partially on
Lao territory, but designed to serve mainly the Thai grid, require institu-
tional structures and financing mechanisms that extend beyond the capability
of the Lao economy alone. For this reason, they require a joint decision-
making process between Thailand and the Lao PDR (and whatever other parties
join in the financing arrangements or the riparian consultative process), and
thus need to be removed from the puraly Lao strategy formulation. They do,
however, have to be taken into account when they affect domestic decisions
concerning transmission and distribution investments. The main projects of
this type that could have an impact within the next 10-15 years are:
(a)    d^mTheun II.  This project has been investigated by a full fea-
sibility study, financed by UNDP and executed by IDA. The pro-
ject is located in Khammouane Province on the Nam Theun, a tribu-
tary of the Mekong, and can be designed for a maximum installed
capacity of 600 MW, with a first stage of 300 MW. The project
would be connected directly to the EGAT grid via a 75 km trans-
mission line within Laos, continuing through Thai territory to a
230 KV substation. The point of interconnection with the Thai
system, near Thakhek, is a Lao load center that could tap the
transmission line through a step down transformer, and thereby
replace the present supply from Thailand (para. 1.12). However,
before the project can be regarded as feasible, some important
environmental issues still need to be resolved.
(b)    Pa Mont.  This Mekong mainstream project has been under discus-
sion for many years, but progress has been limited by the inabil-
ity of the riparian countries to reach consensus on the major
issues. The project site is in Vientiane Province, just upstream
of Vientiane itself. The main issue is the need to resettle
large numbers of the upstream population. Recent designs envi-
sion a reservoir level of about 200-210 m, an estimate of about
2,700 MW of installed capacity, and the resettlement of about
60,000 people.
(c)    Nam NhieR.  This promising site in Bolikhamxay Province, on a
tributary of the Mekong, is being investigated with French tech-
nical assistance. Preliminary studies indicate a possible in-
stalled capacity of about 120-500 MW, and a unit cost of about
US30/kWh. The power would be transmitted to Thailand via a new
Mekong River crossing at Paksane.



-7-
Domestic System Development
1.19         The main criteria underlying an investment strategy aimed at
addressing internal Lao needs should be (i) minimization of the unit cost of
medium-sized hydro projects, and (ii) adoption of least-cost approaches to
supplying new or growing load centers. Therefore, the sector has to be treat-
ed as three major grid clusters that will grow together only gradually. The
three clusters are the Northern, Central, and Southern groups of load centers;
each has separate established and potential sources of supply. The Northern
System is centered around the Nam Ngum grid; the Central System in Khammouane
and Savannakhet draws supplies from Thailand, and would benefit if Nam Theun
II is implemented; and the Southern System is currently being supplied by the
recently completed Xeset hydro plant and the much smaller Selabam hydro plant,
both run of the river schemes, the output of which need to be supplemented
with imports from the Thai grid during the dry season.
1.20         Given the local demand potential and supply options, the medium-
term development of these three grid clusters should combine network expansion
to meet the growing needs of existing consumers and connect new consumers,
with the maintenance of export capabilities. Such a program can be developed
and implemented independently of decisions concerning major joint projects
such as Nam Theun II. Annex 1.3 provides EdL's ten-year investment program.
The early years are dominated by expenditures for ongoing projects, while new
investment will only be ready for implementation as of late 1992. Excluding
major export projects, EdL's annual investment expenditure will grow to and
stabilize at about US$25-30 million per year during the mid and late 1990s.
1.21         In the Northern System, the ongoing projects are (i) the trans-
mission line between Nam Ngum and Luang Prabang, (ii) rehabilitation of Nam
Ngum units 3 and 4, and (iii) distribution investments in Vientiane proper and
the Vientiane Plain. The future expansion program for this area (pending
establishment of the economic feasibility of constituent projects), which
would increase the system's installed capacity by about 50X, includes:
-      Nam Leuk/Nam Song water diversion and hydro generation projects,
to be commissioned in the late 1990s;
-      Extension of Nam Ngum hydro plant by one 40 MW unit, also to be
commissioned in the late 1990s;
-      A Third Vientiane Plain Rural Electrification Project;
-      A Vientiane Town Distribution Project;
-      Transmission lines from the Vientiane/Luang Prabang grid to Saya-
bouri and Xiang Khoang; and
-      A new river crossing link with the Thai grid at Paksane.
1.22         The ongoing program for the Central System includes the comple-
tion of works in Savannakhet being financed by SPE, and some minor additional
distribution works. Apart from Nam Theun II and its associated export trans-
mission line, future investments in this area that would accommodate normal
demand growth and add modest extensions to the distribution system, include:



- 8 -
-      Khammouane Province distribution network expansion;
-      Savannakhet Province distribution network expansion; and
-      Rehabilitation end strengthening of the two river crossing links
to the Thai system at Savannakhet and Thakhek, and establishment
of a new link at Se Bang Fai.
1.23         In the Southern System, the completion of the Xeset project and
the electrification of Champassak/Saravane will create the basis of an inte-
grated grid with exportable surplus. The next medium-term investments (sub-
ject to confirmation of their economic feasibility), will involve the expan-
sion of distribution networks to supply growing load centers in Champassak,
Saravane, Attopeu, and Sekong provinces. In the long run, the Southern System
as a whole may benefit from the development of major hydro sites in the Sekong
River basin. These sites would have to be optimized as export projects, with
power being evacuated to Thailand via a reinforced Southern grid. As the
potential sites have only been identified and not yet studied, implementation
of this option would not be likely before the turn of the century.
D. Major Sector Issues
1.24         The Lao power sector faces three major issues that need to be
addressed in the context of the proposed and future projects:
(a)    Pricing and Finance.  The Government's past policy had been to
cross-subsidize domestic consumption with export revenues. How-
ever, export prices have declined and domestic electricity con-
sumption has increased, further decreasing export revenues. As
the available margin for cross-subsidization declines, domestic
tariff revenues will have to cover an increasing share of EdL's
financial requirements. During the next few years, significant
increases in domestic tariff levels will be needed to satisfy
both EdL's financial performance targets, and its objective of
approaching the recovery of economic costs (paras. 5.15 - 5.20).
(b)    Institutional Improvement.  EdL is a competent utility.  However,
it has only limited depth of skilled managers and professionals,
which will be taxed severely by (i) the utility's own growth, and
(ii) t'is acquisition of the provincial utilities. Although on-
going consultancies included under SPE are providing the frame-
work for decentralization and formalized systems and procedures,
EdL needs to implement this framework expeditiously, refine the
processes, and provide staff training at all levels. Similarly,
it needs to ensure that the recent improvements in system loss
reduction are sustained in Vientiane and replicated in the prov-
inces under EdL's jurisdiction; and that all consumer groups
throughout EdL's various service areas are properly metered and
billed (para. 3.6 - 3.9).
(c)    Investment Strategy.  Given the diverse objectives for sector
development (export enhancement and grid expansion), the sector's
investment strategy has to be re-evaluated regularly, taking



. 9 -
account of changing circumstances in the Thai power market and
the pace of development of domestic load centers. This will
require strong analytical and planning skills, and maturity and
deftness in international negotiations (paras. 1.16 - 1.23).
E. Past Bank Group Involvement in the Sector
1.25         The Bank Group has had sporadic involvement in the Lao power
sector since the late 1960s. Bank Group assistance began with administration
of a development fund, financed by eight countries, to construct the first
phase of the Nam Ngum Hydroelectric Project (2 x 15 MW units); this activity
was completed in 1971. Ten years later in 1982, IDA provided a US$15 million
Credit to finance the Nam Ngum Hydroelectric Project (Credit 1197-LA). This
project involved construction of the third phase of the Nam Ngum power plant,
including Inter alla the installation of the fifth unit of 40 MW capacity.
IDA's involvement in that project was an important catalyst for formalizing a
broadly revised power sales agreement between the Lao PDR and Thailand. Then,
in 1987, IDA provided about US$25.8 million equivalent to finance the foreign
cost of SPE, which itself was the transmission and distribution component of a
broader program to develop electricity resources and supply in Champassak,
Saravane and Savannakhet provinces. SPE is expected to be completed within
the schedule and cost estimate developed at appraisal. The Xeset Hydroelec-
tric Project, financed by ADB, UNDP and the Swedish International Development
Agency (SIDA), provided the generation component of that regional program.
1.26         The Bank Group's previous involvement has shown that: (i) while
EdL is effective at implementing IDA-financed projects, its thin staff needs
to be supplemented with technical assistance; (ii) EdL, as the repository of
the sector's technical expertise, needs control over the development, imple-
mentation, and operation of the systems being developed under internationally
financed projects; and (iii) to enable EdL to cope with the growing complexity
and geographical dispersion of its business, past informal practices for man-
aging operations and implementing projects need to be supplemented with more
formal systems and procedures and modern technology and communications facili-
ties. To address these lessons of the past, the proposed project includes:
(i) a project management consultancy (para. 3.15); (ii) a provision that EdL
acquire the provincial utilities that will receive benefits from the proposed
project and that it does not already own (para. 2.5); and (iii) a far-reaching
institutional development program (para. 3.9), which builds on the efforts
begun under SPE and has a special emphasis on developing skills and capabili-
ties at the provincial level. Moreover, although the implementation of these
remedial measures is the subject of dated action programs under the proposed
project, EdL has a satisfactory record for implementing such programs under
previous projects. The proposed project is an integral building block of the
sector investment strategy (paras. 1.16 and 1.23).
F. Rationale for Continuing Involvement
1.27         IDA's involvement in the proposed project would be an important
catalyst with regard to the following objectives:



- 10 -
(a)    By providing financial services to both EdL and EGAT, IDA has ac-
tively been promoting cooperation between the Thai and Lao power
systems. The proposed project will support an increased number
of improved interconnections between the systems, and the devel-
opment of additional medium sized hydro generation with export
potential via existing links. In addition, IDA will continue its
efforts to foster the use of improved institutional, pricing, and
financing practices between the two systems;
(b)    By financing the next phase of distribution network expansion in
the central and southern regions, IDA would continue assisting
the Government's efforts to fine-tune its sector investment
strategy, focusing on optimization of the domestic transmission
and distribution networks;
(c)    By supporting the proposed project, IDA would assist the Govern-
ment and EdL in formulating and implementing a rational electric-
ity tariff policy, aimed at enhancing the share of EdL's revenues
being provided by local consumers; and
(d)    By assisting with the next phase of institutional development,
IDA would promote the upgrading of EdL's skills and capabilities,
and its operational and financial effectiveness.



- 11 -
2. THE BENEFICIARY
A. Background
2.1       The Beneficiary of the proposed Credit will be Electricite du Laos
(EdL), a wholly state-owned enterprise responsible for all generation and
transmission, and some distribution of electricity within the Lao PDR.
2.2       Prior to 1975, EdL was a public corporation responsible for gener-
ating and distributing electricity throughout the country. After the present
Government came to power, EdL became a state enterprise reporting to the Min-
istry of Industry and Handicrafts (MOI). In the recent past, EdL has served
mainly as an executing and operating agency, with EdL's parent ministry having
responsibility for sector planning and policy making; approval of the Council
of Ministers has been required for most planning and policy making decisions
and even some operating decisions. Since 1986, the Government has evolved a
policy to give greater autonomy to larger enterprises such as EdL. While the
Government still retains full control over electricity tariffs, EdL has been
given broad responsibility to manage its technical and commercial operations,
and planning, and to set most of the policies that govern its internal and
external activities.
2.3       Historically, EdL has been responsible for operation of the Nam
Ngum power plant, delivery of electricity to Thailand at 115 kV, and distribu-
tion of electricity throughout Vientiane and surrounding rural areas. Elec-
tricity outside the Vientiane area was supplied and retailed by provincial
electric power authorities, which operated independently of EdL for most of
their affairs. The provincial and local governments made policy for these
authorities; and EdL usually managed the construction of fixed assets on their
behalf. Although the formal ties were loose, these provincial authorities
drew heavily on EdL whenever any technical expertise was necessary.
2.4       At appraisal of both SPE and the ADB-financed Xeset Hydroelectric
Project, the institutional capabilities of the provincial authorities were
found to be very limited; and a program was developed to broaden substantially
EdL's role outside Vientiane. EdL was given the responsibility to construct,
operato, and maintain the Xeset plant and the 115 kV transmission line linking
Xeset to Pakse and from there to the Thai border. While EdL would build the
distribution networks included under SPE, the Government would ensure that
they would be operated and maintained properly by arranging for EdL to assume
functional control over tne distribution utilities in the recipient provinces
(Savannakhet, Khammouane, Champassak, and Saravane) by June 30, 1991, a few
months before the expected completion of those networks. Later, the Govern-
ment agreed that EdL should also assume functional control over the Luang
Prabang provincial authority, the beneficiary of the ADB-financed Northern
Transmission Line Project, not later than June 30, 1991. In effect, the Gov-
ernment recognized that plans to decentralize the electric utilities were
effectively undermined by the dearth of qualified technical personnel, espe-
cially in the provinces; and through this device of functional control, EdL
could ensure the operational and commercial efficiency of these utilities.



- 12 -
2.5       In early 1991, the Lao Government decided to go beyond the func-
tional control approach, and accept the proposal of the concerned provincial
governments that EdL purchase outright the assets, liabilities and businesses
of those five provincial electricity authorities. The terms of purchase were
agreed on a case by case basis during April-June 1991, and the purchases them-
selves became effective during June 1991. This change to outright purchase
more than meets the objectives for functional control, and therefore was ac-
ceptable to both IDA and ADB. Two additional provinces (Bolikhamxay and Se-
kong) with independent electricity authorities are expected to receive bene-
fits under the proposed project. At negotiations, the Government agreed that
it will arrange for EdL to acquire the assets, liabilities and businesses of
the provincial electricity authorities serving consumers in Bolikhamxay and
Sekong provinces, prior to the onset of construction of the networks being
financed under the proposed project.
2.6       A_ the Lao Government has increasingly entrusted important economic
activities to the private sector, questions have arisen about the extent to
which the electricity sector might be privatized. While several private com-
panies are now selling materials and equipment for electricity supply, EdL
could not realistically be sold or otherwise transferred to the private sector
at this time. EdL is facing a major investment program (para. 4.21) over the
next ten years, and only the Government has the resource mobilization capacity
to meet EdL's projected capital requirements. Also, EGAT's attitude toward
importing electricity from EdL is largely a reflection of bilateral relations
between Thailand and the Lao PDR. Moreover, EdL is not ready for privatiza-
tion;.as a first step in the lengthy process, increasing ErLL's autonomy and
its corporatization should be primary objectives for the next five years. The
developmaent of sound managerial processes that enable accountability to pri-
vate shareholders is one important objective of the institutional development
component of the proposed projuct (para. 3.9).
B. Organization
Structure
2.7       EdL is headed by a General Manager who is appointed by decree of
the Council of Ministers on the recommendation of the Minister of Industry and
Handicrafts. He reports to the Minister, usually through a Vice Minister who
has specific supervisory responsibility for EdL. He is assisted by a Deputy
General Manager, whose appointment also has the endorsement of the Council of
Ministers. The allocation of responsibility between the two is not clearly
delineated in the organization chart; thus, the actual division of responsi-
bility is determined by informal arrangement between the two incumbents.
2.8       EdL is currently modifying its organization structure.  The present
organization chart is shown in Arnnex 2.1, and the proposed structure in Annex
2.2. Under the existing structure, 25 separate departments report to the
General Manager's office. As EdL's scope of activity has become broader and
more complex, control over the existing structure has become increasingly
difficult. The new structure is more stratified, with only two Branches and
six departments reporting to the General Manager's office. The Branch manag-
ers are responsible for geographically dispersed functional activities, while
the various departments provide staff services.



- 13 -
2.9       The major institutional development program included under SPE pro-
vided EdL with (i) basic systems and on the job training in accounting and
finance; (ii) computer hardware, software and training, as well as rudimentary
information systems; and (iii) organizational systems, procedures and manuals.
As EdL's activities become increasingly complex and geographically dispersed,
follow-up programs are needed to (i) monitor skills acquired by EdL's staff
under SPE; (ii) provide EdL with more detailed, broadened systems and proce-
dures; (iii) consolidate the activities of EdL and its provincial subsidiar-
ies; and (iv) provide on-the-job training to headquarters and provincial
staff. A comprehensive technical assistance program featuring follow-up con-
sultancies for Organization and Management (O&M Study), and Finance, Account-
ing and Computerization (Finance Study) has been included in the proposed
project (para 3.4).
Personnel and Stamng
2.10      As of November 1991, EdL's total personnel included 1,596 employ-
ees, with training levels as follow: engineers (177); technicians (non-engi-
neering college graduates) (277); skilled labor (930); unskilled labor and
others (212). The last category includes drivers, typists, junior accoun-
tants, public relations specialists, nurses, teachers, and shop employees. Of
the total, about 1003 had jobs at EdL headquarters or elsewhere in Vientiane.
The remaining 573 are employed in through EdL's provincial subsidiaries (main-
ly in Champassak and Savannakhet). The distribution of staff by department
and skills level is given in Annex 2.3. EdL is reviewing its staffing comple-
ment to ensure consistency with the Government's efficiency objectives, and
may allow some attrition, if deemed appropriate.
Training
2.11      EdL currently operates a training center through which employees,
deemed to be skilled, learn a variety of jobs. The program is a standard one
that lasts two years and focusses on the technical aspects of the EdL opera-
tions. In the program, employees receive training similar to an engineering
curriculum, while also learning about the EdL network and operation and main-
tenance of EdL's equipment. All existing employees described as "skilled
labor" have completed the EdL. vocational school curriculum.
2.12      During 1991, using French Government assistance, Electricite de
France (EdF) conducted a review of the training center's facilities and pro-
gram, and found that significant upgrades were needed. The French Government
will finance a small package of the most urgently needed equipment, while the
remaining complement that has been agreed with the Government has been includ-
ed for purchase under the proposed project (para. 3.9 [d]). Similarly, in
conjunction with the appraisal of the proposed project, the training program
was found to need broadening to cover the variety of technical skills needed
by the evolving EdL. These training program upgrades will be provided through
(i) a technical cooperation arrangement with Tenaga Nasional Berhad (TNB) of
Malaysia; and (ii) technical assistance (para. 3.9 [d]). Both of these train-
ing components would be financed by the proposed credit.
2.13      Tata Consulting Engineers, Ltd. (TCE) of India has been employed by
EdL since 1981, Inter alia, to review and revise the organization's accounting
procedures and to help implement appropriate accounting systems. Although the



- 1& -
accounting function had become marginally satisfactory prior to the acquisi-
tion of the provincial subsidiaries, considerable further technical assistance
is needed to enable (i) upgrading to acceptable standards of the accounting
function at the provincial subsidiaries; and (ii) mastery by headquarters
staff of the techniques involved in consolidating the accounts of disag-
gregated units. The consultancy for finance and accounting is expected to
continue providing training to EdL's accounts staff.
Operation, Maintenance and Losses
2.14      Although it is now about 20 years old, the Nam Ngum power station
has relatively recent equipment that has been kept in good repair. The Xeset
plant was commissioned in 1991, and has modern equipment which is being oper-
ated properly and efficiently. EdL has a history of conducting regular main-
tenance according to generally accepted public utility practices.
2.15      The EdL system includes only 250 km of 115 kV transmission line,
which is used to evacuate to Thailand about 79X of the energy generated from
Nam Ngum and, when steady state operation is reached, a similar proportion of
energy from Xeset. Losses within the transmission system have been contained
at a satisfactory level of about 21. The distribution system that supplies
Nam Ngum energy to local consumers is also small, and covers areas limited to
within the Vientiane Prefecture and the Vientiane Plain. Much of these dis-
tribution facilities were built during the last 15-18 years. The system it-
self is modern and can support considerable expansion. In view of these fa-
vorable characteristics, the distribution system's losses that were recorded
at about 23X during appraisal of SPE were considered excessive, and EdL agreed
under that project to implement an acceptable loss reduction program. That
program realized limited progress through 1990; however, once EdL received new
meter testing and calibration equipment, the level of distribution losses
dropped sharply. In 1991, system losses averaged only about 16X. Despite
this progress, EdL believes it still has substantial scope for further reduc-
tion of system losses, and an action program to accomplish that objective is
included under the proposed project (para. 3.7).
C. Financial Management
Accounting and Budgeting
2.16      EdL's accounting system is based on conventional double-entry prin-
ciples, with income, expenses, assets and liabilities being classified accord-
ing to a code of accounts determined by the Government. Basic accounting
records were first compiled in 1979, and then consisted of a general ledger, a
cash book, and sales journals for EdL's retail operations and company stores.
In 1982, TCE reviewed the accounting system and issued a report regarding
control records and procedures. Most of the recommendations have been imple-
mented. Recently, the system was adapted for consistency with the Govern-
ment's new accounting system. Quarterly financial statements, consisting of a
balance sheet and profit and loss statement, are now being prepared regularly.
2.17      EdL prepares annual capital and operating budgets which are re-
viewed with MOI, the Ministry of Economy, Plan and Finance and the State Plan-
ning Committee in June-July of the year preceding the one for which they will
be in effect. The budgets are then approved by the Council of Ministers dur-



- 1S -
ing October-November. Neither periodic budget reviews nor variance analyses
are conducted during the financial year itself.
Commercial Systems
2.18      EdL has substantially improved its commercial systems since the ap-
praisal of SPE. At that time, the turnover of accounts receivable was aver-
aging an unsatisfactory 150 days (net of unread meter accruals averaging 30
days); however, the turnover rate for sales within the Lao PDR was more than
one year with the aging of receivables bearing similar characteristics among
Government and private sector consumers. As a result, EdL was asked to agree
to implement an action program to reduce accounts receivable to commercially
appropriate levels. This program was relatively successful, so that the turn-
over rate currently averages about 56 days (net of unread meter accruals).
More importantly, the turnover rate on sales within the Lao PDR has been re-
duced to about 90-100 days (net of unread meter accruals).
2.19      EdL has made substantial progress in computerizing its billing and
collection systems, which represent a substantial improvement over past prac-
tices. During the past few years, one important effort in the Vientiane area
has been for EdL to identify and meter all consumers who draw electricity from
its distribution networks. Now, EdL needs to ensure that they are all sys-
tematically being billed. In March 1992, EdL confirmed that all electricity
consumers in the Vientiane area have been incorporated into the billing and
collection system, and are being billed regularly. For the provincial subsid-
iaries to use the new processes effectively, (i) the computerized systems need
to be adapted to the circumstances of the subsidiaries, and (ii) provincial
staffs will need to be trained in their use. Technical assistance to help EdL
adapt these new commercial processes for provincial use is included in the
Finance Study under the proposed project. Assuming EdL invests the time and
effort needed to strengthen impleuentation of these new systems, the turnover
rate on local sales will drop still further in coming months, both in Vien-
tiane and at the subsidiaries.
2.20      Billing and collection arrangements with regard to exports to Thai-
land are enumerated in the long-term power sales agreements between EdL and
EGAT. They call for a 45 day payment period on top of an unread meter accrual
that has averaged about 30 days. Payment is to be made in US dollars into a
special account at the Thai Military Bank, which then remits the proceeds to
the Banque pour le Commerce Exterieur Lao, which in turn credits the proceeds
net of export taxes to EdL. These combined banking transactions can take as
many as 15 days. Thus, although EdL carries in accounts receivable an average
of slightly less than 90 days of sales to EGAT, the period could not be short-
ened substantially; moreover, because these payments have followed contrac-
tually stipulated terms, the corresponding accounts receivable cannot be con-
sidered as "in arrears".
Audit
2.21      Responsibility for auditing EdL's financial statements belongs to
(i) the Department of Finance within MOI, and (ii) the Department of Accounts
of the Ministry of Economy, Planining and Finance. The audits include inspec-
tions of production operations, fixed assets, planning, and financial activi-



- 16 -
ties. They also establish the degree of compliance with labor conditions and
review wages and workers' living conditions. Under SPE, to accommodate the
heavy backlog facing the Government's auditors, IDA agreed that EdL should
furnish the reports of these audits to IDA within nine months of the end of
the financial year, and it has regularly complied with this agreement. The
Government's auditors continue to experience delays in completing audits be-
cause their backlog remains heavy. Therefore, at negotiations, EdL again
agreed to furnish audited financial statements to IDA within nine months of
the end of each financial year.
2.22      Although EdL recognizes the desirability of baving an internal au-
dit unit, little progress has been made in this direction. The major con-
straint is the dearth of adequately trained staff. Currently, internal checks
conducted by the accounts department are restricted to periodic verifications
of cash, stores, consumables, and other movable assets such as office equip-
ment, furniture and vehicles. These checks are sufficient for the time being.
The development of an internal audit unit with a broader scope of work must
necessarily follow the institutional upgrades that will result from the pro-
posed project's O&M and Finance Studies.
Taxes and Dividends
2.23      In the past, EdL's entire cash surplus from operations had been
payable to the Government.  However, under current practice, EdT pays substan-
tial taxes, including: (i) a Local Turnover Tax of 3% on all sales within the
Lao PDR (the rate is expected to increase to 5% in 1992); (ii) an export tax,
levied upon remittance to the Lao PDR, of 20% on exports (the rate is expected
to drop to 10% in 1992); and (iii) an income tax on EdL's surplus after inter-
est charges. In addition, the Government has been providing for the recovery
of the cost of power sector investments by requiring that EdL transfer 46% of
depreciation; the Government is considering replacing this transfer with a
dividend of similar magnitude. Thereafter, EdL retains its after tax surplus.
Insurance
2.24      In the absence of insurance companies, EdL makes no specific provi-
sions for insuring its assets. The Government, as the owner of all assets
managed by state enterprises, is responsible for meeting casualty losses wh'.ch
cannot be covered from the enterprise's normal revenues, and this arrangement
has previously been acceptable to IDA. For project related assets, EdL has
arranged for contractors for civil works and suppliers of materials take out
appropriate insurance coverage during the construction period. These arrange-
ments, which were used under the Nam Ngum and SPE projects, are expected to be
replicated under the proposed project.



- 17 -
3. THE PROJECT
A. Origin and Status of Preparation
3.1       With the Nam Ngum hydro plant and the two ADB-financed Vientiane
Plain Rural Electrification Projects (VPRE), grid supplies have been a cata-
lyst fir economic development in Vientiane and the areas immediately to the
north. Economic activity in the central and southern regions, however, has
lagged because infrastructure (notably electricity supply) has not kept pace
with developmental needs. Grid supplies in that area have gradually broadened
with (i) the completion in May 1991, of the ADB-financed 45 MW hydro plant at
Xeset and (ii) EdL's progress in implementing SPE.
3.2       To continue its efforts to increase the availability of electricity
to developments in the Mekong River environs, EdL retained TCE in 1990 to
identify and prepare projects for the further electrification of (i) tbh cen-
tral provinces of Savannakhet, Khammouane and Bolikhamxay; (ii) the southern
provinces of Champassak, Saravane, Sekong and Attopeu; and (iii) the Xanakham
District of Vientiane Province. TCE's studies included a 10-year load fore-
cast for each province, a technical evaluation of alternative electrification
plans, and economic evaluations for each scheme. TCE's finalized report was
the basis of this proposed project.
B. Objectives
3.3       The objectives of the proposed project are:  (i) extending elec-
tricity supply to more consumers in the Southern and Central Regions of the
Lao PDR, including areas within the provinces of Champassak, Saravane, Sekong,
Savannakhet, Khammouane, and Bolikhamxay (Map IBRD No. 23467); (ii) enhancing
the quality of supply for existing consumers in those provinces; (iii) devel-
oping additional power export prospects for the Lao PDR; (iv) improving EdL's
system efficiency; and (v) continuing EdL's institutional development.
C. Project Description
3.4       The proposed project includes:
(a)  Central Region ElectrIfIcatIon.  Construction of: (i) a new 115 kV
double-circuit overhead river-crossing line with associated substa-
tion at Savannakhet, and a new 22 kV double-circuit overhead river-
crossing line at Thakhek (both of which would replace aging under-
water cables), to interconnect with the Thai grid; (ii) new 22 kV
single-circuit overhead river-crossing lines to interconnect with
the Thai grid at Se Bang FaiaV and Paksane, each with an associated
2/ Using a river crossing line to interconnect the proposed Se Bang Fai
network with the EGAT grid was found to have modest cost advantages over
the use of an overland 22 kV interconnection with the Savannakhet sub-
station (about 40 km. away). However, because some topographical prob-
(continued...)



- 18 -
22 kV substationJ'; and (iii) extension of the 22 kV distribution
networks in Savannakhet, Khammouane and Bolikhamxay provinces;
(b) Southern Region Electr1f1catLon. Extension of the 22 kV distribu-
tion networks to additional areas in Champassak, Sekong, and Sara-
vane provinces;
(c)  Improving Svstem Efflclenc .  This component includes (i) implemen-
tation of an action program for EdL to monitor and reduce system
losses, increase collections, and improve the billing practices in
the Vientiane area and its provincial subsidiaries; and (ill provi-
sion and installation of equipment and materials (includin6 spare
parts) to strengthen EdL's operation and maintenance services, par-
ticularly at its provincial subsidiaries;
(d)  Continuation of EdL's Institutlonal Development.  Provision of
equipment, material and services, and technical assistance for up-
grading the skills of EdL's staff and its training capabilities;
and
(e)  Future ProJect Develogment.  Preparation of a feasibility and de-
sign study for (i) the installation of additional capacity at the
Nam Ngum hydro station, together with (ii) any needed strengthening
of the transmission line from Nam Ngum to the Thai border.
Provincial Electrification
3.5       The scope of work for the electrification of the central and south-
ern provinces would include about 850 km of 22 kV medium voltage lines and
spurs; about 950 km of 400 V distribution feeders; one new 115 kV substation
and two new 22 kV substations for the interconnection with the Thai grid;
about 300 22/.4 kV step down transformers with a total capacity of around 35
MVA; housewiring; and needed connections to electrify some 500 villages with a
total of about 14,500 households (Annex 3.1 provides a detailed breakdown by
province). Villages to be electrified have been selected on the basis of
economic criteria (paras. 5.6 - 5.8), including (i) their proximity to the 22
kV lines; (ii) the number of households in the village; and (iii) the number
of irrigation pumps, rice mills and other industrial activities expected to be
connected to the system.
/(... continued)
lems that were uncovered through the preliminary engineering of that
river crossing line could negate its cost advantages, an understanding
was reached at negotiations to reconsider the use of the overland
scheme. EdL is studying the details of the two approaches, and will
report its findings in late 1992. If the overland scheme can be built
at comparable cost with a comparable rate of return and without impor-
tant environmental side effects, that approach would be substituted for
the river crossing at Se Bang Fai.
../  EGAT has confirmed that it will construct the links to connect the four
river-crossings to its grid at its own cost, and would also provide free
of cost to EdL a transformer for the 115 kV substation at Savannakhet.



- 19 -
Improving System Efficiency
3.6       Under SPE, EdL agreed to implement an action program to reduce dis-
tribution losses in the Vientiane area. Actions taken by EdL to date include:
(i) establishment of a task force headed by a senior EdL engineer, who reports
directly to the General Manager; (ii) identification of losses by installing
master meters, which are monitored and analyzed on a monthly basis, at all key
points within its networks; (iii) establishment of a meter testing laboratory
and replacement of faulty meters; and (iv) installat! n of office equipment
and a computerized billing system. So far, the program has yielded commend-
able results, including: (i) a major reduction in distribution losses from 23X
in 1985 to almost 16% in 1991; (ii) the metering of all consumption in the
Vientiane area; and (iii) the development of a computer program to identify
and diagnose system losses as early as possible. A breakdown of system losses
for 1985-90 according to station use, transmission losses, and distribution
losses is shown in Annex 3.2.
3.7       Despite this commendable progress, distribution losses of 161 are
still too high. About half of these losses might result from non-technical
causes. Therefore, the loss reduction program needs to be continued under the
proposed project, not only in the Vientiane area but also in the service areas
of EdL's provincial subsidiaries. EdL should also focus on reducing unbilled
power and unpaid bills. An action plan is given in Annex 3.3. At negotia-
tions, EdL agreed to implement an action program to (i) monitor and reduce
system losses; (ii) increase its collection efficiency; and (iii) improve its
implementation of the recently computerized billing system, especially in its
provincial service areas.
3.8       To improve system efficiency still further, the project provides
for EdL to acquire (i) spare parts for its generation and transmission facili-
ties; (ii) tools, vehicles, and radio equipment; (iii) micro-computers to be
used primarily for upgrading the inputs to and utilization of EdL's Management
Information System (MIS); and (iv) a telecommunication system that meets EdL's
communications requirements within the central and southern regions as well as
between EdL's Vientiane headquarters and key locations within the provinces.
An indicative list of this equipment and material is shown in Annex 3.4.
Continuation of EdL's Institutional Development
3.9       The project's institutional development component includes:
(a)  a Finance. Accounting and Computerization Consultancy (Finance
Study) that would train finance staff at EdL headquarters and the
provincial subsidiaries, and assist them in implementing (i) EdL's
accounting system (especially -he closing and consolidation of
year-end accounts) and (ii) financial processes related to EdL's
new MIS. This activity is expected to involve about 60 person-
months of consulting inputs;
(b)  an Organization and Management Study (O&M Study) that would contin-
ue the work begun under SPE to develop the policies, regulations,
systems, procedures, and guidelines needed to enable EdL to func-
tion as a decentralized national utility. This activity is expect-
ed to involve about 30 person-months of consulting inputs;



- 20 -
(c) a Computerized Rural Electrification Planning System that would
include the purchase of appropriate computer hardware and software,
and associated technical assistance, to model the selection and
evaluation of projects for electrifying new areas. This would as-
sist EdL in screening, ranking, and appraising investment options
that involve extensions of electric networks to supply consumers in
unserved areas within reach of the grid; and
(d) a Training Upgrading Program that would include: (i) the provision
of equipment and tools; (ii) the services of training experts; and
(iii) short-term secondments and external training, to acquaint
EdL's staff at all levels with the practices being implemented suc-
cessfully at other utilities in the region. The proposed project
also envisions that EdL would enter into a "technical cooperation
arrangement" with one of the stronger utilities in the region, TNB
of Malaysia. TNB has expressed its willingness to develop such a
relationship pending an exchange of visits between TNB and EdL man-
agers that would settle the particulars of the arrangement.
3.10      Draft scopes of work, terms of reference, and particulars of the
aforementioned technical assistance and training upgrades are detailed in
Annexes 3.5, 3.6, 3.7 and 3.8. At negotiations, EdL agreed that it would:
(i) by December 31, 1992, retain consultants, according to terms of reference
and following a selection procedure acceptable to IDA, to provide technical
assistance with regard to finance and accounting; (ii) by September 30, 1993,
retain consultants, according to terms of reference and following a selection
procedure acceptable to IDA, to perform a management and organization study;
(iii) by December 31, 1994, discuss with IDA the principal conclusions of
these consultancies; and (iv) according to a schedule acceptable to IDA, im-
plement those of the consultants' recommendations that are acceptable to the
Government, EdL and IDA. In addition, at negotiations, EdL agreed that it
will conclude a satisfactory technical cooperation arrangement with an accept-
able electric utility from the region.
Nam Ngum Hydro Station Extension
3.11      The further extension of the 150 MW Nam Ngum hydro station depends
on implementation of upst._am water diversion schemes at Nam Song and Nam
Leuk, which would increase and stabilize the flow of water into the Nam Ngum
reservoir. A prefeasibility study of these projects was completed under an
ADB-financed technical assistance grant; and a feasibility and design study
for the diversion schemes has recently begun and should be completed by mid
1992. If the results of that latter study are positive, ADB would appraise
these projects in late 1992. Based on the prefeasibility study, the water
diversion schemes would provide sufficient water flows into the Nam Ngum res-
ervoir to enable the addition of up to 50 MW of capacity at the Nam Ngum hydro
station. This will need to be confirmed by the ongoing feasibility study,
which will Inter alia address the hydrological factors involved in expanding
the capacity of the Nam Ngum plant. To optimize the benefits of the water
diversion schemes, any extension of the Nam Ngum plant should be implemented
in parallel with implementation of those schemes. Therefore, the proposed
project provides for a feasibility and design study for the works needed to
expand the Nam Ngum plant, and to strengthen (as needed) the transmission line
from Nam Ngum to the Thai border. This study is tentatively estimated to need



- 21 -
consultants' inputs of about 45 person-months. Draft terms of reference are
given in Annex 3.9; they will be finalized by EdL, in cooperation with IDA, as
soon as the results of the feasibility study tor the water diversion schemes
are available. At negotiations, EdL agreed that it would: (i) by September
30, 1993, retain consultants according to terms of reference and following a
selection procedure acceptable to IDA, to conduct a feasibility and design
study for extending the Nam Ngum power plant; and (ii) by December 31, 1994,
discuss the findings of the study with IDA.
D. Cost Estimates
3.12      The cost of the proposed project, based on late 1991 prices is es-
timated at US$45.1 million and is summarized in Table 3.1. Details are given
in Annex 3.10.
3.13      Unit costs were based on actual construction data from SPE.  Physi-
cal contingencies were calculated at 10 for substations and distribution
feeders, 5% for all other works and 3% for services. Price contingencies for
foreign costs are calculated on the basis of the projected international rate
at 3.9% per annum for 1992-97. Price contingencies for local costs are calcu-
lated at 6.5% for 1992, and 5% per year for 1993 and thereafter.



- 22 -
Table 3L1t PROJECT COST ESTI1ATE
FOREIGN
COMPONENT                   LUAl       FOREIGN        IAL    LCAL    FOREIGN         I k   COST ASX
OF TOTAL
.-   --t(KM Million)......  .C .......(USS Million)-------
PROVINCIAL ELECTRIFICATION
Central Region Interconnect           0.00    1,547.00    1,547.00        0.00       2.21      2.21       100.00
Central Region Distribution       1,582.00    8,946.00   10,528.00        2.26      12.78     15.04        84.97
Southern Region Distribution      1,638.00    6,825.00    8,463.00        2.34       9.75     12.09        80.65
Sub-total                      3,220.00   1     81800   20.538.00      4.60      24.74     Z9 34        84.32
SYSTEN EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENT
Loss Reduction                      105.00    1,050.00    1,155.00        0.15       1.50      1.65        90.91
Spare Parts, Vehicles, Tools          0.00       665.00       665.00      0.00       0.95      0.95       100.00
Micro Computers                       0.00       140.00       140.00      0.00       0.20      0.20       100.00
Telecommuication System              35.00       525.00       560.00      0.05       0.75      0.80        93.75
Sub-total                        140.00    2,380.00    2.520.00        0-20       3.40      3 6         94.44
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Organization & Management             0.00       525.00       525.00      0.00       0.75      0.75       100.00
Financial & Computerization           0.00       350.00       350.00      0.00       0.50      0.50       100.00
Training Center Upgrading             0.00    1,400.00    1,400.00        0.00       2.00      2.00       100.00
Sub-totaL                          0.00    2,275 00    2,275 00        0 00       3.25      3.2S       100.00
PROJECT ENGINEERING
PGI and Nam Ngwn La                  21.00    1.260.00    1.281.00        0.03       1.80       1.83       98.36
Total Base Cost                 3.381 00   2323  2_1400 |     4;L                 33.91    38.02         87.30
Physical Contingencies                  161.00      973.00    1,134.00       0.23       1.39       1.62       85.80
Price Contingencies                   1,261.00    2,534.00    3,815.00       1.83       3.62      5.45        66.42
TOTAL PROJECT COST              4,823.00   26.740.00   31 056300           9      38.20     45.09        8
Interest During Construction         2,660.00       280.00    2,940.00       3.80       0.40      4.20         9.52
TOTAL FINANCING REQUIREMENT    7      04830 0    27l020.00   34.503.00    I. 69.2  3L. 60    2L          78 31
/a Including administration and supervision
Notes:
1.      Base cost and contingencies have been calculated using an exchange rate Kn 700 a USS1.
2.      The proposed project would be exempted from mport duties and taxes.
3.      Total physical contingencies are about 4.4X of base cost; local price contingencies are about 36X and for-
eign cost contingencies are about 10.6X of the base cost plus physical contingences.



* 23 -
E. Financing Plan
3.14      The proposed Credit of US$36 million would finance about 73% of the
estimated total financing requirement (100% of the foreign cost incurred with-
in the Lao PDR, net of interest during construction). EGAT would finance the
full value of the connecting links within Thailand, about half of the cost of
the Mekong River crossings, and the cost of one transformer for the 115 kV
substation at Savannakhet. Because the interconnections to EGAT are needed to
provide electricity for all the proposed central region networks, assurances
of EGAT's willingness to complete its portion of those interconnections is a
prerequisite to any EdL investments in those facilities. Thus, EdL affirmed
it would enter into a contractual arrangement with EGAT as a condition of
disbursement for the central region's networks. EdL would finance the full
US$6.9 million equivalent estimated local cost of the project, and an esti-
mated US$4.2 million equivalent (US$3.8 million equivalent of local cost and
US$0.4 million equivalent of foreign cost) for interest during construction.
The US$6.9 million equivalent that EdL would contribute to the project repre-
sents about 15% of the estimated project cost; the full US$11.1 million that
EdL is expected to finance represents about 23% of the total financing re-
quirement. The financing plan for the project is shown in Table 3.2.
Table 3.2: FINANCING PLAN FOR THE PROJECT
(US$ Million)
Source of Funds              Local Cost    Foreign Cost  Total Cost
IDA Proposed Credit             0.00          36.00          36.00
EGAT                             0.00          2.20           2.20
EdL                            10.70           0.40          11.10
Total                   10.70          38.60          49.30
F. Engineering and Implementation
3.15      The provincial electrification project component will be supervised
and managed by EdL's project office, with the assistance from consulting engi-
neers whose services would include: (i) finalization and/or review of designs;
(ii) preparation of bidding documents; (iii) conduct of bid evaluations;
(iv) arrangements for contracts; and (v) construction supervision. In view of
the experience EdL gained during the implementation of the two VPRE Projects
and SPE, the required consulting services could be fairly modest. EdL cur-
rently has consultants, retained under SPE, who have assisted with preparation
of the proposed project. To avoid implementation delays, the same consultants
will continue to assist with final design and procurement. EdL would also
need consulting assistance for supervising the implementation of the provin-
cial electrification components, and these would be employed under a separate
contract (para. 3.18) on a retainer basis. These proposed arrangements are
acceptable to IDA. At negotiations, EdL agreed that it would appoint a con-
sultant to assist with engineering and procurement, not later than December
31, 1992. A consultant for post-procurement project management and construc-
tion supervision is expected to be appointed not later than September 30, 1993.



- 24 -
3.16      The distribution component of SPE is expected to be completed by
end 1992. Construction of the proposed project could thus begin by mid 1993
and be completed by the end of 1996. The project's other works and services
would be completed within the same period. A table, including a tentative
schedule for procurement and the procedures to be applied, is shown in Annex
3.11. The organization of the project office is given in Annex 3.12. Annex
3.13 provides an implementation schedule for the proposed project.
3.17      Despite the Lao Government's efforts to promote the participation
of the private sector in the economy, EdL could not elicit much interest from
local private contractors in the construction of similar distribution networks
under SPE. As a result, a state company was founded under EdL's auspices in
1990 to undertake that activity. That company constructed the networks within
the cost estimates, either on or slightly ahead of schedule. Thus, to capi-
talize on its earlier investment, EdL plans that construction under the pro-
posed project of 22 kV and low voltage lines, step-down transformers, house-
wiring and connections will be undertaken by that same company. This arrange-
ment is satisfactory.
G. Procurement
3.18      About US$28 million equivalent of goods and works to be financed by
IDA under the proposed project will be procured by international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank Group's Procurement Guidelines. For
the four river-crossings, estimated to cost about US$1.7 million equivalent,
EdL would select according to ICB one or more contractors to supply and in-
stall the facilities; once selected, the contractor(s) would enter into a
tripartite contract with EdL and EGAT, wherein the precise responsibility of
each utility would clearly be established (para. 3.14). IDA would review this
contract before it is finalized. Minor equipment, -testing instruments, and
tools, with a cost of less than US$100,000 per contract and an aggregate cost
of not more than US$2 million in total value, may be procured by International
Shopping (IS), in accordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. Spare
parts for existing equipment, with an aggregate cost of not more than US$2
million in total value, may be procured from original suppliers through direct
contracting, according to terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. The list of
spares would need to 3e preapproved by IDA. All bidding packages financed by
IDA estimated to cost more than US$500,000 equivalent would be subject to
IDA's prior review of procurement documents. This covers about 90% of the
foreseen IDA-financed contracts. All consultants will be selected according
to the Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. The technical cooperation
arrangement will be contracted directly with TNB (para. 3.9 [d]).
3.19      A margin of preference, as allowed by the Bank's Procurement Guide-
lines, will be applied in evaluating bids for (i) equipment, procured under
ICB, from domestic bidders; and (ii) works, procured under ICB, from domestic
contractors. The margin for goods will be the lower of (i) 15% of the CIF bid
price for imported goods, or (ii) the prevailing custom duties and other im-
port taxes. The margin for works will be 7Y/2.
3.20      The procurement arrangements for the proposed project are detailed
in Annex 3.11 and summarized in Table 3.3 below:



- 25 -
Table 3.3: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US$ million)
ITEM                       PROCUREMENT METHOD        TOTAL
ICB     OTHER/a       NIFfi
River Crossing and Substations       4.44       2.20                    6.64
(3.60)     (0.84)                  (4.44)
Rural Electrification               21.50       8.00                   29.50
(21.36)     (1.60)                 (22.96)
Action Program for System            1.14        3.20                   4.34
Efficiency Improvement            (0.90)     (3.20)                  (4.10)
Telecommunications                   0.90                   0.07        0.97
(0.90)                 (0.00)      (0.90)
Consulting Services                             2.50                    2.50
and Training                                 (2.50)                  (2.50)
Feasibility Study of Nam Ngum                   1.14                    1.14
Extension                                    (1.10)                  (1.10)
Total                         27.28       17.04        0.07      45.09
(26.76)     (9.24)      (0.00)    (36.00)
_   Other:  Limited International Bidding, International Shopping, Direct
Contracting, Consultant Services and Training.
/k   Non-IDA Financed
NOTE:    Figures in parentheses show amotnts to be financed from the credit.
H. Disbursements
3.21      The proposed credit would be disbursed against: (i) 100 percent of
foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment and materials quoted on
CIF basis; (ii) 100 percent of ex-factory cost for locally manufactured items
procured according to ICB; (iii) 75 percent of local expenditures for other
items procured locally; (iv) 75 percent of the value of spare parts up to a
maximum of US$2 million; and (v) 100 percent of expenditures for consulting
services and training. Full documentation would be required for all expendi-
tures for consultants' services, studies and overseas training, and all con-
tracts for goods and works valued at more than US$100,000 equivalent. Dis-
bursements for goods and works less than US$100,000 equivalent would be made
on the basis of itemized statements of expenditures (SOEs). The documentation
for SOE supported expenditures would be retained by EdL, and made available
for review by IDA supervision missions. A Special Account would be estab-
lished at Banque pour le Commerce Exterieur Lao to facilitate payment of eli-
gible small expenditures. This account would be maintained in US dollars,



- 26 -
with an authorized allocation of US$1 million. The account would be used for
both local and foreign expenditures of less than US$100,000 equivalent in all
categories. All expenditures above US$100,000 equivalent could be submitted
directly to IDA for payment. Applications for replenishment would be submit-
ted quarterly or when the amount withdrawn exceeds 50Z of the initial deposit,
whichever comes sooner. At negotiations, the Government agreed that it would
have (i) the activity in the Special Account as well as all Statements of
Expenditure maintained in support of disbursements audited annually by an
independent auditor acceptable to IDA, and (ii) furnish the report on this
audit to IDA not later than September 30 of each year. This audit could be
performed in the context of the audit of EdL's annual accounts, or separately,
as appropriate.
3.22      The proposed project includes a retroactive financing provision to
reimburse up to US$140,000 of eligible expenditures. This would be used to
refund advance payments for consultants that are retained after June 1, 1992
but prior to credit approval.
3.23      Annex 3.14 gives the disbursement schedule for the proposed Credit.
The closing date for the Credit would be June 30, 1998, which would allow
sufficient time after project commissioning for the payments of contractual
retention amounts. The disbursement schedule is based on experience obtained
during the implementation of the SPE project which is very close to the re-
gional profile for power projects. It does accelerate ahead of the profile in
the last two years so as to coincide with the expected completion of the pro-
ject. EdL has demonstrated its capacity for completing IDA-financed projects
with only minor delays; moreover, distribution network projects have short
lead times and implementation periods. Thus, the assumption of a disbursement
schedule that would end somewhat ahead of the regional profile is warranted.
L. Monitoring and Reporting
3.24      Satisfactory procedures for monitoring the progress of project exe-
cution and the loss reduction program as well as EdL's financial condition
will be arranged on the basis of those being used under SPE. Progress reports
on project execution and the loss reduction program are expected to be fur-
nished quarterly to IDA. Financial reports for the project and for EdL will
be furnished annually. IDA would also supervise implementation of the project
through field missions; a tentative summary of supervision activities and
missions is presented in Annex 3.15. EdL will furnish a project completion
report to IDA within six months of the closing date of the proposed credit.
J. Environment
3.25      The Mekong River overhead crossings and the distribution components
of the project will be designed and erected according to current technological
practices and will cause minimum disturbance to the environment. EdL has
routed the 22 kV lines along existing roads and located the substations so as
to have minimum adverse visual impact and avoid displacement of people. As of
appraisal, based on the details provided regarding the routing of planned
networks, the proposed project was deemed not to present adverse environmental
impacts; however, as the development of distribution networks is a dynamic
activity, EdL will continue reviewing the electrification components for po-



- 27 -
tentially adverse environmental effects, and will arrange for mitigatory mea-
sures as needed. At negotiations, EdL agreed that it would (i) consult with
IDA regarding any change in the content of the project that would (a) alter
the routing of planned networks, or (b) include under the project the devel-
opment of additional networks; (ii) furnish an environmental impact assessment
of the proposed change in the project where in IDA's judgement such an assess-
ment is deemed to be necessary; and (iii) incorporate IDA's comments with re-
gard to the environmental impact assessment into the design of the proposed
change.
3.26      The terms of reference for the feasibility and design of the exten-
sion to the Nam Ngum power station includes a provision for an environmental
impact assessment. That assessment would be reviewed with IDA prior to final-
ization of designs of that future project.



- 28 -
4. FINANCE
A. Introduction
4.1       During the last five years, in connection with the Government's New
Economic Mechanism, EdL has been given increasing degrees of autonomy. It now
enjoys considerable operating freedom as an enterprise, and has a fair degree
of responsibility over its operating costs that are not related to personnel.
However, EdL must follow the Government's personnel and compensation policies;
and the Government, itself, makes the final decisions concerning tariffs,
investment programs, and financial resource management.
4.2       Albeit that the exchange rate between the Kip and the US dollar has
been relatively stable during the last two years, the previous five were
marked by high inflation, currency instability and a multiplicity of exchange
rates. Moreover, a substantial portion of EdL's revenues is realized in US
dollars and most of its investment financing is raised in foreign exchange;
and EdL maintains separate US dollar and local-currency accounts. Therefore,
the financial analysis that follows has been performed in current US dollars.
For this analysis, local expenditures are converted to US dollar equivalents
at the prevailing rate of Kn 700 - US$1.
B. Past and Present Financial Perfornance
4.3       EdL's financial performance for the period 1988-91 is given in An-
nex 4.1.  Key financial indicators for the period are presented in Table 4.1.
4.4       During the past four years, EdL has performed in accordance with
the objectives agreed at negotiations of SPE, and has made substantial contri-
butions to the Government's general revenues. During all four years, its
contribution to investment from internal cash generation has exceeded 20%,
although just barely in 1990; moreover, debt service coverage has substantial-
ly exceeded the agreed 1.1 throughout the period. However, this performance
is the direct result of (i) the relative profitability of sales to Thailand,
and (ii) EdL's still low levels of debt repayment. In 1990 and 1991, EdL sold
70% of its generation to EGAT; those sales accounted for about US$18 million
in revenues (or 86% of EdL's total) in 1990, and more than US$20 million (or
82% of EdL's total) in 1991. EdL's total debt service was US$6 million, in-
cluding principal repayments of US$1.6 million, in 1990, and US$4 million,
including repayments of US$1.7 million, in 1991; however, EdL was still enjoy-
ing grace periods with regard to its substantial borrowings for Xeset and SPE.



- 29 -
Table 4.1: EdL's KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS, 1988-91
Financial Year Ended Dec. 31          1988      1989     1990      1991
Est.
POWER SOLD              (GWh)          508      670       792      871
AVERAGE REVENUE      (USe/kWh)          2.6      2.6      2.7       2.9
OPERATING REVENUE  (US$ million)       14.6     15.4     21.9      25.5
NET OPERATING INCOME (US$ min.)        5.1       7.9     10.7      12.0
NET INCOME AFTER TAX (US$ mn.)         0.8       0.6      1.4       3.0
REMITTANCES TO GOVT. (US$ min.)        2.0       5.2      4.9       6.8
ANNUAL INVESTMENT  (US$ million)       48.8     21.4     30.3      25.8
RATE BASE          (US$ million)      80.8      80.4     97.6    132.1
PRIMARY RATIOS:
RATE OF RET.- HIST. ASSETS            3.9%     3.3%      5.9%     3.9%
SELF FINANCING RATIO  ^              46.4%    37.8%     20.1%    66.2%
DEBT SERVICE COVERAGE                 5.9      2.4       1.9      5.8
DEBT/DEBT PLUS EQUITY 2              28.4%    40.4%     50.0%    55.8%
CURqRENT RATIO                      230.7%    99.1%    178.4%    73.4%
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE - MONTHS          4.6      6.5      4.1       2.8
Za    The ratio of cash avallable from operatlons dMded by the three-year average of
capital expenditures (the previous year, the current year, and the following year).
/b    The ratio of total borrowings divided by the sum of total borrowings plus equity (net
of any revaluation reserves).
L     The ratio of current assets net of cash divided by total current liabilities.
4.5       In the future, EdL's performance should decline, as (i) profitable
exports are displaced by more costly supplies for local consumption;
(ii) hydrological conditions in the Nam Ngum catchment area are less favorable
than during the last two years; and (iii) EdL cost structure begins to reflect
the substantial burden of debt service related to projects that are either
recently completed or in advanced stages of construction:
(a)  Sales to Thalland.  During 1991, EdL and EGAT renegotiated the
pricing provisions of their power sales agreement. The new ar-
rangement (para. 4.11), which is based on time of day pricing, will
likely result in an 18X increase in average export revenues. How-
ever, for the medium-term, low revenue-high cost local sales will
inexorably substitute for more profitable exports as a result of
growing local demand. In the longer-term, EdL has plans for a num-
ber of investments that would maintain the balance between exports
and local sales (para. 1.21); however, because the Nam Ngum plant
was largely financed by grants and the loans financing the new ca-
pacity will carry a market rate, EdL's long-term additional exports
will be much less profitable than its current sales to EGAT.



- 30 -
(b) Rainfall In the Nam Ngum Catchment Area. EdL's financial health
depends on favorable rains in the Nam Ngum catchment area.  Because
rains were bountiful and water levels were high, Nam Ngum genera-
tion exceeded 800 GWh in both 1990 and 1991. EdL may export only
its residual generation after satisfying local demand. Thus, in
any given year, the energy available from Nam Ngum for export is
not likely to exceed recent levels, and could well be much less.
(c) Escalatlng Debt Servlce Reauirements. In the last two years, EdL's
debt service requirements have varied between US$4-6 million, de-
pending on whether EdL chooses to capitalize or expense interest
during construction (EdL's taxable income is determined after ex-
pensed interest; however, interest when capitalized does not simi-
larly lower taxable income). By 1994, when EdL is (i) repaying its
loans for Xeset, SPE, and the Northern Transmission Line Project,
and (ii) paying significant interest on loans for the proposed pro-
ject as well as for the Nam Song/Nam Leuk water diversions, its
debt service obligations will rise to about US$14 million per year
(assuming it capitalizes interest during construction; otherwise,
debt service will be considerably higher). By 1998, when EdL moves
to che next generation of projects and loans, debt service will
move up to about US$21 million per year.
As the terms of its export sales are fixed for the next five years, EdL will
increasingly need to cover the escalating debt service burden from domestic
revenues. By the mid 1990s, the ability of export revenues to cross-subsidize
local consumption will rapidly be eroding; by the late 1990s, the level of
domestic revenues would need to approach marginal cost parity (para. 5.20).
4.6       Despite EdL's healthy debt. service coverage of the last few years
and its high current ratio for 1988-90, liquidity has been a concern. The
Government has been withholding export taxes at source, and it claims other
remittances according to a very tight schedule. Moreover, EdL's staff and
creditors must be paid on time, while system losses and collection of revenues
have sometimes been problematic (paras. 2.15 and 4.8). Thus, despite favor-
able liquidity indicators, EdL's operating cash flow has been constrained
throughout the period. This situation must necessarily worsen in coming
years, as EdL's debt service requirements are expected to increase sharply.
This will place added pressure on local tariffs.
Valuation of Assets
4.7       Revaluation of assets is not an accepted accounting practice in the
Lao PDR. At the end of 1990, EdL's gross fixed assets had an historical value
of US$164 million. At appraisal, a pro forma revaluation of assets was under-
taken; it indicated that EdL's gross fixed assets had a replacement value of
about US$346 million as of year-end 1990.  The Nam Ngum and Xeset hydroelec-
tric plants, which are not likely to need replacement for another 40-50 years,
comprise a substantial portion of these fixed assets. Moreover, EdL has only
limited input in investment and pricing decisions, and the bulk of its sales
are subject to the terms of a long-term international agreement. Thus, asset
revaluation would have only limited usefulness to an organization like EdL.



- 31 -
Accounts Receivable
4.8       EdL has a history of slow collection of revenues for sales within
the Lao PDR. At appraisal of SPE, accounts receivable turnover for local
sales was averaging about 150 days, net of unread meter accruals41 of about
25 days; however, a large number of residential consumers and Government agen-
cies had more than one year's receivables outstanding. In connection with
SPE, EdL agreed to implement an action program aimed at reducing receivables
for local sales to less than 90 days (net of unread meter accruals) by 1991.
As of late 1991, EdL's accounts receivable for local sales were still about
150 days, net of unread meter accruals. However, EdL has shown substantial
improvement since early 1991, when it introduced a new computerized billing
system; and it expects that local receivables will drop to about 100-110 days
within the next six months, once it begins remitting bills to local consumers
monthly instead of every two to three months as is current practice. Although
EdL's receivables for its export sp'.es are running about 85 days, these are
currently based on the terms of the export sales agreement with EGAT.
4.9       Under the Government's former code of accounts, EdL was prohibited
from writing off receivables, even if they were deemed uncollectible; however,
write-offs are allowed under the new code, provided they are authorized by the
Government. The Government could hold EdL more accountable for its commercial
performance by (i) removing from EdL's books receivables that are clearly
uncollectible, and (ii) monitoring EdL's performance in collecting bills that
have acknowledged value. For this reason, the Government should authorize EdL
to (i) screen its receivables and identify those that are of dubious value;
and (ii) write-off those that are old and for which prospects of collection
are poor; and (iii) establish an annual provision for bad debts. As a first
step, EdL was asked to evaluate and dispose of some Kn 94 million in accounts
receivable that have been outstanding since before January 1, 1988. As of
December 31, 1991, the Government and EdL decided that about Kn 39 million of
that amount was uncollectible and therefore was to be written off against
EdL's 1991 accounts. EdL succeeded in collecting some Kn 31 million, and
would continue its active efforts to collect the remaining Kn 24 million dur-
ing 1992. Whatever would remain uncollected by the end of the year would be
written off against EdL's 1992 accounts. This is satisfactory.
4.10      In conducting the analysis related to collection of these receiv-
ables, EdL recognized that it has an important problem of slow collections
from Government offices, and from provincial and local units that take elec-
tricity for irrigation. Some such consumers have chronic arrears of a year or
substantially more. An acceptable tentative program (Annex 4.2), which would
settle these arrears over a two year period through budgetary and tax offsets,
was discussed with the Government and EdL in March 1992. The Government and
EdL would need to exchange letters to put that program into effect. At nego-
tiations, the Government agreed that it will implement a satisfactory program
to reduce the arrears to EdL of Government, provincial and local units, ac-
cording to a timetable acceptable to IDA.
ij/ EdL records as sales, energy that has been delivered through the distri-
bution system but not yet billed. Since meters are intended to be read
in the first week of the month, this accrual averages about 25 days
(from the date of the reading until the end of the month).



- 32 -
C. Tariffs
4.11      EdL's only sales at high voltage (115 kV) are exports to Thailand.
Beginning October 1, 1991, the pricing provision of the sales agreement for
Nam Ngum electricity has been based on alternative cost (para. 5.15); this
tariff includes (i) a rate of about US5.8/kWh for the evening peak (6:30 p.m.
to 9:30 p.m.); (ii) a rate of about US3.3/kWh for the daytime shoulder (be-
tween 7:30 a.m. and 6:30 p.m.); and (iii) an off-peak rate of about US2.6/kWh
applicable to the remaining nighttime hours. This arrangement is valid for
twelve years; however, the constituents of alternative cost will be reviewed
and adjusted every four years. This arrangement is likely to yield average
revenues of US3.6/kWh, an increase of about 18X from the US3.05/kWh that had
been in effect during 1986-91. The arrangement governing exports from Xeset
calls for EdL to realize US2.9/kWh for all sales, regardless of time of day;
that arrangement is valid until 1994, when EdL expects it to be replaced with
time of day pricir.g based on the Nam Ngum agreement. Imports into Savannakhet
and Khammouane are based on the Nam Ngum price plus a wheeling charge of
US0.5/kWh; imports into the Xeset grid are based on the Xeset price plus a
similar wheeling charge of US0.5/kWh.
4.12      Until July 1992, the local rate structure, which included numerous
tariffs applicable to different user categories and a lifeline block of 200
kWh/month applicable to virtually all user categories, produces average reve-
nues (i) well below export revenues in the Northern System, which receives its
supplies from Nam Ngum; (ii) slightly below export revenues in the Southern
System, which now receives most of its supplies from Xeset; and (iii) substan-
tially below the import price in Central System, which imports its supplies
from Thailand.
(a) Northern System. As a result of a July 1991 tariff increase, aver-
age revenues for residential consumption in the Vientiane area rose
to USl.6/kWh from about USl.l/kWh under the previous tariff; sim-
ilarly, average revenues for non-residential consumption increased
to US2.40/kWh from the previous level of about USl.7/kWh.
(b) Southern Svstem. Until June 1991, most of the energy consumed in
this area was imported from Thailand by EdL at about US3.55C/kWh,
and retailed to consumers by provincial utilities. These utilities
realized an average of about Kn 19/kWh (about US2.7/kWh since
1989) and remitted Kn 8/kWh (about USl.l/kWh) to EdL. When EdL
acquired these utilities in June 1991, it began supplying the area
mainly from Xeset. EdL has retained the retail tariffs. Although
Xeset supplies cost less to produce than the retail price, the mar-
gin is not enough to cover the cost of the distribution system.
(c) Central Sgstem. Until June 1991, the provincial utilities serving
these areas received their supplies of imported electricity from
EdL under arrangements similar to those in effect in the Southern
System. Here too, the prevailing retail tariff yielded average
revenues of Kn 19/kWh (US2.7/kWh). After EdL acquired these util-
ities, it retained their retail tariffs, albeit that the import
price increased in October 1991 to an average of US4.1/kWh.
4.13      At the end of 1991, export sales represented more than 80% of EdL's
revenues. With the export tariff for the Nam Ngum grid being fixed for four



- 33 -
years and adjustments thereafter expected to be modest, revenues from local
sales would need to shoulder the major burden of increases in EdL's cash re-
quirements (especially debt service) projected for the next ten years. The
Government was aware that local tariffs were insufficient to cover the cost of
supply. While the Government wished to continue cross-subsidizing local con-
sumption from export sales, the capacity for cross-subsidization was eroded as
the cost of exports and the proportion of local sales were projected to in-
crease progressively.
4.14      In July 1992, a national tariff was established for grid supplied
electricity. The lifeline block was eliminated for all but residential con-
sumers; under the new tariff, commercial consumers will be charged Kn 47/kWh
and industrial and government consumers Kn 30/kWh on their entire consumption.
A three block structure now applies for residential consumers: (i) their first
100 kWh per month will be charged at the lifeline rate of Kn 8/kWh, (ii) their
second 100 kWh per month will be charged at the subsidized rate of Kn 15/kWh,
and (iii) all their remaining consumption will be charged at Kn 25/kWh. Irri-
gation consumption will now be charged at the subsidized rate of Kn 7/kWh.
Average revenue from local consumption is expected to be about Kn 26/kWh.
This is more than the cost of providing electricity to each grid, and is
enough to cover a significant proportion of distribution and commercial costs.
The level of these new tariffs would need to be protected against adverse
fluctuations in the rate of exchange. EdL's continued compliance with its
agreement under SPE to meet 20Z of its average annual investment progrem from
internal cash generation presumas that it would maintain the level of its
local charges relative to the US dollar.
D. Financing Plan
4.15      EdL's financing plan for the period of project implementation,
1992-97, is given in Table 4.2.
4.16      The proposed project, including interest during construction, rep-
resents about 22X of EdL's investment program for the 1992-97 period. The
proposed credit is expected to meet 18X of EdL's total financing requirement
for the period. At negotiations, the Government agreed to onlend the proceeds
of the proposed credit to EdL for a term of 20 years (including five years of
grace on repayment of principal) at an interest rate of 8.0%. EdL will bear
the foreign exchange risk. The signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of effectiveness
of the proposed credit. Anozher 31 of EdL's financing requirements for the
period will be financed by IDA's Credit 1826-LA (SPE).
4.17      During the project period, EdL expects to meet about 21X of its
overall investment needs from internal cash generation. About 57% of EdL's
investment requirements are expected to be met from other loans from official
lenders. During this period, Government financing of EdL's investment program
is projected at less than US$1 million (less than 1X of EdL's aggregate fi-
nancing requirements). While EdL has the capacity to absorb the additional
debt expected to be raised during the period, it must manage its debt and its
foreign exchange exposure carefully. The debt to total capital ratio (net of
any reserve for the revaluation of assets) was 501 at the end of 1990; it is
expected to rise to approximately 661 by 1995 and remain at that level through
the year 2000. While this level of debt is still acceptable albeit on the



- 34 -
high side, at negotiations an understanding was reached with the Government
that it would consider making additional equity investments should EdL's debt
rise above 70X of its total capital.
Table 4.2: EdL's FINANCING PLAN, 1992-97
USS Mllion
INTERNAL CASH GENERATION:
Not Income before Interest              95.0            50%
Depreclation and Extraordinary Expenses  56.9           30%
Major Repairs Provision                 22.8            12%
OPERATING CASH FLOW                        174.7           929
(Less) Working Capital Increases        (3.9)           (2%)
less) Taxes PayaNbe                     33.0            17%
(less) Major Repairs Expendiitures        .9            AS
CASH AVAILABLE FOR DEBT SERVICE            1437
DEBT SERVICE
Interest Charged to Operations          44.1            23%
Principal Repayments                    40.3            21%
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                          844
REMITrANCES TO GOVERNMENT                  21.6
CASH AVAILABLE FROM OPERATiONS              37.7
CAPITAL INVESTMENT:
SPE Project                              6.3             3%
Proposed PGI Project                    42.9            23%
Other Projects                         117.1            62%
Capitaized Interest                     23.7            129
ANNUAL CAPITAL INVESTMENT                  19.             100%
BALANCE TO BE FINANCED                      2.
SOURCES OF FINANCE:
IDA-financed Loans - Proposed Credit    36.0            19%
IDA-financed Loan - SPE                  7.1             4%
Loans from Official Lenders            107.1            56%
Govemment Working Capita Loans           2.1             1%
TOTAL FINANCE                              152.3           80%



- 35 -
E. Future Finance
4.18       Projections of EdL's financial performance for the 1992-2000 peri-
od, together with assumptions underlying those projections, are presented in
Annex 4.1. Key financial indicators are presented in Table 4.3.
Table 4.3: EdL's KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS, 1992-2000
Financial Year Ended Dec. 31  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997   1998  19    2000
POWER SOLD            (GWh)  887   879   904   912  1015  1018  1208  1210  1390
AVERAGE REVENUE    (USO/kWh)  3.3   3.4   3.7   3.9   4.3   4.8   4.8   4.9   5.0
OPERATING REVENUE  (USS Mlillion) 29.4  30.2  34.1  36.7  44.9  50.0  59.5  60.8  70.5
OPER. EXPNS & TAXES  (USS Min.)  20.4  21.7  24.6  27.5  32.9  36.3  40.7  43.0  51.1
NET OPERATING INCOME (US$ Mln.)  13.3  12.3  123.1  14.0  20.0  21.4  27.1   25.3  30.9
NET INCOME AFTER TAX (USS Million)  2.0   1.5   2.0   2.2   5.5   4.8   4.5   4.0   7.2
REMITTANCES TO GOVT. (US$ Min.)  4.3   3.8   4.5   4.8   8.0   7.7   8.3   8.0  11.5
ANNUAL INVESTMENT  (USS Million) 22.2  27.7  22.0  33.2  33.4  27.9  34.9  45.4  24.4
RATE BASE        (USS Million) 149.1  159.9  175.1  195.0  207.6  248.7  288.7  310.0  342.2
PRIMARY RATIOS:
RATE OF RETURN - HIST. ASSETS   6.1%   5.3%   5.4%   4.7%   5.8%   5.5%   6.5%   5.6%   5.7%
RATE OF RETURN - REVAL ASSETS  3.4%   3.0%   3.2%   2.8%   3.5%   3.6%   4.4%   3.8%   3.9Y
SELF FINANCING RATIO  La 31.9%  32.9%  19.4%  28.3%  30.0%  20.0%  23.6%  28.5%  26.1%
DEBT SERVCE COVERAGE       2.0   1.7   1.4   1.7   1.8   1.3   1.3   1.4   1.4
DEBT/DEBT PLUS EQUITY     5 S8.9%  62.5%  63.9%  86.4%  67.1%  67.3%  87.7%  69.0%  66.9%
CURRENT RATIO             8 69.0%  60.3%  65.4%  61.6%  57.3%  59.7%  62.3%  61.1%  9S6%
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE- MONTHS  2.9   2.9   3.1   3.2   3.3   3.4   3.3   3.3    32
.a The ratio of cash available from operations divided by the three-year average of capital expenditures (the pevious yer, the
current year. and the following year).
A The ratio of total borrowings divided by the sum of tot bofrowings plus equity (net of any rvaluaton reserves).
/c The ratio of current assets net of cash dMided by total current liabilIes.
4.19       To assure EdL's financial health, at negotiations, EdL agreed that
it will take steps, including but not limited to proposing increases to its
tariff and implementing approved tariff adjustments, to cover its operating
costs (excluding depreciation), net increases in working capital, major repa-
irs expencdtures, debt service, and government tax obligations, and meet 20X
of its average annual investment program from internal cash generation. EdL
also agreed that it will refrain from incurring additional debt unless a rea-
sonable forecast of revenues net of cash operating expenses, increases in wor-
king capital, major repairs expenditures, dividends, and Government tax obli-
gations are sufficient to meet 1.1 times its aggregate debt service obliga-
tions for each year during the term of the debt to be incurred. In addition,
the Government agreed that it will take whatever steps are necessary, includ-
ing but not limited to adjusting electricity rates, to enable EdL to meet its
self-financing and debt service coverage targets. These are the same finan-
cial performance targets that were agreed under SPE. The financial projec-
tions tested these targets and found that they still yield acceptable finan-
cial performance while also indicating tariffs that increase smoothly to need-
ed levels over time.



- 36 -
4.20      Based on these financial performance targets, EdL is expected to
realize acceptable, and relatively consistent financial performance throughout
the projection period. The rate of return on historically valued assets is
expected to hold at current levels of about 6X; its rate of return on notion-
ally revalued assets is actually expected to increase from about 3X to 41, as
new assets contribute an increasing share of gross fixed assets. Although the
self-financing ratio is expected to average nearly 301 throughout the period,
that ratio is somewhat misleading. Every quarter, the Government withdraws
equity equal to about 461 of depreciation expenses; after these withdrawals,
EdL will only be self-financing a still satisfactory average of about 21X of
its investment program every year. The Government should also benefit from
EdL's complying with these targets; during the projection period, remittances
of taxes are expected to triple from current levels of US$4 million to about
US$12 million in 2000.
4.21      Between now and 2000, EdL has planned an aggressive investment pro-
gram, valued at about US$268 million (including physical and price contingen-
cies). About (i) US$153 million is to increase the amount of generation in
the Nam Ngum grid; (ii) US$34 Lillion is for transmission lines to intercon-
nect the Nam Ngum grid with Luang Prabang and the remote northern provinces;
(iii) US$47 million is for SPE and the proposed project; and (iv) US$35 mil-
lion is for other distribution and miscellaneous activities. This program
appears optimistic, both in terms of EdL's implementation capacity and the
Government's resource constraints. While export sales should provide EdL with
enough revenues to recover the cost of the generation investments, their mar-
gins are not sufficient to cross-subsidize the recovery of the costs of the
transmission, distribution, and miscellaneous investments. The tariff levels
indicated by the recommended financial performance targets should be enough to
enable EdL to recover the cost of these investments from local sales revenues.



- 37 -
5. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. Electricity Demand
5.1       EdL's strategy for developing transmission and distribution calls
for prudent expansion of grid supplies to areas with proven demand for elec-
tricity as a result of existing economic activity that has been driven by
alternative energy sources. To determine the priority areas for expansion
under the proposed project, a set of potential transmission and distribution
projects was screened for economic feasibility, based on expected residential
and productive demand (para. 3.2). Field surveys established realistic demand
estimates that were reduced from previous plan projections. Only firmly com-
mitted productive demand and conversion of existing facilities were taken into
account. The consultants' report with the results of the field surveys is
available in the project file. The demand projections for selected areas
covered by the proposed project are summarized in Annex 5.1.
5.2       The areas with high demand potential that were selected for
detailed analysis after screening include:
(a) Areas close to the Xeset-based Southern Grid, including portions of
Champassak, Saravane, and Sekong provinces;
(b) Areas in the vicinity of Savannakhet town;
(c) Areas in Khammouane province close to the town of Thakhek, and in
the Se Bang Fai plain; and
(d) The town and vicinity of Paksane in Bolikhamxay province.
5.3       A Southern Grid is being created through the electrification in-
vestments under SPE and the ADB-financed Xeset project. From 1991 onwards,
electricity consumption in the new grid is expected to grow from the previous-
ly supply-constrained 8 GWh per year to about 28 GWh in 1995, and about 46 GWh
by the year 2000. Based on income and population growth, consumption in ex-
isting distribution networks is projected to grow at about 7% per year. In
addition, the extension of lines to areas where replacement of alternative
fossil fuel use is likely, will result in initial consumption growth rates in
those areas of about 25-30% per annum. Although residential consumption is
expected to grow more slowly than productive uses of electricity in the early
stages, the share taken by residential users is gradually expected to increase
to about 50% of consumption as these systems mature.
5.4       A supply-constrained situation (similar to that in the South before
electrification and Xeset) also exists in Paksane (Bolikhamxay province) and
the Se Bang Fai Rlain (Khammouane province). The availability of incremental
electricity supply in these areas will result in an initial jump in connec-
tions and consumption, followed by a tapering of the consumption growth rate
to about 5% per annum. While the consumption pattern in Paksane, a thriving
town on the Mekong, is dominated by industrial and other productive users who
account for about 75% of consumption, the more rural Se Bang Fai plain is ex-
pected to show a consumption split similar to the Southern provinces, with
about half the consumption being taken by residential consumers.



- 38 -
5.5       In contrast, the towns of Thakhe  and Savannakhet are already con-
nected to the Thai grid, and consumption there has been growing without a
supply constraint; in fact, the main constraint in these areas is the lack of
funding for extending local distribution networks. During the 1980s, elec-
tricity consumption in these two towns and surrounding areas has been growing
at about 151 per annum. During the 1990s, this rapid early growth in the
existing network is expected to decrease to about 7X per annum, but will be
supplemented by new connections as these areas are added to the local grid.
B. Least-Cost Supply
5.6       The high-potential demand centers to be served by project compo-
nents through the creation or extension of provincial grids are supposed to be
supplied from the lowest-cost source of generation, and in the most cost-ef-
fective way possible. The relatively low demand volumes as well as the dis-
persed nature of rural demand require that the network design and the choice
of the supply source be selected conservatively.
5.7       The least-cost supply source in the Southern Provinces, now linked
to the Thai grid by the Xeset-related transmission line, is a combination of
Xeset and Selabam hydro supply, supplemented by dry-season imports from Thai-
land. Isolated mini-hydro schemes appear excessively expensive, and small
part-time diesel supply may be preferable for remote areas until their econom-
ic development justifies a grid connection. The selected design calls for
moderate extensions of the existing grid in Champassak and Saravane provinces,
and an extension into part of Sekong province. Further extensions to the load
centers in the remainder of Sekong province, and to Attopeu province, do not
yet appear to be economically justified.
5.8       For demand centers in all other selected provinces, the lowest-cost
source of supply is the Thai grid via 22 kV transmission links. For the es-
tablished Mekong River crossings in Thakhek and Savannakhet, the most effi-
cient medium-term solution for strengthening the capacity of those linkages is
replacement of the existing underwater cables with overhead line crossings.
For supplying the Paksane and Se Bang Fai areas, new overhead river crossings
are to be established, taking advantage of nearby Thai system substations with
adequate capacity. The alternatives of supplying Paksane via a transmission
line from the Nam Ngum grid, and supplying Se Bang Fai via a transmission link
from Savannakhet and its corresponding Thai substation were rejected because
of the cost advantages to be realized by using a river crossing. In the case
of Savannakhet, the least-cost solution would call for a new 12 kV double-
circuit river crossing, to be upgraded to 115 kV at a later date. This option
is not available because of EGAT's preference for an immediate move to 115 kV
to accommodate its voltage constraints.
C. Economic Rate of Return
5.9       Having determined the least-cost nature of supply sources and net-
work configuration for the five separate project areas, each component was
subjected to economic cost/benefit analysis to determine whether the invest-
ment is justified at this time. Costs and benefits were expressed in terms of
CIF or equivalent border prices, and estimated entirely in terms of US$. Fol-
lowing the opening of the economy to market forces during recent years, the



- 39 -
local cost component reflects market prices relatively closely, and the Kn/$
exchange rate of about 700 is an equilibrium rate acceptable for analysis.
The costs of alternative fuels in local markets now reflect the economic cost
of delivering them to the consumers. In the case of project areas with river
crossing investments, the full cost of the link to the Thai grid (including
the costa borne by EGAT) are incorporated into the project cost.
5.10      The economic benefits of the individual projects consist of con-
sumers' observed willingness to pay for energy. Consumers' valuation of ener-
gy supply is calculated according to a demand function that (i) includes the
observed willingness to pay for alternative energy sources such as kerosene
for lighting, or diesel for small engines and pumps, and (ii) declines to the
observed cost of using electricity, based on the tariff and associated costs
(Annex 5.2). The agreed export and import prices between Thailand and Lao PDR
form the basis for the valuation of the cost of bulk supply to the project
areas (para. 4.11). The peak-period export tariff of US5.8C/kWh and the
shoulder-period tariff of US3.3C/kWh, appropriately weighted to account for
the consumption pattern in the project areas, results in a medium to long-term
opportunity cost of exports foregone of US3.90/kWh in the Southern Grid.
Similarly, the adding of the agreed wheeling charge of US0.5C/kWh results in a
bulk supply cost of US4.4C/kWh for the other project areas that receive bulk
supply from the Thai grid only.
5.11      The results of the cost/benefit analysis (Annex 5.3) show a base-
case economic internal rate of return (IRR) in the range of 10-21X (the range
would be 17-21X if the proposed project had not had to include the second best
solution for Savannakhet to accommodate EGAT's voltage constraints). In all
five selected project areas, the proposed distribution network investment
(tincluding the strengthening of existing and establishment of new river cross-
ing links) is an economically feasible solution to relieve power supply bot-
tlenecks, or replace higher-cost energy supply. An increase in capital cost
of 15-30X, based on unexpectedly higher river crossing costs or local network
configuration changes, still would result in an IRR of 7-18X. An unexpectedly
poor demand development of 30X less consumption than projected, would result
in an IRR range of 7-15X (Annex 5.3).
5.12      Total benefits from the proposed area electrification projects are
likely to be higher than those quantified; in the projections of electricity
consumption, only replacement of existing alternatives and firmly committed
incremental productive use were considered. If other potential small commer-
cial and industrial demand, now suppressed because of the high cost or lack of
availability of alternatives, were considered, the computed IRR would rise.
Similarly, the benefits of increased convenience of electric lighting have not
been taken into account. Evidence from areas electrified under previous Lao
projects suggests that penetration of connections is quite fast, and often
exceeds the base-case projections in the areas selected under the project.
D. Benefits and Risks
5.13      Benefits.  The main benefit of the proposed project is that the
provincial electrification component will extend the availability of grid
supplied electricity to areas in the country's central and southern regions
that are already experiencing economic growth, and thereby result in energy
cost savings in those areas. Also, the system reliability and institutional



- 40 -
development components should result in (i) improving the reliability of sup-
plies to consumers throughout EdL's networks; (ii) increasing the available
technical competence at all levels of EdL; and (iii) transferring to EdL new
techniques for managing a widely dispersed technical enterprise. Women would
benefit from the improved quality of life in the home, and ftom an ernanced
capacity to do productive work in the home, such as sewing, weaving, and other
piecework.
5.14      Rlsks.  The proposed project faces no major risks.  It involves
EdL's use of standard technologies to develop systems with which it has con-
siderable experience. The minor risks include: (i) Possible minor construc-
tion delays if EGAT does not complete its portion of the interconnecting links
on time. This risk would not affect the IRR significantly. To reduce this
risk, EdL and EGAT have already held detailed communications with regard to
designs and schedules. (ii) Constraints in the supply of cement resulting
from the building boom in Thailand could lead to construction delays or a
higher cost of poles if cement is imported from afar. To mitigate this risk,
EdL is advancing procurement, and the physical contingencies provide cushion
if EdL must use cement imported from afar. (iii) Any prolonged drought would
have a serious impact on EdL's exports and its capability to mobilize coun-
terpart funds. However, since the bulk of EdL's counterpart investment in the
proposed project is for transfer payments, this risk should not affect project
implementation unduly.
E. Tariffs and Cost of Supply
5.15      All electricity consumption in the Lao PDR is intimately linked to
exports to or imports from the Thai grid. Thus, electricity in the Lao con-
text is a traded commodity with an agreed border price that determines oppor-
tunity cost at the margin. Any incremental consumption within the Lao PDR in
any of the separate local grids directly implies a marginal loss of export
earnings, or an incremental import expenditure. Thus, marginal cost in gener-
al equals the agreed price between EGAT and EdL at the border substation at
the appropriate transfer voltage. The recently revised export/import agree-
ment between the two countries calls for a time-of-day bulk export tariff to
Thailand of US5.8C/kWh during peak periods, US3.3C/kWh during shoulder daytime
periods, and US2.60/kWh for nighttime off-peak periods. At the import points
into Lao grids, a wheeling charge of US0.50/kWh is added to these prices.
5.16      If weighted as direct export revenue, the new tariff results in an
average revenue of about US3.6/kWh. For purposes of determining the opportu-
nity cost of domestic incremental consumption, the tariff structure is weight-
ed by the typical pattern of local consumption, and yields an average cost of
US3.90/kWh at high voltage, and US4.3C/kWh delivered to the low-voltage con-
sumer after distribution losses. In Lao grids that import from the Thai grid,
the addition of the wheeling charge results in a retail-level average cost of
supply of US4.8M/kWh. The incremental cost of providing and maintair.ing the
distribution network has to be added to these costs to arrive at the full cost
of power supplied to Lao consumers.
5.17      The marginal cost of the distribution network in the Vientiane Area
has been estimated in an ADB-financed tariff study at about US$70/kW/year on a
lifetime basis for the equipment installed. If applied to an industrial/com-
mercial consumer with about a 50% load factor, the total energy and capacity



- 41 -
cost of supplying this consumer is about US6/kWh. On the other hand, a resi-
dential consumer with a higher share of peak-period consumption and a low load
factor of 30X incurs a total cost of close to US80/kWh. By comparison, aver-
age tariffs for residential consumers in Vientiane in 1991 were USl.6C/kWh,
and those for non-residential consumers US2.4/kWh.
5.18      Consumers in the existing networks in other provinces impose mar-
ginal costs on the supplying utility similar to those computed for the Vien-
tiane area, except that costs in grids that import from Thailand at the margin
include a cost that is USO.5/kWh higher than in Vientiane and the Southern
Grid. New consumers in networks to be established under the RroRosed proJect
naturally impose significantly higher marginal costs of supply on the system,
as they have to bear the incremental cost of distribution and bulk supply
infrastructure and the strengthening of river-crossing transmission. Depend-
ing on the extent of incremental investment necessary, the marginal costs of
electricity delivered to consumers vary considerably in the separate local
grids: non-residential consumers typically impose a marginal cost in the range
of US7-120/kWh, while residential consumers cost the system in the range of
US10-18C/kWh. By comparison, until the new tariff was introduced in July
1992, electricity rates outside Vientiane (without distinction between consum-
er categories) averaged about US2.7C/kWh.
5.19      Clearly, local tariff levels are still below marginal cost esti-
mates, and insufficient to support the network expansion, or to provide a
satisfactory financial result for EdL beyond the next few years (para. 4.13).
Although the marginal cost of electricity supply lies below the economic cost
of consumers' alternatives, thus making the project investments economically
attractive, EdL would not be able to continue network expansion without recov-
ering a larger share of the marginal cost and of the rent now accruing to
local consumers. In addition, three tariff structure issues are important:
(a)  In view of the significant marginal cost differences among individ-
ual local grids, it would be desirable to have different cost-re-
lated tariffs in each grid. However, socio-political and national
equity considerations may require that tariff differentials within
Lao PDR be kept at a more modest level, even in the long run.
(b)  Current tariff levels for residential consumers in Vientiane are
below those for non-residential (industrial and commercial) ones,
although marginal cost estimates would indicate that the relation-
ship should be reversed. A gradual restructuring is necessary to
eliminate this distortion in the tariff structure in Vientiane, and
to avoid similar distortions in other provinces in the future.
(c)  With their first 100 kWh per month being charged at a lifeline rate
and their second 100 kWh per month at a subsidized intermediate
rate, electricity is still very inexpensive to residential consum-
ers; based on current patterns, 86X of residential consumers would
have their full electricity requirement fall within the subsidized
blocks. The amounts of electricity covered by the subsidized
blocks needs to be reduced significantly.
5.20      The proposed project addresses both the tariff level and the tariff
structure issues. A continued application of the financial covenants agreed
to under SPE (para. 4.19) would gradually move tariff levels closer to margin-



- 42 -
al cost estimates over the next six to ten years. Compliance with those fi-
nancial covenants would increase average revenues in all Lao grids from the
recently increased level of US3.70/kWh to about US50/kWh in the mid-1990s, and
beyond US70/kWh by 1997. On a weighted basis, this would come close to achiev-
ing marginal cost parity for the bulk of consumers in the system. In addi-
tion, over time, EdL needs to address the tariff structure issues. The tariff
study (para. 5.17) Inter alls addressed these issues. As EdL has the requi-
site expertise, no further consulting studies of tariffs are needed; however,
the Government and EdL need specifically to formulate a policy on supply cost
differentials and the size of the lifeline consumption block. At negotia-
tions, EdL agreed that it would (i) by June 30, 1994, communicate to IDA its
policy on tariff structure as well as measures to address the issues of supply
cost differentials and the size of the lifeline block; (ii) by December 31,
1994, discuss this policy and the proposed measures with the Government and
IDA; and (iii) according to a schedule acceptable to IDA, implement the mutu-
ally acceptable conclusions from those discussions.



- 43 -
6. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Agreements
6.1       At negotiations, the Lao Government agreed that it would:
(a) Arrange for EdL to acquire the assets, liabilities and businesses
of the provincial electricity authorities serving consumers in
Bolikhamxay and Sekong provinces, prior to construction of the net-
works being financed under the proposed project (para. 2.5).
(b) Onlend the proceeds of the proposed credit to EdL for a term of 20
years (including five years of grace on repayment of principal) at
an interest rate of 8.0X (para. 4.16).
(c) Implement a satisfactory program to reduce the arrears to EdL of
Government, provincial and local units, according to a timetable
acceptable to IDA (para. 4.10).
(d) Have (i) the activity in the Special Account as well as all State-
ments of Expenditure, maintained in support of disbursements,
audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA, and
(ii) furnish the report on this audit to IDA not later than Septem-
ber 30 of each year (para. 3.21).
(e) Take whatever steps are necessary, including but not limited to
adjusting electricity rates, to enable EdL to meet its self-financ-
ing and debt service coverage targets (para. 4.19).
6.2       At negotiations, EdL agreed that it would:
(a) Furnish audited financial statements to IDA within nine months of
the end of each financial year (para. 2.21).
(b) Implement an action program to (i) monitor and reduce system los-
ses, (ii) increase its collection efficiency, and (iii) improve its
implementation of the recently computerized billing system, espe-
cially in its provincial service areas (para. 3.7).
(c) (i) By December 31, 1992, retain consultants, according to terms of
reference and following a selection procedure acceptable to IDA, to
provide technical assistance with regard to finance and accounting;
(ii) by September 30, 1993, retain consultants, according to terms
of reference and following a selection procedure acceptable to IDA,
to perform a management and organization study; (iii) by December
31, 1994, discuss with IDA the principal conclusions of these con-
sultancies; and (iv) according to a schedule acceptable to IDA, im-
plement those of the consultants' recommendations that are accept-
able to the Government, EdL and IDA (para. 3.10).
(d) Conclude a satisfactory technical cooperation arrangement with an
acceptable electric utility from the region (para. 3.10).



- 44 -
(e)  (i) By September 30, 1993, retain consult   ; according to terms of
reference and following a selection proceoure acceptable to IDA, to
conduct a feasibility and design study for _xtending the Nam Ngum
power plant; and (ii) by December 31, 1994, discuss the findings of
the study with IDA (para. 3.11).
(f) EdL would enter into an acceptable contractual arrangement with
EGAT as a condition of disbursement for the central region's net-
works (para. 3.14).
(g) Appoint a consultant to assist with engineering and procurement,
not later than December 31, 1992. (para. 3.15).
(h) (i) Consult with IDA regarding any change in the content of the
project that would (a) alter the routing of planned networks, or
(b) include under the project the development of additional net-
works; (ii) furnish an environmental impact assessment of the pro-
posed change in the project where in IDA's judgement such an as-
sessment is deemed to be necessary; and (iii) incorporate IDA's
comments with regard to the environmental impact assessment into
the design of the proposed change (para. 3.25).
(i) Take steps, including but not limited to proposing increases to its
tariff and implementing approved tariff adjustments, to cover its
operating costs (excluding depreciation), net increases in working
capital, major repairs expenditures, debt service, and government
tax obligations, and meet 20% of its average annual investment pro-
graL from internal cash generation (para 4.19).
(j)  Refrain from incurring additional debt unless a reasonable forecast
of revenues net of cash operating expenses, increases in working
capital, major repairs expenditures, dividends, and Government tax
obligations are sufficient to meet 1.1 times its aggregate debt
service obligations for each year during the term of the debt to be
incurred (para. 4.19).
(k) (i) By June 30, 1994, communicate to IDA its policy on tariff
structure as well as measures to address the issues of supply cost
differentials and the size of the lifeline block; (ii) by December
31, 1994, discuss this pclicy and the proposed measures with the
Government and IDA; and (iii) according to a schedule acceptable to
IDA, implement the mutually acceptable conclusions from those dis-
cussions (para. 5.20).
6.3       At negotiations, an understanding was reached with the Lao Govern-
ment that it would consider making additional equity investments should EdL's
debt rise above 70% of its total capital (para. 4.17).
6.4       The signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, with terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to IDA, would be a condition of effectiveness of the pro-
posed credit (para. 4.16).



- 45 -
B. Recommendation
6.5       The aforementioned conditions, agreements, and understandings hav-
ing been reached, the proposed project would constitute a suitable basis for
an IDA credit of SDR 25.3 million (US$36 million equivalent) to the Lao
People's Democratic Republic.
.oOo.



- 47 -
ANNXES



- 48 -
LAO PDR
PROVINCIAL GRID INTEGRATION PROJECr
Eidsting Generation FaclUdes
Installed         Number of Units
Location                Type          Capacity          and Unit Capacity
(KW)
Vientiane Province
Nam Ngum                 Hydro          150.0           2 x 15 KW (1971)
2 x 40 MW (1978) and
1 x 40 MW (1984)
Sokpaluang              Diesel            8.0           4 x 2 MW (1971)
Luanf Prabana Province
Nam Ndong                Hydro            1.0           3 x 336 kW (1970)
Luang Prabang            Diesel           0.8           2 x 100 kW (1971-83)
1 x 235 kW (1979)
1 x 250 kW (1960)
Chamoassak Province
Selabam                  Hydro            2.0           3 x 680 kW (1969)
Pakse                    Diesel           0.2           1 x 240 kW (1970)
Champassak               Diesel           0.1           1 x 100 kW (1982)
Paksong                  Hydro            0.1           1 x 40 kW (1981)
Xeset                    Hydro           45.0                      (1991)
Savannakhet Province
Saravane                 Dlesel           0.4           2 x 200 kW (1985)
Others                   Small Hydro/      3.0
Diesel
TOTAL                             211.5



AMEX 1. 2
Page 1 of 4
IAO PDR
PROVINCIAL GRID INTEGRATION PROJECT
Electricity Demand
Table 1: Energy Generation and Consumption In the Vientiane Area, 1981-90
1981   1982       1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989            1990
Nam Ngum
Generation (GWh)             846.47   910.4j   863.37  890.97  906.62  867.30  567.00  553.00  698.00   816.00
Domestic Sales (GWh)
Residential/Commercial/    92.40    92.33   109.31  114.47  118.65  109.62  113.14  124.22  133.30   136.36
Oovernment
Industry                      10.90    10.58        9.90    9.58    6.67    7.21    8.64    9.32   10.36    15.92
Agriculture                    2.70      4.46       4.80    5.05    5.06    5.67    3.75    5.54    5.54    11.30
Total               106.00   107.37   124.01  129.10  130.38  122.50  125.53  139,08  149.20   163,53
Fxport to Thailand           708.70   749.76   694.41  209.71  716.28  683 56  387.00  363 00  490.00   595,00
(GWh)
Local Distribution Losses
iGWh)                         46.52    33.81    29.37   26.32   38.57   30.00    n.a.           n.a.   42.00    36.00
Z of total generation for  30.5         23.9      19.1    16.9    22.8    19.0         n.a.     n.a.   21.6       18.0
domestic consumption
No. of consumers              25,956  26,654   28,177  29,902  31,052  32,790  34,995  40,618  51,283   49,372
Source: EDL



ANNEX 1. 2
Page 2 of 4
IAO PDR
PROVINCIAL GRD INTEGRATION PROJECT
Electricity Demand
Table 2: Energy Consumptboa Outside the Vientiane Grid, 1981-90 (GWh)
1981   1982      1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989         1990
Southern Provinces 1/
Residential & Government    3.5         4.0      4.5      5.0      5.0     5.0      5.5     5.5      6.0       6.0
Industry and Agriculture    1.0         1.0      1.0      1.0      1.5     1.5      1.5     1.5      1.5       2.0
Total Sales                   4.5       5.0      5.5      6.0      6.5     6.5      7.0     7.0      7.5       8.0
System Losses                 1.0       1.0      1.0      1.5      1.5     1.5      1.5     1.5      2.0       2.0
Central Provinces                                                                                                          U'
Residential & Government    6           7        9       10       10      11       12      13       14        14           0
Industry and Agriculture    1           2        2        3       3        3        4       5        6        10
Total Sales                   7         9       11       13      13       14       16      18       20        24
System Losses                 1         2        2        3       3        3        3       3        4        4
Total Imports                 8        11       13       16      16       17       19      21       24        28
Maximum Demand (MW)                                               4.5      4.5      5.0     5.5      6.0       6.5
J/ Champasak, Saravane, Sekong, Attopeu
2/ Savannakhet, Khanmouane.



- 51 -
Page 3 of 4
LAO PDR
PROVINCIAL GRID INTEGRATION PROJECT
Table 3: Northern Grid Demand and Supply Projctoru 1990W2000 (GWh)
Actual
1990      1993 A/      1995      2000 b/
Vientiane Area
Total Local Consumption              165        195         205       268
Residential                           92        105          110      138
Diplomatic                             9         10           11       14
Other                                 64         80           84      116
Losses                                36         36           37       47
Generation Requirement               201        231          242      315
Luan  Prbang
Consumption                            5         14           25       33
Generation Requirement                 6         15           29       38
SaXabguri
Consumption                            0.2        0.2          1        2
Xiang Khoang
Consumption                            0.5        1            2        3
Total Nam Ngum Grid
Generation Requirement
for Domestic Consumption           201       246         271         358
Total Generation                     816        700         700      1,184 /
Gen. Available for Export            615        454        429         826
A Luang Prabang integrated.
k/ Sayabouri/Xiang Koang integrated.
s/ Including Nam Song/Nam Leuk/Nam Ngum additional water and units.



- 52 -
*                               ~~~~~~~~~ANNEX 1. 2
Page 4 of 4
LAO PDR
PROVINCIAL GRID INTEGRATION PROJECT
Table 4: Southern Grid Demand and Supply Projections 1990.2000 (GWb)
Actual
1990     1995       2000
Champasak/Saravans
Urban Consumption                         7        13         18
New Electrification                       -        15         27
Total Demand                              7        28         45
AttoReu/Sekonf                            1         30        50
Total South:  Consumption                 8        30         50
Generation Requirement                   10         35        59
:Xeset Grid
Generation
- Selabam                                 5        34         34
- Xeset                                   -       180        180
Total                                     5       214        214
Domestic Requirement                      9         33        52
Export                                    -       181        162



ANNEX 1. 3
LAO PDR
PROVINCIAL GRID INTEGRATION PROJECT
Power Sector Investment 1991-2000 (1991 US$ Million)
1991     1992      1993      1994     1995      1996      1997      1998     1999      2000
A. ELECTRICITE DU LAOS
1. ONl-GOING PROJECTS
1.1  Southern Prav. Electrification                       4.47      4.38     0.94
1.2  X.ert Hydra ProJect                                  1.34
1.3  Vientiene-Luang Praebng 115 kV Transmission          4.24      8.20      1.23
1.4  Nem N= Overhaul                                      3.20
II. NEW GENERATION
2.1  Km Leauk/Nm Sons                                     0.46      0.88      4.86     7.04    20.83    22.32    16.74
2.2  Ran Ngum Extensicn                                                                                             0.88    16.94    20.70
III. NEW TRANSIXSSION/DISTRIBUTION
3.1  Chmpasak/Saravane/Sekona                                       1.47     5.63      3.22      0.88      0.70     0.16
3.2  Savemnakbet/hammouane/Bolikhainay                              1.72      6.53     3.81      0.90      0.40
3.3  Other PGI                                                      2.00      2.12     1.94      1.77      0.85                                                   tn
3.4  VanSvieng/Midtownsbip                                                   0.91      0.68      0.68                                                             w
3.5  Vientiene Network                                                                                              1.50      1.50      1.20
3.6  VRe III                                                                                                                  1.86      1.40      1.40
3.7  Luang PrabanX/Sayabourl Transmission                                                                                     1.36      2.72      2.72
3.8  Luang Prebang/Xiangkboang Transmission                                                                                   1.52      3.04     3.04
3.9  Otber EdL                                            0.30      0.25     0.25      0.25      0.25     0.25      0.25      0.25      0.25    10.25
IV.  TOTAL EDL INVESDMENT                                14.03    18.90    22.47    16.94    25.31    24.52    19.53    23.43    29.31    17.41
B. MAJOR INTERNATIONAL PROJECTS
I.  Nm Th-en 2                                                      2.25     3.38   112.50   112.50   112.50   112.50         1.36      2.72     2.72
II. Other                                                                              3.00      3.00     3.00    150.0   150.00   150.00   150.00



54 -
LAO PDR
PROVINCIAL GRID INTEGRATION PROJECT
Eectrldtb du Laos
Editing Orgalzatlom Chart
|GENERAL MANAGER l
~~~~~~
DEPUrY
GENERAL MANAGER
:1b-'1<<~~~ i A>
ADMINISTRATION     PERSONNEL        ACOUNTING                     PLANINING   I     NWRK        ITFRA1INING CENTER 
(69 Staff)  (o stem  (40 stam                  ~~~~(II Staff)    (Stf)(32 Statt
| KINDERGARTEN           SES           COMPUER                      PROJECT          CUSTOMER          NA NOUM 
I 3 Staff         REDUCTION          (2tI)(I 14 fff                                (127 Staf    j     1 2 (GStaf
I              I                I_                          II                      'I
(45 Staff)   ~(122 Staff      (17 Staff)                   (0Saf             5 tf)(3Saf
|  WORKIHOp        SUBSTATIONS         REGION 2                     REGION 3         REGION 4          REGION 5
SAVANE     |SAVANNAKET             SE                    LUANG PRABG        KHAMMOUANE
1(2T SIAMf         (1O2Saf          (3Staff)                      (7O Staff        (8UStaff)
IXESETI           I  SUBSTATON  I
Staf) 



ii
-   Ii    Ii        I                      I
Li
II                              I
-4tII
I
0
I
I
z
0ii.



56 -
ANNEX 2.3
IAO PDR
PROVINCIUL GRID INhGRATIION PROJECT
Electrldte du Las
Distribution of Staff by Department and Skil Level
Master
Engr    Engr    Tech   Skilled  Unskilled Total  Percent
EDL VIENTIANE
General Managers Office        0        6         5       40        19       70       4.41
Planning Department            0        5         5        0         0       11       0.7x
Finance Department             0        5        13       27         4       49       3.1X
Personnel Department           0        1         1        4         0        6       0.41
Nam Ngum Dam                   0       12        23       94        37      166      10.41
Substation Department          0       17        21       70         9      117       7.3x
Meter/Billing Department       0        4        13       74        41      132       8.31
Repairing Department           0        3        12       29         5       49       3.11
Zone II                        0        2         9       26         5       42       2.6X
Zone III                       0        1         5       30        11       47       2.91
Zone IV                        0        2        12       38         2       54       3.41
Zone V                         0        2         7       15         7       31       1.91
Kindergarten                   0        1        13        6        10        30      1.91
EDL Professional School        0        2         6        9         1       18       1.1l
Project Department             3       41        25       45         5      119       7.51
To Study in Lao/Abroad         0        3         4       34         0       41       2.61
Distribution Department        0        8        14       73         7      102       6.41
EDP Department                 0        8         3        1         0       12       0.81
Technical Department           0        8         8       11         0        27      1.71
.        . _.. _ -- .... .........
ub-Total                        3      131       200      626       163     1.123     41.31
rovince KHAMMOUAN               0        7        24       44        20       95      5.95X
rovince SAVAINNAKHET            0       14        25       86         0      125      7.83X
rovince CHAMPASAK               0       10        11      121         0      142      8.901
rovince LUANG PRABANG           3        3        12       38        29       85      5.33X
rovince SARAVANE                3        3         5       15         0       26      1.63Z
..... .............   ..... .........
ub-Total                        6       37        77      304        49      573      58.71
otal                            9      168       277      930       212     1596    100.01



AMEX 3. 1
LAO PDR
PROVINCIAL GRID INTEGRATION PROJECT
Scope of Works of rnvwndal ElectrIfication Components
Works                   Champasak      Saravane      Sekong    Savannakhet   Khamouane        Bolikhamxay        Total
22 kV medium voltage
lines and spurs (km)       323            119           37           102          197     ,        75             853
0.4 kV distribution
lines (km)                 370              54          18           138          296              78             954
22 kV substations (no.)         -              -                                      1               1               2
22 kV/0.4 kV
transformers (no.)         108              17          11            44           92              24             306         @
Villages to be
electrified (no.)          108              17          11            44           92              24             306
Households to be
electrified (no.)        5,i12             793         400         1,950        4,354           1,129          14,538
Source: EdL



- 58 -
ANNE 3.2
ILAO PDR
PROVINCIAL GRD INTEGRATION PROJECT
Computadom of System Lses in the Vledlane Are  (1985S90)
Year
Description          Unit     1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
1. Maximum dea nd        MW       31.6    32.7    33.2    33.7    37.5    37.8
2. Generation            GWh     906.6   867.3   566.6   552.8   697.1   820.3
3. Local consumption   GWh       130.2   122.4   125.4   139.0   150.0   165.2
Domeatic/coumercial GWh      118.7   109.6   113.1   124.2   134.2   109.5
Industries           GWh       6.4      7.2     8.6      9.3    10.3    49.8
Agriculture          GWh        5.1     5.6      3.7     5.5      5.5     5.9
4. Export to Thai        GWh     716.3   683.5   387.3   363.6   490.5   598.0
5. System Losses
Generation and S/S  GWh       11.5    12.0    11.5       8.4    12.1    14.2
Less
Transmission loss   GWh       18.1    19.3       8.1     5.2      7.7     9.1
X         2.0     2.3      1.4      0.9     1.1      1.1
Distribution loss   GWh       38.5    30.0    34.0    36.4    36.8    33.8
2 System Losses to
Total Generation    X                   3.4      6.0     6.6      5.1     4.2
6. Total sent out
energy at 22 kV   GWh      160.7   152.5   159.4   175.4   186.8   199.0
X of distribution   2         22.8    19.6    21.3    20.7    19.7    17.0
loss to energy sent
out
7. No. of consumers
('000)               Pers.    32.0    33.0    35.0    41.0    47.0    51.2
8. Per capita            kWh/     37.0    34.0    33.0    36.0    37.0    41.3
consumption          capita
Source: EdL



- 59 -
AMNNEX 3.3
Page 1 of 5
LAO PDR
PROVINCAL GRID INTEGRATION PROJECT
Progra  for Los Reducdon
Introducdon
1.          Under the SPE projectl/, EdL has.taken the flrst stop to reduce
distribution losses, both technlcal and non-technlcal, in the jurisdictLons
that were under its control. These steps included: (i) the establlshment of
a Technical Inspection Cell for meter lnspection; (il) an increase of the
moter readlng staff; (ili) the formulation and implementation of a program for
meter testlng; (lv) the installation of a meter testLng laboratory ln
Vientiane; and (v) the introductlon of a computerLzed billlng system. In
addltion, computerlzed monitoring reports are publlshed monthly that include
informatLon for the Vientlane grld regarding load dLapatch and losses, and
progress made in implementing the program for meter testlng and replacement.
Action Plan
2.          The Action Plan that started under the SPE will be p.zrsued and
extended to provlncial authorities lncorporated in EdL. In this regard, an
Inspection Cell and a meter testlng laboratory will be established in each
provinclal entity. The program for reducing accounts recelvable will also be
strengthened with regard to customers in Vlentiane provlnce and expanded to
those in the provincial entities.
Elements of the Action Phl
3.          In addition to the continuation of actions already undertaken in
the ongoing loss reduction program, the Action Plan will include actions
listed in the Attachment to the Annex.
4.          In order to undertake the Plan, EdL will collect statistical data
on heavily loaded load centers and distribution transformers to study the
loading pattern which will pinpoint areas requiring modifications to reduce
losses. After this, the necessary steps will be taken, such as balancing load
on all three phases, reconductoring of substransmission lines and distribution
feeders, replacement of either very lightly loaded transformers with smaller
rated ones to reduce no load losses, or overloaded transformers with either
larger rated ones or additional transformers.
5.          EdL will, in particular, review connection/reconnection policies
and operational practices, penalties for illegal connections, analysis of
proposals for improvements/reorganization of these functions, and implement
penalties as a credible cure for irregularities. More specIfically:
J/   SAR No 6733-LA, Annexes 7 and S.



- 60 -
Page 2 of 5
(i)   power factor restrictions will be introduced on large consumers;
they will be required to lmprove their power factor to a 0.95
level either with their own provisions or incorporation of the
same by EdL at their expense; and
(ii) all future high voltage (HV) consumers would be required to
provide metering at HV levels to ensure that the cost of
transformer losses is to consumers account. Alternatively, EdL is
contemplating a minimum additional charge to HV consumers to
compensate for transformer losses.
6.          With regard to accounts receivable, the Plan will include measures
that increase EdL's effectiveness at collecting payments for current
consumption and arrears. Such measures could include a reinforcement in the
Vientiane province and an introduction in the provincial entities, and/or a
stricter application of EdL policy on overdue accounts, measures aiming at
making it easier for customers to pay their bills, and improved procedures for
billing and monitoring overdue accounts. In this regard, the computerized
billing system implemented in Vientiane under the SPE project will be
strengthened by providing further training to the staff, and introduced in the
provitcial entities, in a simpler version if feasible.  Measures to reduce
arrears may also include, when justified, agreements with customers on arrears
settlement schedules.
QuaUty of Services
7.          EdL distribution networks are rather new and, therefore, the
quality of services (reliability of supply, voltage levels) is rather good.
However, at this stage, EdL will start monitoring the quality of services by
recording interruptions at the consumer level (scheduled and accidental
outages) on a quarterly basis, as well as voltage drops below acceptable
levels. This will enable EdL to establish and apply the systems and
procedures that will maintain, or permit improvements in, service reliability.
These measures are related to network rehabilitation, that will be translated
in future investment program, proper network design, and improved operation
and maintenance practices.
Reporing
8.          Every six months, EdL management will prepare, for review with the
Association, a concise computerized report that will contain for each
distribution network:
(i)   a summary of load dispatched and losses (broken down in
generation, transmission, and distribution) for each month; their
cumulative value for the current year; and comparison with the
results of the previous year;
(ii) progress made in the implementation of the Action Plan with
reference to annual and/or longer-term targets.



ANNEX 3.3
Page 3 of 5
Attachment
Acdon Prn for Reducng Technical and Non-Technial LAsses
Action                                     Reuortinf                                   Procurement Financed
1. Metering                                                                           under the Proiect
1.1   Installation of provincial
(two or three) testing
laboratories
(i)   Equipped with adequate         (i)  Schedule of procurement and           (i)  Testing facilities
testing facilities; and             installation of testing facilities
(ii)  Staffed with properly          (ii) Schedule program and schedule         (ii) Training
trained technicians
1.2   Meter Testing Before                 Quarterly quantative targets (for          New Meters
Installation                        each network) and actual figures
1.3   Systematic Checking of               Quarterly quantative targets (for
Installed Meters                    each network) and actual figures
1.4   Test and Replace Faulty              Quarterly quantative targets (for          New Meters
Meters in the Consumer's House       each network) and actual figures                                           a
1.5   Installation of High Voltage         Quarterly quantative targets (for          New Meters
Meters at 22 kV Side                 each network) and actual figures
1.6   Shifting of Meters outside           Quarterly quantative targets (for
Consumer's House                    each network) and actual figures
1.7   Installation of Keters to            Quarterly quantative targets (for          New Meters
Illegal Costumers                   each network) and actual figures
1.8   Checking the Multiplying            Quarterly quantative targets (for
Factor's Meters                     each network) and actual figures
1.9   Verification of Lost Meters                                                     New Meters
Shown in Computer Report



ANNEX 3.3
Page 4 of 5
Attachment
Acdon Plan for Reducing Technical and Non-Technical Losses
Action                                      Reporting                                    Procurement Financed
2. Feeders and Connections                                                              under the Prolect
2.1   Balancing of loads in                 Quarterly quantative targets (for
three phases                         each network) nrod actual figures
2.2   Reconductoring of High                Quarterly quantative targets (for            Conductors and Hardware
Voltage Lines                        each network) and actual figures
2.3   Reconductoring of Low                 Quarterly quantative targets (for            Conductors and Hardware
Voltage Lines                        each network) and actual figures
2.4   Replacement of Old                    Quarterly quantative targets (for            Hardware
Service Connection                   each network) and actual figures
3. Distribution Transformers
3.1   Replacement of Light Loaded           Quarterly quantative targets (for           Distribution Transformers
Distribution Transformers            each network) and actual figures
3.2   Replacement of Over Loaded           Quarterly quantative targets (for            Distribution Transformers
Distribution Transformers            each network) and actual figures
4. Meter Reading and Billine
4.1   All connected consumers have          Quarterly quantative targets (for
accounts and are billed              each network) and actual figures
4.2   Rotation of meter readers so          Program of meter readers rotation:
as to avoid collusion between        targets and actual figures
them and consumers
4.3   Strengthening of computerized         Training program                            Training and
billing in Vientiane                 Implementation                               Implementation
4.4   Introduction of computerized          Schedule and                                Technical Assistance
billing in provincial subsidiaries  Implementation



ANNEX 3.3
Page 5 of 5
Attachment
AcUon Plan for Reduing Techncal and Non-Technicad Losses
etion                                       Regrting                                     Procurement Financed
5. Collection                                                                           under the Prolect
5.1   Segregation of accounts receivable  Program and
into those outstanding for more      Implementation
than one year and those
outstanding for less
5.2   For accounts receivable oustanding  Program and
for more than one year, develop      Implementation
terms for settling these arrears
over time. Arrangements should be
made to write down any portion of
these arrears which are to be
forgiven as part of the settlement
5.3   For accounts receivable oustanding  Program and
for less than one year, determine   Implementation
which of those are not collectable.
Arrangements should be made to
write down those accounts; in the
event that those accounts are
still receiving power, they rhould
be disconnected as rapidly as
possible
5.4. Development of procedures, such as
the use of banks or small neigh-
borhood EdL offices, to simplify
cash payment of bills
5.5   Development of procedures to
simplify the offset of government
related receivables, including
receivables for electricity sold
to government agencies and govern-
ment employees, against remittances
to government



- 64
IAO PDR
PROVINCZAL GRID INTEGRATION PROJECT
Equipment ad Matwi  for Syspm Emcldeucy Imprnement
(US$)
Equipment                          Cost
Vehicles & Equipment                  350,000
Telecommunications                    160,000
Upgrading & Repair of                 295,000
the Luang Prabang Station
Computerization                       200,000
Construction & Maintenance            145,000
Tools & Equipment
taa                                Q1 150 000



- 65 -
ANNEX 3.5
Page 1 of 4
LAO PDR
PROVINCIAL GRED INEEGRATION PROJECr
Terms of Reference for Finance, Acounting and Computerization Consultancy
Background
1.        The Finance, Accounting and Budget component of the
Institutional Development Program under the SPE Project (IDA Credit 1826-
LA) was completed in March 1991. The gains accruing to EdL from this
program are as follows:
(a) For the first time, accounting practices and procedures were
codified through the preparation of operation manuals covering
financial accounting, project accounting, budgets and financial
forecasts.
(b) A comprehensive training program for operating and management
staff at Vientiane and the provinces was completed.
(c) The Finance Manager, Deputy Finance Manager and the Chief
Accountant have further benefitted by a six week practical
training course in power utilities at Bombay.
Proposed Terms of Reference
2.        In order to consolidate the gains of this program and to carry
it to its logical conclusion, EdL should seek further consultancy services
to cover the following:
(a) Implementation of the recommendations of the Institutional
Development Study Report.
(b) Maintenance of accounting records in accordance with the
manuals.
(c) Preparation and presentation of annual financial statements and
reports to international standards.
(d) Initiate action for the establishment of an internal audit
department.
(e) Development of a system for computerizing the operations in the
provinces in the following areas, with a view to facilitate
integration of provincial utilities through uniform practices
and procedures:



- 66 -
ANNEX 3.5
Page 2 of 4
(i)    Accounting
(il)    Billing
(iii)    Stores
(iv)    Maintenance of Statistics
(v)    Management Information Systems
The Consultant shall develop necessary software for this purpose
and advise EdL on procurement of necessary hardware.
(f)  Adequate training for EdL staff to operate the system in (e)
above.
(g)  Review of the status and operational constraints of the
computerized billing system presently operating at Vientiane and
advise EdL of further improvements to realize the full potential
of the system.
Objectie
3.        The main objective of the consul:ancy is to assist EdL in the
preparation of annual accounts and financial reports and their
presentation to Government and lending institutions at international
standards acceptable for audit by independent external auditors. To meet
this objective, it would be necessary for the consultant to assist EdL in
implementing the recommendations and procedures laid down In the
Institutional Development Report and Manuals.
Scope of Work
4.        The Consultant will advlse and assist the finance managers at
Vientiane and provincial offices in regard to the vear-end work on
preparation and completion of consolidated accounts of EdL. For this
purpose, he will:
(a)  Review the instructions to be issued by the Finance Manager,
Vientiane and the adequacy of the returns required from the
provincial offices for consolidation and presentation.
(b)  In consultation with the Finance Manager, finalize the formats
of the various schedules and work-sheets required to support the
preparation of final accounts.
(c)  As a preparatory exercise to closing of accounts, analyze the
key accounts and record the adjusting entries, where necessary,
to reflect the correct position.



- 67 -
ANNEX 3.5
Page 3 of 4
(d) Jointly with the Finance Manager, monLtor the progress of work;
and the Finance Manager will take all necessary actions to
adhere to time schedules at various stages of completlon.
(e) Assist and guide the Finance Manager to conduct a detailed
scrutiny of the draft income statement, balance sheet and
supporting schedules to ensure that the accounts are prepared in
accordance with internationally accepted standards of
presentation and disclosure.
5.        The Consultant will assist EdL in implementing the
recommendations of the Instltutional Development Study Report concerning
finance and accounting and in maintaining accounting records according to
the procedures specified in the manuals. He will discuss and review the
difficulties experienced in practical work and suggest solutions. In
particular, he will guide Lnt he maintenance of project accounting records
in accordance with the Project Accounts Manuai. He will also assist the
finance managers in preparation of monthly income statement, balance sheet
and cash flow statement and the submission of monthly financial reports to
Management.
6.        The Consultant will initiate discussion withi the General
Manager, EdL towards formation of an Internal Audit Department. These
would cover the structuring, scope of work, line of reporting, staffing
and training.
7.        The Consultant and EdL will jointly explore the feasibility of
establishing a working procedure for recovery of electricity arrears from
Government agencies and enterprises.
8.        The Consultant wil  reviow the accounting and billing practiees
of the provincial offices and develop programs for computerizing these
areas of work. The system developed should be simple for use by
provincial staff and should aim at minimum additional hardware at the
provinces. The system should formulate methods by which the computerized
data from the provinces are transferred to the main computer at Vientlane.
Similar procedures should be used for computerizing the other areas such
as stores accounting, maintenance of statistics and management information
systems.
9.        The consultancy services should include adequate provision for
training staff at Vientiane and provincial offices to operate the system
independently.
10.       The Consultant shall crltically review the status and
operational constraints of the computerized billing system presently
operating at Vientiane, and advise EdL for further improvements on the
same to realize the full potential of the system.
11.       The Consultant will sui it periodic reports to EdL on the
progress and status of work. On co pletion of work, the final draft
report will be discussed with EdL and thereafter submitted to EdL and IDA.



- 68 -
&MNE 3. 5
Page 4 of 4
Time and Manning Schedule
12.       The above scope of work should be completed within a time span
of three years. The Consultant's team should comprise of qualLfLed senior
consultants and team members. The senior consultants would vislt Laos for
establishing detailed work approach and methodology with team members at
commencement and periodically thereafter to review progress and provide
support. The team members would execute the detailed work plan in all
aspects covered by the terms of reference and scope of work.



- 69 -
ANNEX 3.6
Page 1 of 4
LAO PDR
PROVINCIAL GRID INTEGRATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Organizatlon and Maagement Study
Background
1.          The Organization and Management Study component of the
Institutional Development Program under the Southern Provinces Electrification
Project (IDA Credit 1826-IA) consists of two phases: (i) analysis of the
existing institutional structure of EdL and proposal for reorganization of the
entity; and (ii) implementation of the proposed reorganization. The initial
phase was launched in July, 1990 and culminated in a reorganizaition proposal
dated January, 1991. The reorganization was approved by EdL management and by
the Ministry of Industry and Handicrafts in September, 1991. Its
implementation began in January, 1992.
Proposed Terms of Reference
2.          In order to implement the recommendations of the reorganizatlon
study, EdL should seek consultancy services to cover the following:
(a) Preparation of a detailed plan to implement the recommendations of
the Organization and Management Study;
(b) Implementation of a Management Information System already
elaborated under Phase I;
(c) Implementation of a human resources management plan through a
newly created Department of Human Resources;
(d) Strengthening the Customer Services Unit;
(e) Introduction and implementation of system planning and tariff
studies; and
(f) Preparation of a system of internal controls to ensure achievement
of EdL objectives.
Objectve
3.          The main objective of the consultancy is to assist EdL to put in
place an organizational structure and procedures that will permit the entlty
to achieve the financial targets and development objectives of its investment
program for 1991-2000. To meet thls objective, it will be necessary for the
Consultant to assist EdL to implement the recommendations set out in the
Organization and Management Study and modifLcations thereto as agreed upon
with EdL management and the Ministry of Industry and Handicrafts. On-the-job



- 70 -
ANNEX 3.6
Page 2 of 4
training will be the principal vehicle for implementation of the
reorganization plan.
4.              The Consultant will advise and assist EdL management on the
preparation of an Implementation Schedule, based on the agreed upon
organization chart. To this end, the Consultant will carry out the activities
and deliver the outputs as described below:
Outouts
Activitil6
a) Assist EdL in the implementation of
its reorganization and operating
procedures as defined in the above
mentio,aed organizational study. The
consultant will inter alia:
- ensure that head office fiuntional units run           Preparation of proeodure.. Introduction
properly, issue procedures nd rules to the operational           of ZdL staff to objectivoe of
umits, to moitor their implemtation and  _md as                  reorsanisation, new structure and
required;                                                        procedure.
- visit the provinces with ZdL'e management to           Identifioation of probl _ . Propose
provide guidacee to mprove operations nd provincial              sobltions.
umAte; and
-as a result of experience gained during tho             Reviow experieneo with new organisaticn
iiLtial implementation period Cabout one year). recomend          nd procedures, and adjust as required.
sa  changos to the above procedus  and rules.
b) Assist EdL to implement the management
system as defined in the manag wnt study.
The Consultant will inter alia.
- provwde trainig in basic manaement principls,          One month training for department heads.
practices, conepts and tools esecisted with ainitng a
modern power utility:
- prepae a plan setting out ZdL' overall nd              Prep ae three-year objectives.
departmental objective  for the next three yewrs;                Commnic.te to EdL staff.
- review dL's exasting *nal nd three yea s                odificaticns of the exsnting plns.
plan for copatibility with new objectives; and
- institute the practice of monthly   etins with         Review HIS outputs against objectives.
dL lenagers to review HIS results and prpare folUw up
actlin memoranda.



- 71  -
Page 3 of 4
c) Assist EdL to implement system
planning activities and tarlff studLes.
This work will include:
- Analysis of easting plaming practices for               Definition of systm planning critoria
generation. tranmission and distribution; recomond                 and prVatlces.
adjustsmnts/additions whore roquired or. alternatively.
define and introduce now plannsng practices appropriate to
- on-the-job training for staff In charge of              Staff experienoo in raking studies, load
generation and tranamession system planning ad tariff              flow analysisn and assessent of tariffs.
studies to prepe for advanced trainsng abroad; and
- provido clasroom training for statt in charge            Plaming studies of distribution
of distribution systm planntig.                                    networks.
d) Assist EdL to implement a human
resources management system as deflned in
the organization study. Particular
attention will be paid to:
- ensuring that tho  human rourcess departmnt             Rview of personnel data collUetlon
updates ewasting persemel databases, nd makes                      procedures and controls.
modltlcatlons as requlred for staff mananement
- easuring that procedures for statf rotatin are           Iprovad utilLsatLon of staff.
in place nd followed and that qualitLeations match
advertised posLtLins;
- ensuring that tho ZeL 3-year training plan Is            Improvement of staff qualitceations and
pogressing satlfactorily, is updated as roquired, and              job performJne.
that performance lndLiators for the program are defined
and applied; and
- mke reomendatiocs li order to Lmprove statf              Proposals to motivate staff.
motivatLon.                                                        Justifceation to LdL.
e) Assist headquarters and provincial
managers in customer services to improve
operating procedures. Particular
attention will be paid to:
- proe dures for new connectiones  customer               Reduction of customer a XdL operating
categories, unrecorded customers *and double mters;                costa for non-tecbnioal losses.
- revie"in the planning and execution of meter             Reduction of billing lag.
readLag tours:
-  nuring funtlone or proe dure for unwid bill             Reduction  f aotrrexe.
follow up system and make  duetmts as requiedt And
f)   Prepare a program  for headquarters and                       Training of supervisors
for provincial units of internal controls                          Pgress report.
to check compliance with Lnter-units
procedures and in-house rules.



- 72 -
ANNEX 3.6
Page 4 of 4
5.          For each of the areas highlighted above, the Consultant will
ensure that, prior to the introduction of new operating procedures, department
heads and concerned staff will be advised of any changes to be introduced in
their respective departments/units, the reasons for change, and expected
results. Adequate provision will be made for training staff and management in
Vientiane and provincial offices to understand the objectives for and the
procedures necessary to implement the new activities.
6.          The Consultant will develop a system that will allow management
and department heads to monitor the impacts/effects of new procedures and
policies put in place as a consequence of the reorganization study.
Indicators to be used for monitoring should be simple, practical and capable
of quickly yielding information required to make mid-course adjustments,
change approaches, reorient units, etc.
7.          The Consultant will submit monitoring reports to EdL on the
progress and status of work in each of the areas under study and on issues
requiring immediate attention. Upon completion of the work, the final draft
report will be discussed with EdL and thereafter submitted to EdL and to IDA.
Implementadon Schedule and Manpower Requirements
8.          The above scope of work should be completed within a two-year time
period. The Consultant team should include a qualified resident expert in
power planning and management, an MIS expert, a manpower development expert,
and an energy economist.



-73-                              ANM  3.7
Page 1 of 4
IAO PDR
PROVINCALL GRIUD INEGRATION PROJECr
T _aing Upgrding Progm
A Program Constituents
1.          The main objectives of the Training Upgrading Program of the
Provincial Grid Integration Project are: (a) to ensure the availability of
trained and motivated managers, technical and non-technical staff to
effectively implement EdL's investment program of the period 1991-2000 and
(b) to develop in-house trained human resources to efficiently operate and
manage the company's assets over the longer term. This Program would continue
efforts to develop the operational skills of EdL's employees, begun under the
Southern Provinces Electrification Project (Credit 1826-LA) through a
combination of in-house trining, short-term fellowships abroad and a
technical cooperation arrangement with an Asian utility. The Program would
extend the provision of equipment and training to the four provincial electric
power subsidiaries, which were integrated into EdL in 1991.
2.          The Trainina Uoarading Proiram would include:
(a)   Renovation of EdL's training center and the provision of equipment
and tools;
(b)   Services of training experts;
(c)   In-house training to strengthen the capabilities of EdLs staff at
all levels; and
(d)   A technical cooperation arrangement between EdL and the National
Electrlcity Board of Malaysia (TNB).
This Annex will describe the Training Upgrading Program only.
3.          EdT TainiLng Uograding Program.  The development of an in-house
capacity to manage EdLs assets would be centered around an upgraded training
center in Vientiane, which would be renovated and equipped with the required
material and tools.  The services of two training consultants--a human
resources expert and an electrLcity transmission and distribution expert would
be required for 25 person-months. Essential tools and equipment will also be
provided to the four provincial subsidiaries. The framework for thls
comprehensive effort to upgrade and develop the theoretical knowledge and
practical, on-the-job skills of technical and non-technical EdL employees is
set out in a document approved by EdL management called "Electricite du Laos:
A Three Year Training Program: 1992-1994," dated September 1991.
4.          Training has been identified for four groups of EdL employees:
(i) managerial staff to ensure the success of the reorganization, upgrade
management skills and identify and address gaps in management techniques;
(ii) technical staff to Lmprove the operation and maintenance of existing



- 74 -
ANNEX 3.7
Page 2 of 4
assets and to effectively operate and maintain newly acquired equipment; and
(iII) non-technical staff to further enhance institutional efficiency (e.g.,
metering control, unpaid bill management) and provide opportunities for
professional growth and (iv) training staff to introduce a long-term EdL
capacity to carry out its own internal training courses and adapt its human
resource programs to changing conditions.
S.          Training topics will address issues in the transmission and
distribution of electricity and human resource development. A new area will
be the development of a customer service unit that can begin to address those
issues on the demand side that concern the understanding of customer behavior
and its impact on long-range power planning for EdL. It is expected that
English language training will be included in the detailed design of the
training program. The design of each training module will take into account
the need to create an adequate incentive environment for all staff to ensure
the success of the program.
6.          Twenty-three training sessions, representing over 3100 person-
weeks of training, will be held in Vientiane. Some training would be in the
form of short-term fellowships abroad of up to six months and some would be
incorporated into a technical cooperation arrangement Tenaga Nasional Berhad
(TNB/Halaysia). A total of 19 programs, representing 612 person-weeks of
training, will be held abroad.
7.          EdL-TNB Technical CogReration Arrangements.  EdL and TNB have
expressed willingness to develop a technical cooperation arrangement program
to further enhance the development of each utility's manpower resources. EdL
would benefit from TNB's broad experience in the growth and development of its
power sector, while TNB would begin to develop the Sultan Ahmad Shah Training
Institute into a regional center to deliver a package of electric utility
training services across the Asia region. The benefits derived by each of the
parties to the technical cooperation arrangement can be expected to strengthen
the prospects for its successful implementation. Monitoring and evaluation of
progress on each aspect of the technical cooperation arrangement will permit
adjustments as required.
8.          It has been proposed that a mix of classroom and hands-on
instruction as well as short-term assignments to a Malaysia utility constitute
tho core of the technical cooperation arrangement. It has been agreed that
the details of the proposed technical cooperation arrangement and exact-mix of
classroom and on-the-job skills development would be defined following an
exchange of visits between TNB and EdL managers. Nonetheless, it is expected
that EdL department managers would be candidates for assignment to a Malaysian
utility, while deputy managers would be candidates for classroom/hanas-on
training at the TNB Training Institute.
9.          Preliminary discussions with TNB and EdL have resulted in the
following broad principles to guide development of the technical cooperation
arrangement relationship:
(a)   The technical cooperation arrangement would be anchored in EdL's
new organizational structure to be implemented in early 1992;



-75 -                              ANNEX 3.7
Page 3 of 4
(b)   The technical cooperation arrangement program would be identified
as a tranche of EdL's overall three-year training program set out
in document dated September 12, 1991 and approved by EdL
management;
(c)   Because of potential language constraints associated with training
in the four provincial subsidiaries, the technical cooperation
arrangement would be limited to EdL headquarters in Vientiane;
(d)   Training of EdL trainers would be a key feature of any technical
cooperation arrangement program;
(e)   A monitoring and evaluation mechanism would be built into the
program; and
(f)   Training would include classroom instruction at the TNB Institute
and attachment to a district utility in peninsular Malaysia wthose
characteristics are closest to those of EdL-Vientiane.
B. Terms of Refereoce for Training Ceter Advisor
10.         B&jgkround.  The expansion of EdL's investment program, together
with the incorporation of the provincial subsidiaries, will require that EdL
become a more efficient utility. A reorganization is in process and a more
formal system of organization and management techniques is under
implementation. These activities should improve operations and heighten the
skills and motivation of EdL staff.
11.         EdL's Training Center plays a key role in upgrading staff skills
and recycling staff for neo functions, as required to meet EdL's expanded
mandate. The Training Advisor will assist in strengthening the Training
Center's capacity to meet this objective.
12.         ProDosed Terms of Reference.  The Training Advisor would provide
technical advice to the Director of the Training Center and would report
directly to the General Manager of EdL. Based on EdLts Three-Year Training
Program (1992-1995) and the recommendations of the Organization and Management
Study (January 1991), the Advisor would, together with the Director of the
Training Center:
(a)   conduct a training needs assessment in the areas of:
(i)   electricity distribution;
(ii) basic skill development;
(iii) organization and management of EdL's operations; and
(iv) managerial skills development;
(b)   based on the needs assessment, develop the objectives for the
Training Program, define the content of the individual courses
which would be taught by Lao trainers, prepare teaching manuals
for each session and establish a system to evaluate the success of
the training courses;



- 76 -
- 76 -                  ~~~~~ANNEX 3.7
Page 4 of 4
(c)   provide training for Lao trainers in pedagogical techniques and
establish a system to evaluate their -,rformance;
(d)   concerning electricity distribution, design training sessions and
teach or ensure that Lao trainers have the technical and
theoretical skills to teach the required courses;
(e)   concerning organization and management, dcsign training sessions
and teach or ensure that Lao trainers have the theoretical skills
to teach the required courses down to the foreman level; and
(f)   provide the required feedback to the General Manager on progress
of the training program and any adjustments required to ensure the
compatibility of the Training Center's curriculum with EdL's
expanding operations.
13.         Imolementation Period.  The period of assignment would be for two
years.
14.         Experienca.  The Training Advisor should have an in-depth
knowledge and experience in the area of electricity distribution; at least
three years experience in developing and implementing utility training
programs; and management and teaching experience. Experience in an Asian
utility and a knowledge of French are highly desirable.



- 77-                             AMEX 3.8
Page 1 of 2
LAO PDR
PROVINCIAL GRID INTEGRATION PROJECT
Technical Cooperation Arrangement Between TNB and EdL
1.          As part of EdL's efforts to strengthen its capacity to operate and
manage its assets, it has been agreed to enter into a technical cooperation
arrangement with Tenaga Nasional Berhad of Malaysia (TNB). The technica.
cooperation arrangement would be identified by TNB and EdL within the context
of a three-year training program (1992-94) recently approved by EdL and which
consists of three main elements:
(i)   in-country training;
(ii)   external training and fellowships; and
(iii)   material and equipment for the renovation of the EdL Training
Center in Vientiane.
2.          Based on the above-mentioned training program, it is expected that
the technical cooperation arrangement with TNB will consist of a package of
classroom training at the TNB Training Institute in Kuala Lumpur, together
with assignments in relevant departments of a district utility in peninsular
Malaysia with characteristics similar to those of Vientiane. Because of
language constraints, it is not expected that the EdL/TNB technical
cooperation arrangement relationship will conccrn the provincial utilities,
although this is subject to review by the technical cooperation arrangement
partners.
3.          It is, furthermore, envisioned that the technical cooperation
arrangement will be designed to correspond to the three year period 1992-94,
according to the following activities:
(i)   1992:  TNB reconnaissance mission to Vientiane, Lao PDR to carry
out a preliminary training needs survey within the framework of
the above-mentioned training program; EdL mission to Kuala Lumpur
to visit TNB's Training Institute and select a suitable district
utility in peninsular Malaysia;
(ii)   1992-1993:  Implementation of agreed upon external training and
utility secondment(s); and
(iii)   1993-1994:  Completion of implementation of technical cooperation
arrangement and monitoring and evaluation of results against
objectives.
4.          The first step in formalizing the proposed technical cooperation
arrangement will consist of a TNB reconnaissance mission to Vientiane to scope
out the training needs and agree with EdL on the content, implementation plan
and costs. In light of EdL's priorities as set out in the aforementioned
training program, the TNB mission would consist of a transmission/distribution



ANNEX 3.8
Page 2 of 2
expert and a management expert. The duration of the mission in Vientiane is
expected to be about ten days.
5.          The mission would:
(i)   together with EdL, identify a package of external training
including classroom-style courses and assignments within a
Malaysian utility. This package would be defined based on EdL's
identified training needs and the comparative advantage of TNB to
deliver technical And non-technical training in English;  The
possibility of including English-language training as part of the
package will also be reviewed and evaluated;
(ii)   based on t1he identified program, TNB will determine the costs
(technical assistance, travel, lodging, per diem, curriculum
costs) of the proposed program, broken down into technical and
non-technical training; nuwbers of trainees; locale (TNB training
institute and/or assignment in a district utility); course
content; and
(iii)   draft a preliminary technical cooperation arrangement protocol
setting out the objectives of the cooperation arrangement and
agreed upon scope and content of the arrangement.
6.          Prior to the mission's departure, TNB should prepare an aide-
memoire, to be agreed upon with EdL, setting out the mission's findings,
including the proposed package of formal training and utility assignment(s);
costs; implementatiorn schedule, monitoring and eNAluation format and any
outstanding issues requiring follow-up action.
7.          An EdL mission will visit MIalaysia approximately one month after
completion of the reconnaissance work to review the final training program and
agree on the selection of a suitable provincial utility.



- 79                               ANNEX 3.9
Page 1 of 3
LAO PD1R
PROVINCIAL GRID NETGRATION PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Feasibility Study for Nam Ngum Power Station Expansion
Background
1.        The Nam Ngum Hydropower Station is located on the Nam Ngum river
abot 80 km north of Vientiane. The existing facilities, having a total
capacity of 150 MW and an annual energy production of about 820 GWh, were
completed under three phases: Phase I, t.wo 15 MW units placed in commercial
operation in 1971; Phase II, two 40 MW units placed in commercial operation in
19'8; and Phase III, a 40 MW unit placed in commercial operation in 1984.
2.        The Nam Song and Nam Leuk hydropower schemes are located upstream of
the existing Nam Ngum reservoir.  The first scheme comprises diversion of part
of the flows of the Nam Song into the Nam Ngum reservoir while the second
comprises diversion of the flows of the Nam Leuk into the reservoir through a
power station on the Nam Xan. A prefeasibility study of these two projects
was completed in 1990 by the Beca Wdorley International (BWI) in association
with Lahmeyer International under a technical assistance grant by ADB.
Contract for the feasibility and design study of these two projects has been
signed recently between ADB and BWI/Latimeyer.
3.        To optimize the benefits of these schemes, the Nam Ngum Hydropower
Station is to be extended to utilize effectively the additional flows to be
diverted into the reservoir.
Scope of Work
4.        The scope of work comprises:  (a) a review of the development plans
of Nam Ngum Hydropower Station Extension included in the prefeasibility report
of Nam Son-Nam Leuk Hydropower Development Study (Attachment I); (b) optimiza-
tion of the installed capacity of Nam Ngum Extension taking into account of
the findings of the feasibility and design study for Nam Song-Nam Leuk
Development scheduled to be completed by late 1992; (c) detailed design of the
works; (d) an estimate of the cost of the works; (e) preparation of a project
implementation schedule; (f) an economic and financial analysis of the
project; (g) preparation of terms of reference for consulting services for
project implementation; and (h) preparation of project reports.



- 80 -
ANNEX 3.9
Page 2 of 3
Detailed Terms of Reference
5.        The consultant shall carry out:
(a) In addition to the following three alternatives examined in the
prefeasibility stage: (i) a'40 MW extension to the existing power
station, (ii) a 60 MW extension to the existing power station; and
(iii) a 2 x 40 MW installation in a new power station on the left
bank downstream of the existing power station, other alternative
should be studied by locating a new surface or underground power
station utilizing the diversion tunnel located on the right bank of
the dam..
(b) Optimization studies to establish the most economic installed
capacity of Nam Ngum Extension taking into consideration the
additional flows to be diverted into the Nam Ngum reservoir, the
optimal operation of the Nam Ngum power station, and the time-of-day
tariff agreement entered recently between EGAT and EDL.
Cc) A detail review of the construction methods proposed in the
prefeasibility study.
(d) Detailed design, preparation of drawings and specifications for the
components of the project including a schedule of quantities.
(e) Estimation of the cost of constructing the scheme including the
civil, mechanical and electrical works and provision of a cash flow
projection (for civil works the estimates will be built up from
labor, equipment and material inputs and be expressed as unit prices
applied to a schedule of quantities).
(f) Identification of contract packaging.
(g) Preparation of an implementation schedule and construction program
(the construction program shall be broken down into major item sof
works and shall give time requirements for completion of each task
taking into consideration the start time imposed by the implementa-
tion schedule and any seasonal constraints to construction).
(h) Economic and financial analysis of the project taking into account:
total costs including, construction, operation and maintenance; and
benefits from the sale of the additional energy generated at Nam
Ngum power station (the analysis shall calculate the economic and
financial rates of return and include sensitivity analyses for
variations in project costs, diverted flows and tariffs).
(i) Preparation of terms of reference for consulting services to prepare
tender documents for construction of the works, carryout tender
evaluation, supervise construction and commissioning of the works.



- 81 -
ANNEX 3.9
Page 3 of 3
(j) Preparation of the following reports (in addition to monthly
progress reports): Inception Report, Mid-Term Report, Draft Design
Report and Final Design Report.
Consultancy Inputs
6.        The study is expected to be carried out over nine month period and a
total of 45 manmonths of foreign consultancy inputs including expertise in
hydropower layout and design; hydropower construction; electrical/mechanical
design; cost estimate and power economics. EDL will provide the following
facilities to assist carrying out of the study:
(a) suitable counterpart staff;
(b) field assistance;
(c) office facilities including secretarial services; and
(d) vehicles including drivers.
Reports
7.        The following reports, all in the English language, will be
submittad by the consultants to the Government of the Lao PDR, EDL and the
Bank. The inception report, mid-term report, and the draft final report will
be reviewed and commented upon by the Government, EDL and the Association.
(a) Inception Report. This report will be submitted within four weeks
after commencement of services and will outline a detailed work
program and briefly describe the work steps proposed to fulfill the
terms of reference.
(b)  Mid-Term Report.  This report to be submitted at the end of month
three will recommend the most optional plant layout and installed
capacity.
(c) Draft Final Report. This report will detail the consultants'
findings and recommendations and will be submitted within seven and
one-half months from the commencement of the consultants' services.
(d) Final Report. This report will incorporate all revisions required
by the Government, EDL and the Association on the Draft Final Report
(within six weeks of submitting the same).



- 82 -                                        AN    31o
Page 1 of 4
LAO PDR
PROVINCIAL GRID INTEGRATION PROJECT
Detailed Project Cost Estimates
Table L1 Lcl Coss (KN MilOn)
-----------------------AUIML  XPMDITURS ----------------
DESCRIPTIOI                                                                             Total    Total
1992.    1993     1994      1995      1996     1997   K N1il  81S MiL
PROVICIAL ZLICTRFICATIXO
Centrol Roion Intreoaneotion            0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00
Cmtral Resion Distributiao              1.64    19.18   831.04   535.66   194.89       0.00  1582.41    2.26
South.rn Resltn Diotrlbutton            0.26     3.57   449.15   599.59   475.32   111.02  1636.91    2.34
Sub-total                             1       22-75  12l.19  1135.25   670.21   11102  ,Z21.32    L.af
SYSTZM uZFICucrC  DYERoITz
Lose Reduution                         27.41    20.51    20.51    27.41       9.17     0.00   105.01    0.15
Sparo Partg, Veoicle, Tools             0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00
Micro Cputoee                           0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00
Tol emen_ etion syst_                   9.17     6.80      6.80     9.17      3.06     0.00    35.00    0.05
Sub-tot"l                            3JIA   2Z7U1    ULZ 3        LA 3LJ1 1Li   140-01    0 20
IhhTUTIOh*L DZYLIIET
Organizatin a M la"      t              0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00
nlaaacl & Cyutorisation                0.03     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00
TzeAaing Cent.r Up UW,diag              0.00     0O.C      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00
Uub-total                             0lg      jf       La        LIM       Lm 00gf            Lii L0ft
JZLW  ZICDZN
M   and gmn HEM                         LZ       ik        L         it      LA       Llt Jt L
TOTAL am  cW                         "A       g.    1311.64  1177.35               1.   ftj U6U  33f   L2,
lPhsical Contiarnale                      0.19     1.79    64.20    56.76    33.51       5.55   162.00    0.23
Local Price Contingencies                 7.89    13.80   422.09   459.29   316.33    59.76  1279.16    1.63
TOTAL PROZCT COST                    &        L=               19 2 2Z2 =   2=Q    Jft   4             LaI
Intereat. Durin  Centruction              0.00    46.93   168.39   485.86  1098.70   860.11  2659.99    3.80
TOAL IIUABCZ   R   ;,QI2,T           &l          7j96 32 17M    2    6 213 6   1036.44  74 646S  ILE



- 83  -
Page 2 of 4
LAO PDR
PROVINCIAL GRID INTEGRA1TON PROJECT
Deiled Project Cost Estimates
Table 2: Foreig  Costs (USS Millons)
------------------------ANNUL UXPI ZJIU            ---------
DEISIPTI03                                                                             Total    Total.
1992     1993      1994     1995      1996     1997  $S NIL .      tLl
PROVINCIAL KLZCTRIF`ICTIOh
Central Region Intarcomection          0.50     1.40      0.31     0.00      0.00     0.00      2.21   1547.00
Central Region Distributicm             2.04     7.49      3.25     0.00      0.00     0.00    12.76   8946.00
Southern Region Distributioan           1.50     5.60      2.65     0.00      0.00     0.00      9.75   6825.00
Sub-total.                            4 04    14 49      6II Z    L        Lif      Lif 0UZ 10  LAI00
SYTE  ZFFICSZNCT IMINOYM UT
Loss Reduction                          0.36     0.26      0.26     0.26      0.26     0.00      1.50   1050.00
Spare Parts. V bleles, TooLs            0.30     0.30      0.35     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.95    665.00
Micro Computers                         0.10     0.10      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.20    140.00
Telecommication System                  0.35     0.10      0.10     0.10      0.10     0.00      0.75    525.00
Sub-total                            1.1       2An      Lii       L 3U      L.S       .if      Li    2360.00
IN3TITUTIZCAL DZY.OHT
Organisation A N_amt                    0.10     0.20      0.25     0.20      0.00     0.00      0.75    525.00
Vinaselel & Cmputoriuation              0.15     0.30      0.05     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.50    350.00
Training Canter Up6Z.dlg                0.10     0.50      0.60     0.30      0.50     0.00      2.00   1400.00
Sub-total.                           L2 Li              L0 0Lf
PRJ= ET UIIfIUM
For and NM UNam                        LU    LU            L.U    LII   LLK  1260L00
TOTAL as COST                        L2Li     ,                                        U   U=  IMLU&
Physical Continsencies                    0.22     0.78      0.35     0.02      0.02     0.00      1.39    973.00
Local Price Contingencies                 0.34     1.61      1.17     0.30      0.20      0.00     3.62   2534.00
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                                   I U      *l 2L  LWA  aL  AWLE
Interest During COnstruction              0.00     0.10      0.10     0.10      0.10     0.00      0.40    260.00
TOTL FINANCING RUX         T2                                                                  L



AtEX 3. 10
Page 3 of 4
LAO PDR
PROVINCIAL GRID INTEGRATION PROJECT
Detiled Project Cost Estmates
Table 3: Combhod Costs (US$ Million Equivalet)
--------------------------------------------- AUAL  PIUITUR----------------------------------------
1992                         1993                         1994                          1995
DZS5lIPTI0ll                   ----------------------        ----------------------       -----------------_--          ----------------------
Local   USS      Total       Local   '15$     Total        Local   DS$      Total       Local   DSt    Total
PROVINIAL ELECTRIFICAhION
Central leiLon IDtarceaDection        0.00      0.50     0.59       0.00     1.40     1.40        0.00     0.31     0.31       0.00     0.00     0.00
Central Region Distribu: On           0.00      2.04     2.04       0.03     7.49     7.52        1.19     3.25     4.44       0.77     0.00     0.77
Soutbhen ReOgic Distribution          0.00      1.50     1.50       0.01     5.60     5.61        0.64     2.65     3.29       0.66     0.00     0.86
sub-total                          L0        0O       4 04       Lo      Lil    1Lf           13 LB1   L.0 IL               LI       0.o0     1.2
SYSTIN EFICIENIC  D      WIOYDINT
Lose 3eduction                        0.04      0.38     0.42       0.03     0.28     0.31       0.03      0.28     0.31       0.04     0.28     0.32
Spare Parts, Vehicles, Tools          0.00      0.30     0.30       0.00     0.30     0.30        0.00    0.35      0.35       0.00     0.00     0.00
Micro Computers                        0.00     0.10     0.10       0.00     0.10     0.10        0.00     0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00     0.00
Tlelocmication Syaten                 0.01      0.35     0.36       0.01     0.10     0.11       0.01      0.10     0.11       0.01     0.10     0.11
Sub-total                            LIU )0 ii                    L        LZR   LaZ    LU                         LU   LRBL2             LULI
INBTITUIMOIL DEVE       T
Orgniaation c m      agm t            0.00      0.10     0.10       0.00     0.20     0.20        0.00     0.25     0.25       0.00     0.20     0.20
FiDencial A Ccwutarixatln            0.00      0.15     J.15       0.00     0.30     0.30        0.00     0.05     0.05       0.00     0.00     0.00
Training Center Upgradin              0.00      0.10     0.10       0.00     0.50     0.50        0.00     0.60     0.60       0.00     0.30     0.30
Sub-total                           0.00     L. 3      LU L0 .L 5                              L         lii L, 0.0                   LB       L Q
PROJECT EUGIIEURI
Paz and   _ 1ulm                       0L        . L     Lai        0O 1     0.6 UO                       0.30 L3 L.0 L0.80 L0 8
TOTAL BASE COST                       0      5.h87     5           0.08    166     16.70         .7              10.01.8              168 
Physical Continsancie.                  0.00      0.22     0.22       0.00     0.78     0.78        0.09    0.35      0.44       0.08     0.02     0.10
Local Price Coutingncies               0.01      0.34     0.35       0.02     1.61     1.63        0.60     1.17     1.77       0.66     0.30     0.96
TOTIIZ PROJECT COST                 0.07     643       6 .0               19.01   1 9         1  .57      6    1 2          . L3      L Da     4.42
Interest During Construction            0.00     0.00      0.00       0.07     0.10     0.17       0.24     0.10      0.34       0.69     0.10     0.79
TOTAL FINANCINB NEQUMUI             L8L      6                    LO J    ,121 28              ,3U      9        12.57       3.1      LQ       ;I,



MNNEX 3.10
Page 4 of 4
IAO PDR
PROVINCIL GRID INTEGRATION PROJECT
Detailed Project Cost Estimates
Table 3: Combined Costs (US$ Mllion Equivalent)
(Completed)
------------------------------AIWL 2YPEIDITUR--------------------------------
1996                          1997                         TOTAL
DSCRIPrTIOP                     ----------------------         ----------------------        ------_ - ---------
Local    05$      Total       Local   US$       Total       Local   US$       Total
PROVINCIAL ELECTRIFICATIO
Central Region Interconnection      0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00       0.00      2.21     2.21
Central Region Distribution          0.28     0.00      0.28       0.00      0.00     0.00       2.26    12.78    15.06
Southern Region Distribution         0.68     0.00      0.68       0.16     0.00      0.16       2.34      9.75    12.09
Sub-total                         0.9       0.00     f96         Q.J6     0.0       0.1        L._    24.76          ,
SYSTEM EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMET
Lose Rductics                       0.01      0.28      0.29       0.00     0.00      0.00       0.15      1.50     1.65
Spare Parts, Vehicles. Tools        0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00       0.00      0.95     0.95
Miaro Compters                       0.00     0.00      0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00       0.00      0.20     0.20
Telecammicatlon Systm               0.00      0.10     0.10        0.00     0.00      0.00       0.05      0.75     0.80
Sub-total                         0.02      0.38     0.4         0.00     0.09      L!fl       9.20     3.40      L60
IhSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMEN
Organisation   Mnagement            0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00       0.00      0.75     0.75
Financial * COMuterization          0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00       0.00      0.50     0.50
Training Center Upgrading           0.00      0.50     0.50        0.00     0.00      0.00       0.00      2.00     2.00
Sub-total                         0.0       0.5      Li0  0      0.00     0.00      0.!000. 00          .32       13.2
PROJECT ENGINEERIES
POI and NM   gm                     0.00      0.00     0.0         0.00     La0       0.00        .03      1J.      1.83
TOTAL UIE COST                    LU        0.88     1.86  p      .0         00     0.16*.8             33.19    3.2
fbyical Contingaecis                   0.05     0.02      0.07       0.01     0.00      0.01       0.23      1.39     1.62
Local Price Contingencies             0.45      0.20      0.65       0.09     0.00      0.09       1.83      3.62     5.45
TOTaL NECDBST                     la         "a                  32.5   8 J0        0.25       L       38.20      5.09
Interost Durin  Construction           1.57     0.10      1.67       1.23     0.00      1.23       3.80      0.40     6.20
TOTAL FIRUCINI 3UufE20T              !      14.20                   B     =  10.6           3     .         O     9.29



- 86 -
A          a3.
IAO PDR
PROVINCIAL GRID INTEGRATION PROJECT
Procurement Arrngements ad Schedule
fkg.   DZSCRIPTOUN             TriP    BXDDXOS        ZTIXMAT    IXUWTAIIOU    BID          COS!IJICT   DZLUJYU      CosTRI.
NO.                                    EROCZURZ       MeUT         TO J D         OPEWINS    slaD        COMLS.    CONLT9.
1      Conductors                P     Ica            5. 70            5/92        8/92       12/92        12/93
2       22kV and 0. 4 kV         P     lX.            2.70             5/92        6/92        12/92       12/93
Insulators and
Hardware
3       115 kV and 22kV          T     lCD            3.00             5/92        6/92        12/92                     6/9*
substations              T     ZBUT           0.50
4       11S kV  nd 22kV         T      XcQ            1.44             5/92        8/92        12/92                     6/94
River Crossing           T     EST            1.70
Linoe
3       22kV/0.4kV               P     lCD            4.10             5/92        6.92        2/92        12/93
rransforaers
a       Portland CeneXt          P     IQ/LCD         2.30             5/92        6/92       12/92        12/93
7       High Tensile 8teel       P     XCQ            2.00             5/92        6/92       12/92        12/93
8       Wood Pole Treatent    P        Ica            0.70             7/92        10/92       Z/93         2/94
Chemicals
9       Serviee Connections    P       lCD/LC         2.20             7/92        10/92       2/93         2/94
and souse Wiring
10      Eeavy Insinee  nd        P     IQc            1.20             5/92        6/92        12/92        2/93
Sorvice VhiLeso
11      Equipment and Tools    P       XCD            1.00             7/92        10/92       2/93         2/94
for Lino Conet.atn.
12      Teleoom Iquimnat         P     Ica            0.97             7/92        10/92       2/93        V/94
13     Metors, Tools and         P     ICa            2.60             7/92        10/92       2/93         2/94
Testing Equipmet
14     Computers                p      Is             0.21             7/92        10/92       2/93        2/94
15      Trainin /~ xient        P      ld/IS          1.20             7/92        10/92       2/93        2/94
16      spare Parts             P      Direct         1.00             7/92        J/92        9/92        6/93
*'.cntrocting
17     Consultanay ad           S  *                  2.50             7/92        a           2/93        2/95
Traing
16     Engineezri   Studies     a                     1.14             3/92        5/92        7/92        6/95
19     Ccntuucticn WO.          W      LCQ            6.69             6/93        6/93        10/93       12/96
TOTL                                          45.09
Note:  P - Supply Contract
T - Supply and Erection Contract
W - Civil Works
S -  Consultancy Training Contract.
ECAT - EdL would enter into a contractual arrangement with EGAT, and would use ICB
for this procurement. Trilateral contract(s) would be used with the selected
bidder(s).



AEX 3.-2
LAO PDR
PROVINCIAL GRID INTEGRAT7ON PROJECT
project md   Or indom
Hinistry of Industry & landicraft
Blectricite du Laos
Project Department
Personnel              Implementation/               ConsuLting               Implementation                 Study
Adainistratlon         Stupy Trans dsoion                engineer                 Ceneration                 Ceneration
and Distributlon                -j
Project
KanagerI
Site Office at           Site Office at           Site Office at           Site Office at
PAKSAUN                  THAKHIEK              SAVANINAKHET                 PAKSE



lA~O PDR
PROVINCIAL GRID INTEGRATION PROJECT
Project Imnplemientatdon Schedule
su,                                       ssw                                      iiW
ImUdIml Bd, Ld-1
mAosi-s
AMmwdb,9.u*                                                                                                                         00
00
(Swf.tgdiCa*ads)
Dehesy Pt"odI"
Coniudon  ado i
Prepailn i Dash i
forauLot 2i i 
(Padiags011l WOMINKI1
4PkISVi Dd Odaamns
bvbdion Si Bid
lckmkwia
alto-~~~~~~~~~~L



- 89 -
- 89 -                   ~~~~~ANNEX 3.14
LAO PDR
PROVINCIAL GRID INTEGRATION PROJECT
Credit Dbbursement Schedule
IDA Fiz-al Year       Disbursement  (US$ mln)           Percent disbursement
Semester                Semtster    Cumulative   Project        Regional ProfilelA
1993
December 31, 1992         -           -             0.0               1.0
June 30, 1993             1.7         1.7           4.7               3.0
1994
December 31, 1993         1.7         3.4           9.4               9.0
June 30, 1994             2.7         6.1          16.9              17.0
1995
December 31, 1994         3.8         9.9          27.5              29.0
June 30, 1995             5.4        15.3          42.5              42.0
December 31, 1995         5.4        20.7          57.5              55.0
June 30, 1996             3.8        24.5          68.1              67.0
December 31, 1996         3.4        27.9          77.5              77.0
June 30, 1997             3.0        30.9          85.8              85.0
December 31, 1997         5.1        36.0         100.0              91.0
L& Based on regional proflle for power projects; no profile is available
specifically for rural electrification projects in the Disbursement
Profiles updated in October 1985.
Agaumotions: Credit Signing: September 1992
Effective Date:  November I'J2
Closing Date:    December 1997



- 90 -
ANNE 3. 15
LAO PDR
PROVINCIAL GRID INTEGRATION PROJECT
Schedule of Supervision Acivities and Missions
.7                                 M&~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
EE             Is.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
5-12/92      Roview of bidding document           Power Engineering          4.0
Procurement
10/92       SUPEBVISION MISSION                  Training                   3.0
Review of InstltutLon/            Power Engineering
Training                          Financiaj. Ana-
- Procurement status                lysis
- Review of EdL's financial
performance and investment
plan
1-12/93       - Review of bid documents and       Power Engineer             6.0
evaluation reports                Procurement
- Review of training/institu.       Training
tional reports                    Financial Analyst
10-11/93-97    SUPERVISION MISSION (Annual)         Financial                  3.0
- Review of EdL's financial         Power Engineering
performance                       Training
- Review of EdL's Investment
Plan
- Procurement/Implementation
status
- Training/Institution
1-12/94      Review of Bid Documents &            Power Engineering          4.0
Evaluation Report                   Procurement
6/94        RevLew Nam Ngum Hydropower           Power EnginearLng          1.0
Station Extension Report             Economics
1-3/98       SUPERVISION MISSION                  FLnancLal Analy-           2.0
- PreparatLon of PCR                Sis
Power Engineering
Training
Economics
. , 



-91 -                            Ar 4.1
Page 1 of 24
LAO PDR
PROVINCIAL GRID INEGRATION PROJECT
Electrcdte do Laos
Annual Financial Statements, 198&2000
Table of Contents
Key Financial Indicators                        2
Income Statement                                3
Flow of Funds Statement                         4
Balance Sheet                                   5
Derivation of average Tariff                    6
Annual Investment Program                       8
Capitalization Values                           10
Fixed Asset Formation                           11
Financing of Investment                         12
Borrowing Summary                               13
IDA Credit Parameters                           15
Government Finance & Equity                     16
Sales & Generation                              17
Direct Cash Flow                                18
Taxes, Dividends & Reserves                     19
Receivables & Payables                          21
Assumptions to Financial Projections            22



Wlo m                                                                                           ANNEX 4.1
PR8ImICAL Bellul mmTiu  PEECT                                                                          Page  2  of  24
ELEMT3CITE K LIDI
11_ FIIICIAL STATEEIEIS
Key Financial Indicators
IUV  Hillien
Finencial tea EuW  kc. 31          3998    1989    19O        93I    IM       13      34       Im       In      39       Im      19m      2000
- -  -      ----k tual--    Est.                                         -----------------ro--ti-s--- ----
pREREL   IrEkI0 S0                          870      792       1      987      879       4      912    1015    1013    1208    3210    130
AEVOE KTIHIf   ISIkiuh)           0.028   0.028    0.027   0.029   0.033   0.034   0.037   0.039   0.043   0.048   0.049   0.049   O.50
AIY. EYEIUE - IUTIIIT PRICES                                0.027   0. 29    0.027   0.029   0.029   0.030   0.032   0.00   0.030   0.025
VERATIE REIE                       14.6    15.4    21.9    25.5    29.4    30.2    34.1    38.7    44.9    50.0    59.5    t0.9    70.5
TOT. OP. EV. I TAlES               31.5    12.1    18.2    20.3    20.4    21.1    24.8    27.5    32.9    38.3    40.1    43.5    53.1
IIEI PERATINS INKIE                 5.1     7.9    10.7    32.0    13.3    12.3    14.0    14.0    20.0    23.4    27.1    25.3    30.9
IIEI IN91A TER TAX                  0.6     0.8      1.4      3.0     2.0      1.5     2.0      2.2     5.5      4.1      4.5     4.0      7.2
TOTAL REEUITAUEE  To 9891.          2.0     5.2      4.9     .8.      4.3      3.3     4.5      4.9     9.0      7.7     3.3      9.0    II.!
MTTAL EKITTLICES MIC.IITEREST       4.3     7.3      9.3    13.4    12.2    33.2    15.2    18.8    23.3    22.2    23.9    25.2    30.2
199l. MM   IPESMnM                 41.9    23.4    30.3    25.9    22.2    27.1    22.0    33.2    33.4    21.9    3.t    4.4    2B.4
RAIE OIISE                          O.O    90.4    917.8    32.1   149.3   159.9   175.1   195.0   207.6   24U.7   298.7   330.0   342.2
"ISY UllJOSz
RATE IF RET.- HIIST. ASSETS      3.91    3.32    5.9n    3.91    6.11    5.31    5.41    4.72    5.31    5.5    8.52    5.82    5.72
RATE OF Kl.- 591.. inSTS         1.01    2.02    3.52    2.31    3.42    3.0!1   3.22    2.92         3.52    3.61    4.42    3.92      3.92
ELF FIN INs 01TO                48.42   37.82   20.31    e8.22    33.9    32.92   19.42   29.31   30.02   20.01   23.62 2*.52   2.32n
DEIT SERItE OUEMIE               5.9      2.4     1.9      5.      2.0      1.7      1.4     1.7      I.3     1.3      1.3     1.4      I.4
iCiUKUT FMJ EUIJTY              23.42   40.41   50.02   55.92    56.9    62.52   83.9    88 6.4!   61.3It   61.32   67.7 n    89.0!   89.9!
WER0/EO  RATIO                  85.02   49.92    53.32    5.92   54.2    59.12   59.02   81.31   55.12   571.2    54.51   59.52   58.32
C3313  RATIO                   230.72    99.12  119.41   73.4    89.0    80.3    N.4i   63.8    51.3    59.7    8.3    11.1    99.9
AEUIUTS KEIEIVILE - KIl3. 4.8             8. 5  4.1        2.9     2.9      2 9      3.1     3.2      3.3     3.4      3.3     3.3      3.2
ztninnnns.i ."s.i.srzscrGarrss .r_..snns__ aznsssm.zs.szrs==sr.,S=Gsfz..ss=3=tns
'0



Incoee Statement                                                                                         ANNEX    4.1
(U25  Thousand)                                                                                   Page   3  of   24
Financial Year Ended DK. 31             1980      1989      1MO       1991      1992     1993      194       1995      I96       1W7      1998      1999      20Q0
---------------Actual--    Est.----------------------------Projections---------------------------------------
fatal Generation  INlkINhl               553       726       953      927       923       939       968       979      1090     1095      1294      1297      1495
EOL 6eaeration (Iftihl                   553       703       825       995       085      all       914       914      2019      1019     1214      1214      1398
Eross Isported Energy 2l9hb)                        23        28        32       38        42        54        65        72        77       80        83        87
Losses 1l                                  9T        9x        71       6b2        62       61        7         77        7l        71        n        n         6u
Energy Sold   MNih)                      508       670       792      871       067       879       904       912      1015      1019     1208      1210      1390
Average Revenue  IL17t/ilhl            0.026    0.026    0.027    0.029    0.033    0.034    0.037    0.039    0.043    0.048    0.040    0.049    0.050
Incete from Electricity Sales          13436    17528    21195    24900    28770    29487    33334    35843    44001    49030    58471    59668    69298
fless) Frm  Adj. on Sales                        -2403       148
Dtter Incee - Euti. ol Sales            1209       260       559       604      652       704       761       821       897      95S      1035      1117      1207
~~~~~~~~--                         --------------        -------  ----------------------------                             ----------   --------
IIPERAltIS REVEIIUE                    24645    15385    21902    25503    29422    30191    34094    36664    44891    49989             9505    60785    70505
OPERATIKS EIPENSES
Salaries and Allowances                  602       491       804       885     1396      1719      1922      1931     2041      2170      2300      2438      2584
Staff KeIfare Expisses                    90                  64        83        el       92        96       101       106       III       117      121       129
Bulk Purchases                                     679      9"1       1180     155B      1722      2214      2665      M2       3215      3520      3714      4089
Other Cash Oeratirl  Eupg es            2100      31183     4065      2369     2723      3161      3643      4200      4843     5583      6438      7424      8562
Provision For Doubtul Odts                           0         0         0      121        17        54        50        S         66       33        23        23
epreciation                             5224      5150      4132      6413     7311      7956      8779      9802    10600    12441    14308    15579    17279
Najar Repairs Provision                 1610                1176      2565     2924      3182      3512      3921      4240     4976      5723      6232      6912
--- ------- ----------I-----------------------------------------------------                                                                    --------
Total operating ECspeAsm                9526      7503    11225    13494    16121    17841    20121    22671    24072    28583    32440    35533    39579
OPERMTING SlJRP.US                      5119      7883    10677    12009    13301    12343    13974    13993    20019    21405    27065    25252    30926
Total Internt Paymts                    2356      2066      4355     6t10      7909      9404    106        11852    13349    14549    15610    1240    186U                                             '
1L8si lnternst Capitalized                 0         0         0     4432       662      2385      3148      4965     6770      5623      1277      1013      6463
INIEREST CDED TO  PER1TI8S              2356      2066     4355      2196      7047      7019       512      6986     6517      8925    14333    13222   1Ma10
111011 EEFORE TAR & 0191N0D             2763      5017      6322     9823      6254      5324      6442      7007    13411    12481    12732    12030    18745
hsimess Turnover ran                                20       103       149      389       461       627       787      1049     1316      1419      1493      1571
Expert Tax                                        1518      366       4204     2163      2098      2156      2092      2391     2366      3113      3092      3909
6rnmnmt ln                              1967      3709      1177      2544     1705      126t      1690      1903      4543      4009     3743      3406      6028
                           - - - - - - ------ -  -           ---------- ---- - - -- --- - ---------------
YEI INCUlE AFTER IAI                     796       571      1374     3026      1996      1480      1969      2225      5453     4789      4450      4039      7238
292=92zal5              ==sss S =5                                                                                                                            -----ssws=sXrsts=sss3ss:-2:::==r==s=======5sa===:=====
Divilded Payale to 6overnmnt               0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0
----   ---- ---- - --      ----                 ------------------   ----    ------------------------
NEI 11N51E                               796       571      1374      3026     1996      1480      2969      2225      5453     4789      4458      4039      7238
TemTssss5s-=ss-=-t=-a; ~ ~      ~      ... =:=  z- 5===aa==*aG= =:rsS==    sss=:s=Sss:=:=- =Zss==Z===ss==Z==2=ZX= = = zaz=== ===r.e==Z== ea= Zs=
Bad Debts lrittn Off                                 0         0       140        0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0
Adj. to Dkyr. far Prey. Yeas                     -2020     -514
Estraordinu rE  enssn                                0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0
Ad. to       R eD Res-Prev yrs                              5579
R    t  Ech W fSat.-Prn yrs                               -7276
111011 AFTER AIUSTIIIENTS                796     2591      3585      2996      16        1480      1969     2225      5453      4789      4458      4039     7238
s2:252:n.ns . se  ss5   as...sfhln.g.mmsinsc=s hauans nsssins2    ssa =asmn:                               sn:::==s2:nmn5==:::Zsss=t:: ss =2522522:ZSS=5
Trasfr fro  hovt. Equity                   0 0            0         0        0              0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0
--~~~~~--    ------   -    -------                                           ---- -------------------------------- ------ -------
IRVS. TO RETAINED EMIIES                 796      2591     3595      2886      IW6       1480      1969      2225     5453      4709      4459      4039      7238
zsse:25.sna355.S5ss2                      t S-a:ssse:s   :3-::::S:::=s:s.s:::2z.2c:snm2f==d2Sfin2-2S====S52= _==5  e==-:==555==:=======



AN7NEX 4.1
Flow of Funds Statement                                                                               Page  4   of  24
IISS Thousand)
Fin iiil Year Ended Oec. 31             19H      1989      3S90       991     1W2       1993      I994      1995    1IS6        1097     1"9       19J9      2000
------------------Actual--    Est.          ------------------- -        Prjectmotns--------------------------------------
INTERIUL CA91 6ENERATIIW
Net Intoe before Interest               5119      7883    10607    12009    13301    12343    13974    13993    20019    21405    27065    25252    30926
andr. md Rel. Extraord. Emp.            5124      3130      4132     6413      7311      7956      8719      9902    10600    12441    14300    15579    17279
Najor  ear  Proyios                     1610                1376     2565      2924      3152      3512      3921     4240      4976      5723      6232      6912
Id;. to Each flat.-Prey yrs            21190        14      7276         0         0        0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0
Exch. Adj. To Ln. Open. Bal.                     -2020    -1062
OPERATINB CASH FLOI                    33033      907    22199    20987    23536    23481    26265    27716    34859    38322    47097    47063    55117
2232223222:- :2::==:2:.::==n   === ==X:=---= --------- ----- :2e.2 ee3 2:2=           : 2= 22            == =       -                        =                 =
ILess  Working Caoital InKr.          11389   -12754      5557    -9513       1399      -676      1691    -1550       866      1930      -259    -1190      4525
/I essl laxes  ayable                   1967     5246      494B      6797      4258      3044      4473     4782      7908      7692      8275      79S1    11507
llessl Dividend Payable                              0         0        0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         a         0
(lessl  d Oebts lritten  lff                         0         0       140        0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0
Iessi Rajor Repairs Expend.               74         0       237      251       266       282       299       317      336       356       378       400       424
CASH AVAIL. FOR DEBT SERVICE           19603    36515    11457    22311    .7613    20031    39803    24166    25669    28945    38703    39862    38660
DEBT SERVICE
Interest Charged to Operations          2356      2066     4355      2186      7047      7019      7532      6986     6578      8925    14333    13222    12161
Principal Repayments                     964      4693      3618      1668     1698      4433      6247      7445      7904    12616    15016    15183    15474
Total Debt Service                      3320      6740      5973      3874     8735    11452    13779    14431    14482    23543    29349    28405    27655
CASH AVAIL. FRON OPERATIOMS            16283      9766      5484    38437      0878      8578      6024      9736    11186      7304      9354    11456    33005
CAPITAL IIIWSTNENI
SPE I Proiect                            482      7042      8615     6430      5098      1154         0         0         0         0        0         0         0
P61 Project                                          0         0         0     6093    17670    IIB83        4474      2521      251         0         0         0
Other ProJects                         40287    14401    21649    19386    11041         8572    10113    28677    30909    27617    34857    45364    26443
Capitalized Interest                       0         0         0      4432      962      2395      3148      4865      6770     5623      1277      4016      6463
Annual Capital Investment              48769    21443    30263    30248    23095    30081    25144    35016    40200    33491    36134    493B2    34911
BALANCE TO BE FINANCED                 32486    11677    24779    11811    14217    21503    19120    282B1    29013    26388    26779    37925    2397b
SOURCES OF FINANCE
Coat. Contribution To Equity           22273   -11500    -3600    -3600    -3600    -3600    -3600    -3600    -3600    -3600    -3600    -3b00    -3600
Buvt. Trnsfr.  ar Adjusteats                         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0
IDA Fin. Los. - PSI                                  0         0        0      6017    17570       9314     2057      1043         0         0         0         0
IDA Financed Ln. - NAN II116                       529         0        0         0         0         0         0         0     1190    23816    30256           0
IDA Financed tn. - SPE I                 452     6772      8605      5370      4969      1017         0         0         0        0         0         0         0
government ProJet Loans                11127                             0        0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0
Loans Iree Oflicial Lenders                      15584    2138B    19292       9333      7B99      9224    26B44    29033    24811        8802    33057    23453
6overnment lrkg. Capital Loans                       0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0     2051         0         0      3252
-----------------------    -------       -------------------------------------------
TOTAt FINANCE                          33052    113B5    26396    20062    36719    22894    14938    25300    26476    24452    29038    38513    23106
22222222222232222222       ====22222222=== 2::B3.S222*2W2222322222:2hlS22t=22tSn222f322222222X::===== 22~ 2=::=SS= ==== 2               X .  ==::: ==== ===::::
CASH IICR. (DECR.I FOR tEA              1366      -292      1617     B252      2502      13BI    -41B3    -2981    -2538    -1735         2239       588      -800
IPENINS BALANCE                         1514      2890      2589     42D5    12456    14958    16339    12157         9176      6639      4S03      7142      7730
-____ -    ____-- - _ - ------- - _- ----- -
COSIN86 BALANCE                         2180      2569      4205    12456    1495B    16339    12157        9176      6638      4903      7142      7730     6930
32fl52222222fl32:222232222a=   sssaas XstsJ:eo =o=W1s  ss= :=ssee: =:::s==e=::



ANNEX 4.1
Page 5 of 24
Salance Sheet
3085 lhousand)
As At Dec. 31                   1989      1989      1990      1991      1992      1993      1$94      1995      1996      1997       19'?      1999     20(0
Ac--------------Atual--    Est. -----------------------------Projections ---------------------------------------
ASSEIS
F3gEO ASSETS
Sross Fsed Assets                      1iz232   126484    6435b   205623   212139   242462   259222   30eu913   3C4781   496121   433477   477140   5UB646
Itesslhccuaulated Depireciation         41472    46047    49645    56079    63388    71344    80123    S9926   100525   112966   127214   142953   160132
Net Fixed Assets                        80760    80437   114691   149545   148751   171113    179099   210987   204256   297155   284203   335887   348514
Work in Progress                         5140    35625    32526    21507    39085    38944    47229    43553    79855    22036    42914    24933    29937
IDIAL FIXED ASSEIS                     65900   113052   147217   171052   187836   209962   226326   2545491  294141   7(15191   327016   360519   378451
CURRENI ASSETS
Cash                                     2e80      256B      4205    12456    14958    16339    12157          9176       63b;     49)3      7142      7739      6930
Inventories                              2145      2?25      2975      1737      1933      2233      2579      29J9      3449      3974      159u      5303      6123
Accounts Receivable                      5648      8373      7525      5918      1333      7375      9691      96B0    12175    14035    16309        16775     I1BSi
lless) Prov.for Doubtful Debts                        0         0         0      -121      -133      -192      -242      -327      -413      -44b      -469      -492
Other Receivables                       14522                  64
Unadjusted Advances                               M224       3940      1NoO      1050      1103      1158      12J6      1276      3340      140?        1477     M552
Recoverables from Sovernoent                        117       ?25         0         0         O         0         u          0                   Li        0 u  
TOTAL CURRENT ASSEtS                    25195    15077    16437    21112    24953    26912    24392    220u9    232IS    2 Si9    e'uO)2    3uBIS    33i'.'
TOhL ASSEIS                           111095   131129   263654   191364   212799   236974   250;18   277;49   307344   329"3.    35601I   3?1234   411537
LIABILITIES ANOD NET NORTH
Eaull!
Bovernment Investment                   b2504    59692    56092    52492    49892    46292    42692    35c92    35492             S 3Idl2    .81 M    24692    s1'5i:
EDL Equity                               606?      4124      4124      4124      4124      4124      4124      4124      4121      4121      4124       4Iz4      4124
Major Repairs Reserve                    2986      2331      5849    11163    13821    16721    19533    23537    27441    32061    37406    43237    49725                                                     U
forex Adj. - Reserves L Earns.                     1062         0         0          0         0         0        0          0                  0 o                 0
Retained Earniaqs                         797      3418      7003      9989    116BS    13365    15334    37559    23Q12    27901    32259    36298   i435:
Revaluation Reserve                                   0         0         0         0         0          0         0                  0         0         0         LI
Asset Revaluation Reserve-EDL                         0      4520      4520      4520      4520      4520      45.O      4520      4520      45:0      4520      45:u
ITIAL NET NORtH                         72654    10627    90558    82182    84242    85022    96603    80832    54598   200397   lOb600   31871   12.556
BORRD11N165
IDA Fin. Lns. - Other Projects                    13092    12174    11174    10174         9174      S174      7174      6174      6364    29130    56437    57437
IDA Financed Le. - SPE I Proj.                     7239    15847    21217    26156    27203    25389    23576    21762    19949    39135    16i22               14y5S
IDA financed Lt. - P61 Proi                           0         0         0      6017    23596    32900    34956    36000    36000    33600    3310 D           .S6eo
Bovernoent Project Loans                  348        72         0         0         0         0         0         0          0         9         0         0         0 
Eoans from Official Lenders             30107    29117    49977    67401    76126    90590    S6351   108593   132536   147544   146543   148431   I63770
Bovernoent Urk. Capi5al Loans                         0         0         0         0         0         0         0          0     2053      2051      2051      5157
less) Current laterities              -I656    -1639    -1658        -1689    -4433    -6247    -7445    -7904   -12616   -15016   -35193   -15474    -50b
iI3AL Bfr;BOIIINBS                     28769    47902    16210    98134   114061   134307   145400   266396  13655   196EY1   214326   240965   26207i
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Current Iaturities of L. 1. D.           3696      161B      3b69      1699      4433      6247      7445      7904    12616    15016    15393    15474           56uO
Accounts Payable                          715      3706      4119      5370      4339      5399      4318      64713     6544      5498      6961      B90Q      569Q
Other Current Liabilities                7271      7276      3049      4735      5706      5900      6553      7744      9740    11328    13047    13420    15I80
TO1AL CURRENT LIABILITIJES               9672    32600       6856    11792    14475    17545    18715    22121    28900    31i42    35091    37798    26470
tOTAL LIARS. AND NET IlRIN            113I95   131129   163654   192164   212789   236974   250713   277349   307344   329030   356015   391b'4   411537
=a====z:r==="=== :=:===z:=:===:t==3                 ss=s==z==================    =====   =======



AR 4. 1
Page 6 of 24
Derivation of Averaqe Tariff
lust Thosand)
Figasical Year Eided Dec. 31                  1989      MD9    I99       9m       1993     14       I95       IS96    1997      I99      199     2000
--ktual-    [st.----------------------------Projections--------------------                   
SALES TO IMILANI1
a. ftos I lle Leut - NIb Song
Power SoId Ct1l                                43       596      545      469      444      432      419      507      493      659      643      906
Jan.r  e   tie  Price                        0.031    0.031    0.031    0.036    0.036    0.036    0.036    0.036    0.036    0.039    0.039    0.042
Oct.- Dec. Price                          0.031    0.031    0.036    0.036    0.036    0.036    0.036    0.036    0.039    0 039    0.042    0.042
Average Price for Year                       0.031    0.031    0.032    0.036    036 b    0.036    0.036    0.036    0.037    0.039    0.040    0.042
Sales-Ram    Nllntout,N ,Song                15034    19199    17362    1696'   15970   15539    15086    19264    18135   .5712    25577    3386?
Fro    WfdStla"                                  0        0      109      164      173      192      177       171      168     164       162      15B
Average Price IISSftIib
JM.- Sept. Price                                            0.029    0.029    0.029    0.033   0.033    0.033    0.033    0.033    0.033    0.033
kt.- Eec. Price                                    0.029    0.029   0.029    .0        0.033    0.033    0.033    0.033    0.033    0.033    0.033
Aberage Price for Year                       0.000    0.007    0.029    0.02     0.029    0.033   0.033    0.033    0.033    0.033    0.033    0.033
Sales fron leset and Selabea                     0        0     3159     4765     5010    6021    5932    5642    5529         5415     5339      5225
PONER SALES TI TDILAND                       15034    1819B    20521    21634   20979    21559    20917   23906   23663    31126    30916    390'
SALES VITHIIN LAO PM
Vientiane AIa
Daestic Consumtin                               53       92       95      100      112      217      123      129      136      143       I50      157
Average Price  iKt1101)                       8.9      9.0     11.0     14.3    14.3    20.0    26.0        36.4    47.7      47.7     47.7    47.7
Averae Price tUS$Ilhl    .                   0.013    0.011   0.016    0.020    0.020   0.029    0.037    0.052   0.068   0.069    0.068    0.06!
Sales - omestic Consuers                       669     1054     1497     2044     2299    3365      4593     6751    9286      9751    10239    10750
Nmn-Domestic Consumption                        90       64       74       78       97       92       96      101       106     121       127      133
Average Price IiripimiWh                       9.9     22.7     26.7     21.7    22.7    26.1       27.4     36.4    47.7      47.7     47.7     47.7
Average Price liSAliPhl                      0.023    0.017   0.024    0.031    0.031   0.037    0.039    0.052    0.068    0.069    0.049    0.069
Sales - Non-domestic Consumers                1134     1068     1770    2417      2707     3410    3760      5259     7233     6246     8658     9091
Foreign Agency ConsunDtion                      10        9        9        9       10       10       11       11       12       13        13      14
Average Price IUSS/kM)                       0.040    0.060    0.9      0.080    0.098    0.088    0.097    0.097   0.106    0.l06    0.206    0.106
Sales to Foreign Agencies                      400      540      720      756      873      917    1059      1112    I224      1348     1416     17B7
AVERA6E TANIF - VIENTIAIIE AREA              0.014    0.016   0.022    0.028   0-42B    0.035    0.041    0.054    0.070    0.070    0.070    0.070



ANNEX-4-.1
Page 7 of 24
kurivatim  of Awher    Tariff Itcmtdl
(US11$ This 
Fiancial Year Eded  Dec. 33                     m       IM0    Il           2       9       1994      9       399 I1    197      ISS3     I99S     2000
-----Acuabl--   iEst.   -          ---------------------Prni  tions -------
Sat*. Prioucn  tinet ErIE)
Ietic Ceesatlge                                   3        4        5        7         9       31       13       II       17        19       20       22
Averae Prict      ikl                           0.0      0.0      0.0     25.0      30.0     37.5     43.1     49.2    49.2       49.2     49.2     49.2
Avwra  Price I111                             0.0oo    0.00o    0.000    0.036    0.043    0.0os    0.0e2    0.070    0.070    0.070    0.070    0.070
Sula  - huticComu'u                               0        0        0      251       344      593      803     1127       197     133D      4    1 550
ks-kas tic Casttis                                1        3        1         7        9       12       15        17       I9       20       21       22
Aerwa   Price sipk                              0.0      0.0      0.0     25.0      30.0     37.5     43.1     49.2      49.2     49.2     49.2     49.2
AO agePrice I/  iS                            0.000    0.000    0.00     0.636    0.043    0.05      0.062    0.070    0.070    0.070    0.070    0.070
Sales -   -oetic         nmer                     0                 0       251      311       45      n    1  137       133      14"      37        1550
ARM   TAUF - 31   Ol3                         0.09    0.000    0.029    0.03       0.043    0.054    0.062    0.070    0.070    0.070    0.070    0.070
Stb. ProwiKfS lilWrtl
kmtic Caue tim                                    9       13        16       35      31        21       25       27        29       33       33        35
AverapFrice  illb)                               I        I        U        30       36       43       46       52        52       52       52       52
Aerwp  Price 11/ f1111                        0.023    0.011    0.011    0.043    0.052    0.059    0.0os     0.015    0.015    0.e75    0.071    M.I7S
._ * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-W   -    8-                                              -- - - _- -- - *- - .  _- - o- -- -- - - - -- - - - - - - - - -                   .    
Sales - k stic Cosws eer                        102      343       382      145      177     3241     1633     22b       2176     2326     2476     2626
Nou-kwstic Couseptiou                            17       IB       10        to       20       27       33        35       3B       39       41       42
Avra   Price IKipliUlI                            I        I        I        30       36       42       41        52       52       52       52        52
Averae Price  tsIklUl                         0.021    0.011    0.013    0.043    0.052    0.059    0.065    0.075    0.075    0.075    0.075    0.075
Sales -   e-doestic Caosers                     30       203      210       nl4     3032     1601     2353     2626      2951     221      3076     31530
AVERA6E TARIF - IFO1T                        0.013    0.0O1    0.029    0.043    0.052    0.059    0.065    0.075    0.075    0.075    0.075    0.075
TOTAL SALES IIITHI LU  PDM                     2495     3006     4379     713$6      5      11775    14926    200e      25367    27344    20752    30204
TOTAL SALES CF EIER6                          17529    21195    24900    29770    294S7    333       35943    44004    403O    58471    59668    6929S
in.smssin:ssnfh:fns: =::::c:i=nsssssas =8g===Ss==St Z==g  S$= ======sl: =:t ::  ::=s
TOTAL ENllRt 50tE                               670      792      971      067       979      904      912     1015      1010     1208     1210     1390
6ROSS  IEHERATION                               726      953      927       923      939      916              IQ00      10S5     1294     12S97     145
AVERAS RE9EIUE 1111 U111h                     0.026    0.027    0.029    0.033    0.034    0.037              0.043    0.049    0.049    0.049    0.050
Eiprt lTill                                                      3.14      3.42     3.40     3.51     3.51      3.52     3.58     3.70     3.B4      4.05
AvIege Lkal Tarif In Cents                                       2.37     3.05      3.24     4.06     4.72     5.97      7.11     7.11     7.21     7.11



Page 8 of 24
Fiamil To    Eadd kc   31  at.  sp. 5999       1990    1991     1992      IM9      I911     1995      199      19"?       99      1999    2-000-
---- ---kctuai-    Est. -----------------Pr- ojections- ---
Foreign Escalatio  Rie0.000    0.00                               0.039    0.039    0.039    0.039    0.039    0.039    0.039    0.039    0.039    0.039
Foreigp  fusalatim  factor                     0.000    0.600    0.020    0.059    0.101    0.143    0.1K6    0.234    0.293    0.333    0.393    0.439
Local EsKalation flit,                         0.000    0.000    0.240    0. us    0.050    0.050    0.050    0.050    0.050    0.0wi    0.050    0.050
Local Escalatios Factor                        0.000    0.000    0.070    0.177    0.244    0.307    0.312    0.441    0.513    0.59B    0.669    0.751
SPE I Ilntludiig Selabam)
Foreign Cost Conpolnat:
Rural Electrifilcation            ;266       409      5269      2479      406        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0
Ient - I1SIV Lis. I Saks.          6928      2133     S00       1333
Solaban                            6311       352      191      5065     3973      800
Foreign Base Cost                 25975      6570     9450      4879     4219      940         0        0         0        0        0         0        0
Pk isicl Coatiqgency                KS                           399      412       04         0        0         0        0         0        0        0
PriceContingency                    474                          503      270       93         0        0         0        0        0         0        0
Total Foreign Cost                   21233      6510     9450     5370      4969     1017         0        0         0        0         0        0         0
Local Cost Component:
Rural Electrification              1MO        446      131      902         0        0         0        0         0        0        0         0         0
lseat - 125kV Lin I Sobs.            65l       26       34
Sel Abu                             321                          127      t00       100
LKMcalSE Cost                      1799       472      165       929      500       100        0        0         0        0         0        0         0
Phuysical Contingency                of                          61        20       50         0        0         0      .0          0        0        0
Price Cntingeny                     116                           69       59       27         0        0         0        0         0        0         0
Total LKcI Cost                       1994       472      165      1059      129       137        0        0         0        0         0        0         0
7OTAL BPE IPRO.JECT COS              29227      7042     9615      6430     5099      1154        0        0         0        0         0        0         0
FROVINCIAL 6RID INTESRTION
Foreign Cost Coepoment
Soutlierm Area I.E.                9141                                  1465     5627      2655        0         0
Central Area I.E.                 12793                                  2047     7490      3246        0         0
Project Eagineeriog                5900                                   350      350       300      900
Teleconeonlcation                   750                                   465       41        66      130        49
Loss Reioctlonletnor k Hd.         1500                                   390       280      290      290       290
Iebidcsms,parn I Toots             1150                                   400      400       350
Iostltut,mil Develormnet           3250                                   350     100        900      500      500
Foreign Base Cost                 30990         0        0         0     5457    151K9      7797     1710       929        0         0        0         0
Phtyuical Contingency              1395                            0      223      776       349       21        17        0         0        0         0
Price Contlngeocy                  3635                            0,     337     1606      1169      326       19         0         0        0        0
Total Foreign Cost                   36000         0        0         0     6017    17570      9311     2057      1043        0        0         0        0
Local Cost Component
Southern Area I.E.                 2341                                     1        5       642      956       679      159
Central Area R.E.                  2261                                     2       29      1197      165      279
Project Engineering                  so                                                        5       25
Toelcoannoacatlon                    51                                    21       t0        1o        5        S
Loss  edKctimn/Netnork Hod.         152                                    41       36        30       30        is
vebidlesSpares I Tools                0
Institntsonil Denlopeet               0
LocallaseCost        4935        0        ~    ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  0  5  79  1974  1691     79       158        0        0         0
pbyslcal Contingency                231         0        0        0         0        2        92       el       48         a        *         0        0
Price Contimngeny                  1927         0        0        0        12       20       603      655      452        93        0         0        0
Total Local Cost                      693          0        0        0        17      501      2569     2417      1479      251        0         0        0
TOTAL PSI PROJECT MOST               42992         0        0        0      6093    17670    11993      4474     2521       251        0         0        0



ANNEX 4.1
Page 9 of 24
Anual lvesteent Progras lcontd.)
Tot. Lop.                                    15   bsad
Financial Year Eedeo Dec. 31                    1989     19S0      1991     IS92      193      ISS4     I995      1996     1997     199       19s      2000
--- -Actual--   Est. -- -----Pr-jection--------------P--                            -- ------------------
OTHEI PPOJEC1S
Hydroelectric 6eaeration
lNH Np  Extemsi                   30520                                                                                  90B    16940    20700
1nit Project                      46706    12274    16202      9896
NeaLte  x  In Song                73150                         4B0       10      4860      7040    20U30    22320    16740
Total Nyro bse Cost                 158376    12274    1622       9466       900     4860      7040    20130    22320    17620    16940    20700          0
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                   -~~~~~~~~~~      ~~~~    - --    ---       -------
Trasdssio Iroje ts
T pirLsi i om rrOje I         13867         1      196     4240      8200     1230
L Prabang-Sboury Tr.liue           6800                                                                                          1360      2720     2720
L Praang-I tkhe  Tr. line          7600                                                                                          1520      3040     3040
--------------                                --------       ----------------------------- -------------    ------
Total Trasissihn Base Cot            20267         1      196      240      9200      1230        0        0         0        0     2990      5760     5760
fiSCellaleOas ProjeKts
Nu %Pg  Phase III                   796       504      292
Nlu lln lH it-3 kebhb.             3274               3274
Nol     gpa blt-4Rehab.            3200         0              3200
Vintiane I.E. If I III            IIIIS      1330     1319                                                                       1860      1400     1400
Vientiona  Netbortk Beav.          4200                                                                                 I500      150     1200
Vamolvng I Nldtnunshp             2270                                            920       680      680
hilding$                            300       133       20        50
ThalbexHmuntloo                     150        70
Dther EOt Espei ituren             2874       109      265      250       250      250       250      250       250      250      250       250      250
Other listrihti,
lliscellmens                                                                                                                                       10000
Nisc. Projects Base Cost             28182      2126     5170     3500       250     1160       930      930       250     1750     3610      2950    11650                                       0
_--     _                - _ _ _  . _ . . _  - _ . __ - _ _ . .... . _ . -------------------- - --------- --                ----
Other Projects Case Cost            214B25    14401    21648    17206       9330     7250      7970    21760    22570    19370    23430    29310    17410
Ph sical C'Atingenty                                               1?1       933      725       P79     2176      2257     1937     2343      2931     1741
PrIce Conv.inencY                        0         0        0       460      778      897      1346     4741      6092     6310     9094    13123      9297
--------------     -      ----------------               -       -------------------------------------   ---                               -----
TOIL COSt-DTIER PROUECTS           214025    14401    21649    19386    11041       8972    10113    28677    30909    27617    34857    45364    28448
A AL   IWESTIEHI PROBRAN           266945    21443    30263    25816    M32    27696    21296    33151    33430    27068    34857    45364    28440
*zs=:nnn tgl:sass.s          = =:.:       =53:===:3s=======  l=e==J=  ==, =X==  ====,=====s=_= ====,== ==  =



ANNEX 4,1
Page 10 of 24
C.pitalaaation Values
IUSI Tbhasnadl
lota
Financial Year Ended Dec. 31       Project      1919     M9O    1991       1M       1993      1994     1995      I96      I31       1998     3999    2000
Cost   ----- ----koal--    Et-- ----------------------Pr -         jections--        -----------------------------------
Foreign Escalation Factor                      0.000    0.000    0.020    0.059    0.101    0.143    0.188    0.234    0.283    0.333    0.305    0.439
Local Escalatlon Factor                        0.000    0.000    0.070    0.177    0.244    0.307    0.3?2    0.441    0.513    0.50B    0.669    0.751
SPE I llncluding Selaba2)
Rural Electrlilcation             13375      4531     5400     3589       456        0         0        0         0        0        0         0        0
leset - IlStV like I Subs.         6690     2159      3034     1497         0        0         0        0        0         0        0         0        0
Stlabae                            7673       352      383    1344       4642     1154         0        0         0        0        0         0        0
TOIAL SPK  I PROJECT COST            20338      7042     8615      6430     5099      3154        0        0         0        0         0        0         0
PRiWIICIAL SRID INTEGRATION
Southern Area R.E.                14736         0        0         0     1633     6518      4072     1233      1027      251        0         0         0
Central Area R.E.                 38196         0        0        0      2312     879B      5563     1102       422        0        0         0        0
ProJect Engineerng                 20S          0        0         0      371      305       350      995         0        0        0         0        0
Teleconnacation                     891         0        0        0       537       58        09      161        66        0        0         0        0
Loss RedEctllo/Netorwt Ihd.         950         0        0         0      451      353       359      399       39B        0         0        0         0
Vehicles,Spares I tools            1264         0        0         0      424      440       400        0         0        0         0        0         t
Institutional Oevelopsoet          3765         0        0        0       386     3338      1050      594      617         0        0         0
TOTAL PSI PROJECT COST               42892         0        0         0     6093    17670    11883      4474      2521      251        0         0         0
=sss=:s::==:w:*a::::-: ::3:=======::==:::3:=::::====         :=-===::=:==::===========================   = =
ITHER P119ESTS
ydroelec tiC 0eneratiwo
nam Ngun Extension                58171         0        0         0        0        0         0        0         0     1253    25070    33849          0
leset Project                     39658    12274    16282    10102          0        0         0        0        0         0        0         0        0
Was Leut L Nam Song               90234         0        0       540     1031     5922      8918    27433    30561    23829         0         0        0
Total Hydro Cost                    195064    12274    16282    10642       1031     5922      8910    27433    30561    25QB2    25070    31849          0                                    0
-          _-----   _-        --                     -         -        -        -
Transnission Projects
llan  Ngu-Luang Prabang           16219         1      196      4790     9714     1519         0        0         0        0         0        o         0
0        0        0         0        0         0        0        0         0        0         0        0         0
L'Prabang-S boury Tr.line         10765         0        0         0        0        0         0        0         0        0     2051      4270     4444
L'Prabang-lkhoan Tr. IJne        12031         0        0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0     2272      4772     4967
Total Transnission Cost              39016         1      196      4790     9714     1513         0        0         0        0      4343     9042     9412
Iiscellaoeous Projects
nam lgas Phase ll                   796       504      292         0        0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0        0
Nis N4ae Utit-3 Rehab.             3274         0     3274         0        0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0        0
NalNu lUnLbit-4 Rehab.             3615         0        0      3615        0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0        0
Vientiane R.E. 11  I Ill           9919      130      133S9       0         0        0         0        0         0        0     28E5      2199     2288
Vientiane Network Penen.           6319         0        0        0         0        0         0        0         0     2173     2262      3984        0
Vangsieng I flidtownship           2906         0        0        0         0     1123       074      909         0        0        0         0        0
Buildings                           209       133       20       56         0        0         0        0         0        0        0         0        0
Thathek-Phcnntioo                    70        70        0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0        0         0        0
Other ERL Enpenditures             3805       109      265      282       296      309       321      334       340      362      377       392      4u0
Other Distribetin                    0         0        0         0        0        0         0        0         0        0        0         0        0
liscellaneous                     16340         0        0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0        0         0    16340
Risc. Projects Cost                  47254      2126     5170     3954       296     1432      1395     1244       348     2535     5444      447k    19036
TOTAL COST - OTHER PROJECTS         201333    14401    21640    19386    11041       9872    10113    20677    30909    27617    34957    45364    20448
AMIuNL IllVESTIIENT PROBSAII        352564    21443    30263    25936    22232    27696    21396    33151    33430   27B68    34B57    45364    28449
3            :33 r =-======.3-===    ==========:====       = =s==a===ws================    ========.. -              -,       z= ======:==



ANNEX 4.1
Page 11 of 24
Fired Asset Formation
4USf Thousand)
As At Dec. 31                           1S9       I9S0      191      1992     1993      IW4       ISSS      1996      1I97     ISSB      199       2000
--- -ktual--    Est.-------- - --------------------Projections----------------------------------------
HISTORICAL VALUE
62DSS FIIED ASSETS
Opening Balce                                             1264B4   164356   205623   212139   242462   259222   300913   304181   406121   411477   470M4)
Additions;
Capitalizations                                        33352    41267       5516    30323    16760    41691        3869   101340       5356    67263    29906
Asset Revaluatln - EDL                                  4520         0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0
Additions-Provincial Assets                                 0        0      1000         0         0        0         0         0         0         0         0
lless5   Foreu AdJustmt
(lessl Retiremnts
Historical 6ross Fixed Assets                   126484   164356   205623   212139   242462   259222   300913   304781   406121   421477   479740   50864
ACCIUR.MEI KDEPCIATI22
Opening BlKce                                              46047    49665    U6079    63388    71344    80123   8926   100525   112966   127274   1i953
Annual Depreciation                               5150      4132     6413      7311      7956      9719      9802    10600    12441    14309    lSr79        17279
Adj. to  kpr. Ior Prev. Years                               -514         0        0         0         0         0         0        0         0                   0 D
Closing Balrnce - Hlstorlcal                     46047    49665    56078    63389    71344    00123    9926   100525   112966   127274   14285,a   160132
NET FIE0 ASSETS - HISTOICAl.                     80437   114691   149545   149751   171119   27909    210957   204256   293155   284203   335987   349514
REVALUATION
Revaluation Factor                               1.000    1.382   12140    1.065    2.050    1.050    2.050    l.050    2.050 o           .050    2.050    l.050
knis Fined Assets:
Openi   Blance                                  226308   31275B   394565   467238   496579   554044   599784   674643   712538   857232   905859  1023543
Adltions                                          0    33352    44156       5695    31091    17119    42733        3965   103874       5490    69945    30654
lnsl) Retiresents
Revalued 6ross Fivtd Assets                     226308   346110   438721   472933   527661   571223   62517   679608   016411   862722   974603  1054196                                               a
22322222222222222222222222ss=                22222z=-ss 2222222   2222222222              2223322 2==s==s=  2:2s= 2a  2.22sSF    222=- = 22es  2= 2:=  0==  =====  ==
IptumliKe Aep                                    90508   134901   163907    899942   216715   246371   279366   316162   356836   402172   451515   511798
Aual Dpreciation                                  9052      9491    24443    16453    11924    19692    21740    23682    26757    30099    32912    36360
Adj. to Depr. for Prev. tars                     -2020      -514         0         0        0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0
Reval. Accumulated Depr.                         97540   143778   178350   206395   234639   266063   301107   339844   383593   432872   487427   548158
ITE FIXED ASSETS - REYAIUE0                     128768   202332   260371   26653a   293021   305159   341410   338764   432819   429850   487376   506039
ROSS FIED ASSETS                               126484   164356   205623   212139   242462   259m          300913   304781   406121   411477   478740   508646
ACCIAIIItAEO DEPRECIAIION                        41047    49665    56071    63398    71344    90123    89926   Q00525   112966   127274   142153   160132
NET FINED ASSETS I14 OPERATION                   00437   114691   149545   148751   171118   179099   210987   204256   293155   284203   335B87   348514
REVALUATION   RESERVE                                0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0
ORHUAL DEPRECIAI2ON                               5150      4132     6413      7311      7954      9779      9802     W10:i    12441    14308    15579    17279
VWRR ii PROSESS
.==-- V. .=Z=*5g
Opening Balancp                                   5140    S5615    32526    21507    39085    39844    47229    43553    7S985    12036    42824    24733
Additions:
Construction                                  21443    30263    25916    22232    276N6    21996    33151    33430    27968    34857    45364    21448
Interest Capitalited                             0         0      4432       962      2385     3148      4865      6770      5623      1277     4018      6463
(lessl Capitalizations                        2825    33352    4127         5516    30323    16760    41691        3919   101340      5356    67263    29906
ea rlY Increase                                 12628    -3089   -11029    17579         -242      9384    -3675    36332   -67849    30778   -17881         5005
NBMl  IN FfROS0ESS                               35615    32526    21507    39095    38844    4722e    43553    79885    12036    42B14    2493M    29937
222222222222         2   2                  22322222222222=222222222322=22==__s=23           =======2========= _ _= =====s= 22:= =:=== = == =  ==  ==2



ANNEX 4. 1
Page 12 of 24
Financin of Investemnt
tunl Billion)
Finsncial Tear Ended OeK. 31                   I989      M990    3991      192      3993    I14       1995      t996     1997     I99      f999     2iQ9
---c tasl-            Est -- -- -------- - -------------- Proeions        n-------------
TOTAL CIINSTRUCTII COST                       21443    30263    25816    22232    276S6   219Sb    33151    33430    27869    34857    4 364    21'B
INTEREST CWIIALIZED                               0        0     432      862      2385     314B     4865     6770     5623      1271     4015     6463
TOTAL IUVESTAENT                              21443    30263    30248    23095    30091    25141    3806    40200    33491    36134    49382    34911
SOURCES OF FINANCE
3:33333 33 a=33:3
Internal Cash 6eneration                       9766     5484    10437      8789     957B     6024     9736    11186     7304      9354    11456   llOt5
met Cash Retentions                            -212     3611     9252      2502     1381    -4183    -2981    -2531    -1735      2239      581      -t0O
CASH AVAIL. ERIE OPERATIOMS                   10058     3967    10186      6376     7197    10207    12716    13724      903 9    7115    It86B   13805
ALAICE TO 8E FIMINCED                         11385    26396    20062    16719    22814    14938    25300    26476       4452    29018    38513    23106
LOPNS
IDA Financed La. - PSI                           0        0        0     6017    17570      9314     2057      1043        0        0        0        0
IDA Fis.n.  -1NRMINS                            529        0        0        0         0        0        0        0o t1SO    231          30256        0
IDA Fio. Ln. - SFE I                           6772     8608     5370     4969      1017        0        0        0         0        0        0         0
6evernment Project luas                           0        ',       0         0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0         0
Lens fre Offaicial Lters                      15594    21338    39292      9333     7898     9224    26844    29033    24811      80Q2    11057    23453
6vernment lrtq. Cpital oins                       0        0        0         0        0        0        0         0     2051        0        0      3252
TOTAL LINIS                                   22885    29996    23662    20319    26494    18538    25900    30076    28052    32618    42113    26706
6svt. Costriotion To Eqgit                   -31500    -3600   -3600    -3600    -3600    -3600    -3600    -3600   -3600    -3600    -3600    -3101)
6wtl. Tresir. for ANiustzis                       0        0        0         0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0         0
NET EOUIT1 INREASES                          -11500    -3600   -360       -300    -360      -3600   -3600    -3600    -3600    -3600    -3600    -3600
TOTAL FINANCE                                 11385    2639b    20062    16719    22B04    14935    25300    26476    24452    29018    38513    23106
33333:3332333DS=:3::rt1:- ===              = ===333333323333333S3S== 3333= 33= 3:333 D                 3         33    .333==:z  3==S==5=*===  =  =  ==



Muz7tul                                                                                                  Pa|ge 13 of 24
fiuuKial lew  fu  Du. 31                          Am         90      1993      3992 I     993 mJ            395 am m9           r.m    191          itm                                         .    3
S  I rqte-               (tt.
IDAL  IN  FlIlM    llOW               fti l
4113   MacsK                                    I356    203S3       2021    329         Inn      sms        64        506        S6      2312      MI5  I05il
"Udtius                               111i521     1301     no        3370    3 5    3u            "is       Ml  1 36            11390    "1    3                3
lateret Eapow                                    3400      i3        354       334      3m        33        31        25A      521         5       439       3943
E.pItaliait  Istrant                                 I         I     3433       241      Ji34     223       2114      233         a      30        323t      44121
srti:ati                                         3426      9II      36          0       330      n3l    2X14         2311      2314     5234      5214      n23
tC3ule iag   ce                                  2333    230221    3239       4231      593       M5        5106      M9      62332    39315   I           1 U00744
sSs.ainSinnnnsssflinsmnas          sSfSn asfl.n Zinf*Slfasfs m nass                                     s.in._m-_       zsss_       m ss._   s     sns  _.f
3IA*1EV. us - WE It
CIuq                                              RNc 31 3  21       672       13'0      639      6443      59        551      3093      4650      420       3156
IUitius                                 4365      2432     3319      3064         0        n         4         0         0         I        0      *            0
lutenst Epem                            3.001     3so       455       5su        69       33       43        4         426      390       35       s33        32
labrestapltliad                                    42       385       43        443       43       443       443       441      44        441       443       44
tiosamq * 3mc                                     51"      6124      134f         1      6443     sm       :5541,    s9         us       4202      3174      3m3
StffSfSa S   wflfltun.s..           $atf          s-$lszttfst lflnfflflss      n.Sss __asssnmbs s samfhlcs sssfh.ssss.zbsnz.n=s.nSnD
ASIAN KEW. 3m-WU  fit
IgMi.t 13uIUl                                        0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0         0        0      2305      5003
"ditioas                                YM           0         0        0         0         0         0        0         0         0     2805      2191      223
3.tnrnt Eapos                           1.001        0        a         0         0                                      0        *
latrnut EBta5 ized                                                                         0         0         0                           9e       213       430
ftlesq!la9!aK                                             0        0         0         0         0        0         0              0     2005      5003      729
enlfnnflfsnew=2:a                    Wsss s est*s2     t323flfl.fln=ansSngu.ns                      mf- lS_   n:*s=====      mee    n s s  ti se_ s  stt
*3UE9f. SE- IESEI
awmiq   luace                                        e     70 6    ISM        300       36300    17467    U433    15200    1339         12133    113500    10261
Idditimus                              3350       168      6233      4603
litirut Espie                           1.003        0      169           M325           125S            1301         3023      935       34s        762      bit
Intenn  t tp3%liz.d                                                  1134
*awrtlutI                                                                                3033     h3033l   13233    13233        12    33          33 12      M23
Chaing Sla Ad                                     1685    33397    ISM0    3350         11461    1643      1520      1339 132133    31500          0211      9333
nsRgssazf:nsnbgt a3z.r                  .nn.=s.stts.n.mn.sssantn nn-                         t .s in_sfssccn-a.flm.flnts r_eS 2sg
ASIAN 69. NU  - MTN A-LINEl
41isg  hlmce                                         0         3      1e9      439    12663    339681   3S35         13031    12136    33315    10243          12 
Uditiu                                 1396          I       inL     4123      O354      3306        0         0         0         0         e                  a e 
ltnteet Espies                          6.501                 0                                    9in       oi3       W3        15       696       636       515
lntnnest Capitasized                                                  146       552      366
kmluzatim                                                                                                    tS9       933       931      93t       933       933
ClOsing Salmace                                      I       389     *330     12663    139Y      13968    13031       236    11175    1024,3       932       6333
*3kIU V. -,  -  uES 13133l
llDain  hlaa                                                   e        0         0         0      961      3117      249       249      2499      6234    3334
iwiitims                            22104                   0         0         0      966       751       12          0        0      3135m    116       3
l3tetnt Espems.                         1.001                                                                          17S       175      in        In        15
Intffert Caitaliad                                                      a         0       34        94       to                            33       534 3U s
Aertizatom                                                                                                                                          361       351
tlosing B&3Scu                                                 0        0         0      966      1717      249       249      249       6234    1334       217
ANt - M IEIWA SZ
Spening hlace                                                  0        0       513      1492     7118    155S1    41652    nUs    3630    33S3             m196
Sd4itins                               93323                          513       930     5626      1412    262    29033    2263                        0         0
Intent Espes                            1.001                                                                                            "31       5700     531
lnternt CaitaIized                                                     l3        it      301       m        2004      3732     5515
korljzatl.                                                                                                                      4112     4132      4112      47132
Closing  lalmce                                               0       513      1492      1118    15593    41652    70615    33M1       83SM      m9ea    14473
IEEE FUND - N336 3
opening Mac                                      3516      304       3490      3250     3011      2171      2531      2291     2032      'P        1572    I1
litien                                   974      335       639
latent hEWs                            3.001      250       251       270      250       231       212       193       1714      55                 il         97
Interest t  italized
bnterstil                                          S37      243       24U       240      24        240       210      241       240       2.        20        240
Llosial banler                                    3094     349       3253      3011     2711      2531      2l        2052     I132       512      1332    109
BPbiag  MaKt                                     7466    12044    21493    25UW        25680    2396S    22256    20A544    1832    17120    15410    13693
lMititas                               36214     4518      9449      4111         a         0        0         o         0         0        *         0         0
Interest Etpeast                        .00        54      1016               319       313       1316      14"       1373     1251      1130      1019       19
Idntent C4pitilt zd                                                  1651
mertiuall3 1712                                                                                   1712      1312      1712      1312     1712      1712      3112
Closing Bulance                                  12044    2349      25680    25680    23968    2256    20544    1132           120    15400    3363    11904



ANNEX 4. 1
Page 14 of 24
Borrowings Sumary (contd)
(US  Billion)
Financial Year Ended Dec. 31                    1989       9?0     1991     1992      1993    IS4       1995     196       199?     ISB    199        2000
-A---- ctual--    Est.----------------------------Projections-- ------------------
18WD
Opening balaKe                                     0      502       B10     1000      1000     100D      100D      933       B67      80D      733       667
Additions                              1000      502       30I     I9         0         0        0         0        0        0         0        0         0
Inturest Expense                      0.001        0        0         0        o         0        0        0         0        0         0        0         0
Interest Capitalized
hortizatln                                                                                        0        67       61        67       b7       67        6?
Closing Ptance                                   502       810     1000     1000      1000     1000       933      867       800      733      667       600
JICA
Opning Balance                                     0         0     3274     6889      6869      6889     6889    6tTB      6430      8144     9947    11371
Additions                             13208        0     3274      3615        0         0        0         0        0     2113      2262     1884         0
Interest Expense                      0.00o        0        0         0        0         0        0        0         0        0         0        0         0
Interest Capitalized
A ortization                                                                             0        0         0      459       459      459      459       604
Closing Balance                                    0      3274     689     6889      6889     6889      6889     6430     8144      9947    11371    10767
UIOEllTIFIED tUAw
Openln balance                                     0         0        0        0         0        0         0        0        0         0        0         0
Additions                             13072        0         0        0        0         0        0         0        0        0         0        0    13072
Interest Expense                      B.002
Interet Capitalized                                                                                                                     0        0       523
Abrtization                                        0         O
CIosing Ba6iue                                     0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0        0         0        0    130?2
LOANS FRON OfFICIAL LE4ER
Opening Blance                                 14190    29111    4Y977    67491    76126   8O590    B63B1   108593   132536   415474   146543   148431
Additions                           206519    I55t4    213B8   1292        9333      7898     9224    26944    29033    24811       8802   11857    23453
Interest Expense                                 666     2497       832     3912      3761     4422     4137      3991     3669      9385     8721     9064
Interest Capitalized                               0        0      2949      622      1201      889     2151      3932     5575       229      807      2042
Awortization                                    1257      628       688      688      3433     3433      4631-   5091      9803      9803     9969    10114
Closing Balance                                29117    49877    67481    76126    80590    86381   lo8593   132536   147544   146543   148431   161770
TOVERNHENi PFiJECT LOA S
Opening Balante                                    0        72        0        0         0        0         0        0        0         0        0         0
Additions                                 0        0         0        0        0         0        0         0        0        0         0        0         0
laterest Expense                      4.801                                                                                             0        0         0
Interest Capitallzed                               0       7          0        0         0        0        0         0                                     0
Asortization                                       0       72                                                                           0        O         Q
Closing Balance                                   72         0        0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0        0         0
8OVERINI IIRI6. CAPITAL LE1.
Opening Balace                                     0         0        0        0         0        0         0        0        0      2051     2051      2051
Additions                             5303         0         0        0        0         0        0         0        0     2051         0        0      3252
Interest Expense                                   0        0         0        0         0        0        0         0       49        sa       98       173
Interest CapitalizeO                               0        0         0        0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0
Inereisatiea                                       0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0        0         0        0       147
Closing Balance                                    0         0        0        0         0        0         0        0      2051     2051     2051      5157
TOTAL LOANS
Opening Balance                                31246    49520    77898    S9972   118503   140554   152844   174300   196472   221907   22959   256440
Additions                           330349    22885    29996    23662    20319    26494    18538    2B900    30076    28052    32612    42113    26706
Interest Expense                                2066     4355      2186     7047     7019      7532     6986      6578     8925    14333    13222    12181
Interest Capitalized                               0        0      4432      B62     2385      3148     4865      6770     5623      1277     4018     6463
Ahortization                                    4683     1618      1688     1680      4433     6247     7445      7904    12616    15016    15183    15474
Closing Balance                                49520    77898    99872   118503   140554   152844   174300   196472   211907   229509   256440   267671
CAPITALIZED INTEREST
Opening Balance                                    0        0         0     3900      3762     2151     2650      2255      902       653      193      421
Additions                                          0        0      4432      862     2385      314B     4865      6770     5623      1277     4018     6U3
Capitalizations                                    0        0       532     1000      3996     2650     5261      8l22     5873      1736     3789     6196
Closing Balance                                    0        0      3900     3762     2151      2650     2255       902      653       193      421       188
=::::::5:z:-a:::=:=::=====               =========:::====::==::====:=====:====:::=:: : =::::===:=::::=======::=:==3::



ANNEX 4. 1
Page 15 of 24
IDA Credit Purters
(USS Thousand)
Financial Vear EndeC ODe. 31           us11      189       1990      1991      1992      1993     3994      1995      I99S      1997      I998     19        2000
Aggr.         -Actual--  Est. -----                -------Projections------------------ -------------------
Proposed ProjeEt                       42892         0         0         0      6093    17670    11BB3       4474      2521       251         0         0         0
froject Cost - Foreip Comp.            36000         0         0         0      6017    17570      9314      2057      1043         0         0         0        0
PrCitt Cest - Local Cosponent           6893         0         0         0        77      10      2519      2417      147B       251         0        0         0
IDA Findnced Expenditures              36000         0         0         0     6017    17570       9314      2057      1043         0        0         0         0
on Rlate                       .....2:2:222f2f:2....... 32    32Ss:2  2              
PROPOSED LOAN IP611                     P.30D
Opening Balnct.r                                     0         0         0         0     6017    23586    32900    34956    36000    36000    33600    31200
Additions                                            0         0         0     6017    17570       SS34      2057      1043         0         0         0        0
Interest Expense                                                                                                                2880      2784      2592      2400
Interest Capitalized                                                            241      1384      2259      2714     2838          0        0         0         0
Amortizatlon                                                                                                                              2400      2400      2400
Closing Balance                                      0         0         0     6017    23586    32900    34956    36000    36000    33600    31200    28800
IDA FINANICED tDAII - IIM3 li6U
Opening Balance                                  15989    13092    12174    11174    10174         9174      8174      7174     6174      5174      4171      3174
Additions                                          529         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0         0        0         0
Interest Expense                                  I363      1272      1354     1238      1122      1006       890       774      658       542       426       310
Interest Capitalized
Amortization                                      3426       918      1000     IOOD      1000      1000      1000      3000      3000     3000      loOn      1000
Closing Balance                                  13092    12174    11174    10174        9174      8174      1174      6174     5174      4174      3174      2174
IDA FIX. LOAN - SPE I
pen;n  Balance                                     467      7239    15947    21217    26186    27203    25389    23576    21762    19949    18335    16322
Additax's                                         6772      8608      5370     4969      1017         0         0         0         0         0        0         0
Interent Expense                                    37       586               1896      2136      2104      1959      1834      1668     1523      1378      1233
Intere;t Capitalized                                                  1483
Amlortization                                                                                      1814      2814      38I3      1814     3184      3B34      1834
Closing Balance                                   7239    15847    21217    26136    27203    25389    23576    21762    19949    18135    3t322    14508
IDA FIN. LOAN - NIJ  W123M EITN
Opening Balance                                      0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0         0     1190    25006    55263
Additions                                                      0         0         0        0         0         0         0      1190    23816    30256          0                                               0
Interest Etpense
Interest Capitalized                                           0         0        0         0         0         0         0       48      3048      3211      4421
Ahortlialian
Closing  allance                                     0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0      3190    25006    55263    55263
TOTAL IDA [0OAN1
Opening Oalllcm                                  16456    20331    28021    32391    42377    59963    66463    65706    53936    62312    80915   105958
Odittions                                         7301     8608      5370    10985    38586        9314      2057      1043      1190    23836    30256          0
Interest Expense                                  1400      1858      1354     3134      3258      3110     2849      2588      5207      4850      4396      3943
Interest Capitalized                                 0         0      1483      241      2384      2259      2714      283B       48      3048      3211      4421
Aortization                                       3426       938      1000     1000      1000      2814      2814     2814      2814      5214      5214      5214
Closing Balance                                  20331    28021    32391    42377    599t3   66463    65706    63936    62312    80915   10595e   100744
TOTAL INIIEREST EIPEIISE                          3400      3858     2354      3134      3258      3330      2849     2588      5207      4850      4396      3943
TOTL CAPITALIZED lITEREST                           0         0      1483      241      1184      2259      2714     2838        48      1048      3211      4421
IDITAL AlIIUIzATIO                                3426       918     1000      1000      1000      2814     2814      2814      2814      5214      5214     5214
= ===  === ::=======:    =========-=====                                            22===:=================  ==2222Zl    - =====a====       = =======2=:2



ANNlEX 4. 1
Page 16 of 24
nevrnmmnt Finaoce I Equity
1USS Thouad)
Financial Tar Eaded Dec. 31                      1989      31W0     191       I92      3993      I94       IS95     IS96      I"9      199       39        2000
- Aktual--    Est.------------------      -       Projections-         -         ----------------------
.s:::s-:r=::::n=S====::s             Rate  ''==33..3=3fzl 55323 3t333t-=was=..==...              e==:z=e3nzxsZs x ........  ===-=wSz=  ...
nSwEm N iRnS. CAPIlAL LIS.              4.81
Opening Balance                                     0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0     2051      2051     2051
Additions                                           0                  0         0        0         0         0        0      2051         0        0      3252
int Aptjr,o,                                                           0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0        0
1992 Grandam                                                                 0         0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0
5993 Drawd=i                                                                           0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0
3994 Grand.                                                                                      0        0         0        0         0        0         0
39M  Grandaim                                                                                             0         0        0         0         0        0
1996 Brandoni                                                                                                       0        0         0         0        0
191 Grandam                                                                                                                 49        98        99       95
3999 Grandm                                                                                                                            0         0        0
3999 Drado.                                                                                                                                      0        0
2000 Grandam                                                                                                                                             78
Aggregate Interest Expense                                             0         0        0         0         0        0        49       99        99       173
rr:erte Capitalimd Interest                                            0         0        0         0         0        0         0        0         0         0
Mort tation:
e "ing lifI^CE                                                     O
1991 Drn Wo3                                                                                     0        0         0         0        0         0         0
3992 Drandmn                                                                                              0         0        0         0         0        0
S9f Grandan                                                                                                         0         0        0         0        0
1994 Drianda                                                                                                                 0         0         0        0
3995 Grandam                                                                                                                           0         0        0
3916 Grandam                                                                                                                                     0        0
3991 Grandam                                                                                                                                            147
Aggregate k                                                            0         0        0         0         0        0         0        0         0       147
Closing Baince                                                         0         0        0         0         0        0      2051     2051      2051     5157
.w aN   _i Tl                      Gzz.M .. ... __ ..... _ zzG. _.z.GW.z.MzW... 
Opening Balance                                          59692    56092    52492    49992    46292    42692    39012    35492    31892    29292    24692                                                    0
Additions- ProjectFinance                       33500         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0        0         0         0
Mdditions - Transfers                                         0        0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0
Additions - ProInclil ssets                                                   1000
AdJusted Bwrrmniags                                           0        0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0
Gedoctians                                                3600      3600      3600     3600      3600     3600      3600      3600     3600      3600     3600
Net Change                                               -3600    -3600    -2600    -36oo    -360        -3600    -3600    -3600    -3600    -3600    -3600
UEGRNNENT INVESTnENT - CANN                              56092    52492    49I92    46292    42692    39092    35492    31892    28292    24692    21092
Credit for lajor Repairs                                      0        0         0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0
other Non-Cash Adiatsments                                             0         0        0         0         0        0         0        0         0         0
TOTAL  OWRNIIEIT INESTIEOT                      59692    56092    52492    49892    46292    42692    39092    35492    31892    20292    24692    21092
EDL EMIT?
Opening Balace                                             4124     4124      4324     4124      4124      4124     4324      4124     4124      4124     4124
Additions                                                     0        0         0        0         0         0        0         0         0        0         0
EDL EQUITY                                       4124     4124      4124      4124     4124      4324     4124      4124      4124     4124      4124     4124
a... 3333=3=3....3=3:3 .3 3.=a3 =.3   =333333333333333333333323333=3333333333    e=:33333333333533333333333 .3fl333::3333333 :3:=3 ==3333  ====3=33      =3333



Sain. atd leuratiee                                                                                         Page  17 of 24
Financial Vear Ceded hc. 31                       1989     M9e       199)      M9        1993      M99      199        99       1991     199       1999      200
-- - kIm- Atal--    Est. ------ -----------------
VICENIII  138*K    No3 ElI):
iceetic Coesaves                                53        92        95       to0       112      1I7       323       129      336       143       [so       151
In ismestlc Caweere                             90        i4        14        is        31       91        Is       101       106      121       12?       1333
foreignCeousme                                   10        9         9         9        I30      to        33        34       12        13        13        34
Tatal Vistame Area Salen                           853      l65       III       lei       20       239       230       242      254       276       29        304
Rate of listribotlm  loss"                        29.6     33.0K     16.01    35.08    15.0  135.08    15.0K          I5.0   195.0t195.08    15.01    35.08
Distribution Losses                                 42        16       34        33        37        39       41        43        45       49        51        54
kguratilm  For Local URs                           139      201       2)2       220       245      253       211       209       29       325       343       358
Saturation Avail. for Esport                       503      695       55        490       455      442       429       520       506      675       659       926
Rate of Traslee . Losses                           2.08     3.02      2.41      2.41      2.41     2.41      2.4K      2.41     2.41      2.48.    2.41       2.41
Ireseiso. Lossns 6 Ste. gme                         30        II       33        32        It       It        30        92        12        16       36        20
OX UN  S0I.S - TMILAILI                            493      596       545       469       444      432       419       Sol       493      659       643       806
3133   ti. FOVECsICeI Eli                                    4         5        7         B        If        33       36        17        3t       20        22
lloeebstic Coesears                              I         3        6I        7         9        32       IS        II        19        20       23        22
lotal lesut  rid Area Sales                          4        7        If        34        31       23        20        I3        36       39         4)       44
lit, of listrlbutlm  tosse                        21.61    22.08    38.01    16.08    15.01    3501 5.01    15.01      S        3 5.01    15.08    35.01    1M.0
DistrlhuastieLsses                                   3         2        2         3         3         4        5         6         6         I        I         I
laeueatim forLocal W                                 5         9       33        I7        20       21        33        39        42        46       43        52
kearati.n Avail. for Espot                           0         0      132       368       1ii I    III       993       II$       312      363       366       162
Rate of Iressise. Lossns                           0.08.    0.01      2.41      2.41      2.41     2.48      2.41      2.4Z      2.41     2.41      2.41      2.41
it-suite. LossesalSte.llse                           0        0         3         4         4        4         4         4         4        4         4         4
IESCTISRAND SALES - IM3ILMD                          0        0       309       364       313      332       317       Il1       368      964       362       359
SUIRN. PIWUVIES (15011)
ioaestUc C.seas                                   7       10        i3        15        37       2)        25        21       29        33        33        35
on oeesticCos,ere s                              I3       If        35        t3        20       21        33        35        38       39        41        42
SAl"s Ifo  lhlt Pvchaes                             20        24       29        33        31       48        58        62        67       70        74        71
Rate of Loises                                   21.61    20.08    38.08    16.08    35.01    95.08    85.01    35.08    35.01    15.02    15.08    35.08
LossmsaWdStation se                                  3         4        4         5         5         6        7        to        30        10        9        30
83kUK  RIMSS                                        23       28        32        38        42.54              65        72        71       90        es        37
MS.*.s.fa f..So a,s..nfh..z..a: -zs..s                             9.::das  a.*MSMox...ns.Mc .s S.z.t.s.s. So... .. M_.a= ... m.2...tt.~stSS
C[R 6UERATIII IT V 313C 611
Nos Ique                                       699       816i      770       700       700      100       100       700      700       100       700      B84
Nis Leohuk  ag Swoo2                                                         10        30                           104      300       30        3          0
Ieset                                                              123SO              to30 I                         o       ISO       Joe       00        330
Selabea5                                                   9         5   5         3    1I       34        34        34       34        34        34        34
931st Small "Wer
CIt 6E5R*1lE                                       703      92        M9        US5       991      914       934      t0)l      9099     3214      9234      1339
.s.tsc.*aanh.nuns                 fh~~tox.flS.. 2. Msm..SS.n... 8cto So So   llS.-S2sl......ZSlZtE*SS2Sf                                  ...*SIS
Nis It"                                        1SO       IS0       350       IS0      ISO       350       350       350      ISo       ISO       150       390
Ua Leku11 beSomg                                                                                                     43       40        43        40       40
Reset                                                                5        5        45        4                  4                   4          5       4
lelabee                                          2         2         2         2        5         5         s         S        5         5         5         5
Oiler hell Hydro
CIL AVAILIIII CWAIIT                               952      IS?       991       197       200      200       200       240       240      240       240       200
in**5*flin23*St  nflSSS.SSSSEZZS.SZCZSSS*SSnSSaZ.SSSSZSSUS .*b                       ....n M.... huSS S t StSt  toSS..Sn.*n*iSM*SM-o



AMEXa 4.1
Direct Cash Fl                                                                                        Page 18 of 24
18 lbausdi
Fiancial L   ear d   Dec. 31                    2989      10       1"9      192       13       194       I995     2996      29        9M      199       2000
0clF1-- ~~Est.---------- --- ----------- ---- Projections ------- - ---------------
Local Cost Escleatim  Factor                   1.000    1.000    1.070    1.177    1.244    1.307    1.312    1.441    1.513    1.581    1.668    1.751
SENERATION BY SWRCE IBlI
Ni llgs                                       b9       636       770      700       700      100      700       100      100       100      700      884
No  Lok A KIm Seg                               e0       0         0        0         0        0        0       l24      104       300      300       300
Maet L                                                   0       120      Is.       too      too      let       2SO      100       tN       160       1so
Sul ala                                         5        9         5        5        17       34       34        34       34        34       34       34
Othe Sall lydro                                 0        0         0        0         0        0        0         0        0         0        0         0
6ross 6eeratian                                  703      825       895     8u5        697      914      914      1019      1019     1214     1214      1391
USSISI:22gSz:SglSllSmin                                                                                                      -:a==:==:=:  S = u C #==:S=5::==:=::   ==:==
SLIIES A1N   EM      S
Ek  fleeN  r -q - OplIq  alute                  1423     1024      JOBS     1083323    1613     5173 13           2183     1973      2113     2873    1273
Aihdtious                                       -3         59                530       260
TL HAIMIEI COEtEE1I1 2024                                1093      1093    1213       2373     2         873      2673     1973      1873     2973      1073
Avg. Salaries A Allm.                          0.479    0.543    0.707    0.1117    0.96    0.919   0.973    1.031    1.093    1.159    I.229    1.302
Salary laflatien                               1.133    1.300    1.156    I.-NO    1.060    1.060    1.060    1.060    1.060    1.060    1.060    1.060
AIEt6  SAl A AUPIIMICES                        7.543    0.707    0.917    0.86W    0.919    0.973    1.031    2.093    1.159    1.2217   W.02    1.3.0
TDTAL SALARIES lUiD IALLIIICES                   491      804       085     1396      17129    122       1931     2047     2170      2300     2430      2594
s S:.s.:Ss2cc c1      e_CS:==5 S2SIISS=S2.flIt.S.S. ==flSSSSSZSfCS-3==ZS:e== tStSS.2.2====tfSI.. ===                                          SI==sa2Cs2=    =S==   =S
IIIKKP      S ESkShl                              23       29        32       33        42       54       65        72       77       80        I3        97
Sle Pr. - Eawerts (IIlSUIM                     0.031    0.031    0.032    0.036    0.036    0.036    0.036    0.036    0.037    0.039    0.040    0.042
beeling Cla rpt WUS1I&WI                       0.0o5    0.00e    0.005    0.0o5    0.005    0.005    0.005    0.005    0.005    0.005    0.005    0.00e
gross Cost of Prchasd Powe                       57        94      1100     156       1722     2214     2665      M2       3215      3520     3714      4069                                             0
llessi forn AsJistmt                             139      -1o                                                                                                                                           0
~~~~~~~~~~~-  -- - -- - -__-- _- -- - -                              -    - - -*- - -  _- - - -- - - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - -- - - -- -- -- -- - -- - - - -- - -- - - - - - - -_------------ -
CEST OF IRILK PMORCOISES                         679      994      2250     1558      2722     2224     265       2952     3215      3520     3714      4089
AII2N1sIRATUll
_- __- ----- -- -- _-- -- -- _-- ---_----
A,isnistratiun - 199  Prices                      82       59        77      100       103      110       216      122      128       134      142       148
Increase Io ease Rate                          0.720    1.300    1.300    1.050    2.050    1.050    1.030    2.030    1.050    2.050    1.050    1.050
- -    -- -                --- -- -                   --- --- - - - -     -- - -  -    - -         - - -- -- -      ---- - - - --- - - - - - - - - 
Adaleistratim - Base Cost                         59        77      loo      205       Ito      116       122      128      134       241      248       253
TOTAL ADNINISTRATION                              59       77       107      124       137      15t       167      184      203       224      247       272
OPERATION AND MAINTENIICE
Operation I faiit. - 1990 Prs.                  1945     2253      3908     2114     2209      2430     2672      2940     3234      3557     3913     4304
Scope of Increase                              0.570    1.770    0.530    1.045    I.IOC    1.100    1.100    1.100    1.100    2.200    2.200    1.100
Operaticon & Iaint. - Base Cost                 1124     3959      2214     2209     2430      2672     2940      3234     3557      3913     4304     4134
OPERATION Ir WAINTENANME                        224      3988      2261     2600     3023      3492     4033      4658     5382     6215      7278     8290
OllER CASH OPERATIN6 EIPENEES                   1293     4065      2369     2723     3161      3643     4200      4813     5583     6438      7424     8562
STIfF IELFARE EXPENSES                                     64        83       97        92       96      lo0       106      I22       127      123       129
*ze * Xw= :===e===::==  ===.I ===:::e====S=e==:Iz2WIctflS=:2I= *e I.r nI :=s== C=::=== = :...: ::=:::::e::== -:=:::=::=:=



laze, Divudeuds S ReservesAM                                                                                                 X 4  
(3119  Tbmon'll                                                                                       Page   19   of  24
fiasecual lear Eaded DeK. 31                     1989     1990      1991     1992      M99       1994     tin5      3996     I9"1      1998     1999      260
--      -- ktua--    fst.-------------------Projectlsos------                        -------     ------   ----
TIMES
Local Ifironver Tax
Sales within Lao FOR                                                4379     1136      OM4     11115    1492      2009      23361    27344    28152    30204
other loco"t                                                         604      152       104      141       321      El7       95      1035      1117     1201
Local lor'oover                                                     4983     1I0       9212    12535    15747    20935    21325    28319    29870    31411
lao late                                                           3.001    5.001    5.001    5.001    5.m0        5.001    5.001    5.001    S.001    5.00!
Local Twworur lax                                  20      103       149      389       461      627       731     1041      1316     1419      1493     1571
Eopwt Retun                                                       2M21    21634    20979    21559    20917    23906    2366          31126    30916    39094
lax Rate                                                          20.00!   10.001   10.04%   10.001   10.001   10.001   11.101   101.001   10.001   10.001
Export VIz                                       1S1S     366       4104     2163      209      2156      209      2393      236      311       303      3909
Uoveraet lIn
tco.. Seode ; as & Otidud                                          9323      1254     5324      6442      7001    13443    12481    12132   a12030    10145
UAN  gtaff gelIIr. E&Woss                                           33       31        92       i1       lot      101       III      III       823      lit
tuies) Local lweae  Tat                                          -349      -3891    -461      -127     -731    -1049    -1311    -1419    -1493    -1571
hushl Expot lax                                                 -4104    -2113    -209       -2156    -2092    -239!    -2366    -3113    -309        -390
lacose kore 6oveaaeu  lao                                          5653      31l9      20O      3151      4229    10101      0930     8S1S      156     1339
lax  Mae                                                            5.0    41.001   45.001   45.001   45.40?   45.001   45.00!   45.041   45.00?   45.001
Deveauet VAt                                     3700     1177      2544     1705      3201     1698      19013    4543      4009     3743      3401     602
lAZES                                                               6191     4253      384      4413      47M      n98       1692     3275      Ml9   31507
AIIac, to RetaImed Ewarlip                      2591      3535      2336     1917      1400     1919    222        5453      4109     4453      4039     1238
OEl INEIN  AF1E  III                              571     1314      3026     1991      1430     li69      2225     5453      4739      4453     403       7238
Ilessi allot. to Rt. Eoms                        513      3535     2886      1199     1410      1919     222       5453      418      4453    4039       7239
0131KE1                                             0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0                  0         0
Vitistm1A3 bANal&  DpKeiallNa                   2308      4332      6413     7311      1M5A     3119      9802    1064      12441    14303    15519    17279
Sa.r Repairs Factor                                361      23!       40       401       401      401,      401      401       40!      401       40?       401
11*103 REPAIRS PRIOVISION                         0.2     3376      2565     292       3182     3512      3921     4240      4916     5123      6232     6912
in.xnnfh:...ins.m.,r.zz   cfuz...n:.zsz:3c3 ..3:.t.2.n3. . . ........33fl3                                 8322   2....t               cs~
11*103 I13IEAiNC  REStAVE
OpeIng Balunce                                  2739      2333     8349    11163    13821    16721    19933    23531    21441    32061    31406    43237
- - --       -    -           --------          ----------------  - - --         -- ------- -       ----------
Opiin  Moante - Revalud                        1460      2331     9849    11113    13921    16721    19933    23537    2M94         32061    31106    43237
Adittlms                                          322     1176     2565      2924     3132      3512      3921     4240      4916     5123      6232     6912
NJi.for Preir. eus                                        5519        0         0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0
fions) lajor Repairs Expend.                       0      -231     -251      -261     -28       -299     -317      -336     -35       -313    -400       -424
---------- - ------   -----    --------                                                  - - -- -- ---------- -- --- ----------------------------------
w       NIEIAIRIENAIE  RESERV                   2331      9349    11113   13021    16121    19933    23537    27441    32061    31406    43231    49125
FOEIA3I. - NJ.REPAIRS US.                        1279        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0         0        0



Page 20 of 24
laxes, Dividends & Reserves (coantil
(lUS1 Tbmsdl
Finacial fear Ended Dec. 31                     1989      ISO      1991     1992      1993     1994      1995     1996     1997      1998     1999      2000
----------Actual--    Et.-----------------------------Projectins----------------------------------------
IIAJOR REPAIRS EIPENITURE                          0      237       251      266       2B2      299       317      33t      35t       378      400       424
ASSET REVALUtATION RESERVE-EDL
Opening Balance                                    0        0      4520     4520      4520     4520     4520      4520     4520      4520     4520     4520
Additions                                          0     4520         0        0         0        0         0        0        0         0        0         0
ASSET REVALUATION RESERVE-ERL                      0     4520      4520     4520      4520     4520     4520      4520     4520      4520     4520      4520
RETAINED EARNINES6
Opening Balance                                  717     3418      7003     9889    I1885    13365    15334    17559    23012    27801    32259    36298
Adjustment - Exchange Rate                         0         0        0        0         0        0         0        0        0         0        0         0
Adjusted Opening Balance                         797     3419      7003     9809    11085    13365    15334    1;559    23012    27802    32259    3629B
Net Additions                                    571     3595      2986     19S6      1480     19tS     2225      5453     4789      4458     4039      7238
RETAINED EARNIN65                               3418     7003      9809    II805    13365    15334    17559    23012    27801    32259    36298    43536
IC)
==   =    ==.==========   =.==   ========      , ==  =====  === == =  ======-  ===  ===================



ANNEX 4. 1
ReEeivables and PiabIes                                                                                     Page   21  of  24
1113 Thousad
Financial Yrar Ended Dec. 31                     1989      190      1991      1992      1993     1994      1995     1996    IS7       19S0      1999      2000
---Actual--  Est.------                            -----Proections-------------
::SSCdrEac=zgnsaflmzsssuin                  m=s:22:323333:2:s3:322323:32.n:2n::2*=        nu : sf=la:3::3::s:2:33s:*s=::;=:::     : fl:.. :*::: rs ==---_-32
ACCOSTS RECEIVABLE
33323: *== =- 333:3 ==s:=:== 
Sales to osestic Cousus                           770      1198     1679      2939     3509      5201     7027      9904    12659    13415    14123    14926
lessl bad Dkbts wnites off                                            60
Adjusted Balance                                  770      1198     1619      2939     3509      5201      1027     9904    12659    13415    14123    14926
Payment Cycle IDaysi                              190       190      150       135       120      120       120      120       120      120       120       120
Dohestic Consumers Receivables                    401      623       665      1067     1154      1710     2310      3256      4162     4410      4643     4907
Sales to Non-dt,estic Sector                     1324      1269     1990      3441     4125      5657     6040      9082    11423    12581    13214    13792
fleoss) Bd Debts Mrittm  off                                          0O
Adjusted Balance                                 1324      1269     1900      3441     4125      5657     6840      9082    11423    12581    13214    13792
Payment Cycle  ays)                              190       390      165       I50      I50       150       150      150       I50      150       ISO       ISO
Non-doaestic Sector Receivable                    689       660      959      1414     1695      2325     2911      3732      4694     5170      5430     5668
Sales to Dielceatic Corps                         400 -    540       720       756      873       917      1059     1112      1284     1348      1436     1487
lless) lad Debts Written off
Adjusted Balance                                  400      540       720       756      673       917      1059     1112      1284     1348      1416     1497
Payment Cycle lDayil                               90       120       90        90       90        90        90       90        90        90       90        90
Diplomatic Corps Receivables                       99       178      170       1Bb      215       226      261       274       317      332       349       367
Sales to Thailand                               15034    10169    20521    21634    20979    21559    20917    23906    23663    31126    30936    39094
Payment Cycle (Days)                              178       122       75        75       75        75        75       75        75       75        75        75
Thailand Receivables                             7315     6064      4217      4445     4311      4430     4298      4912      4062     6396      6353     8033
TOTAL ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE                        9373     7525      591B      7133     7375      8691     9680    32175    14035   1309    16775    19975
PROVISION FOR DDUSTFUQ DEBTS
Opening Balance                                     0         0        0         0      121       138       192      24?       327      413       446       469
Increase EPecr) for the year                        0        0         0       121       17        54       50        95        86       33        23        23
PROVISION FOR DOlBTFUL DEBTS                        0         0        0       121      139       192      242       327       413      446       469       492
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE
COllSTRIETIOll ElPf31111TIIRE                   21443    30263    25816    22232    27696    21996    33151    33430    27068    34851    45364    28440
Iusber of Days                                     49        49       75        70       70        70        70       70        70       70        70        70
CAPIIAL PATABLES                                 2890      4009     5305      4264     5312      4218     6359      6411      5345     6685      8700     5456
OTNER CASH OPERATIIIB ElPENSES                   1183     4065      2369      2723     3161      3643     4200      4943      553      6438      7424     9562
Nutber of Days                                     10        t0       10        10       10        10        10       10        30       10        10        t0
DPERAIIN6 PATAKLES                                 32       I11       65        75       67       100       335      133       153      176       203      235
TOTAL PROJECTED PAYABLES                         3706     4119      5370      4338     5399      4316     6473      6544     5499      6863      8903     5690
.=====~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~323                                                            3=s=s== 3c =2===:2=3= - ...===== = ==s====a= "



- 112 -                         ANNEX 4.1
Page 22 of 24
Assumptions to Financia Projections
Income Statement
(1)  Total Generation -- is derived in the table entitled "Sales and
Generation" (page 17).
(2) Losses -- are derived in the table entitled "Sales and
Generation" (page 17).
(3)  Energy Sold -- is derived in the table entitled "Sales and
Generation" (page 17).
(4)  Income from Electricity Sales -- is derived in the table
entitled "Derivation of Average Tariff" (page 6).
(5)  Other Income Exclusive of Sales -- is projected to increase by
12X per year.
(6)  Salaries and Allowances -- are derived in the table entitled
"Direct Cash Flow" (page 18).
(7)  Cost of Bulk Purchases -- is derived in the table entitled
"Direct Cash Flow" (page 18).
(8)  Other Cash Operating Expense -- are derived in the table
entitled "Direct Cash Flow" (page 18).
(9) Depreciation -- is derived in the table entitled "Fixed Asset
Formation" (page 11).
(10) Total Interest Payments -- are the sum of interest capitalized
and interest charged to operations.
(11) Interest Capitalized is derived in the schedule entitled
"Borrowings Summary" (page 13).
(12) Interest Charged to Operations -- is derived in the schedule
entitled "Borrowings Summary* (page 13).
(13) Government Tax -- is set at 25Z of Total Operating Expenses plus
Interest charged to Operations.
(14) Dividend -- is darived in the schedule entitled "Dividends and
Reserves' (page 19).



- 113 -
ANNEX 4. 1
Page 23 of 24
Flow of Funds
(15) Net Working Capital Increases -- exclude Cash and Liquidity
Requirements.
(16) Principal Repayments -- are derived in the schedule entitled
"Borrowings Summary" (page 13).
(17) Proposed Project -- is derived in the schedule entitled
"Capitalization Values" (page 10).
(18) Other Projects -- are derived in the schedule entitled
"Capitalization Values" (page 10).
(19) Capitalized Interest -- is derived in the schedule entitled
"Borrowings Sumaryw (page 13).
(20) Government Contribution to Equity -- is derived in the schedule
entitled "Government Finance" (page 16).
(21) All IDA Financed Loans (for the Proposed Project and other
Projects) -- are derived in the table entitled "Borrowings
Summary" (page 13).
(22) Government Project Loans and Government Working Capital Loans --
are derived in the table entitled "Government Finance" (page
16).
(23) Loans from Official Lenders -- are derived in the table entitled
"Borrowings Summary" (page 13).
Blance Sheet
(24) Gross Fixed Assets -- are derived in the table entitled "Fixed
Asset Formation" (page 11).
(25) Accumulated Depreciation -- is derived in the table entitled
"Fixed Asset Formationm (page 11).
(26) Revalued Net Fixed Assets -- are derived in the table entitled
"Fixed Asset Formation" (page 11).
(27) Work in Progress -- is derived in the table entitled "Fixed
Asset Formation" (page 11).
(28) Inventories -- are projected to increase in proportion to
changes in operations and maintenance charges, and increases in
the local. escalation rate.
(29) Accounts Receivable -- are derived in the table entitled
"Receivables and Payables" (page 21).



- 114 -
ANNEX 4 1
Page 24 of 24
(30) Unadjust!d Advances -- are project to increase in relation to
increases in Salaries and Allowances, Bulk Purchases, Other Cash
Operating Expenses, and the Dividend Payable to the Government.
(31) The Major Repairs Reserve and Capital Investment -- are derived
in the table entitled "Dividends and Reserves" (page 19).
(32) Current Maturities -- are determined in the table entitled
"Borrowings Summary" (page 13).
(33) Accounts Payable -- are derived in the schedule entitled
"Receivables and Payables" (page 21).
(34) Other Current Liabilities -- are set at 80X of Accounts
Receivable.



- 115 -                            ANN    4.2
Page 1 of 3
LAO PDR
PROVINCIAL GRD INTEGRATION PROJECT
Eecticdte du Laos
Action Program for Reduding Arrears from Government Agendes
1.          The aims of this  rogram are to:  (i) improve significantly the
collection of current billing; (ii) make arrangements to collect over time, a
significant part of the past arrears; and (iii) make arrangements to write
down that portion of past arrears that is considered uncollectible.
Elements of the Program
2.          Set up a system to simplify the offset of Government related
receivables against remittances to the Government. The ultimate objective is
tv lower the arrears to three months of turnover by April 1994. To ensure
that the reduction of Government and Government related receivables does not
have an excessive fiscal impact, the aggregate reduction will be accomplished
in steps. The first group of offsets would aim to teduce turnover to seven
months, the second set to five months, and the third to the ultimate target of
three months, where the Government and EdL would strive to maintain it
thereafter.
3.          A written agreement between the Ministry of Finance and EdL will
define the conditions upon which the compensation can be made. It is proposed
to:
(i) deduct the debts of the Government agencies directly from their
budget allocation. This adjustment should take place yearly in
April; and
(ii) deduct the debts of the Government agencies directly from the
taxes to be remitted to the Government. This second adjustment
should take place yearly in October.
4.          According to the terms of the above agreement:
(i)   At the end of March 1993, EdL will prepare and send to the
Ministry of Finance, the list of the Government and Government
related agencies with receivables of over 3 months together with
the amount that should be deducted from their budget allocation.
The adjustment expected in April 1993 would be Kips 223 millions;
(ii) At the end of September 1993, EdL will prepare and send to the
Ministry of Finance, the list of the Government and Government
related agencies with receivables of over three months together
with the amount that will be deducted directly from the next



- 116 -                            ANNEX 4.2
Page 2 of 3
remittances. The adjustment expected in October 1993 would be Kips
273 millions; and
(iii)   At the end of April 1994, EdL will prepatre and send to the
Ministry of Finance, the list of the Government and Government
related agencies with receivables of over 3 months with the amount
that should be deducted from their budget allocation. The
adjustment expected in April 1994 would be Kips 302 millions.
Maintaining the above system in operation beyond April 1994 is essential as it
can be expected that some Government or Government related agencies will still
experience some difficulties in paying their energy bills regularly. However,
the future adjustments based on the above principles are likely to be well
under the first three ones.
5.          Automatically, EdL will accrue interest on overdue payments for
the bills unpaid after three months. The rate used by the banking system to
remunerate the saving accounts in local currency will be utilized.  EdL will
compute and show on the bills to delinquent Government and Government related
agencies the amounts owing for more than three months and separately the
amount of interest thereon. The accrued interest will be considered part and
parcel of energy debt.
6.          Ask agencies with receivables outstanding of more than three
months and which are not directly under government control, to pay a deposit
of about 2 to 3 months of consumption. If necessary, to highlight the
seriousness of the issue, EdL may need to disconnect several of these non
governmental defaulters. Where defaulters with deposits accrue receivables
that exceed three months, EdL will be authorized to interrupt their
electricity supply, provided a notice was sent to the customer 8 days before,
and solutions to reach an agreement had failed. The deposit would then be
used to compensate for the accrued debts and the cost of disconnection. Prior
to reconnection, the non Governmental agency will have to pay a new deposit,
settle the remaining arrears, if any, and pay the cost of reconnection.
7.          For consumer agencies that are small and weak and have limited
ability to generate cash, develop a system aimed at limiting their power
consumption by installing a small circuit breaker close to the meter. This
will prevent them from installing new electrical equipment. The resultant
limitation of power will be discontinued as soon as the agency establishes a
record of regular payments.



- 117 -                             ANNX 4.2
Page 3 of 3
Attachment
LAO PDR
PROVINCIAL GRID INTEGRATION PROJECr
Electricite do Laos
Action Prom   for Reducing Arrears from Government .Agencl
(in KIps millon)
Jan 93    Apr 93    Oct 93    Dec 93    Apr 94
Remittances for previous
debts
Government offices                      62         74                    58
Agriculture                              33        39                    27
Remittances for 1993
expected debts
Government offices
and Agricultuwe                        128        160                   225
Total remittances                             223        273                  302
Outstandings balance               438        343        230        328       150
Number of months                  8.76       6.86       4.60       6.56      3.00
Notes:
Debts from the Provinces are excluded.
Expected 1992 invoicing - 550 MKips.
Expected 1992 payment rate - 30 percent (rate observed in 1991 and 1990).



118 -
ANMa5  
Page I of 5
LAO PDR
PROVINCIAL GRID INTEGRATION PROJECT
Project Ar  Demand Projecdos
Table 1: "outhers (Xeset) Grid, 1990.2001
(GWb)
19       1991     19        1M3      19       191       19       1         199      199      2006     2001t
^. sxtns   wr       ~............................................................................................................
................
Oominse                        3.W9    4620l   S.04    1.192    4.0111    6.766    7.104          F.4'A    7.5    6. 224    6.616    9.06?
AVirejIh0. 0.224    0.W                           0.301    0.342    0.376    0.140    0.434    0.416    0.419    0.S03    0.13    0.154
IgAttV                         t.6,   2.03       2.2n      2.4s9    2.704    2.97      3.124     3.3    3.44       ).&I6    3.9?    3.?
l*ia  wvift                    0.061    0.201    0.221    0.24      0.2U6    0.211    0.3"    0.3111   0.340    C.uS        o.1m    o.i1
C.  tte                       2.4494    2. s4    2S%       2.I.66    2.499    2.7      2.       2.86      2.n26    Z.9"      3.04       3.1
t7t14  "guy 0W0)               6.204    9.479    MI.4A    11,233   12.109    I.0       MM    14,345   11.019   1661   16.17?   11.103
.................. ............. 
O46  *et  (IWl-4                I111      Ira      1611      902      99 2f 9?          221 2     231t2    z2r4   2149        UN       2110
*'91671        1411       :44     0936      2033     2131     2212      234      2471     a"61      2721     2061     300
a. .w.m
...........
3-nat{                                  0.122    1.374    2.116    3.34    3.704    4.082    4.479    4.29?         1.34    1.611    6.343
Aylattw,                                0.3J?    0.14      o.m       Z.29?    1.414    1.194    1.1       1.713    1.71 3     .  1     .7121.3
1,Iu.v                                  0.316    1.2       2.334    3.16    4. 146    4.43    1.On        1.31     I.SS    1.14    6-.0M
ha   to                                 0.0       0.10?    0.176    0.213    0.2"    0.316    0.34    O.3          0.394    0.4=      0.419
ts Wmmit                                o0.011    0.043    0.074    0.131    0.136    0.1S0    0.1        0.146    0.12    0.11T?    0.160
rMM    r6  (CAu                         1.201    3.36?    1.411    6.161    9.76   10.24M  11.11    12.121   13. t1          13.94   14.174
..................
Pm   6m   W'-d.0                           663     1772      2616     4100     4s16      4*9      12" S9S11          1710     4031    6am
.Ml019                    21?    ~          1079     1671      1666     201?     2221      243?     260I     nu0       300a
C. Pot 1tit
...........
3omoit                                                              1.0.6    2.9"?    4.661    1.412    1.9"6    6.56    7.19          7.61
AWlau0wowe-O40                                                       0.013    0.05    0.031    0.03         0.06     0.06     0.04'  0.04
--tam                                                   r,.QA     0.21     0.41?t   0.517    Q.1        0.7       0.72     0.2
tnel-g9ft-_IM4                                                      0.1PA    1.109    1.619    Z.0=       2till    2.        2.0      2.9f9
0.ort    O.?QO    1.001      1.36    1.61?    1.669    t.)5    1.??
PoMOS 60h ~ C                                                        0.06     0.192    O.239    0.343    0.t 0.4*1    0.459    0.491
C4int104                                                             0.04    0.00    0.tt1    O.t1s    0.046         0.11    0. 111   0.019
TOTA  or   CS)                                                       1.939    1.3       6.26?    9.67?   11.112   12.192   13.04   13.96
....... _............... ... ..  ,.,,.. .,, ... ..    . ,,... .                                    s     ..w . , .... .. ... ..   ......
1-6int 4m-'tt                                                          .7       219      31?      4416      413ss9r      49 *  143      1414
* 0103  t  51              2691      756 42n           3197"     UN
0. t0T4AL
0m110Z                         3.69?    1.143    6.456    7.796   10.64    13.46    IS.=    1T.311   13.M    26.042   21.662   UJU
AW414PAW'                      0.2"      0.69      0.86    1.t1?    I.M         2.11    2.47     2.764    2.Og1    2.906    3.0011   3.
tl6ml                          1.626     2.33    3.1t    4.21    6.6           6.94   10.46    11.13    12.7       13.474   14.146   u4.7r
90860  sa t4                   0.161    0.9 .1 O33           0.4R    0.164    O.m       O.9s1   1.012    1.09       1.0I1      1.6    I.34=
C1u1                           2.494    2.54    2.6?         2.n     2.6       2."t    3.006      3.1    3214    3.9    SJt             3.4
M0L4 VOW                       4.236.   10.tl    13.12   U.714   22.712   28.2   32.m761   36.014   S          2n  4I.W    43.41   41 .-S
Toni IM.si$    kfw.e           9.024   1,.01   11.211   16.433   24.09131.094   U.03    39.611    L 421 641.141   41.711   10.406
... ..........
Mo6    m    fl NM.4y          1110      3466     313       4102     6914      605    10419    11641    1n13       0382    13s"?      1 4
-41ton      041       20611    260       3112     4400      1609     6692      742        12     ow       920       966
-.660  EMW  0U4.9   90i  1w19   om iseI2 mte Stt" t20 mt~g6   601                               ti
tn4A            tel 9W C_Ore fioer "g    e InV     tiwemg  p  46 amet  W     tMed On" _ 4 a*
dstte settes "I  fee      snte five sno    we jrw _  W  F& to as _    t #   Ka  l             ot t^lssss 



- 119 -
ANNEX 5 . 
Page 2 of 5
LAO PDR
PROVINCIAL GRID INTEGRATION PROJECr
Project Area Demand Projections
Table 2: Savaunnakhet Area, 1990.2001
(GWh)
1990     199      193       09       19MA     195       19t9     199      199      19"       2000     2001
....................................................... ......................................  :....
A. oxlnstnt
."...............
0ommoe                         S.6.   9.6all 10.166    1.44   12.601   14.019   14.M            11.53   16.309    1'.11   17.r11      16.3
tIn"U                          5.511   4.5 I    n 6.774    7.450    1.1W      9.016    9.46      9.94   10.42    10.9"    11.506   12.06
hV44Uttw  e                    0.16     0.179    0.19?    0.217    0.239    0.2        0.216    0.2"    0.304    0.519    0.3m        0.312
09swvwam 0ffie"                3.61    3.734    5.09    3.61        3.Oa      '. us    4.122    4.2s    4.9M   4.372    4.44    4*.S
pk*lwdCin,,o1
total 1W    COW$               101t 6.1?   19.694   21.365   23.19?   23.20    27.40    20.&"    29.9?    31.34   MM.   34.2M    35.86
Km  11mw  ZMtaw                 29        3045     319?     33m?      3*s2     3701      316      406      425       9499     4724     4960
=.-  9t2        4600      43       3072     s322      $591     s871      616      6472     6796      7136     7493     76
5. VID I1TM
...........
0116                                     0.50      1.o6    1.55?    2.038    2.271    2.103    2.742    2.991   3.226    3.533         5-
Ziainlrv                                 0.n      1.202    1.6or    1.93?    2.079    2.1162    2.265    2.32?    2.371    2.41       2.4n
AgD0ulna                                 0.59     0.1002    1.171    1. 45    1.161    1.54      1.565    1.16      1.166    1.165    1.M5
Pt" to Sowicin                           0.0315    0.07    0.096    0.139    0.055    0.171    0.166    0.096       0.21    0.222    0.22
C _rnat 0..016    0.024    0.e25    0.0U                                       .e4s   o0.0       o.o0r    o.e4       0.05    0.058    0.054
TOTAL 111 t6 COW                         1.461    s.25    4.45       s.609    6.115    6.461    6.r01    ?.132    7.456    F.794    8.159
..................
Nu  amW  (on.-Dow                         0        zooS    2z3        2910    S31e       3262     321s3     W        3496     351      3606
*-"ws                      2U       4"        7i2      "S       106      1166      27n     1377      1461     1sar      16
C. Pot ftWI1
...........
OWto                                                                 0.40?     o.15    1.13    1.674    1.8          2.0e    2.221    2.42
AgfioulOw. * 14                                                       0.02    0.046    0.016?'    0.11    0.02I    0.126    0.16    0.126
*t                                                     0.e1    0.In      0.365    0.a9    0.51?    0.56       0.r        o.56?
I       .strlS1  -  f1846                                            0.064    0.256      0.33    0.312    0.44    0.46    01.50?r    O.5
*  t"                                                  0.121    0.206 t   **5R    0.202       -301.   0.31     0.221    0.32?
p1*4e some "                                                         0.02      0.06      0.09    0.10      0.114    0.126    0.1?r   0.166
001.lis                                                              60.69    0.02?    0.063    0.044    0.018    0.84?    0.096       0.05
TOtAL 61      COW)                                                   0.69    1.766    2.60n    3.05    3.401    S.70?    3.937    4.*
.rn. 6      ).................                                                                             ...45  .911 4 1   ....1    15?  0620
0. tOtAL
owwti                                   10.139  11.656   13.21   15.M         17.244  Is.61   19.99   21.149         .1 22    .m2   5.125.
I *avw                                  6.63111   7.917    9.056   10.234   01.32        12.1   12.m      12.40?   14.6?   14.650   1.5?W
AgplAVpo                                 0.513    0.09      1.311    1.916t6    R.6     2.412    23.       2.611    2.       2.121    2.764
Pt1*0  ft.w                              3.76     3.63      2.M6    4.129    4.21?    4.31    4.491    4.600    4.70         4.6t2    4.922
C _m.Iat                                 o.0u    O.=        oon      o.oor .o           o.0      o.o9      o.m      0.09       0.1    0.104
T0TAL 316                              21.2n   24.65    27.65    S1.64   M.M2           37.6   39.eo1   41.72   4.9l  46.016  46.19n
Toga& Imareu  6_f.                      22.512   27.066    30.Q    34.6S   34.62        40.11  45.63       46.06   48.33   90.61P  53.012
gm Gom   (W_-DW                  29am     4039     S26       169-   69          765         o        "      9119     954      9661    1o0
..*#p          4 600     son      SW6       6010    676?       79"       16       Oa       9014 9W4 O0t6    low64
det  6"W3d ff  se 90r.t five m_m     oI             mm IN 1n t. s80t IS  m14t 0                 mt t_.



- 120 -                                                        ANM  5 1
Page 3 of 5
IAO PDR
PROVINCIAL GRID INTEGRATION PROJECr
Project Ares Demand Projeetouas
Table 3: Thakhek Area (Khummouane), 1990-2001
(GWh)
IWO   IWO    10       I9s   1994   w9090    1         Iffy   1910   190     2000   20
...nnnn...a.... . ................. . ... .
A. blsoiew 36109
e_oe                        .6U     LS    3.1    1.4    I.?    4.1       4.5    4.:    4.8    1.0    1.2    1.I
44PI4U&UnU               0._01  1.004.  1.195   1.31. 3  I.6    1.5    1.6    I.71    1.56    I.9    2.0      2.,2?
1.33   1.40    1.S40   I.?m   t.n   2.00    2.I6    2        2.3n    2    .0 23    Z.U 7"
6 m. 091031              0.t1  e.m    0.04    0.9S   0.96   1.004   1.56   1.0s4  1.046   1.8    1.109   1.13t
ARmi..   ve.e            0.0e   0.4    0.eJ    0.00   0.01   0.oA      o.0    0.eee10  0.e&   @.Qu6  0.02   0.0e7
r.ts& Graf   fob       1.m   6.274   60.1  7.43    8.002   8.811   9.243  9.676  1.12p  IC.=2  11.100  11.622
*4 .                  .......... .................................
ee OSA    WI I? 9A              0n ,024   1,0711   1,120  t, .    1,244   1,307   1.37 1       I.SO1 m,5111  1,466
umar     t.Me  2.0W?   1.13   2.Z3   2. VA   2.43   2.186   2,716   2.61  2J.94   3.144   3.301
*. IUL smw amft
.......... ...... _
",       O                              0116 0* 0.15    0.211  0.2"   0.31?   0.317   0.31?  0.31?'  0.31?  0.31?   0.Ste
gMdkis                     *     .64    1.32j   1.76    2.j    2.642 2.61    2.747  2.02   2.583   2.915   2.9
Lsw  (                  *   0.610   1.476   1."9    2.6    2.91    3.010   3.064   3.119   3.In   1.=s   .290
,  . _ .... ...._  ... ... ... ........... ... ........   ... ..... .....   ...  ......  .....  .....  .....   .....  .....
9m stin _( n               *      275     014  1.001   1.100   1.36    1.30    1.410   I."?   1,476   1.306   1.13
:]WT       * .            .      .       .       .       .       .       .      .
C. Po? t
9 *  *  e.m    0.051   1.091   1.20?   13.IS  1.46   1.n90   1.73
*ul.atawu-.aw14  .    .      .       .       .      0.000   0.00    0.004  0.      0.00    0.004   0.00
?_-- .        4                                         c *n .  e.en   0.102    .W    0.243   0.20s   0.336  e.338   0.36
.10M  .    I.                      I~~~~~~.M2   2.501   1.150   5.704   5.95    4.012  4.M0   4.174
Arn is 11"we                                            O    .9W   0.050   0.0617   0.076  0.021   0.005   0.1I"    0.106
Comelets                   .                             .01    0.56   0.026   0.017  0.02    0.020  0.03   0O.0
few  "In go                  .      .          .      2.(60   3.75   4.56. .371   S.A    5.926   6.17    6.410
.. SUS _I ..             ...               .     . . .. . _   91?  1..   1. _5. .... 4246   "..   2.   _....
wss _                     .i .v  *  *3 *4                         40      140 10         468    72 .t   2 2m 2 w 72 us
0.  MAL
0,tA               2.550~~~~L    2.80    3.5161  3404   4.216  1.9W   j.400   1.74  6.002   6.167   6.151   7.56
e0.11 1.004   I=    1.3n 1.        1.70?    1.904  L.01       2.11 9   2.Lse  2r   2.4
KM-lw                    tt.  2.014   3.34    5.4112  I.841   7.40 o.m    9.0er    9.421   0.rte   9."?  10.27
p4et 5v.                 4.015  M.IT   1.0011  0.56   I.01    1.116   1. IS   1.21   1.84   1.28   V.301t  1.
cmwelt                                                  LOW   0.4-    *.2 0*9          0..e    0.029   0.e3s   0.es0
oel kue1  6.054   8.m    9.415  12.93A  15.51  1U.1T7  16.010  16.93   19.704  20.504  21.2
tea                66? t.o2t   9.2   10.3r 714.w   17.110  1t.5te  1t.t2t  29.811  2.676  22.56  U.45
.~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                ....  ..,_..._ _ , ......__..._.__..........  ......
"a slow 49506 "            975  I.p   1.10    t,130   S.=3   a OAS  4.102  6.94    1.156   5.3q   5,122   5.s0
5l1S T     .91  S.AW    r1      CM.1    2I.Sn   2.31   3. ete    .21   3.61?   3.619   13,    4. IM
(tta  0    A0Si U  S     dtW. SI stio 402014i 10hvp  ow   i   534utne om4t7.Mu00Go
36099  6SO O  60te  Oftw  9A W  09 MM660405.50.9S" WI ff9 eIVte                     mu  3    O   54.0.o
tu         u       im  0r9 0        la I       ginm          Wl hr            sv           is Mt t *_



- 121 -                                  ANE  5 . 1
Page 4 of 5
LACD PDR
PROVINCIAL GRID INTEGRATION PROJECT
Project Area Demand Projections
Table 4: Se Basgfal Area (Khammouane), 1993-2001
(GWh)
1993    1221   12995   196   1997   1998    22   2            20091
POX NetWork L
Domestic            -    0.652  1.447  2.243  2.489  2.747  3.018  3.303  3.601
Agriculture-Small  -    -         0.004  0.014  0.019  0.023  0.026  0.026  0.026
-Larg-  -    0.418  0.752  0.956  1.354  1.484  1.549  1.614  1.614
Industry -  Small  -    0.151  0.284  0.377  0.453  0.512  0.567  0.601  0.617
-  Large  - -       -       -       -      -           -       -      -
Public Service       -    0.041  0.086  0.130  0.147  0.164  0.181  0.196  0.209
Total Enerov (GWRI    -    1.281  2.594  3.744  4.486  4.955  53.37  S.767  6.09S
Total required
before losa            -    1.409  2.8S3  4.188  4.935  5.41   5.904  6.344  6,705
MAX DZ2UND (KW) DAY   -         902  1,442  1,635  2,073  2,175  2,266  2,331  2,371
NIGHT   -       293    623    943  1,050  1,162  1,278  1,393  1,508
1/ No existing network.



- 122  -                                             AMEX  S.1
Page 5 of 5
LAO PDR
PROVINCIAL GRID INTEGRATION PROJECr
Project Area Demand Projections
Table 5: Paksaue Area (Borlkbamxy), 1993-2001
(GWh)
1993     1994     1995     1996      199?     1998      1999     2000     2001
.................................................................................
Pat meok I/
...........
Doestic                                 0.416    0.837    0.931       1.03    1.135    1.244    1.359    1.479
Agriculture - Smlit                     0.032    0.04t    0.06    0.073    0.074    0.074    0.074    0.074
Large
Induatryr  Smatl                        0.121    0.28?    0.339    0.392    0.444    0.496       0.53      0.54
Large                         1.428    2.m      2.851      2.93    2.997    3.057    3.118       3.18
Public Service                          0.035    o.on      0.082    0.091    0.101    0.111    0.119    0.12S
Co  c eta                               0.022    0.0335   0.O3       0.037    0.038      0.04    0.041    0.042
TOTAL NERGCY (MMA)                      2.054    4.052    4.29       4.553    4.789    5.022    5.241      5.4
...........
Teet R*qMtred before Loses              2.259    4.45    4.729    5.008    5.26t   5.524    5.765    5.9"b
"OX 0uWn  (KIO*-Ooy                        881     1750     1873      1996     2099      2195     2270      2320
--Might                    210      429      482       536       592      651      704       m
1/ Negligible existing network.



- 123 -                            ANNEX 5.2
Page 1 of 4
IAO PDR
PROVINCIAL GRD INTEGGRATION PROJECr
Economic Benefits
A. Benefit Estimation for Residential, Commercial and PubHc Service Consumers (Lighting)
Kips            US$
Kergosene Usage
Monthly cost of kerosene used per
room at 2 litres/month/room
(i.e., 4 litres for 2 room
house) 1/ and US$0.40/litre                               568             0.8
Cost per kWh of the above with
2 litres equivalent to 2.52 kWh
(20-25 W per room, 3 hours per day)                       252            0.36
Cost per kWh of lamp (US$5)
annuitized @ 12X per year                                  16
Total Cost per kWh
Own Generation
Annual capital cost of diesel
generator at US$510/kW
annuitized @ 12X per year                             43,452             61.2
Annual O&M Cost @ 10%                                  36.210            51,
Cost per kWh of the above with
4 hrs. daily operation                                     55            0.08
Fuel cost per kWh at 0.48 litres/kWh                      16             Q_12
and US$0.4/litre (including lube oil)
Total cost per kWh                                        121            0.2
../ Based on rural survey by project consultants.



- 124 -                            ANNEX-5.2
Page 2 of 4
IAO PDR
PROVINCIA, GRID INTEGRATION PROJECT
Economic Benefits
A. Benefit Estimation for Residential, Commercial and Public Service Consumers (Lighting)
(Concluded)
Kips           US$
Minimum Value
Metered Tariff (25 Kips)                                   25            0.03
Cost per kWh of house wiring & service
connection at US$95 annuitized @ 12X
for 30 kWh/month                                           22            0.03
Total Cost per kWh                                         47            0.06
Average benefit per kWh with a
downward sloping demand curvel/ with
maximum benefit of US$0.38/kWh and
minimum benefit of US$0.06/kWh
1/    Based on consumer surveys, and field surveys of potential demand.



- 125 -
Page 3 of 4
LAO PDR
PROVICIAL GRID INIEGRATION PROJECT
Economic Benefits
B. Benefit Estimation for Small Industry & Irrigation Loads
Rice Mills &
Pumping               Saw Mills
(4 hrs for 150 davs)  (B hrs for 300 davs)
Kips      US$       Kips       US$
Diesel Engine
Annuitized capital cost of          34,080       48     34,080       48
US$360/kW & effective capaclty
factor of 0.9 I.e.,
US$ (360/0.9)/kW. (20 years,
121 discount rate)
0&M Cost at lOX                     28,400       40     28.400       40
Cost per kWh of the above              104    0.15          26    0.04
Fuel Cost per kWh at 0.48
litre/kWh and US$0.4/litre             136    0.19         136      l29
Total Cost per kWh                     2Q      03          iia     0.23
Electric Motor
Capital cost ($1851147
+ Electrical wiring ';30/kW)
and effective capacity factor
0.9, i.e. $(215/0.9) per kV         20,353   28.67      20,353   28.67
O&M cost at 41                       6.704    9.6        6.784    9.56
Cost per kWh of the above               45    0.06           11    0.02
Tariff (25 Kips)                        21    0.0           21    0.0
Total Cost per kWh                      70    0M.                  0
Average benefit per kWh wLth
a downward sloping demand curve L
with maximum benefit
corresponding to diesel
engine and minimum benefit
due to electric motor.                 155   0.215           99    0.14
j/    Based on consumer surveys, and field surveys of potential demand.
, 7



- 126 -                            ANNEX 5.
Page 4 of 4
LAO PDR
PROVINCIAL GRID INTEGRATION PROJECT
Economic Benefits
C. Benefit Estimation for Large Irrigation & Industry Loans
Irrigation Capacity
Factor 0.9            Industry
(150 days * 8 hrs)   (300 days * 8 hrs)
Kips      US$       Kips      US$
Diesel Eneing
Capital cost at US$230/kW
annuitized @ 121, 20 years         21,773   30.67       19,596    27.6
0&N cost 101                       18.144   25.56       16.33 20.Q
Cost per kWh of the above               33    0.05          15    0.02
Fuel cost per kWh at 0.4
litre/kWh & 0.4 US$/litre             114    0.16          114    0.16
Total Cost per kWh                     147    0.21         12.    0.18
Electric Motor
Capital cost at US$160/kW &        29,347    41.3       26,412    37.2
US$150/kW for switchgear
and wiring, i.e. US$310/kW
annuitized at 12X.
O&  cost at 41                     9.782   12.78        8.804    iLA
Cost per kWh of the above               33   13.78       8.804    12.4A
Tariff (25 Kips)                        25    0,03          Z5    0.03
Total cost per kWh                      58    00            40     0
Average benefit per kWh with
downward sloping demand curve ]/
with maximum benefit
corresponding to diesel
engine & minimum benefit due
to electric motor                     1Q    0.145           85   0.115
1/    Based on consumer surveys, and field surveys of potential demand.



AMEX 5.3
Page 1 of 6
IAO PDR
PROVINCIAL GRID INTEGRATION PROJECT
Project Internal Rates of Return
Table 1: Champassak, Saravan and Xekoog Grid, 1991-2003
(Southern Grid)
__ __ _ __ __ _ __ _ __ __ _ __ __ _N;.   : 199  199t  1994  1996   199      1997     1998 1999          2        2    001  2002    20:3
1.0 INVESTMENT COST (US$ Milln)                         0.142    0.599    3.470    4.041    3.326    0.773
2.0 OPERATION & MAINTENANCE COST               0.000    0.001    0.007    0.042    0.083    0.116    0.124    0.124    0.124    0.124    0.124    0.124    0.124
4USs mulnon) 11
3.0 ELECTRICITY SALES (GWh) 2
3.1 Domestic                                   0.000    0.000    0.000    1.246    3.280    6.069    5.896    6.505    7.144    7.810    8.602    9.312   10.199
3.2  illage Pumping                            0.000    0.000    0.000    0.013    0.025    0.031    0.038    0.040    0.040    0.040    0.040    0.040    0.040
3.3 LargePumping                               0.000    0.000    0.000    0.066    0.216    0.417    0.657    0.655    0.710    0.720    0.720    0.720    0.720
3.4 Village IndustrIes                         0.000    0.000    0.000    0.644    1.109    1.619    2.025    2.316    2.604    2.802    2.929    2.990    3.053   '
3.6 BIg Indusduies                             0.000    0.000    0.000    0.071    0.708    1.081    1.360    1.617    1.689    1.723    1.757    1.757    1.767   -J
3.6 Total                                      0.000    0.000    0.000    1.940    6.337    8.207    9.876   11.132   12.187   13.095   13.948   14.810   16.760
4.0 SUPPLY COST AT 0.039 ($ikWIH)                                0.000    0.083    0.229    0.352    0.424    0.478    0.623    0.562    0.5o8    0.638    0.676
belro 10% didsibuion bees 3.
5.0 BENEFIT (M US$)
6.1 Domedb at 0.22$1kwh                        0.000    0.000    0.000    0.274    0.722    1.113    1.297    1.431    1.672    1.718    1.870    2.049    2.244
5.2 VUlage Pumping at 0.22  lacwh              0.000    0.000    0.000    0.003    0.000    0.007    0.008    0.009    0.009    0.009    0.009    0.009    0.009
5.3 Big Pumping 0.16 S&wh                      0.000    0.000    0.000    0.010    0.032    0.063    0.084    0.098    0.107    0.108    0.108    0.108    0.108
5.4 Village Industry at 0.22 Scwh              0.000    0.000    0.000    0.120    0.244    0.350    0.446    0.509    0.573    0.616    0.644    0.658    0.672
6.6 BIg Industryat0.12 $1kwh                   0.000    0.000    0.000    0.009    0.086    0.130    0.163    0.194    0.203    0.207    0.211    0.211    0.211
TOTAL COST                                   0.000    0.143    0.606    3.595    4.352    3.794    1.a20    0.601    0.646    0.685    0.722    0.759    0.800
TOTAL BENEFIT                                0.000    0.000    0.000    0.416    1.088    1.668    1.998    2.241    2.463    2.658    2.842    3.034    3243
NET BENEFIT                                  0.000   -0.143   -0.608   -3.180   -3.264   -2.120    0.878    1.640    1.816    1.073    2.121    2.275    2.443
EIFIR WITH PROJECT UFE OF 30 YEARS            18.33
Asumptons:
I1 1% e assets. The maInbenance cost cvers the eots Incurred In later yearF by conumes and IOI LT lIne and transfonmes.
21 The load lotecast Is basod on eondunt meswys and reports with modIlcations carrIed out dudng the appraisal mision.
31 Cost of Supply Is eaimated a the export less. plus wheeling charge of 0.5 cents. Export ose Is taken at 3.0 centsikwh.
based an peak tam of5s cents and tew Ute tladilol 3.3 cent. The peak petod consumptIon Is estimated at 25% of total consumptlon.



ANNEX 5.3
Page 2 of 6
LAO PDR
PROVINCIAL GRID INTEGRATION PROJECT
ProJect latenal Rates of Retum
Table 2: Savannakhe4, 1991-2003
1.0 INSTMENT COST (1U$ VMon                              0.340    2.209     1.693    1.240    0.e00
2L OPERATION & MANENANCE COST                   0.000    0.003    0.025    0.042    0.05      0.N      0.063    0.063    0.063    0.063    0.063    0.6        0.063
3.0 INCREMENTAL SALES (OWh) 21
.1 Dom_.                                        o0.0     0.000    0.000    0.463    1.077    1.641    1J20    2.0D0       2203    2.406    2.018    2.A         .126
S2 Via  Pumping                                                             0.020    0.044    0.067    0.110    0.128    0.136    0.130    0.136    0.136    0.132
33 Large PumpIn                                                             0.061    0.160    0.6       0.450    0.627    0.567    0.67    0.667    O"         06m7
34 VlageoudsIn                                                              0.164    0.26     0.330   o0a32    0.434    0.480    0.607    0.620   o0.30    o6.40
3.5 Big ldustnlsa b0.161    0.02    0.252    0.302    0.308    0.316    0.321    0.327    0.327    0.32?
3.0 Totd                                                                    0.879    1.768    2.676    3.073    3.401    3.707    3.937    4.168    4.420    4.05
4.0 SUPPLY COST AT 0.044 $AW"                                     0.000    0.043    0.086    0.120    0.149    0.165    0.170    0.191    0.202    0.214    0.227
bobs 10% DkbbeUn l. 31
5.0 BENEFIT (M  U$)
5.1 Domestic at 0.23 $&kwh                      0.000    0.000    0.000    0.106    0248    0.377    0.419    0.461    0.507    0.553    0.602    o.6a    0.719
6.2 Viuage Pumping at 0.22 $Ikwh                0.000    0.000    0.000    0.004    0.010    0.019    0.024    0.028    0.030    0.030    0.030    0.030    0.030
6.3 Bg Pumping 0.16 $Iwbw                      0.000    0.000    0.000    0.012    0.028    0.055    0.069    0.079    0.085    0.085    0.08    0.085    0.03S
s.4 Vlilage lndusry a 0.22 $kwh                 0.000    0.000    0.000    0.036    0.056    0.073    0.084    0.095    0.107    0.112    0.114    0.117    0.119
5.5 BJg indusyt d0.12 $1kwh                     0.000    0.000    0.000    0.018    0.024    0.030    0.038    0.037    0.038    0.039    0.039    0.039    0.039
TOTAL COST                                   0.000    0.343    2.234    1.778    1 380    0.992    0.212    0.227    0.242    0.253    0.265    0277    0.290
TOTAL BENEFIT                                0.000    0.000    0.000    0.177    0.368    0.554    0.632    0.701    0.760    0.818    0.871    0.29    0.992
NET BENEFIT                                  0.000   -0.343   -2.234   -1.601   -1.014   -0.438    0.420    0.473    0.524    0.565    0.608    o.652    0.702
EIRR WITH PROJECT LIFE OF 30 YEARS             10.11
Assumptlonc.
U/1% ol assets. The maintenance cost covers the cost Incurred In later yeare by consumer eand for LT line aid transhfmers.
21 The load forecad Is based an consulttmts suseys and reports wIth modifications canled out dudng the appraisal mission.
3 Cot o Supplyi s estmated at the export lose plu wheeling charges ot0.6 cents In Imporng grids. Export loss Is taken at 3.9 centslkwh
based on peak taurf ol 6.8 cents and othei Ume triff of 33 cents. The peak period consumption Is esUmaled at 25A of total consumption.



ANNlEX 5.3
Page 3 of 6
LAO PDR
PROVINCIAL GRID INTEGRATION PROJECT
Project Intemal Rates of Return
Table 3: Thakek (Kbammouan), 1991-2003
_                    |8_'   ~    lA99l 'aH.' 1092  @gE.Saws -1993  :;'1004  .....................1..7.   i-- -.. -00 -001--                           2003
1. INVESTMENT COST(US$ MAonn                            0.133    0.6840    1.0W8    D.A2    0.017
2.0 OPERATION &MINTEANCEOST                    0.000    0.001    0.010    0.021    0.020    0.030    o0        0.030    0.030    0.030    0.030    aim    O0.3
.0 INCR&IETAL SALES (SWI) 2I
3.1 Doment                                     0.000    0.000    O.0       0.670    1.0065    1.184    1.310    1.440    1.5      1.720    1.8B0    2.032    2.212
S.2 Viag Pumping                                                                    0.002    0.003        0.004     0.004     0.004    0.004    0.004    .O04
3.8 Logo Pumno                                                                                                                             0.000ooo
S4 Vllage Industries                                                       0.071    0.192    0227    0203    0299    0.334    0358    036           o.m      0.31
3.6 Big lndudue,                                                           1.722    2.606    .160    3.784    3.03    4.012    4.092    4.174    4.174    4.174
3.6 TOtal                                                                  2.3689    3.765    4.6e4    6.371    6.670    6.=23    6.174    6.410    .63    6.771
4.0 SUPPLY COST AT 0.044 ShWM                                    0.000    0.115    0.182    0.221    0.260    0.275    0.287    0.289    0.310    0.319    0.328
betre 10% disributIon Ice 1
6.0 BENEFIT (M US$)
6.1 Domesdi dO.23$Skwh                         0.0      0.000    0.000    0.132    0.245    0.272    0.301    0.331    0.363    0.398    0.429    0.467    0.609
6.2 Village Pumping d 0.22 $kwh                0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.001    0.001    0.001    0.001    0.001    0.001    0.001    0.001
65. Big Pumping 0.15 $lwh                      0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    O00    0.000    0.000    0.000 o0.000
6.4 Vlage Indusry d 0.22 SIkwh                 0.000    0.000    0.000    4.018    0.042    0.050    0.058    0.066    0.073    0.079    0.081    0.0U       o.ot4
6.6 Blg Indury at 0.12 S/kwh                   0.000    0.000    0.000    0.207    0.301    0.378    0.4s5    0.472    04S1    0.491    0.601    0.601    0.601
TOTAL COST (INCL SENSiTIvITY                 0.000    0.134    0.670    1.221    1.074    0.207    0280    0.304    0.310    0.326    0.340    0.348    0.357
TOTAL BENEFIT(NCL SENSITIVITY)               0.000    0.00     0.000    0.365    0.68S    0.701    0.816    0.870    0.919    0.906     1.011    1.051    1D94
NET BENEFIT                                  0.000   -0.134   -0.870   -0.807   -0.485    0.433    0.626    0.66    0.602    0.63       0.672    0.703    0.137
EIRRWITH PROJECT UFE OF a0 YEARS              20.
AsuumpUonc
V# 1%   as esesb. The malntenanc c   cowrs the cots Icurred in later years by cnsumr and kr LT line and transtormers.
2t The load frecast Is basd an consullanItsauwys and epodes with motilkcUaons coded cut dung the apprail misson.
31 Cost o Supply Is esimated at e export loss plus wheelng charges d 0.6 cents I hnporing grlds. Export l to  taken at 3.9 cents/kh
based on peak tarIff  6.0 conts and oer time tadl of 3.3 cents. The peak period consumpUon Is estimated at 25% otf:ot consumpton.



NNEX 5.3
Page 4 of 6
LAO PDR
PROVINCIAL GRID INTEGRATION PROJECT
Project Inernal Rates Qf Return
Table 4: Se Bang Fal, 1991-2003
1.0 INVESTMENT COST (USS MUlon                         0.186    0.950    1.0      1.407    1.220
2.0 OPERATION & MNTENANCE COST                0.000    0.002    0.011    0.029    0.043    0.056    0.055    0.056    0.056    0.0      0.055    0.055    0.056
(US$ MUm) 11
3.0 INCREMENTAL SALES (GWhi V
3.1 Dome.to 0000    0.000    0.000    0.712    11.54    2397    2.60D    2.936    3.22S                                          S28    3.       4.198    4M3
3.2 Vlage Pumping                                                                 0.004    0.014    0.019    0.023    0.026    0.026    0.D26    0.026    0.026
3.3 La9  PumpIng                                                          0.41a    0.752    0.9C6    1.354    1.484    1.549    1.014    1.014    1.614    1.014
3.4 Vlilaeenduttes                                                       0.161    0.284    0.977    0.463    0.612    0.607    0.601    0.617    0.027    0.637   H
3.6 Bg Indurles                                                                                                                                                   O
3.5 Tota                                                                 1.281    2.594    3.744    4.480    4.955    6307    6.767    6.095    S.4S5    6.870
4.0 SUPPLY COST AT 0.044 SlkWH                                   0.000    0.062    0.120    0.181    0.217    0.240    0200    0.279    0295    0.313    0.333
before 10% dIrbudon los S
5.0 BENEFIT (USS Mlilin)
6.1 Domestc at 0.23 $1kwh                     0.000    0.000    0.000    0.164    0.357    Q.661    0.012    0.675    0.742    O.811    0.883   066    1.056
5.2 Village Pumping at 0.22 $Ikwh             0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.001    0.003    0.004    0.005    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.006
6.3 BIg PumpinG 0.15 Skwh                    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.083    0.113    0.143    0.203    0.223    0232    0.242    0.242    0.242    0242
6.4 Vnage Industyat 0.22 Slkwh                0.000    0.000    0.000    0.033    0.062    0.083    0.100    0.113    0.125    0.132    0.136    0.138    0.140
5.6 Big Industry at 0.12 Skwh                0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000
TOTAL COST (INCL SENSITIVITY)               0.000    0.168    0.981    1.897    1.676    1.457    0273    0.295    0.315    0.335    0.350    0.368    0.388
TOTAL BENEFITr NCL SENSTMTY)                0.000    0.000    0.000    0260    0.534    0.781    0*19    1.010    1.105    1.191    1-6O    1.351    t.444
NET BENEFIT                                 0.000   -0.168   -0.961   -1.638   -1.042   -0.070    0.046    0.720    0.78D    0.850    0.910    0.983    1.056
EIRR WITH PROJECT LIFE OF 30 YEARS            10.81
AammpIonrc
11 1A of assets. The maIntenance cod covers the codas Incured In later years by consumet and for LT lire and llanslormers.
21 The load lwocest I based on consultantamys and repont wIth modlikcaons carled out durng the appralal misdon.
31 Cost of Supply Is estImated at th export loos phls wheeling charges of 0.5 cents In Impokng MIds Export loss Is taken at 3.9 cents/kwh
bassdan peak tawll of 5. cent nd other ime tarIff of 3.3 cents. The peak pedod consumptbin IIeslsated at 25% of tol con umption.



UINES 5. 3
Page 5 of 6
IAO PDR
PROVINCIAL GRID INTEGRATION PROJECT
Project Internal Rates of Return
Table 5: Borikhamutl, 1991-2003
; . .i. .$.j . t 9 2 . z.i9  j.    --  ;;    i.;  1995  .;.5 9 : - j  i,:1996 j  1997      2001               2003
1.0 INVESTMENT COST (US$ MilIon)                        0.140    0.910    1.059    0.943    0.019
2.0 OPERATION & MAINTENANCE COST               0.000    0.001    0.011    0.021    0.031    0.031    0.031    0.031    0.031    0.031    0.031    0.031    0.031
(US$ Millon) 11
3. INCREMEtNTAL SALES (GWh) 21
3.1 DoMeds                                     0.000    0.000    0.000    0.473    0.944    1.049    1.158    1.274    1.395    1.519    1.648    1.791    1.949
3 2 Village PumpIng                                                        0.032    0.048    0.080    0.073    0.074    0.074    0.074    0.074    0.074    0.074
3.3 Large Pumping
3.4 Vllage Indudtes                                                        0.121    0.287    0.339    0.392    0.444    0.498    0.,30    0.640    0.551    0.658 2
3.5 Big Industres                                                          1.428    2.773    2.851    2.930    2.997    3.057    S.118    3.180    3.180    3.180  e
3.8 Total                                                                 2.054    4.052    4.299    4.553    4.789    5.022    5.241    6.440    6.59s    6.765
4.0 SUPPLY COST AT 0.044 $1kWH                                   0.000    0.099    0.190    0.208    0.220    0.232    0.243    0.254    0.263    0.271    0.279
before 10% distibutIon lose 31
5.0 BENEFIT (US$ Million)
6.1 Domesic at 0.23 5lkwh                      0.000    0.000    0.000    0.109    0.217    0.241     .266    0.293    0.321    0.349    0.379    0.412    0.448
6.2 Village Pumping at 0.22 $Iiwh              0.000    0.000    0.000    0.007    0.011    0.013    0.016    0.016    0.016    0.016    0.018    0.016    0.016
3.3 Big Pumping 0.156 $kwh                     0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0.000    0000    0.000    0.000    o.o0o    0.000
6.4 Village Industry at 0.22 Skwh             0.000    0.000    0.000    0.027    0.063    0.076    0.08s    0.098    0.109    0.117    0.119    0.121      0.124
6.6 Big industry at 0.12 $lmh                  0.000    0.000    0.000    0.171    0.333    0.342    0.352    0.360    0.367    0.374    0.382    0.382    0.382
TOTAL COST (INCL. SENSITIVITM                0.000    0.141    0.921    1.180    1.170    0.258    0.251    0.262    0.274    0.2s4 .24    0.302    0.310
TOTAL BENEFIT (INCL SENSITIVITY)             0.000    0.000    0.000    0.314    0.624    0.671    0.720    0.767    0.813    0.856    0.895    0.8OS     0,970
NET BENEFIT                                  0.000   -0.141   -0.921   -0.868   -0.548    0.413    0.469    0.504    0.539    0.672    0.601    on29    0.660
EIRR WITH PROJECT UFE OF 30 YEARS             18.850
A"umptions:
11 1% of aets. The maintenance cost covers the cots Incurred In later years by consumers and bf LT line and transformerc.
21 The load forecast l based on consultants' swwe and repots with modications carried out duiing the appraisal ml8ton.
31 Cost of Supply Is estImated at the export loses, plus wheeling charges o 0.6 cents In Importing gild. Export lose Is taken at 3.9 centslkwh
bawd on peak tariff of S. cenbt and other time taslil of 3.3 cents. The peak period consumptIon Is eqsimated at 25't of total consumptlon.



- 132 -                             ANNE  5.3
Page 6 of 6
IAO PDR
PROVINCIAL GRID INTEGRATION PROJECT
Project Internal Rates of Return
Sunmmry Results of EFonomic Aimglysls
BASE       CAPITAL COST        DEMAND
CASE       SENSITIVITY 1/   SENSITIVITY 2/
Southern Grid            18.33X           14.43X           14.18X
Khammouan                20.96X           18.491           15.161
So Bang Fai              16.81X           13.491          12.181
Savannakhet              10.11           14.621            6.77Z
Borikhamxai              18.85X           15.29Z           13.47Z
1/    Capital Cost sensitivit" with change of:
+301 for Southern Grid and So Bang Fai
+151 for Khammouan
+20z for Borikhamxai
-301 for Sav nnakhet (if 22kV river crossing is chosen instead of 115 kV)
2/    Demand sensitivity with 301 reduction in demand



133 -                            A        6.
IAO PDR
PROVINCIAL GRD INTEGRATION PROJECT
List of Documents In Project File
Audit Reports for EdL for 1988-1990.
Computer Program  IAOFIN6.WK1.
Lao People's Democratic Republic, Electricits du Laos, Three Years Training
Plan, 1992-1993-1994.
Possible Improved Utilization of the Power Contract between EDL and EGAT
through Short Term Regulation of Nam Ngum 1 Hydro Plant.
Planning Study for Future Electrification of Southern and Central Provinces,
Vols. I-III, Addendum.
Study of Accounting and Finance Principles.



- 135 -
MAP



IBRD 23467
102'  P6                                                                                                            Cdi".-.>  1d6  l.  cHINA
somsay                               *  %< .5 
m   0         A t             Mm Nuso           wX                              S 1Sam-Na0                           F
MYNG KHOANAGAR J ! N '.  \...
.'  ,),    '  I   .    A A MR
/~~~)4  CS  G) Xicng  <Q                               j ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ M~InAM9 r  '
I K   H        A         M        X~~~~~~~~OUP AN  YKJL ID
UDON  NI    Sakon       9\_  \\Chain\'"
Khong'  U
GUM0I                                             C HA M  A  M   B OX  U  A N E27 - .
Sakjon.    aeF4ne 
Mukdahan           vnnke(              ,     ,       ,
> & 3$/SA VA ~~~N'K NWH E T I t  
LahznsMAY1992
<6 ~~LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC   
PROVINCIAL GRID INTEGRATION PROJECT                              -         J      S  \VA qiE                -   16--
EXISTING   OT{HBERATRKS  PRQOPOSED                                                        rav n
1 15kV Transmission Lines             Vtl       Z     \I/  
._ ~~~~22kV Transmission Lines                             j5  S9  tEK O N G
)                )     ~~~~~~~Hydropower Plants         ~g               tA
^                         fg~~~~~~~~~~Design 'itudies)  Sirindhr  k  t    ~ ~            p_ 
}\               ^     ~~~~~~~22kV Substr tions             iC H A M j  SS5A4-          s       
[~Er_   ;|Distribution Networks                                          '    , ,, 
Paved Roods                                             <      - 
-  --Unpcved Roads                  6\,' *                                          -n)\ *bhsnp h- b-D pMr-od
t4            @      ~~~~~~~National Capital                                                          -d- ..d . i_ Dfow
Province Boundadies                                 C,*>                        Th. d-.,- e db 
Z  *-  Ilnternotionol BoundariesI                                      -               n,rpod.,h
so5          10,0      150                        C   A    M   BO'D   I A                          7
Kilometers                                                                      -h ..d
,11s                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAY Im



