Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20076
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
PROVINCIAL GRID INTEGRATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 2425-LA)
January 31, 2000
Energy and Mining Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Kip Nationale (Kn)
US$ 1.0 - Kn 700 (at appraisal)
US$ 1.0 - Kn 7,700 (as of November 30, 1999)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
m             -     Meter (3.2808 feet)
km            -     Kilometer (0.6214 miles)
kV            -     Kilovolt (1,000 volt)
kVA           -     Kilovolt-Ampere
MVA           -     Megavolt-ampere (1,000 kilovolt-amperes)
kW            -     Kilowatt (1,000 watts)
MW            -     Megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
kWh           -     Kilowatt-hour (1,000 watt-hours)
MWh           -     Megawatt-hours (1,000 kilowatt-hours)
GWh           -     Gigawatt-hour (1 million kilowatt-hours)
FISCAL YEAR
October 1 - September 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB           -     Asian Development Bank
EdL           -     Electricite du Laos
EGAT          -     Electricity Generating Authority of Thailand
GOL           -     Government of Lao PDR
IDA                 International Development Association
IRR           -     Internal Rate of Return
Lao PDR       -     Lao People's Democratic Republic
MIH           -     Ministry of Industry and Handicrafts
ROR           -     Rate of Return
SPE           -     Southern Provinces Electrification Project
SPRE          -     Southern Provinces Rural Electrification Project
TNB           -     Tenaga Nasional Berhad (Malaysia)
UNDP          -     United Nations Development Programme
ROR           -     Rate of Return
Regional Vice President:              Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
Country Director:                     Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, EACSM
Sector Manager:                       Yoshihiko Sumi, EASEG
Task Manager:                         Enrique Crousillat, EASEG



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Preface ................i
Evaluation Summary ................i
Part I      Project Implementation Assessment
A.  Statement/Evaluation of Objectives .
B.  Achievement of Project Objectives                         .3
C.    Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project          .     8
D. Project Sustainability                              .9
E. Bank Performance                                  .0
F. Borrower Performance .10
G. Summary Assessment of Outcome .1
H. Future Operations .12
1. Key Lessons Learned                                 .12
Part II    Statistical Tables
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments .15
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits .16
Table 3:  Project Timetable .16
Table 4:  Credit Disbursements                             .17
Table 5:       Key Indicators for Project Implementation .17
Table 6:       Key Indicators for Project Operation               .18
Table 7:    Studies included in the Project .18
Table 8A: Project Costs .19
Table 8B:  Project Financing .20
Table 9:    Economic Costs & Benefits (EIRR) .20
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants .21
Table 11:      Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .24
Table 12:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .24
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions .25
Annexes
Annex A.  Mission's Aide Memoire .........................................................  28
Annex B.  Borrower's Evaluation Report .........................................................   33
Annex C.  Ex-post Calculation of Economic Internal Rate of Return ........................... 39
Annex D.  EdL's Key Financial Indicators ..........................................................   43
Annex E.  EdL's Tariff Schedule Effective February 1999 ........................................... 44
Annex F.  Retrofitted Performance Indicators .........................................................    45
Annex G.  EdL's existing and proposed Organization Chart during Appraisal.. ........... 46
Annex H.  EdL's current Profit and Cost Center Structure ............................................ 48
Map:        IBRD No. 23467
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
PROVINCIAL GRID INTEGRATION PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 2425-LA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Provincial Grid
Integration Project in Lao PDR, for which Credit No. 2425-LA, in the amount of
SDR25.30 million was approved on October 6, 1992 and made effective on July 6, 1993.
The credit was closed on June 30, 1999, one year after originally planned. The
latest disbursement took place on November 19, 1999, at which time a balance of
SRD790,065 remained undisbursed. This balance would be canceled after the balance in
the Special Account is fully recovered. Cofinancing of the Project was provided by EGAT
in the amount of US$1.95 million.
The ICR was prepared by Esperanza Miranda, Operations Analyst, EASEG, and
reviewed by Enrique Crousillat, Task Manager for the Project, and cleared by Yoshihiko
Sumi, Sector Manager, EASEG, and Natasha Beschomer, Acting Country Director,
EACSM.
Preparation of this ICR was begun in November 1999 during the Bank's ICR
mission to Lao PDR. It is based on materials in the Project file, and on information and
comments provided by the implementing agency, the Electricity du Laos (EdL) which
contributed to the preparation of the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the Project's
execution and commenting on the draft ICR. The aide-memoire of the ICR mission is
attached as Annex A. The implementing agency's own evaluation report is attached as
Annex B.






i
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
PROVINCIAL GRID INTEGRATION PROJECT
(CREDIT NO. 2425-LA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Bank Group has had sporadic involvement in the Lao power sector since the
late 1960s. In 1982, IDA provided a US$15 million Credit to finance Phase III of the Nam
Ngum Hydroelectric project (C 1197-LA), the major power export facility in the country. In
1987, a Credit of US$25.8 million was approved to finance the implementation of the
Southern Provinces Electrification project (CI896-LA), which itself was the transmission
and distribution component of a broader program to develop electricity resources and
supply in the southern provinces. The Provincial Grid Integration (PGI) project was
conceived as an extension of the SPE project to increase the availability of electricity to
developments in the Southern and Central regions of the Lao PDR and continue
institutional development of EdL. Credit No. 2425-LA, in the amount of SDR25.30 million
was approved on October 6, 1992 and made effective on July 6, 1993 to finance the
implementation of the PGI project.
Project Objectives.
2.    As stated in the Bank's SAR, the objectives of the Project were: (i) extending
electricity supply to more consumers in the Southern and Central Regions of the Lao PDR;
(ii) enhancing the quality of supply for existing consumers in those provinces; (iii)
improving EdL's system efficiency; (iv) continuing EdL's institutional development; and
(v) developing additional power export prospects for the Lao PDR.
3.    The above objectives were to be achieved through the implementation of the
following components: (i) construction of four overhead river crossing lines to interconnect
with the Thai grid, and extension of the 22kV distribution networks of the central and
southern provinces; (ii) implementation of an action program for EdL to monitor and
reduce system losses, increase collections, and improve billing practices, including
provision of equipment and spare parts; (iii) technical assistance and provision of
equipment, materials and services for upgrading the skills of EdL's staff and its training
capabilities; and (iv) preparation of a feasibility study and design study for the installation
of additional capacity at the Nam Ngum hydro station.
4.    Although the Project did not explicitly included a financial objective, it included a
number of conditions to ensure EdL's continued financial viability. The following financial
covenants were agreed upon during project negotiations: (i) EdL to generate funds from
internal sources equivalent to not less than 20% of the annual average of EdL's capital
expenditure; (ii) EdL to maintain a debt service coverage ratio of 1.1; (iii) GOL to take
measures, including increase of EdL electricity tariffs, necessary to enable EdL to meet its



II
1.1 debt service ratio; and (iv) GOL to complete an action program satisfactory to IDA, to
decrease EdL receivables from Government agencies. (para. 5)
5.    The Project objectives were realistic and consistent with the Government's sector
strategy of improving the infrastructure in the Lao PDR's southern and central region and
supporting institutional strengthening at both central and provincial levels of the national
electric utility. The Project was very clear in setting specific outcomes for each of its
development objectives and establishing key implementation indicators. The Project was
neither complex nor demanding for the implementing agency, mainly because EdL had
already gained experience during the implementation of previous power projects. (para. 7)
Implementation Experience and Results
6.    Overall, Project objectives were achieved and the project resulted in substantial
benefits for the rural population of the central and southern regions of the Lao PDR. The
Project provided electrification to villages in the central and south provinces where the
standard of living, consumption of consumer goods and commercial activities have
increased substantially. In addition, the Project provided for a comprehensive technical
assistance program and consulting services for EdL to support its institutional development
7.    Extending Electricity Supply. A total of 33,478 households were electrified under
the Project compared with 14,138 households estimated during appraisal. Original rural
electrification targets were exceeded substantially as a result of a large increase in the
demand of electricity from non-electrified villages which were attracted by the benefits of
village electrification. EdL could respond to the increased demand for services by
achieving low bid costs for most items and requiring up-front investment contributions
from the beneficiaries (para. 9)
8.   Improving System Efficiency and Quality Supply. The Action Plan to monitor
and reduce system losses, increase collections and improve the billing practices was
implemented partially: procurement and installation of new meters was carried out in the
Vientiane area only (original objective was to extend this program to the provinces), and
the program to decrease EdL's receivables from Government agencies was not
implemented. However, EdL achieved some improvements in the reduction of distribution
losses through the acquisition of about 23,000 meters and related equipment which
facilitated EdL's capability to monitor system losses. Distribution losses in the Vientiane
area were recorded at 19% as of mid 1999 compared with 24% in 1995. (para 11-13).
9.    Continuation of EdL's Institutional Development. The institutional objective of
the Project was achieved in that EdL's staff skills and training capabilities were upgraded
through the implementation of several technical studies and training activities, including a
technical cooperation arrangement with TNB of Malaysia. Also, consulting services on
financial management and accounting systems, including the hiring of a Resident Financial
Management Advisor, helped EdL to restructure its operations by cost and profit centers,
and to establish a new annual standard budgeting system (para. 14).



iii
10.   EdL's Continued Financial Viability. In spite of the above achievements, EdL's
continued financial viability is at risk, primarily because of the continued unstable
macroeconomic conditions and in particular, the further and rapid devaluation of the Kip to
the US$ (para. 16). EdL has not met the 20% self financing target since 1993, and reported
a net loss of Kip 7.4 billion in FY98. Although EdL's debt service ratio of 1.48 for FY98 is
well above the 1.1 ratio covenant agreed under the Project, EdL is not generating sufficient
revenues from operations (mainly because electricity tariffs do not cover the full cost of
supply) (para. 17). EdL has proposed to the Government several measures to address its
financial weakness, including restructuring of EdL's balance sheet (para. 18). Of these
measures, only increases in domestic tariffs has been made effective. These increases,
however, may not be sufficient to fully offset likely further devaluation of the Kip over the
next 3 years and hence, additional increases will be needed if IDA's financial covenants are
to be met in the next few years (para. 19).
11.   Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR). The ex-post EIRR was recalculated
using the same economic cost/benefit analysis adopted at project appraisal for each
selected project area, but there are differences in the regional breakdown of provinces
because of the way data were handled at project implementation. The result of the ex-post
analysis is a higher range of EIRR, from 21 to 46%, than the range of 10-21% estimated at
appraisal. The main reason for such high values is due to the fact that the project was able
to reach a much larger number of households while project costs remain within budget
(para. 20).
12.   Implementation Record. Overall, implementation of the Project was carried out
satisfactorily. The credit closing date was extended one year from its original date of June
30, 1998 to June 30, 1999 in order to complete additional extensions of electricity supply
in the central provinces and, to allow completion of consultancy services for the Nam
Theun II project. Disbursements under the credit totaled SDR24.5 million equivalent
compared with the original credit amount of SDR25.3 million equivalent. The undisbursed
balance of about SDRO.8 million will be canceled after the balance in the Special Account
is fully recovered. The estimated project cost at appraisal, based on late 1991 prices, was
US$ 45.1 million, of which: (a) US$ 36 million was to be financed by the Association, (b)
US$ 2.2 million to be financed by EGAT; and (c) US$ 6.9 million to be financed by EdL.
The actual project cost was US$ 43.3 million (excluding IDC) which is slightly lower (by
about 4%) than the appraisal estimate. The lower cost was achieved mainly because lower
bid costs for most of the equipment and installation (para. 21-26)
13.   The major factor affecting the project in general, and EdL's finances in particular,
was the rapid depreciation of the Kip caused by the region's economic crisis in 1997 and
the country's weak macroeconomic management. The devaluation resulted in a sharp jump
in EdL's operating expenses (by about 57%); interest expense payments (105%); and
foreign exchange losses (a gain of K 5 billion in FY96 reverted to a loss of K 14 billion in
FY98). Consequently, despite the 70% increase in domestic tariff which increased
revenues in FY97, net losses of K 7.4 billion were recorded in FY98 compared with a
restated net income of K 11 billion in FY96 (para. 16, 27).



iv
14.   IDA and Borrower's Performance. IDA's performance during project appraisal
and project supervision is considered highly satisfactory due to the substantial support it
provided to the Borrower and EdL in the technical, institutional and financial aspects of the
project. The GOL, as the Borrower of the Project, showed a strong interest in the Project
during preparation and appraisal, however, its performance during project implementation
is rated unsatisfactory because of its lack of action to support EdL's financial restructuring
plan. EdL's (the Implementing Agency) performance is considered satisfactory in all stages
of the project cycle, with the exception of covenant compliance. EdL has demonstrated its
commitment and ownership of electrification projects and it has even established a Projects
Office dedicated to implementing donor-financed projects. (para. 31-37)
15.   Project Outcome. The outcome of the project is rated satisfactory based on the
following factors: i) the project objectives were overall achieved, ii) the project resulted in
substantial benefits for the rural population of the central and southern regions of the Lao
PDR, and iii) project implementation was carried out satisfactorily from a technical and
cost viewpoints. This rating is given mainly on the basis of the actual results achieved
under the project and EdL's commitment to the objectives of the project. EdL's precarious
financial conditions, although significant enough to threat sustainability of the project
achievements, is mostly a result of the current macroeconomic situation which, in addition
of being a factor exogenous to the project, is showing signs of some improvement already.
The exchange rate has remained stable for the last quarter of 1999 as result of some
measures - though not sufficient - taken by GOL. If this trend continuous (the GOL is
currently in dialogue with IMF and a PRGF mission is scheduled for February/March,
2000), even project sustainability could be rated as likely in the future (para. 38).
16.   The satisfactory outcome rating of the ICR differs from the unsatisfactory DO
rating of the last supervision report in that the ICR rating, as explained above, is an
assessment that the Project achieved most of its major objectives albeit EdL's financial
weakness, which has been the result of exogenous factors to the Project and a condition
affecting the Project at the time it was substantially completed. The supervision rating, on
the other hand, focused on EdL's finances and the prolonged macroeconomic crisis as
major "threats" to both the development objectives of ongoing projects and the viability of
future power lending operations. In this regard, the unsatisfactory rating of the last
supervision mission is a forward looking view of the sustainability of the Project rather
than an assessment of the actual achievements of the Project's objectives. Since then, there
have been some signs of recovery (e.g. the Kip has strengthened and remained stable for
the last three months) that, although not clearly sustainable, justify a less pessimistic view
of the project. It's also important to note that the Project had already achieved significant
benefits (namely, rural electrification and institutional strengthening) before EdL's finances
became a serious threat to project sustainability.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
17.    Project Sustainability. The project's achievements, although substantial in terms
of expansion of electricity to rural areas and institutional development of EdL, may not be
sustainable if country macroeconomic conditions (i.e. rapid devaluation of the Kip and



v
triple-digit inflation) are not stabilized and continue affecting EdL's precarious financial
situation. The lack of Government actions to support financial restructuring of EdL is also
a factor which casts doubts on the Government's commitment to support an effective
commercialization of EdL (para. 28-30).
18.   Future Operations. Given the current financial breakdown of EdL  and
macroeconomic instability, preparation of any future operation is halted until a more
sustainable economic environment is present and actions have been taken to put EdL back
into the path of recovery (para. 39-40)
19.   Key Lessons Learned. The most important lessons to be drawn from the
experience in implementing the Project are the following (para. 41):
(a)   Borrower's involvement, not only during the signing and approval of the project,
but also during project implementation is key for an effective collaboration between
Borrower and IA. The Bank could play an important role to promote this collaboration by
ensuring Borrower's representation during Bank's missions, project visits and major
project events.
(b)   when an ongoing operation is used to provide supplemental financing for technical
studies associated to potential future operations, this supplemental financing should be
assigned only after ensuring that sufficient funds are available for ongoing activities under
the project.
(c)   when there is more than one implementing agency for the execution of the project,
individual project agreements between each Implementing Agency and the Bank should be
provided. This will improve efficiency in the management and accounting of loan funds
and increase accountability from each Implementing Agency.






LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
PROVINCIAL GRID INTEGRATION PROJECT
(C2425-LA)
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    Background. The Bank Group has had sporadic involvement in the Lao power
sector since the late 1960s. In 1982, IDA provided a US$15 million Credit to finance Phase
III of the Nam Ngum Hydroelectric project (Cl 197-LA), the major power export facility in
the country. IDA's involvement in this project was an important catalyst for formalizing a
broadly revised power sales agreement between the Lao PDR and Thailand. In 1987, a
Credit of US$25.8 million was approved to finance the implementation of the Southern
Provinces Electrification (SPE) project (CI826-LA), which itself was the transmission and
distribution component of a broader program to develop electricity resources and supply in
the southern provinces. The Xeset Hydroelectric project, financed by ADB, UNDP and the
Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA), provided the generation component
of that regional program.
2.    The Provincial Grid Integration (PGI) project was conceived as an extension of the
SPE project to increase the availability of electricity to developments in the Southern and
Central regions of the Lao PDR and continue the institutional development of EdL. In
1990, EdL retained the services of the project management consultant assisting EdL under
SPE to identify and prepare projects for the further electrification of (i) the central
provinces of Savannakhet, Khammouane and Bolikhamxay; (ii) the southern provinces of
Champassak, Saravane, Sekong and Attopeu; and (iii) the Sanakham District of Vientiane
Province. The consultant's finalized report of the investment program for each of the above
provinces constituted the basis of the PGI project.
3.    Project Objectives. As stated in the Bank's SAR, the objectives of the Provincial
Grid Integration project were: (i) extending electricity supply to more consumers in the
Southern and Central Regions of the Lao PDR, including areas within the provinces of
Champassak, Saravane, Sekong, Savannakhet, Khamrnouane, and Bolikhamxay; (ii)
enhancing the quality of supply for existing consumers in those provinces; (iii) improving
EdL's system efficiency; (v) continuing EdL's institutional development; and (iv)
developing additional power export prospects for the Lao PDR.
4.    The above objectives were to be achieved through the implementation of the
following components:
(a) Central Region Electrification. Construction of (i) a new 115kV double-circuit
overhead river crossing line with associated substation at Savannakhet, and a new
22kV double-circuit overhead river crossing line at Thakhek to interconnect with the
Tai grid; (ii) new 22kV single-circuit overhead river crossing lines to interconnect with
the Tai grid at Se Bang Fai and Paksane, each with an associated 22kV substation; and



2
(iii) extension of the 22kV distribution networks in Savannakhet, Khammouane and
Bolikhamxay provinces.
(b) Southern Region Electrification. Extension of the 22kV distribution networks in
Savannakhet, Khammouane, and Bolikhamxay provinces;
(c) Improving System Efficiency. (i) Implementation of an action program for EdL to
monitor and reduce system losses, increase collections, and improve the billing
practices in the Vientiane area and its provincial subsidiaries; and (ii) provision and
installation of equipment and materials (including spare parts) to strengthen EdL's
operation and maintenance services, particularly at its provincial subsidiaries;
(d) EdL's Institutional Development. Provision of equipment, material and services, and
technical assistance for upgrading the skills of EdL's staff and its training capabilities;
and
(e) Future Project Development. Preparation of a feasibility study and design study for
(i) the installation of additional capacity at the Nam Ngum hydro station, together with
(ii) any needed strengthening of the transmission line form Nam Ngum to the Thai
border.
5.    Although the Project did not explicitly included a financial objective, it included a
number of conditions to ensure EdL's continued financial viability. It was clear that EdL
would require substantial tariff increases to cover not only the cost of its domestic sales,
but also its spiraling debt service requirements and major capital expenditures. To ensure
that EdL would take actions in this regard, EdL was required to comply with the following
conditions prior to project negotiations: (a) increase electricity rates to at least the cost of
supply; (b) write off arrears that were more than three years old and thus deemed
uncollectible; and, (c) levy charges on consumers currently unbilled. EdL complied with
all conditions. In addition, the following financial covenants were agreed upon: (a) EdL to
generate funds from internal sources equivalent to not less than 20% of the annual average
of EdL's capital expenditure; (b) EdL to maintain a debt service coverage ratio of 1.1; (c)
GOL to take measures, including increase of EdL electricity tariffs, necessary to enable
EdL to meet its 1.1 debt service ratio; and (d) GOL to complete an action program (by
April 30, 1994) satisfactory to IDA, to decrease EdL receivables from Government
agencies. Compliance with these covenants is explained under Section B of this report.
6.    The Project objectives were realistic and consistent with the Government's sector
strategy of improving the infrastructure in the Lao PDR's southern and central region,
(where economic activities and growth were expanding), supporting institutional
strengthening of the national electric utility; and continued progress towards a market-
determined price system. The Project was also consistent with the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy which called for financing critical needs in physical infrastructure that
will yield substantial benefits to the economy and society and generate expanded economic
growth. The key infrastructure investments included communication, transport,
electrification, power generation and water supply. The Project was instrumental for



3
promoting the integration of Lao electric load centers with the Thai grid, thereby
minimizing the cost of providing service to those localities while optimizing electricity
exports to Thailand.
7.    The Project was very clear in setting specific outcomes for each of its development
objectives and establishing key implementation indicators. The Project was neither
complex nor demanding for the implementing agency, mainly because EdL had already
gained experience during the implementation of the two ADB-financed Vientiane Plain
Rural Electrification (VPRE) projects and the SPE project.
B.    ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
8.    Overall Results. Overall, Project objectives were achieved and the Project resulted
in substantial benefits for the rural population of the central and southern regions of the
Lao PDR. The Project provided electrification to villages in the central and south provinces
of Laos where the standard of living, consumption of consumer goods and commercial
activities have increased substantially. In addition, the Project provided a comprehensive
technical assistance program and consulting services for EdL to support its institutional
development. A detail assessment of each of the Project objectives follows.
9.    Extending Electricity Supply. This objective was substantially achieved. All
physical targets were met as or above planned (Table 5). A total of 33, 478 households
were electrified under the Project compared with 14,138 households estimated during
appraisal (over twice the original target).
10.   Original targets were exceeded substantially as a result of a large increase in the
demand of electricity from non-electrified villages which were attracted by the benefits of
village electrification (such as improvements in quality of life and children's education,
more entertainment facilities, and income generating activities). EdL could respond to the
increased demand for services by achieving low bid costs for most items and requiring that
(a) the beneficiary contribute 30% of the cost of 22kV spur line, transformer and
distribution investments before start of construction, and (b) at least 60% of village
households agree to pay house wiring and connection fees before the system is energized.
In some cases, villages were so willing to have electricity that they collected funds among
themselves to finance 100% of the distribution equipment and paid EdL for installation
only.
11.   Improving System Efficiency and Quality Supply. Under this objective, the
Project aimed to continue the loss reduction program started under the SPE and extend it to
the service areas of EdL's provincial branches. An action plan for an extended loss
reduction program was agreed with EdL during appraisal. This action plan included two
major activities: (a) check consumer installation and replace metering arrangements; and
(b) implement a program to decrease EdL's receivables from Government agencies. Part
(a) of the action plan was implemented only in Vientiane and with long delays, and part (b)
was not implemented. Therefore, achievement of this objective has been partial and below
expectations. Of the approximately 30,000 meters and associated reinforcement to be
installed under the project according to appraisal estimates, EdL had procured and installed



4
23,000 meters (about 77% of the original estimate). Replacement of old and faulty meters
and better monitoring of system losses have resulted in the reduction of transmission and
distribution losses in the Vientiane area from 24% in 1995 to 19% as of mid 1999.
Distribution losses in the provinces is not reported in the ICR because the loss reduction
program action plan was implemented in the Vientiane area only (which holds about 80%
of the total domestic consumption), and EdL could not provide. this data on a timely basis
(since each province keeps their own records of data independently). Under the loss
reduction program, EdL also acquired tools, vehicles, radio equipment, and a
telecommunications system which has facilitated EdL's capability to monitor system losses
and improved communications within the central and southern regions as well as between
Vientiane headquarters and key locations within the provinces.
12.   With regard to non-technical losses, the Government failed to assist EdL with the
implementation of a program to reduce Government arrears resulting in a substantial
increase of accounts overdue from government organizations (para. 17). To eliminate these
arrears, Ministry of Finance agreed, under the Performance Contract signed in 1998
between MIH, EdL and MOF to permit EdL to offset the amounts owed by Government
agencies against EdL's tax remittances to MOF (para. 17). However, this action has not
been fully implemented and remains an issue of concern that is being addressed under
EdL's financial restructuring plan (para. 18). Billing and collection from residential
accounts, however, is less problematic than from Government agencies. During its visit to
EdL's branch at Bolikhamxay, the mission was informed by EdL staff that collection rate
in this province is about 95%, largely due to the strict enforcement on overdue accounts
(service is disconnected after a month of unpaid service) and the introduction of a
computerized billing system (financed under SPRE project). This indicates a real
commitment from the provinces to monitor and reduce system losses and increase their
collection efficiency.
13.   The construction, under the Project, of three overhead river-crossing lines (at
Savannakhet, Thakhek, and Se Bang Fai) to interconnect with the Thai grid have increased
the quality of power supply from the Thai grid and assisted with the development of the
provinces. In addition, EdL will start monitoring the quality of services by recording
interruptions at the consumer level (scheduled and accidental outages) on a quarterly basis.
14.   Continuation of EdL's Institutional Development. The institutional objective of
the Project was achieved in that EdL's staff skills and training capabilities were upgraded
through the implementation of several technical studies and training activities and EdL's
organization was restructured into cost and profit centers. During appraisal, it was agreed
that the project's institutional development would include the following activities: (a) a
Finance, Accounting and Computerization Consultancy, that would train finance staff at
headquarters and provincial subsidiaries, and assist them in implementing EdL's
accounting systems and financial processes; (b) an Organization and Management Study;
that would continue the work begun under SPE to develop the policies, regulations,
systems, procedures and guidelines needed to enable EdL to function as decentralized
national utility; (c) a Computerized Rural Electrification Planning System that would
provide for computer hardware and software and associated TA to assist EdL in screening,



5
ranking and appraising rural electrification investments; and (d) a Training Upgrading
Program, that would include (i) the provision of equipment and tools; (ii) the services of
training experts; (iii) short-term secondments and external training; and (iv) a "technical
cooperation arrangement" with Tenaga Nasional Berhad (TNB) of Malaysia. The status
and achievement of each of the above activities follows.
*  Finance, Accounting  and Computerization  Consultancy. The computerization
consultancy was dropped from the Project as it was agreed to wait for the
recommendations of the ADB-sponsored Corporate Planning Study which was
expected to recommend new computer system requirements for EdL to support its
proposed reorganization into profit centers. It was agreed, however, to include the
computerization component under the SPRE project. Consulting services on financial
management and accounting systems, including the hiring of a Resident Financial
Management Advisor in November 1997, helped EdL to improve their billing and
collection systems and accounting procedures, and to establish a new annual standard
budgeting system. The Project also assisted EdL with the selection and hiring of an
independent accounting firm to review and audit EdL's financial statements and project
accounts for FY97 and FY98.
*  Organization and Management Study. After a slow start, mainly because EdL's
decision to delay its reorganization, a study on management inforrnation systems begun
in 1996 and completed in 1997. However, the main recommendations with regard to
EdL's organization and management structure came from the Resident Financial
Management Advisor Study, which recommended to restructure the company by cost
and profit centers (Generation and Retail Distribution). Based on the recommendations
of this study, EdL implemented a revised Senior Management Corporate structure
under which Generating Stations and Distribution Branches were operating as separate
profit centers with their own Profit & Loss accounts and balance sheets. The
organization chart of EdL at the time of project appraisal and the current one are shown
in Annex G. The profit and cost center structure which was established and became
operational from January 1, 1998 is shown in Annex H.
*  Computerized Rural Electrification Planning System. With the exception of the
purchase of computer hardware and software, this technical assistance was not
implemented under the Project.
* Training Upgrade Program. The EdL/TNB technical cooperation to enhance EdL's
management and technical skills was successfully completed with a total of 25 courses
and 167 EdL staff trained. A total of 23 training sessions representing over 3100 staff-
weeks of training were held in Vientiane on engineering economics, finance, audit and
hydropower technology. A lecture program given as a part of the loss reduction study
and accounting procedures was very useful and generated interest and enthusiasm
among EdL staff both from Vientiane and the provinces. Purchase of equipment and
the services of training experts to be financed under the project was financed instead



6
from a French grant that EdL received to support activities under the training center
upgrading program..
15.   Developing Additional Power Export Prospects. A feasibility study for the
installation of additional capacity at the Nam Ngum hydro station was carried out under the
Project as planned. The bid price for this project, however, resulted in about US$3 million
above the original estimates. This higher cost, combined with the lower electricity prices
offered by EGAT made the expansion of Nam Ngum economically unviable. Therefore,
Project savings from the rehabilitation of Nam Ngum were reallocated to the procurement
of goods for distribution extension and additional technical assistance for the Nam Theun
II hydroelectric project, a project offering the potential to increase considerably power
exports.
16.   EdL's Continued Financial Viability. EdL's financial situation is extremely weak
and continues to worsen, primarily because of the continued unstable macroeconomic
conditions and in particular, the further and rapid devaluation of the Kip to the US$.
During the early stages of the crisis in December 1997, the Kip was hovering around 2,000
to the US$, however, at the end of November 1999, the Kip had sunk to 7,700. The
devaluation resulted in a sharp jump in EdL's operating expenses (by about 57%); interest
expense payments (105%); and foreign exchange losses (a gain of Kip 5 billion in FY96
reverted to a loss of Kip 14 billion in FY98). Therefore, despite the tariff increase that took
effect in February 1999 which provided for an initial increase of 100% plus an escalation
of 3%-3.5% per month (para. 19), this increase is insufficient to fully offset the nearly 6%
average devaluation per month of the Kip. In addition, EdL has not succeeded in reducing
costs by controlling operating costs and electricity losses and by improving labor
productivity. As a result, the operating ratio (total operating expenses as a percentage of
total revenues) weakened from 68% in FY97 to 78% in FY98.
17.    Compliance with Financial Covenants. EdL has not met the 20% self financing
target since 1993, and reported a net loss of Kip 7.4 billion in FY98. Although EdL's debt
service ratio of 1.48 is well above the 1.1 ratio covenant agreed under the Project, EdL is
not generating sufficient revenues from operations (mainly because actual electricity tariffs
do not cover the full cost of supply). In addition, the devaluation of the Kip, which
compounded debt service requirements, constrained EdL from internal finances needed to
maintain, restore, or expand its systems. IDA and GOL agreed also in a covenant by which
GOL committed itself to complete an action program to decrease EdL's receivables from
government agencies over a two-year period. EdL's proposal was to reduce the level of
arrears by offsetting the amounts more than 30 days overdue from taxes payable by EdL to
MOF. The Ministry of Finance would then reduce its budgetary allocations to the
respective agencies by the amount of their overdue accounts receivables. This program was
not implemented under the Project, resulting in a 400% increase in the amount of
accounts overdue from government organizations since 1997 (from Kip 1.6 billion to Kip
8.6 billion as of December 31, 1998 in current terms). Compliance with this program,
however, continues to be monitored under the Performance Contract signed on January 8,
1998 between EdL and MIH and EdL's Financial Recovery Plan.



7
18.   Financial Recovery Plan. In September 1998, EdL proposed to the Government a
comprehensive Financial Recovery Plan to restore its financial health over the period
FY99-01. The elements of the plan include actions to be undertaken by EdL and the
Government. The actions proposed to the Government included: (i) to raise the level of
tariffs from a minimum of K 145/kWh (US$ 3.2 cents - the tariff that would meet
distribution costs) to a maximum of K 310/kWh (US$ 7 cents - the tariff that would
achieve IDA's SFR covenant); (b) to assume the impact of foreign exchange losses on
EdL's existing foreign loan obligations; (c) to offset the amounts owed by the GOL
agencies against EdL's tax remittances to the Government; and (d) to convert US$31
million EdL's debt to equity. The actions to be taken by EdL included: (a) increase
revenues by implementing a revised tariff schedule; (b) reduce costs by controlling
operating costs and electricity losses, and improving labor productivity; and (c) reduce
working capital needs by curtailing inventory levels, and improving its billing and
collection performance. EdL has taken actions on tariffs, costs, system losses and
computerization of billing systems.
19.   Out of the above actions to be taken by the Government, only increases in domestic
tariffs has been implemented by far. A revised tariff schedule became effective on
February 1, 1999 by which average tariffs increased from about K 52/kWh
(US$1.2cents/kWh) to K 105/kWh (US$2.5 cents/kWh). Thereafter, monthly increases
will apply of 3-3.5% for the next 3 years (detailed tariff schedule is shown in Annex D)
Although these increases indicate Government willingness to raise domestic rates
substantially to offset in large part the impact of devaluation of the Kip, they may not be
sufficient to fully offset likely further devaluation of the Kip over the next 3 years and
hence, further increases are needed if IDA's financial covenants are to be met in the next
few year. During the February 1999 supervision mission, IDA strongly recommended the
Government to approve the remaining measures to support financial restructuring of EdL
(assumption of EdL's foreign exchange losses, conversion of EdL debt to equity, offset
accounts receivables owed by government agencies) and approve the revaluation of EdL's
fixed assets to reflect the actual value of assets and improve EdL's balance sheet position.
The mission also requested the Government to adopt the use of international accounting
standards for treating any future foreign exchange losses/gains by bringing them to account
as an expense or income at the end of each fiscal year (however, National Accounting Law,
establishes the use of local accounting standards); and to review EdL's accounting
practices, which substantially misstate its commercial condition. To date, the Government
has shown very little action to support financial restructuring of EdL, and has left the
Financial Recovery Plan on hold for over nine months. IDA has advised the Government
that if no progress is achieved by June 2000, IDA should consider declaring the
Government and EdL in default of its financial obligations and, consequently, suspend
further disbursements from the ongoing SPRE project (para. 31).
20.   Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR). The ex-post EIRR was recalculated
using the same economic cost/benefit analysis adopted at project appraisal for each
selected project area, but there are differences in the regional breakdown of provinces
because of the way data were handled at project implementation. Since costs are based in
actual data, the supply cost in the ex-post analysis differs from the one used in the SAR in



8
that actual values for export prices were higher than foreseen for the period 1995-1999 and
slightly lower thereafter. The benefits have been estimated on the basis of willingness to
pay for energy following the same methodology of appraisal. The result of the ex-post
analysis is a higher range of EIRR, from 21 to 46%, than the range of 10-21% estimated at
appraisal (Table 9). The main reason for such high values is due to the fact that the project
was able to reach a much larger number of households while project costs remain within
budget.
C.   IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING
THE PROJECT
Implementation Record.
21.   Overall, implementation of the Project was carried out satisfactorily. After initial
delays in procurement and project management coordination, the Project was implemented
satisfactorily. The Credit Agreement was amended twice (first, on April 6, 1995 and later
on November 6, 1995) to allow for the provision of specialized services and technical
studies in connection with the proposed Nam Theun II hydroelectric project. As a result
of these amendments, the total allocation of loan funds for Consultants' Services and
Training category was increased from the original estimate of SDR2.9 million to SDR4.3
million. Although, some of the additional funds allocated to Nam Theun II came from loan
savings due to low bid costs, there were instances where certain project activities (i.e.
system efficiency equipment) had to be curtailed to provide for further financing for Nam
Theun II. By Project completion, an amount of US$2.6 million had been disbursed against
this component.
22.   EdL showed adequate project management and technical capabilities to carry out
implementation of the Project. Counterparts funds were always available. In January, 1997,
mid-way during project implementation, the Project was retrofitted with key performance
indicators using the logical framework to measure progress in accordance with the Project
objectives. Annex F shows the logframe used for retrofitting the project.
23.   The credit closing date was extended one year from its original date of June 30,
1998 to June 30, 1999 in order to complete additional extensions of electricity supply in
the provinces of Khammouane and Champassack and to allow completion of consultancy
services for the Nam Theun II project. Disbursements under the credit totaled SDR24.5
million equivalent compared with the original credit amount of SDR25.3 million
equivalent. The undisbursed balance of about SDRO.8 million will be canceled after the
balance in the Special Account is fully recovered.
24.   Project Costs. The estimated Project cost at appraisal, based on late 1991 prices,
was US$ 45.1 million, of which: (a) US$ 36 million was to be financed by the Association,
(b) US$ 2.2 million to be financed by EGAT; and (c) US$ 6.9 million to be financed by
EdL. The actual Project cost was US$ 43.3 million (excluding IDC) which is slightly lower
(by about 4%) than the appraisal estimate. The lower cost was achieved mainly because
lower bid costs for most of the equipment and installation.



9
25.   Audit and Financial Reporting. EdL's compliance with audit covenants was only
partial as the quality and scope of the audits was very limited. Although, EdL's financial
statements were audited by the Minister of Finance, the audit did not provide an auditor's
opinion nor include the audit of project expenditures. Because of lack of qualified
accounting staff, IDA agreed to review the Special Account and carried out the audit for
purposes of compliance with the legal covenants. It was only in 1998 that EdL, with
project financing, hired an external international accounting firm (Price Waterhouse
Coopers) to produce a compilation report for 1997 accounts, and full audits for FY98 and
FY99, including SOE and the Special Account. The compilation of EdL corporate accounts
for FY97 was submitted to IDA in December 1998, and the full audit for FY98, in
December 1999. The latter is still under IDA's review.
26.   Environment. The Project did not pose any environmental problems since the
system expansion and efficiency improvement of power supply involved construction of
low voltage networks along existing infrastructure in sparsely populated areas. EdL was
required to screen components for potentially adverse environmental effects, and arrange
for any needed mitigatory measures to be developed. The Project was rated category B and
thus, it did not require a separate EA report.
Major Factors Affecting the Project.
27.   EdL's financial woes started in 1995 as a result of the increasing need for domestic
tariff adjustments to cover the full cost of supply. In 1996, IDA carried out a review of
EdL's finances which highlighted the need to increase domestic rates. Without any tariff
increase during 1996, EdL's financial situation deteriorated even more. In April, 1997, a
financial supervision mission visited EdL to discuss the status of EdL's compliance with
the financial covenants under the Project, and provide recommendations for improving the
company's financial situation in preparation for the proposed Southern Provinces Rural
Electrification (SPRE) project (Credit 3047-LA). It was concluded then, that unless EdL
would take specific actions to improve it's financial status, the SPRE project could not be
processed. Therefore, EdL and GOL took several measures to improve EdL's financial
conditions, including tariff increases, restructuring EdL's debt and signing a Performance
Contract with GOL. The implementation of these measures paved the way for negotiations
of the SPRE project and its final approval by the Board on March, 1998. It was expected
that EdL would achieve full compliance with its financial covenants during the
implementation of the SPRE project, but the regional crisis in 1997 affected EdL's
finances deeply and washed away all expectations for its financial recovery (paras. 16-19).
D.   PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
28.   The project's achievements, although substantial in terms of expansion of
electricity to rural areas and institutional development of EdL, may not be sustainable if
country macroeconomic conditions (i.e. rapid devaluation of the Kip and triple-digit
inflation) are not stabilized and continue affecting EdL's precarious financial situation.



10
29.   The lack of Government actions to support financial restructuring of EdL is also a
factor which casts doubts on the Government's commitment to support an effective
commercialization of EdL and has prompted IDA to advise the Government that if no
actions are taken to improve EdL's financial situation by June 2000, IDA should consider
declaring the Government and EdL in default of their financial obligations and,
consequently, suspend further disbursements from the ongoing SPRE project.
30.   In view of the above, the implementation of a follow-up operation (the SPRE
project) whose objectives include the expansion of the rural electrification program and
further strengthening of EdL's capacity to operate on a commercial basis, is not sufficient
to ensure that the PGI project will maintain the achievements generated up to now.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
31.   Overall, the Bank's performance during this project is rated as satisfactory. The
identification and preparation of the project were carried out smoothly and capitalized on
three factors: (i) EdL's experience with implementation of the SPE project; (ii) technical
assistance provided under SPE to assist EdL with preparation of PGI; and (iii) the
increasing demand of rural electrification in line with the government's poverty alleviation
program.
32.   Bank's appraisal of the project is considered highly satisfactory since the Bank
provided considerable assistance to the Borrower in both the technical, institutional and
financial aspects of the project. The Bank kept continuous communication with EdL during
this stage of project preparation and made itself readily available for further assistance.
33.   Project supervision is also considered highly satisfactory. The Bank carried out a
total of 15 visits to the field to review implementation of the project, of which 8 were
accompanied of supervision reports (and thus, recorded in the system as full supervision
missions). Since early 1996, all the field supervisions were conducted in combination with
the preparation of the SPRE project.
34.   Also, during project implementation, the Bank assisted EdL with the audit review
of the Special Account and accompanying Statement of Expenditures (S GE) in lieu of an
independent auditor acceptable to IDA. The documentation was found to be internally
consistent and generally in keeping with accepted accounting principles
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
35.   The Government of Lao PDR, as the Borrower of the Project, showed a strong
interest in the Project during preparation and appraisal, however, its performance during
project implementation is rated unsatisfactory because of its lack of action to support
EdL's financial restructuring plan and commitment toward the sustainability of the project
objectives.



I1
36.    Performance of EdL, as the Implementing Agency of the Project, can be
considered satisfactory from project preparation to project completion. EdL has
demonstrated its commitment and ownership of electrification projects through its
successful 10-year collaboration with IDA. It has established a Projects Office dedicated to
implementing donor-financed projects, which is staffed with experienced engineers who
manage procurement, disbursement and implementation and has appointed a full-time
Projects Manager. During project preparation, EdL worked closely with consultants to
prepare the detailed engineering design and project implementation plan. EdL along with
GOL took key actions that enable the approval of the PGI project, such as, tariff increases,
writing off Government arrears, and levying charges to previously unbilled consumers.
EdL was successful in arranging the details of a technical cooperation with TNB and
training program for its staff.
37.   For most of project implementation, EdL performed satisfactorily. Lack of
compliance with the financial covenants (para. 17) was the result of exogenous factors to
EdL. However, there were two areas, both under EdL's direct control, where performance
was not satisfactory: (a) implementation of the Loss Reduction Program; and (b) delays in
hiring qualified full time accountants to assist EdL in preparing forecast financial
statements. These two shortcomings are being addressed under the SPRE project. The
introduction of a computerized billing system is being implemented, and in late 1998, EdL
engaged the services of consultants to implement a new financial planning model.
G.  SUMMARY ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
38.   Given the facts that the project objectives were overall achieved, the project
resulted in substantial benefits for the rural population of the central and southern regions
of the Lao PDR, and project implementation was carried out satisfactorily from a technical
and cost viewpoints, the outcome of the project is rated satisfactory. This rating is given
mainly on the basis of the actual results achieved under the project and EdL's commitment
to the objectives of the project. EdL's precarious financial conditions, although significant
enough to threat sustainability of the project achievements, is mostly a result of the current
macroeconomic situation which, in addition of being a factor exogenous to the project, is
showing signs of some improvement already. The exchange rate has remained stable for
the last quarter of 1999 as result of some measures - though not sufficient - taken by GOL.
If this trend continuous (the GOL is currently in dialogue with IMF and a PRGF mission is
scheduled for February/March, 2000), even project sustainability could be rated as likely in
the future.
39.   The satisfactory outcome rating of the ICR differs from the unsatisfactory DO
rating of the last supervision report in that the ICR rating, as explained above, is an
assessment that the Project achieved most of its major objectives albeit EdL's financial
weakness, which has been the result of exogenous factors to the Project and a condition
affecting the Project at the time it was substantially completed. The supervision rating, on
the other hand, focused on EdL's finances and the prolonged macroeconomic crisis as



12
major "threats" to both the development objectives of ongoing projects and the viability of
future power lending operations. In this regard, the unsatisfactory rating of the last
supervision mission is a forward looking view of the sustainability of the Project rather
than an assessment of the actual achievements of the Project's objectives. Since then, there
have been some signs of recovery (e.g. the Kip has strengthened and remained stable for
the last three months) that, although not clearly sustainable, justify a less pessimistic view
of the project. It's also important to note that the Project had already achieved significant
benefits (namely, rural electrification and institutional strengthening) before EdL's finances
became a serious threat to project sustainability.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
40.   The Southern Provinces Rural Electrification (SPRE) Project (Cr. 3047-LA) was
approved in March, 1998 and became effective in August, 1998. This project will continue
the extension of distribution networks in rural areas that started under the SPE and PGI
projects, and will support the GOL in formulating its power sector strategy. The
development objectives of SPRE project are two: (a) expand rural electricity service in 7
central and southern provinces of Lao PDR, where economically justified, through grid
extension and off-grid electrification; and (b) strengthen EdL's capacity to plan and
implement electrification investments and to operate on a commercial basis.
Implementation progress of the SPRE project is satisfactory but the continued financial
crisis of EdL has become a serious threat to the project's development objectives.
Therefore, this project is currently rated unsatisfactory in the achievement of its
development objectives.
41.   Given the current financial breakdown of EdL and macroeconomic instability,
preparation of any future operation is halted until a more sustainable economic
environment is present and actions have been taken to put EdL back into the path of
recovery.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
42.   The most important lessons to be drawn from the experience in implementing the
project are as follows:
(a)   Borrower's involvement, not only during the signing and approval of the project,
but also during project implementation is key for an effective collaboration between
Borrower and IA. The Bank could play an important role to promote this collaboration by
ensuring Borrower's representation during Bank's missions, project visits and major
project events.
(b)   when an ongoing operation is used to provide supplemental financing for technical
studies associated to potential future operations, this supplemental financing should be



13
assigned only after ensuring that sufficient funds are available for ongoing activities under
the project.
(c)   when there is more than one implementing agency for the execution of the project,
individual project agreements between each Implementing Agency and the Bank should be
provided. This will improve efficiency in the management and accounting of loan funds
and increase accountability from each Implementing Agency.



14
PART II. STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial        Partial        Negligible
Macro Policies                        l              Ill             El
Sector Policies                     [                Fg
Financial Objectives                El               Il                                  l
Institutional Development           E3               al
Physical Objectives                                 El               D                 El
Poverty Reduction                                    El              El                F]
Gender Issues                       El               El               El                I3
Other Social Objectives             F]               F]               E3
Environmental Objectives            Fl               []               F]
Public Sector Management            F                F                F]
Private Sector Development          E] F]                             F]
Other (specify)                     El                ]               ElE
B. Project Sustainability             Likely                  Unlikely                  Uncertain
al                       [ 
C. Bank Performance                  Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory                Deficient
Identification                     []                                                  El
Preparation Assistance             F                        E3]
Appraisal                          FI                                                 E1
Supervision                                                 i: 0l
D. Borrower Performance               Highly Satisfactory    Satisfactory               Deficient
Preparation                        F]                       WI                         F]
Implementation - Physical                                   F]                         El
- Institutional      a                                                   
Covenant Compliance                F1                       F]
Operation (if applicable)                                   E3
Highly                                             Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome            Satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory     unsatisfactory
[1             WI                [1                0



15
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan No.                          Purpose                        Year of      Status
approval
Preceding operations
1. Cr. 1197-LA    Rehabilitation of units 3 and 4 of Nam Ngum         1982      Completed.
Nam Ngum III       Hydroelectric Project
2. Cr. 1826-LA     Provision of infrastructure for electricity supply in the  1987  Completed
Southern Provinces  southern provinces and institutional strengthening of
Electrification    EdL.
Following Operations
1. Cr. 3047-LA    Expand rural electricity service in 7 central and southern  1998  Ongoing
Southern Provinces  provinces of Lao PDR and strengthen EdL's capacity to
Rural             plan and implement electrification investments and to
Electrification    operate on a commercial basis.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle               Date Planned 1/          Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Sunmmary)            n.a.             January 8, 1991
Preparation                                            n.a.           Nov/90 to Nov/91
Appraisal                                         August 1991        November 5-12, 1991
Negotiations                                    April/May 1992         July 27-29, 1992
Board Presentation                                  July 1992           October 6, 1992
Signing                                         September 1992        December 23, 1992
Effectiveness                                   November 1992            July 6, 1993
Midterm review (if applicable)                   Not applicable         Not applicable
Project Completion                               December 1997           June 30, 1999
Loan Closing                                     June 30, 1998           June 30, 1999



16
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(SDR million)
FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98   FY99   FY00
Appraisal Estimate         0.60    2.74     7.5   13.9   19.4   23.4   25.3   25.3
Actual                      0.0    0.9    6.4    8.6   18.8   22.0   24.2   24.5
Actual as % of Estimate     0.0   32.8   85.3   61.9   96.9   94.0   95.6   96.8
Date of Final Disbursement November 19, 1999.
(An undisbursed balance of SDR 820,353 million will be canceled after
the balance in the Special Account is fully recovered).
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
22 kV      0.4 kV    22 kV     22 kV/   Villages to  Households
medium     distribu-  sub-     0.4 kV    be        to be
voltage    tion lines stations   transfor  electrified   electrified
Provinces              and spurs  (km)      (no.)     mers    (no.)        (no.)
(km)                           (no.)
Champassak   SAR             323      370                  108        108        5,912
Actual        351       168                  96         102       9,899
Saravane      SAR            119       54                   17         17         793
Actual         148      166                  56          70       5,024
Savannakhet  SAR             102      138                  44          44        1,950
Actual        254       214                 101         101       8,077
Khammuane   SAR              197      296          1       92          92       4,354
Actual        231       243          1      130         133       6,987
Bolikhamxay  SAR              75       78          1        24         24        1,129
Actual         107       85          1       33          33       3,491
Total         SAR            816      936          2      285         285       14,138
Actual       1,091      876          2      416         439      33,478



17
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Note: No indicators for project operations were included in SAR/President's Report. However, some
indicators were retrofitted during project implementation as shown in Annex F.
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as Defined at                                 Impact of
Study            Appraisal/Redefined         Status                     Study
1. Organization &    To assist EdL to put in   Study was not     Major recommendations with regard
Management        place an organizational   carried out as     to EdL's organization and
Study             structure (as recommended  expected because   management structure came from the
by the O&M study funded   of EdL's decision   Resident Financial Management
under SPE and approved by  to delay its     Advisor Study, namely, to
GOL in 1991)and          reorganization.    restructure the company by cost and
procedures that will permit  Instead,       profit centers. Based on the
the entity to achieve the                   recommen-dations of this study, EdL
fnancial targets and                        implemented a revised Senior
development objectives of                   Management Corporate under which
its investment program for                  Generation Stations and Distribution
1991-2000.                                  Operations were established as profit
centers.
2. Accounting and    To assist EdL in the      Completed. Scope   Consulting services on financial
Finance Study     preparation of annual     of the study was    management and accounting
accounts and financial   revised to         systems, including the hiring of a
reports and their        incorporate        Resident Financial Advisor, has
presentation to the       recommendations   helped EdL to improve their billing
Government and lending    from the ADB-     and collection systems, accounting
institutions at international   sponsored   procedures, and to establish a new
standards acceptable for  Corporate         standard budgeting system.
audit by independent      Planning Stuy.
external auditors.
3. Feasibility Study    Review of the development  Completed     The study provided the basis for the
for Nam Ngum      plans of Nam Ngum                            preparation of bidding documents.
Power Station     Hydropower Station                           However, project was canceled as the
Extension         Extension, including: (i)                    bid price for this project resulted in
detailed design of the                      about US$3 million above the original
works; (ii) cost estimates;                 estimates.
(iii) preparation of a project
implementation schedule;
(iv) economic and financial
analysis of the extension;
and (v) preparation of TOR
for consulting services for
project implementation.



18
Table 8A: Project Costs
(US$M)
Appraisal Estimate      Actual/Latest Estimate
Item                     Local  Foreign    Total   Local  Foreign    Total
Provincial Electrification
Central Region Interconnect                  0.00     2.21    2.21    0.02     2.06     2.08
Central Region Distribution                  2.26    12.78   15.04    3.81    12.78    16.59
Southern Region Distribution                2.34     9.75   12.09    2.23      9.02    11.25
Sub-total                                  4.60    24.74   29.34    6.06    23.86    29.92
System Efficiency Improvement
Loss Reduction                              0.15      1.50    1.65    0.34     2.84     3.18
Spare Parts, Vehicles, Tools                 0.00    0.95    0.95    0.00      0.98     0.98
Micro computers                             0.00     0.20    0.20    0.00      0.05     0.05
Telecommunication System                     0.05     0.75    0.80    0.01     1.19     1.20
Sub-total                                  0.20     3.40    3.60    0.35      5.06     5.41
Institutional Development
Organization & Management                   0.00      0.75    0.75    0.00     0.26     0.26
Financial & Computerization                 0.00      0.50    0.50    0.00     0.36     0.36
Training Center Upgrading                   0.00      2.00    2.00    0.00     0.86     0.86
Sub-total                                  0.00     3.25    3.25    0.00      1.48     1.48
Project Engineering
PGlandNamNgum a/                            0.03      1.80    1.83    0.00     6.42     6.42
Total Base Cost                            4.83    33.19   38.02    6.41    36.82    43.23
Physical Contingencies                      0.23      1.39    1.62
Price Contingencies                          1.83    3.62    5.45
Total Project Cost                         6.89    38.20   45.09    6.41    36.82    43.23
Interest during construction                 3.80     0.40    4.20    4.29     0.00     4.29
Total Financing Required                  10.69    38.60   49.29   10.70    36.82    47.52
a/including administration and supervision



19
Table 8B: Project Financing
(USSM)
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)    Actual/Latest Estimate
Source of Fund           Local Foreign      Total  Local   Foreign    Total
IDA Proposed Credit          0.0      36.0     36.0   0.00      34.87    34.87
EGAT                   0.0       2.2      2.2   0.00       1.95     1.95
EdL                  10.7       0.4     11.1  10.70       0.00    10.70
TOTAL                  10.7     38.6     49.3  10.70      36.82    47.52
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Province                               Appraisal Estimate           Re-estimate
Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR)
Bolikhamxay                                  18.85%                    18%
Khammuane                                   20.96%                     44%
Savannakhet                                 10.11%                     23%
Saravan & Sekong (Southern Grid)            18.33%                     33%
Note: For detailed calculations, see Annex C.



20
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original    Revised
Agree-    Section   Covenant  Present  fulfillment  fulfillment          Description of covenant               Comments
ment                 type      status      date        date
DCA        Section     3, 4, 5     CP                              The Borrower (i) is committed to the   Borrower has not taken
3.01 (a)                                               objectives of the Project, (ii) shall cause   actions on EdL's
EdL to perform according to the Project  proposed Restructuring
Agreement; (iii) shall take all actions,  Plan while EdL's
including the provision of funds,      financies are worsening.
facilities, services and other resources, to
enable EdL to carry out the project; and
(iv) shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or
interfere with EdL's obligations.
Section      3, 5       C                              Procurement of the goods, works and
3.02                                                    consultant's services required for the
Project, and to be financed under the
Credit, shall be made in accordance with
the Association's procurement guidelines.
Section     2, 11       CP    Annually                 Borrower shall take measures, including   Last tariff increase (of
3.04 (a)                                                increase of EdL electricity tariffs,   100%) took effect in
necessary to enable EdL to meet a 20%    2/99. However, this
self financing ratio and a debt service  increase is insufficient to
coverage of 1. I.                      allow EdL to comply with
self-financing and debt
service ratios.
Section     2, 11       NC    April 30,                Borrower shall complete an action       Not implemented. It's
3.04 (b)                       1994                     program to decrease EdL's receivables    expected, however, that
from agencies of the Borrower.         under the Performance
Contract signed on 1/8/98
between EdL and MIH
and to be monitored under
the SPRE project, EdL
may offset Government
receivables against tax
payable.
Section       5          C     June 30.                Borrower shall cause EdL to assume the   This condition of project
3.04 (C)                       1994                    assets and liabilities of the electricity  negotiations was
authorities of the Bolikhamxay and     complied with.
Sekong provinces.
Section       I         CP    Nine                     Borrower shall furnish IDA with audit    Audit reports for 1997
4.01                           months                   reports of the Special Account and     and 1998 were submitted
after the end           Statement of Expenditures, including a    to IDA on 12/15/99 with a
of each FY.             separate opinion, prepared in accordance  qualified opinion for
with appropriate auditing principles and   financial statements were
by an independent auditor acceptable to   not prepared under IAS.
the Association.                       This was the first audit
carried out by an inde-
pendent auditor (Price
Waterhouse Coopers).
Project    Section       5          C                              EdL is committed to the objectives of the  EdL's performance
2.01 (a)                                                Project, and, to this end, shall carry out   throughout project
the Project in conformity with appropriate implementation is
administrative, financial, engineering and considered satisfactory in
public utility practices.              spite of the precarious
situation of its finances
which is the result mainly
of exogenous factors
(currency devaluation and
high inflation)



21
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original    Revised
Agree-   Section  Covenant  Present  fulfillment  fulfillment        Description of covenant              Comments
ment                type      status     date       date
Project    Section     5,10       C     December               EdL shall employ a consultant to assist in Consultant selected:
(cont'd)   2.01 (b)                     31,1992                supervising implementation of the Central
and Southern Region Electrification
component.
Section      6         C                             EdL shall furnish an Environmental   Complied with.
2.01 (b)                                            Impact Assessment to IDA in the event of
any design modification in the project
that, in the opinion of the Association,
would warrant such assessment.
Section     2, 9       CP                            EdL shall carry out an action program to  Program was partially
2.01 (b)                                            (1) monitor and reduce system losses of  implemented in the
EdL's subsidiaries; (ii) increase EdL's    Vientiane area only.
overall collection efficiency, and (iii)  Billing and collections
improve implementation of EdL's      system improvement to be
computerized billing system, especially in implemented under SPRE
the provinces.                       project.
Section     12, 5      CD    December                EdL shall carry out (i) an Accounting &   EdL engaged a Resident
2.01 (b)                     31, 1994                Finance Study and (ii) an Organization &  Financial Management
Management Study                     Advisor in November,
1997.
Section     12,5       C                             EdL shall ensure implementation of the   EdL was restructured into
2.01 (b)                                             above studies' recommendations taking   profit and cost centres,
into consideration IDA's comments.   and a new process for
preparation of an annual
standard budget was
implemented.
Section      12        C                             EdL shall carry out a technical      A technical cooperation
2.01 (b)                                             cooperation agreement with a power   arrangement with Tenaga
utility company acceptable to IDA.   Nasional Berhad (TNB)
of Malaysia was
successfully completed
with a total of 25 courses
and 167 EdL staff trained
Section      5         C     June 30,                EdL shall carry out a feasibility and  Complied with.
2.01 (b)                      1994                   design study for the installation of
additional capacity at the Nam Ngum
power plant.
Section      5        NC                             EdL shall ensure implementation of the   Implementation of the
2.01 (b)                                             above study's recommendations taking    extension of Nam Ngum
into consideration IDA's comments.   did not take place as bid
price for this project of
about US$3 million above
original estimates, and
EGAT's lower buying
prices, made this project
expansion unviable.
Section      5         C                             Procurement of goods, works and      Complied with.
2.02                                                 consultants' services financed under the
Credit shall be carried out according to
the Bank's procurement guidelines.



22
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original    Revised
Agree-    Section   Covenant  Present  fulfillment  fulfillment          Description of covenant               Comments
ment                 type      status      date        date
Section       I         C      Nine                    EdL shall furnish to IDA the audit of its  Initially, EdL's financial
4.01                           months                  financial statements prepared in        and project statements
after end of            accordance with appropriate auditing   were certified by MOF
FY.                     principles and by independent auditors   and MIH. In 1997. EdL
acceptable to the Association.         hired, for first time in its
history, an external
international accounting
firm to carry out the audit
of its FY97 and FY98
accounts. These audit
reports were submitted to
IDA on December 15,
1999 with since it was
found that Edi's financial
statements were not
prepared under IAS.
Section       12        C      June 30,                EdL shall prepare and furnish to IDA, (ii) EdL
4.02                           1994                     EdL's proposed tariff structure policy
and (ii) measures to address issues of
EdL's supply cost differentials and size of
lifeline block.
Section       2         NC    Annually                 EdL shall produce funds from internal    Due to insufficient
4.03 (a)                       after FY92               sources equivalent to not less than 20% of revenues from domestic
the annual average of EdL's capital   tariffs, and rnore recently,
expenditures.                         to the substantial
devaluation of the Kip
and lack of progress in the
restructuring of EdL, the
utility has been unable to
comply with the self-
financing ratio since
FY94.
Section       2         NC    Annually                 EdL shall not incur any debt unless the    EdL complied with its
4.04 (a)                       after FY92              estimated net revenues of EdL for each    debt service ratio target
FY during the term of the debt to be   for FY97 and FY98.
incurred is at least 1. I times the estimated
debt service requirements of EdL.
Covenant types:
1. =  Accounts/audits                                        8.  =  Indigenous people
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from          9.  =  Monitoring, review, anid reportiiig
beneficiaries                                        10.     Project implementation Inot covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds                 lI.  =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4. =  Counterpart funding                                           allocation
5. =  Management aspects of the project or executing        12.  =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/ regulatory/institutional
agency                                                       action
6. =  Environmental covenants                               13.  = Other
7. =  Involuntary resettlement
Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC= nor complied with



23
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title         | Describe and comment on lack of compliance
There are no OMS relevant to the Project that have not been complied with and/or been acted against.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned              Actual
Stage of
Project Cycle           Weeks   US$(000s)  Weeks   USS(OOOs)
Preparation to appraisal            n/a       n/a       17.6       56.3
Appraisal                           n/a       n/a       16.7       48.5
Negotiation through Board approval  n/a       n/a        8.4       29.0
Supervision                        21.0       n/a       65.7      227.2
Completion                          2.0       30.6       7.1       26.2
TOTAL                                                  115.5     387.2
n/a: not available



24
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance
Days                       Rating
Stage of       Month    No. of        in      Specialized    IP       DO                         Types of
Project Cycle     [Year    Persons    Field    Staff Skills                                        Problems
Through Appraisal   11/90g                  7      FA,            n/a       n/a      EdL's tariff proposal is still insufficient to meet
EdL's long run needs. EdL needs to recruit and
employ a qualified full time accountant.
08/91                10      FA,            n/a       n/a      Pricing of electricity for domestic consumption is
too low and excessive level of losses within EdL's
distribution system.
Appraisal             11191                 8      FA, PE,        nla       n/a      A loss reduction program continues to be needed
EC, OF                           not only for Vientiane but also for other provinces,
and EdL's tariffs need to be adjusted.
Post-Appraisal       03/92        1         5      FA             n/a       n/a      Ensure compliance with conditions of negotiations
Supervision          08/93        1         5      FA             HS        HS       EdL is still short of capable accounting staff.
04/94       1         5      PE              S         S       Procurement action has been slow. Government
consumers are still on average 5 months behind
in payment.
06/94       1         3      OF             n/a       n/a
07/95       1         5      OF             n/a       n/a
12/95      2          9      PE, OF         S          S      EdL needs to raise domestic tariff to improve
their finances. Implementation of TA component
is unsatisfactory.
04/96       3         11     PE, FA,        n/a       n/a      EdL's financial statements do not conform to
EC                               generally IAS; EdL needs to have an agreed
strategy to increase domestic rates to cover full
costs.
06/96       1         7      OF             n/a       n/a      Loss Reduction Program (LR.P)is moving
slowly.
02/97       4         14     PE, OF,         S         S       Implementation of the LRP needs to be
FA                               accelerated; EdL's financial position is not
meeting expectations and financial restructuring
is necessary.
04/97       2         3      FA, EC         n/a       n/a      EdL has not met the 20% self-financing ratio
and in 1996, it was unable to meet its debt
service obligations. Mission recommended
several actions for improving EdL's financial
situation in preparation of the SPRE project.
07/97       3         9      EC, PE,        n/a       n/a      Additional tariff increases are required to ensure
FA                               compliance with covenants. Program to reduce
Government arrears has not been implemented.
01/98       1         7      FA              S         S       Project implementation is nearing completion.



25
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of       Month     No. of    Days   Specialized       IP        DO                        Types of
Project Cycle    [Year    Persons    in       Staff Skills                                        Problems
Field
Supervision         05/98       I         6     EC              n/a        n/a     Closing date was extended by one year to June
(cont'd)                                                                           30,1999.
09/98       3         8     EC, FA          S          S       EdL's financial situation is very critical and
continues deteriorating. EdL will likely be in
default of IDA's covenants in FY98. A financial
restructuring plan should be put in place.
02/99       3        5      EC, FA          S          S       Devaluation of the kip has caused EdL to incur
record net losses. GOL approved a 100% tariff
increase, but further increases are needed to
meet IDA's financial covenants.
05/99       1        2.5    EC              S          U       The continued macroeconomic instability has
become a serious threat to the project's
development objectives. The GOL has been
unable to implement, with the exception of tariff
increases, any of the financial restructuring
measures proposed by EdL and MIH.
Completion          11/99       2         5     EC, OA           S         U       The uncertainity associated to EdL's current
financial status and the country's
macroeconomic conditions, casts an
unsatisfactory rating in the sustainability of the
project's achievements.
Note: All supervision missions conducted after May/98 were conducted in combination with missions for
other power projects, therefore, the days spent in the fields for some missions are estimates.
Specialized Skills: FA = Financial Analyst; PE = Power Engineer; EC = Economist; OF = Operations
Officer; OA = Operations Analyst
Performance Ratings: IP = Implementation Progress; DO = Development Objectives; HS = Highly
Satisfactory; S = Satisfactory



26



27
ANNEXES
ANNEX A: MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE
ANNEX B: BORROWER'S EVALUATION REPORT
ANNEX C: CALCULATION OF EIRR
ANNEX D: EDL's KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS
ANNEX E: EDL's TARIFF SCHEDULE EFFECTIVE FEBRUARY 1999
ANNEX F: RETROFITTED PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
ANNEX G: EDL's EXISTING AND PROPOSED ORGANIZATION CHART
DURING APPRAISAL
ANNEX H: EDL'S CURRENT PROFIT AND COST CENTER STRUCTURE



28                                Annex A
Aide Memoire
World Bank/IDA ICR Mission, November 8-13, 1999
Electricite du Laos (EdL)
Provincial Grid Integration Project (C2425-LA)
A mission consisting of Mr. Enrique Crousillat (Mission leader) and Ms. Esperanza Miranda
(Operations Analyst) visited Lao PDR from November 8 to 13, 1999 to carry out the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) mission of the Provincial Grid Integration Project
(PGI). The mission met with officials of the Electricite du Laos (EdL) including staff from EdL's
branch office at Bolikhamxay. The mission also visited the Paksane substation and several
project sites in the province of Bolikhamxsay. The Aide Memoire records the mission's findings,
agreements reached and comments received from EdL's management on key lessons learned from
PGI project's implementation. The Aide Memoire would be ratified by IDA's management. The
mission wishes to thank the staff of EdL for their excellent cooperation and hospitality.
Project Objectives
1.   The objectives of the project were the following: (i) extending electricity supply to more
consumers in the Southern and Central Regions of the Lao PDR, including areas within the
provinces of Champassak, Saravane, Sekong, Savannakhet, Khammouane, and Bolikhamxay; (ii)
enhancing the quality of supply for existing consumers in those provinces; (iii) developing
additional power exports prospects for the Lao PDR; (iv) improving EdL's system efficiency; and
(v) continuing EdL's institutional development.
2.   Project objectives were fully achieved and the project resulted in substantial benefits for the
rural population of the central and southern regions of the Lao PDR. The project provided
electrification to villages in the central and south provinces of Laos where the standard of living,
consumption of consumer goods and commercial activities has increased substantially. In
addition, the project provided a very comprehensive technical assistance program and consulting
services for EdL staff to continue their institutional development. A detail assessment of the
achievements reached under each component of the PGI project follows:
i)   Provincial Electrification (Central and Southern Provinces). A total of 33,478 households
were electrified under the project in the provinces of Champassak, Saravane, Savannakhet,
Khammuane and Bolikhamxay compared with 14,138 households estimated during appraisal,
(over twice the original target). Original targets were exceeded substantially as a result of a large
increase in the demand of electricity from non-electrified villages which were attracted by the
benefits of village electrification (such as improvements in quality of life and children's
education, more entertainment facilities, and income generating activities). EdL could respond to
the increased demand for services by achieving low bid costs for most items and requiring the
beneficiary to: (i) contribute 30% of the cost of 22kV spur line, transformer and distribution
investments before construction commences, and (ii) at least 60% of village households must
agree to pay house wiring and connection fees before the system is energized. In some cases,
villages were so willing to have electricity that they collected funds among themselves to finance
100% of the distribution equipment and paid EdL for installation only. The table below
summarizes the SAR and actual figures under this component.



29                                  Annex A
22 kV      0.4 kV     22 kV      22 kV/0.4   Villages to   Households
medium     distribution  substations  kV    be         to be
voltage and  lines (km)   (no.)  transformer electrified   electrified
spurs (km)                       s (no.)    (no.)      (no.)
Champassak (SAR)       323         370        ---        108        108        5,912
Champassak (Actual)    351         168                   96         102.       9,899
Saravane (SAR)          119        54                   17          17         793
Saravane (Actual)       148        166                   56         70         5,024
Savannakhet (SAR)       102        138                  44          44          1,950
Savannakhet (Actual)    254        214                  101         101        8,077
Khammuane (SAR)         197        296        1          92         92         4,354
Khammuane (Actual)    231          243        1          130        133        6,987
Bolikhamxay (SAR)      75          78         1          24         24          1,129
Bolikhamxay (Actual)    107        85         1          33         33         3,491
Total SAR Estimates     816        936        2          285        285         14,138
Total Actual            1,091      876        2          416        439        33,478
ii)   Enhancement of Quality Supply for existing consumers. The construction, under the PGI
project, of three overhead river-crossing lines to interconnect with the Thai grid (at Savannakhet,
Thakhek, and Se Bang Fai) have increased the quality of power supply from the Thai grid and
assisted with the development of the provinces. In addition, EdL will start monitoring the quality
of services by recording interruptions at the consumer level (scheduled and accidental outages) on
a quarterly basis.
iii)  Improving System Efficiency. Under this component, the PGI project aimed to continue
the loss reduction program started under Southern Provincial Electrification (SPE) to reduce
distribution losses in the Vientiane area and extend it to the service areas of EdL's provincial
branches. However, the program was implemented only in Vientiane. Under this component,
EdL has procured and installed 24,000 meters and is recording losses on a monthly basis. By the
end of September 1999, EdL recorded distribution losses of 14.6% which is an improvement,
although modest, from 16% in 1993. EdL also acquired tools, vehicles, radio equipment, and a
telecommunications system which has facilitated EdL's capability to monitor system losses and
improved communications within the central and southern regions as well as between Vientiane
headquarters and key locations within the provinces. During its visit to EdL's branch at
Bolikhamxay, the mission was informed by EdL staff that collection rate in this province is about
95%, largely due to the strict enforcement on overdue accounts (service is disconnected after a
month of unpaid service) and the introduction of a computer billing system. This indicates a real
commitment from the provinces to monitor and reduce system losses and increase their collection
efficiency. During the ICR mission, EdL agreed to provide an updated status of the Action Plan
for Reducing Technical and Non-Technical Losses agreed upon during appraisal (Annex 1). The
latest EdL report on Energy Loss Reduction for the period January to September 1999 for the
Vientiane grid is attached as Annex 2.
iv) Continuation of EdL's institutional development. The following activities were included:
a Finance, Accounting and Computerization Consultancy that would train finance staff
at EdL headquarters and the provincial subsidiaries, and assist them in implementing
EdL's accounting systems and financial processes related to EdL's new MIS. The
computerization consultancy was dropped from the project as EdL plans to reorganize into



30                                Annex A
profit centers became clearer. Consulting services on financial and accounting systems,
including the hiring of a Resident Financial Management Advisor in November 1997,
have helped EdL to improve their billing and collection systems and procedures.
*  an Organization and Management Study that would continue the work begun under
SPE to develop the policies, regulations, systems, procedures, and guidelines needed to
enable EdL to function as a decentralized national utility. This study was completed in
1997 by PA Consulting.
*  a Training Upgrade Program that would include (i) the provision of equipment and
tools; (ii) the services of training experts; (iii) short-term secondments and external
training; and (iv) a "technical cooperation arrangement" with Tenaga Nasional Berhad
(TNB) of Malaysia. As a result of a grant financing from the Government of France to
support EdL's training program, items (i) and (ii) were not carried out under the PGI.
EdL staff received both external and in-house training on engineering economics, finance,
audit and hydropower technology. A lecture program given as a part of the loss reduction
study and accounting procedures was very useful and generated interest and enthusiasm
among EdL staff both from Vientiane and the provinces. The EdL/TNB technical
cooperation was successfully completed with a total of 25 courses and 167 EdL staff
trained.
v)   Development of hydro exports for the Lao PDR. A feasibility study for the installation of
additional capacity at the Nam Ngum hydro station was carried out under PGI as planned. The
bid price for this project, however, resulted in about US$3 million above the original estimates.
This higher cost, combined with the lower prices offered by EGAT made the expansion of Nam
Ngum  economically unviable.  Therefore, EdL reallocated the project savings from  the
rehabilitation of Nam Ngum to the procurement of goods for the distribution extension in the
provinces and technical assistance for the Nam Theun II hydroelectric project.
Implementation Record
3.   The project was approved on October 6, 1992 and became effective only until July 6, 1993
due to Borrower's delays in presenting a satisfactory legal opinion. On April 6, 1995 and later on
November 6, 1995, the DCA was amended to allow for the provision of specialized legal and
financial advisory services, and social, environmental and macroeconomic studies in connection
with the proposed Nam Theum II hydroelectric project. A total of about US$4.6 million was
reallocated under PGI to consultant's services for TA to prepare Nam Theum II studies.
4.   Overall, implementation of the project was carried out satisfactorily. EdL showed adequate
project management and technical capabilities to carry out implementation of the PGI.
Counterpart funds were available always. In January 1997, the project was retrofitted with a set
of performance indicators as shown in Annex 3.
5.   The credit closing date was extended one year from its original date of June 30, 1998 to
June 30, 1999 in order to complete additional extension of electricity supply in the provinces of
Khammouane and Champassack and to allow completion of consultancy services for the Nam
Theum II project.
Financial Covenants



31                                 Annex A
6.   Although financial strengthening of EdL was not stated explicitly as a project objective,
IDA engaged the Government and EdL into the commercialization of EdL's through the
following financial covenants: (a) EdL to generate funds from internal sources equivalent to not
less than 20% of the annual average of EdL's capital expenditure; (b) EdL to maintain a debt
service coverage ratio of 1.1; (c) GOL to take measures, including increase of EdL electricity
tariffs, necessary to enable EdL to meet its 1.1 debt service ratio; and (d) GOL to complete an
action program (by April 30, 1994) satisfactory to IDA, to decrease EdL receivables from
Government agencies.
7.   EdL has not met the 20% self financing target since 1993. In 1996, it was unable to meet
its debt service obligations, which effectively made EdL insolvent. Prior to appraisal of the SPRE
project, EdL and GOL had taken important measures to restore the company's financial health
including: (a) a 70% tariff increase; (b) debt conversion of about US$32 million of EdL debt to
equity; (c) preparation of a Performance Contract; and (d) revisions in tax and dividend policies.
Albeit these actions, EdL's financial situation continued to deteriorate largely due to the
depreciation of the Kip triggered by the regional financial crisis. In September 1998, EdL
proposed to the Government certain measures to address its financial weakness, including further
tariff increases. GOL approved a tariff increased of 100% effective in February 1, 1999 plus an
escalation of 3% per month for the next three years.
8.   The above tariff increases, however, are not sufficient to fully offset likely further
devaluation of the Kip over the next 3 years and thus additional increases will be needed if IDA's
financial covenants are to be met in the next few years. In February 1999, an IDA supervision
mission recommended, based on its review of EdL 's financial projections, that GOL approve the
following measures to support financial restructuring of EdL: (a) revaluation offixed assets; (b)
offset of EdL 'sforeign exchange losses; (c) conversion of EdL debt to equity; (d) offset accounts
receivables owing by Government agencies to EdL; and (e) adoption of international accounting
standards. Up to date, very little has been achieved to improve EdL 'sfinancial health as none of
these measures have been made effective by GOL.
Project Outcome and Sustainability
9.   Based upon the critical situation of EdL's finances and the lack of Government actions to
support financial restructuring of EdL, sustainability of the project is rated uncertain.
10.  In spite of the fact that the project objectives were fully achieved and project
implementation was carried out satisfactorily from a technical and cost viewpoints, the
uncertainty in that the project will maintain its achievements under EdL 's current financial status
and the country's macroeconomic conditions, are key determinants in rating the outcome of the
project unsatisfactory. It's important to note, however, that the determinants upon which the
unsatisfactory rating is based (EdL 's financial status and macroeconomic conditions) are both
related to policy issues exogenous to the project and beyond EdL 's control.
Key Lessons Learned
11. Based on the implementation experience of the PGI project, the following lessons can be
learned and applied in future projects:



32                                Annex A
(i)  the Bank should maintain the Borrower (in most cases, the Ministry of Finance) fully
involved throughout project implementation so as to maintain policy dialogue and collaboration
among the Government, Implementing Agency and the Bank.
(ii) when an ongoing operation is used to provide supplemental financing for technical
assistance that is relevant to the project objectives but it was not included in the original estimates,
this supplemental financing should be assigned only after ensuring that sufficient funds are
available for ongoing activities under the project.
(iii) when there is more than one implementing agency for the execution of the project,
individual project agreements between each Implementing Agency and the Bank should be
provided. This will improve efficiency in the management and accounting of loan funds and
increase accountability from each Implementing Agency.
Agreements Reached
12.  EdL agreed to submit a final Implementation Completion Report, including information on
local costs, loss reduction program, training received by EdL, revised economic rate of return and
lessons learned by EdL not later than December 3, 1999.
13. EdL would confirm with EdL's branches the accuracy of the actual figures presented in the
September 1999 electrification progress report by December 3, 1999.



33
Annex B
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT                page 1 of 6
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
PROVINCIAL GRID INTEGRATION PROJECT (PGI)
(CREDIT NO. 2425-LA)
II : PROJECT ANALYSIS AND PERFORMANCE
A.   Introduction
2.1  Electricite du Laos formulated the Provincial Grid Integration Project with credit agreement
2425-LA from IDA, to accelerate the economic development of the Southern and Central
Regions of Lao PDR, previously greatly hampered by shortage of electricity. The objectives
of project were as follows:
2.2  The objectives of the project were: (i) extending electricity supply to more consumers in the
Southern and Central Regions of the Lao PDR, including areas within the provinces of
Champassak, Saravane, Sekong, Savannakhet, Khammouane, and Bolikhamxay (Map IBRD
No. 23467); (ii) enhancing the quality of supply for existing consumers in those provinces;
(iii) developing additional power import prospects for the Lao PDR; (iv) improving EdL's
system efficiency; and (v) continuing EdL's institutional development.
B.   Project Components
2.3   The project included the following components:
a)    Central Region Electrification. Construction of: (i) a new 115 kV double-circuit
overhead river-crossing line with associated substation at Savannakhet to Thai grid at
Moukdahan and a new 22 kV double-circuit overhead river crossing line at Thakhek
(both of which replaced aging underwater cables), to interconnect with the Thai grid at
Nakhornpanom; (ii) new 22 kV single-circuit overhead river-crossing lines at Pakxane
to interconnect with the Thai grid at Bungkane, each with an associated 22 kV
substation and (iii) extension of the 22 kV distribution networks in Savannakhet,
Khammouane and Bolikhamxay provinces;
(b)  Southern Region Electrification. Extension and modification of the 22 kV distribution
networks at Bangyo Substation to additional areas in Champassak and extension of the
22 kV distribution networks at Sekong, and Saravane provinces;
(c)  Improving System Efficiency. This component included (i) implementation of program
for EdL to monitor and reduce system losses, which is in progress (see Annex F) and
completion of improve has to the billing practices in the Vientiane area and its
provincial subsidiaries; and (ii) provision and installation of equipment and materials
(including spare parts) to strengthen EdL's operation and maintenance services,
particularly in the new provincial subsidiaries.
(d)  Continuation of EdL's Institutional Development. Provision of equipment, material and
services, and technical assistance for upgrading the skills of EdL's staff and its training
capabilities; and In addition to training provided by the equipment switching suppliers:
(i) The services of two training consultants a human resources expert and Electricity
Transmission and Distribution expert for twenty five (25) person-months, (ii) Twenty
three training sessions representing over 3100 person-weeks of training held in
Vientiane and (iii) 24 programs of 167 person-weeks of training held in abroad (See
Annex C ).



34                                Annex B
Page 2 of 6
(e) Future Project Development. Preparation of a feasibility and design study for (i) the
'installation of addition'al cap-icity atthe NamnNguiniihydi stiiion, together with (ii)
any needed strengthening of the transmission line from Nam Ngum to the Thai border.
C.   Achievement of Project Objectives
(a)  Central Region Electrjfication. Construction of: (i) a new 115 kV 1.122 km double-circuit
overhead river-crossing line with associated substation at Savannskhet, and a new 22 kV
1.216 km double-circuit overhead river crossing line at Thakhek (both of which would
replace aging underwater cables), to interconnect with the Thai grid; (ii) a new 22 kV 0.853
km single-circuit overhead river-crossing lines to interconnect with the Thai grid at Paksane,
each with an associated 22 kV substation; and (iii) extension of the 22 kV distribution
networks in Savannakhet, Khammouane and Bolikhamxay provinces ( See Annex C)
(b)  Southern Region Electrification. Extension of the 22 kV distribution networks to additional
areas in Champassak, Sekong, and Saravane provinces ( See Annex C )
(c) Improving System Efficiency. This component included (i) implementation of an action
program for EdL to monitor and reduce system losses which is in progress (see Annex F )
and completion of improve has to the billing practices in the Vientiane area and its provincial
subsidiaries; and (ii) the provision and installation of equipment and materials (including
spare parts) to strengthen EdL's operation and maintenance services, particularly in the new
provincial subsidiaries.
(d)  Continuation of EdL's Institutional Development. Provision of equipment, material and
services, and technical assistance for upgrading the skills of EdL's staff and its training
capabilities; and In addition to training provided by the equipment switching suppliers: (i)
The services of two training consultants  a human resources expert and electricity
Transmission and Distribution expert for twenty five (25) person-months, (ii) Twenty three
training sessions representing over 3100 person-weeks of training held in Vientiane and (iii)
24 programs of 167 person-weeks of training held in abroad (See Annex E ).
(e) Future Project Development. A feasibility study for future installation of additional
capacity at the Nam Ngum hydro station, together with (ii) any needed strengthening of
the transmission line from Nam Ngum to the Thai border.
D.   Implementation Record
2.4   All the components of the project have been completed in (the 5* year) span of the credit
for the Provincial Grid Integration Project ( PGI ). The feasibility study for PGI was
completed in' 1990, and the project was approved during the appraisal mission in
November, 1991. After bidding, the project construction began in June 1994 and was
completed by June, 1998. However, due to a component failure the period of the credit was
extended until June 1999, this was largely for the purpose of 22 kV network extensions.
The total actual cost of the various components of the project is within the estimated cost
provision of the in SAR, the summary of which is given below. ( See Annex A for more
details).



35                                      Annex B
Page 3 of 6
Annex A : Project Costs
SAR  ESTIMATE ACTUAL COSTS
SR.         DESCRIPTION               Foreign      Local     Foreign      Local
No.                                     Cost       Cost       Cost        Cost
_ ___________________________  ,000 US S  ,000 US S  ,000 US S  ,000 US S
I       Provincial Electrification
Central Region Interconnect    2.21         0         1.03       0.02
Central Region Distribution    12.78      2.26       11.86       3.81
Southern Region Distribution   9.75        2.34       9.02        2.23
Sub Total              24.74        4.6       21.91       6.06
2    System Efficiency Improvement
Loss Reduction             1.5       0.15       2.84        0.337
Spare part, Vehicle, Tools    0.95         0         0.98
Micro Computers            0.20        0         0.05
Telecommunication System       0.75       0.05        1.19       0.015
Sub Total               3.4         0.2       5.06        0.352
3       Institutional Development
Organization & Management      0.75         0         0.26
Financial & Computerization     0.5         0         0.36
Training Center Upgrading       2           0         0.86
Sub Total               3.25        0          1.48
4         Project Engineer         l_l
PGI & Num Ngum (A*)           1.8        0.03       6.42
Total Base Cost           33.19       4.83       34.87      6.412
Physical Contingencies       1.39       0.23
Price Contingencies         3.62       1.83
Total Project Cost         38.20       6.89
Interest during Construction   0.40       3.80                   4.29
Total Financing Requirement     38.60      10.69       34.87      10.702
2.5    The target for electrification has been fully achieved as can be seen from the following
comparison ( See Annex B for details).



36                                      Annex B
ANNEX B  SCOPE OF WORK OF PROVINCIAL ELECTRIFICATION Coiwbohk+s
22 kV medium    0.4 kV   1522kV Sub   2210.4 kV   Villages to Household
Description    voltage and   distribution  I l5kV Sub   stations  Tmnsformers  be  to be
Spur lines    lie (m    stations      no         n)       electrified  electrified
(km)    ies            n)        no no)                (no)      (no)
Champassack           323         370                     _        108        108     5912
Saravane              119          54                               17         17      793
Sekong                 37          18                               11         11      400
Savannakhet           102         138         1          -          44         44      1950
Khammnuane            197         296          -         1          92         92     4354
Bolikhanxay            75          78          -         1          24         24      1129
Total SAR             853         954          1         2         296        296    14538
Estimates    I           I           I                     I
Total Actual    1,129.575    1,130.991        1         2          482       551    35,407
E.    Institutional Development
2.6    This the component of the project has been subdivided into two portion and has been award
to two consultants viz Swedpower and EdL. Swedpower's scope of work covered the
following:
a)    Financial Accounting, Budgeting and Control.
b)    Technical : i)       Telecommunication system improvement
ii)    Review of commercial metering
iii)   Loss reduction study
c)    Computer Software Applications
F.    Financial Accounting Budgeting and Control
2.7  The main objectives under this part were:
a)     to formulate uniform accounting practices and procedures and establish an adequate
reporting and control system;
b)     impart necessary training to staff; and
c)     identify areas requiring further considerations and recommend steps and actions
required to achieve the objectives.
G.    Computer software applications
This part of work was added to the scope at a later stage. Under this addition, the consultant has
provided   services  to  augment  the  existing   computer  systems,  with  additional
software/modifications to the existing software in respect of the various systems ( consumer
billing, general ledger, fixed assets, stores & purchasing , personnel information, payroll and
accounts payable). The modification in the systems involved inclusion of more categories of
consumers in the billing systems, revision of the chart of accounts and bifurcation of asset
accounts into foreign currency and Kip components. The assignment started in June 1996 and was
completed by May 1997. With the training imparted and the systems having been stabilized, these



37                                  Annex B
systems are in regular operation and working satisfactorily. The training has been carried out and
the new system are running well.
H.   Future Project Development Study
2.8   The main objectives under this part were:
a) Distribution Extension some 500-600 villages from middle to the south of country.
b) Set up the pilot of Off-Grid Rural Electrification 46 villages by using of small-scale,
standalone generation system such as micro-hydro, diesel mini-grids and as well as
solar battery charging station in remote rural communities.
c) Provide to EdL to further improve efficiency on Institution Building
I.    Factor affecting the Project
2.9   The main objectives under this part were:
a) Risk of Infatuation of Lao Kip.
b) Financial return of EdL, (domestic load, almost residental Energy are increased), which
could effect on financial issues but it develops the social infrastructure.
G.   Project Sustainability
The project has been executed in reasonable time and within the available fund of the credit. The
EIRR obtained for Electrification of Bolikhamxay Province exceeds SAR estimates and is
satisfactory . The EIRR for Khammuane, Savannakhet, Champassack , Salavane provinces
component, though below the SAR estimates is likely improve .With the intensification of
agricultural and industrial sectors in coming years, it is expected that the EIRR will improve.
K.   IDA Performance
IDA's performance under the Project was satisfactory. Project objectives developed at
identification were in line with the country's and the Bank's assistance strategy, and were
supported by the project's components, conditionality and covenants. (para. 34)
Specifications and tender documents for key investment components (e.g. transmission
systems) were prepared in advance of project effectiveness (in order to prevent disbursement
delays) and were revised during implementation to enable EdL to substitute a more cost effective
microwave transmission system for a fiber-optic transmission system.
During supervision, IDA could have provided more support to EdL in engaging consultants
and to the Government in undertaking sector reforms; however, resources were not made available
for such efforts, as IDA had decided not to pursue a subsequent operation in the sector (see
Country Assistance Strategy).
L.    Borrower and Beneficiary Performance
The Government's and EdL's performance under the project was highly satisfactory. Both entities
demonstrated strong commitment to the project to sector reform and commercialization. They



38                                Annex B
worked closely with Bank preparation missions and consulted with Bank staff regaraing all major
issues. After EdL surmounted initial delays (due largely to problems with contracting),
disbursements exceeded appraisal estimates (Table 4). With minor exceptions, the Government
and EdL met the project's covenants.
M.   Assessment of outcome
The outcome of the project was satisfactory. All of the physical, financial and institutional
objectives of the project were fully achieved; many were greatly exceeded. The Government and
Beneficiary undertook additional policy reforms beyond the scope of the
project which enabled them to attract and implement additional investment from donors as well as
substantial private investment in EdL.
N.   Future Operations
EdL has already formulated the next phase of development activities in the centers and southem
provinces by way of the new project viz. Southern Provinces Rural Electrification Project ( SPRE).
This project has already been reviewed by IDA and is being financed under IDA credit 3047-LA.
The credit was effective from 12 August 1998 and the project has progressed to the stage of
placement of order for most major components.
0.   Key Lessons Learnt
The experience gained by EdL's staff during the project will greatly enhance EdL's ability to
effectively plan, co ordinate and execute large projects in the future.
The difficulties and delays encountered during execution has helped EdL to streamline engineering
construction management procedures adopted in the organization .
The load development in the domestic and commercial sector of the project area has justified the
load forecast technique adopted in the project formulation. Future EdL project will adopt moderate
load growth for agricultural and industrial sectors as they may take along time to materialize.
ANNEX C: SCOPE OF WORK OF 22 KV NETWORK
(km)
Champasack  Saravane+   Savannakhet  Khammouane Bolikhamxay  Total
Works                      Sekong
22 kV medium          323  119 + 37          102        197           75       853
Voltage lines
Actually          345.286     163.65     256.519     242.34       121.78  1,129.575
Remark:     For Sekong province is Saravane province's construction.
ANNEX D : FINANCING PLAN FOR THE PROJECT
(US$ Million)
Source of Funds            Local Cost             Foreign Cost       Total Cost
IDA Proposed Credit        00.00                  36.00              36.00
EGAT                       00.00                  02.20              02.20
EdL                        10.70                  00.40              11.10
Total                      10.70                  38.60              49.30



Provincial Grid Integration Project
Project Internal Rate of Return
Table 1: Bolikhamxay Province
Bolllchamxay Provtnce             1993  1994  19951 1996  19971 1999  1 999  20001 2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  20101 2011  2012  20131 2014  2019  20161 20171 2018  2019  20201 20211 2022
Investment Costs (IJS$ Million)
CIF                                            1.338  2.231  0.446  0.449
L.ocal                                                      0.271  0.14   0.143
O&M Cost (US$Milion0) It                       0.013  0.036 0.043 0.049   0 05   0.05   0.05   0.05   0.05   0.05   0.05  0.05   0.05  0.05  0.05   0.05   0.05   0 05   0 05   0.05   0.05   0.05  0.05   0.05   0 05   0.05   0 05   0.05
Subtotal                                       1.351  2.267   0.78  0 639 0.193   0.05  0.05   0.05  0.05   0.05   0.05   0 05   0.05   0.05   0 05   0.05   0.05   0.05  0.05   0.05   0.05  0.05  0.05   0 05   0.05   0.05   0.05   0 05
flncremntal Consumn05on (GVith 2,
Residentiat/Comonercial/PSArltl.                            1.068 3.424  3.198 3 421  3.661  3.917 4.191  4.191  4.191 4.191 4.191 4.191  4.191  4.191  4 191  4.191  4 191  4 191  4.191  4.191 4.191  4.191 4.1911 4 191 4 191  4.191
AgniAndustry                                                0.354  1.296 2 988 3.198 3.421  3.660  3.917  3.917  3.917 3 917  3.917 3.917 3.917 3.917  3 917  3917  3.91 7  3.917 3 917  3.917 3.917  3.9`17  3 917  3.917 3.917 3.917
Subtotal                                                    1.422  4.720 6.196 6.619 7.082  7 578 9 109  8.109  8 105  9.106  9.109  8 108  8.198  8198B 8.105  9.108 9.109  8.105  6 105  8.108 6198 9.109  8 108  8.109  8.109  9 105
Supply c-ost at 0.054$ththl tor 1995.99                     0.084  0.290 0 367  0 328  0 351  0 375  0.401  0.401  0.401 0 401  0 401  0.401  0 401  0.401  0.401  0.401 0 401  0.401 0.401  0.401 0.401  0 401  0.401  0 401  0 401  0 401
and 0.04SSltWhl tor 2000 onwards 3/
(before 10% disbtri"on toss)
Benefit 1US$ Milli-n
Res/ComslPS/lnt. at0023 SAsVNl                              0.246 0.788  0 736  0.787 0.842  0.901  0.964  0.964  0 964 0.964  0.964 0 864 0.964  0.964 0.964 0.964 0.964 0.964 0.964  0.964 0.964  0.964 0.964  0.964  0 964 0.964
Agnfindustry at 0.1 8 $ArkWh                                0.063 0.229 0.529 0.566 0.606  0.648 0.693 0.693  0.693 0.693 0.693 0 693  0.693  0.693  0.693 0.693 0 693  0 693  0.693  0.693 0.693 0.693 0.693 0.693 0693 0.693
Total Benefit                                               0.308  1.017  1.264  1.353  1.448  1.549  1.657  1.657  1 657  1.657  1.657 1.657  1.657  1.657  1 657  1.657  1.657  1.657  1.657  1 657  1.657  1.657  1.657  1.657  1.657  1.657
l.W
Total Cool                                     1.351  2.267 0944  0.919 0.561  0.378 0 401  0.425 0 452  0 452  0 452 0.452 0.452 0.452 0.452  0 452  0 452  0.452 0.452  0 452 0.452  0.452 0.452 0.452  0.452  0.452  0.452 0.A52    'O
Total Benefit                                               0 308  1.017  1.264  1.353  1.448  1.549  1.657  1.657  1.657  1.657  1.657  1 657  1.657  1 657  1.657  1.657  1.~657  1 657  1I657  1.657  1.657  1.657  1.657  1 657  1.657  1 657
Net Benefit                                   -1 351 -2.267 -0.536  0.099  0.704  0.975  1 047  1.124  1.206  1.206  1 200  1 200  1200  1.206 1 200  1.206  1.200  1.200  1 209  1.200  1.206 1.206 1.200  1 200  1 200  1200  1 206 1206
IEIRR                              19%1                                                                                                                                                                                 
Assumptions.
1/1I% of assets.
2/ 7% increase In demand froml 2000 unSil 2003. Fros, 2003 onwards. consumpySon levels remain constant as increased in consumpoon would required additional investments that are beyond the scope of the project.
3/Supply cost is expected to01 falstarting in the year 2000 as Thoilend's avoided costa are down and this is beng reflected In the ne,w prices negsatied wtith EdL
supply cost 1995-1999                          0.054
supply cost 2800-2021                          0.045
WiP tor Resid8na9Con1PSAnn5.                    0.23
WTP for AgsiAndusbial demand                   0.177
0 0
PIsX
.Js O'



Provincial Grid Integration Project
Project Internal Rate of Return
Table 2: Khammuane Province
Khammuan. Province                 1993  1994  19651 1996  1997  1 999,1966   20001 2001 20021 20031 2004  2005  20061 20071 2009  2009  20101 2011 2012  2013  20141 20`15  2016  20171 2019  2019  20201 20211 2022
Invuestment Costs (US$ Million)
CIF                               0.315  0.315  0.630  0.620  0.946  0.315
Local                              0.146  0.209 0.134  0.251  0.591  0.345  0.272
OtiM Cost (US$MiIlion) 11          0.005 0.010 0.017  0.026  0.042  0.049  0.051  0.051  0.051  0.051  0.051  0.051  0.051  0.051  0.051  0.051  0.051  0.051  0.051  0.051  0.051  0.051  0.051  0.051  0.051  0.051  0.051  0.051  0.051 0,051
Subtotal                           0.466 0.534 0.781  0.507  1.569  0.708 0.323  0.051  0.051  0.051  0.051  0.051  0.051  0.051  0.051  0.051  0.001 0.051  0.0-51  0.051  0.051  0.051  0.051  0.051  0.051  0.051  0.051  0.051  0.051  0.051
Incremental Consusamoiqn_CGVVhl 2
ReSidentiatICormnerctaMllSAlnt.                        6.110  7.511  9.329  8.351  8.935  9.561 10.230 10.964  10.946 10.946 10.946 10946 10946 10946 10946 10.646 10946 10.946 10.946 10.946 10.946 10.946 10.949 10.946 10.646 10.946 10.946
Agrifindustry                                          0.621  1.427  3.487  5.642 6.037 6.460  6.912  7.396  7.396  7.396  7.366  7.396  7.396  7.39B 7.396  7.396  7.396  7.396  7.39r6 7.396  7.396 7.396  7.396  7.396  7.396  7.396  7.396
Subtotal                                               6.731  8.938 12.916 13.663 14.972 16.021 17.142 18.342 18.342 1I.342 18.342 18.342 19.3-42 18.342 18.342 18.342 18.342 18.342 18.342 18.342 18.342 18.342 18.342 19.342 19.342 18.342 18.342
Supply cost at 0.045$Ikr1.M tsr 1960.99                0.333  0.442  0.634  0.693  0.659  0.705  0.754  0.907  0.907  0.807  0.807 0.807  0.907  0.907 0.807 0.807  0.807  0.807 0.907 0.907  0.907  0.907  0.607 0.907  0.907  0.807 0.907
and 0.04S/VhfOM, o 2000 onwards 3/
(before 10% distribuahon loss)
ResfComfPSAng. at 0.20$OlAKM                           1.405  1.728  2.145  1.921  2.055  2.159 2.353  2.518 2.518 2.518 2.618 2.518  2.518 2.518 2.518 2.516  2.518 2.518 2.519  2.518 2.518 2.519  2.518  2.518 2.518 2.518 2.518
A5rdAsdustry at0. 1 77 (t/Mr                           0.110  0.253  0.617  0.999 1.069  1.143  1.223  1.309 1.306  1.309  1.309  1.309  1.309  1.309  1.306  1.309  1.306  1.309  1.309  1.309  1.309  1.309  1.309  1.309  1.309  1.309 1.209
Total Benefit                                          1.515  1.980  2.763  2.916) 3.124  3.342  3.576  3.827  3.827  3.827  3.927  3.827  3.827  3.827 3.827  3.827  3.927  3.827 3.827 3.827 3.927 3.927  3.827  3.627  3.927 3.827  3.827
Total Cost                         0.466  0.534  0.781  1.240 2.011  1.343  1.016  0.710  0.756  0.905  0.959  0.95   0.958  0.585  0.959   .5 0.859 0.959,85 0.959   0.959   0.95    .0    .59  0.959 ~5 0.959   0.959   0.959   0.90    .59  0.956  0.956    CD
Total Benefit                         0      0      0  1.515  1.990  2.763  2.919  3.124  3.342  3.576  3.827  3.827  3.827  3.927  3.827  3.927  3.827  3.827  3.827  3.927  3.827  3.927  3.927  3.927 3.827  3.927  3.827  3.827  3.827  3.627
Net Benefit                       -0.466 -0.534 -0.791  0.275 -0.031  1.420  1.904  2.414  2.597  2.771  2.969 2.969  2.969  2.969  2.969  2.969 2.969  2.969  2.969  2.969  2.969  2.969  2.969 2.969 2.969  2.969  2.969  2.969  2.969 2.969
EIRR                                44%
Assumptions:
11 1% 01 assets.
2/ 7% increasesi demand fromh 2000 until2003. From 2003 onwards. consump5on levels remain constant as increased is consumpfion would re4ufired additional investments that are beyond the scope of the project.
3/Supply cost is expected to tall starting is the year 2000 as rhaitands avoided costs are down and this is being reflected is 919 new prices nvegotiated with EdL.
supply cost 1965-1966                           0.045
supply cost 2000-2022                           0.040
WTP tsr ResidentialrComIPSlnno.                  0.23
WTP for Agrtlindustiald demand                  0.177
(D
0 (D



Provincial Grid Integration Project
Project Internal Rate of Return
Table 3: Savannakhet Province
Savn.nekhet Provtince             19931 1994  1995  1998I 19971 1998  199   20001 2001  2002  20031 2004  2005  20001 20071 2006  2009  20101 2011  2012l 2013  20141 2018  20161 20171 2018  2019  20201 20211 2022
Investtenet Costs (US$ Million)f 
CIF                                     0,729  2179  2.905j 0.729  0729
Local                                                0 289j 0.529  0.289 0.255
OSM Cost (USSMillion) I1                0.007 0.029 0.061 0.074  0.084 0.096 0.089  0.096 0.096 0.096 0.086  0.099  0.086 0.096 0.086 0.086  0.086  0 086  O0.06 0 086 0.086 0.086 0.086 0.086 0 086 0.086  0.086 0 086 0.086
Subtotal                                0.733 2.208 3.255  1.326  1.099 0.341  O0.09   0.086 0.086  O0.09   0.086 0 086  0.086  0.086 0.099  0.086 0.086  0 086  0 086  0 086 0.086 0.086  O0.09   0.086 0.086 0 096 0.086  0.086  0.086
'Irmna  osmpinIVT12
Residential/Commerciat/PoSAr0l.                      2.602 49095  3.410 10.094 10 801  11 56 12.366 13.232 13.232 13.232 13.232 13 232 13 232 13 232 13.232 13 232 13.232 13.232 13.232 13 232 13 232 13.232 13 232 13.232 13 232 13 232 13 232
Agn/Indlustry                                        1.060  1.118  1.273 3.302  3.533 32780  4.045 4.328 4.328  4.3229  4 329  4328  4 328  4.328  4.328 4.328 4 328  4.328  4 328 4 328  4 328  4.328 4 328  4 328  4 328  4.328 4 328
Subtotal                                             3.592 5.213  4.6893 13.396 14.334 15.337 16.411 17.559 17.559 17 559 17 559 17 559 17 559 17.559 17.559 '17.559 17 559 17.559 17.559 17.559 17.559 17.559 175S59 17.559 17 559 179559 17.559
Supply cost at 0.054SllrtMn for 1995-99              0.213 0.310 0.278 0.799  0.710  0 759  0.812  09869  0.869 0.899 09969  0.869 09969  0 869  0.869  0.869  09969  09969  09969  09969  09969  0.999 0999g 0 869  09969  0.869 09999
and 0.0455,5k/4h tsr 2000 onwards 3/
(belore i0% distobution toss)
Benefit (US$ Millioni
Res/CorniPSAItn. at 0.23 S/k09                       0.575 0.942  0.764  2 322 2.484 2.658 2.844  3 043 3 043  3.043 3.043 3.043 3.043  3.043 3 043  3.043  3.043 3 043  3.043 3.043  3 043  3.043 3.043 3.043 3.043  3 043  3 043
AgrdAndustry atO0 177$1k1/Vh                         0.191 0.198 0.225 0.584 0.625 0869  0.7`16 0 786  0.766 0.786  0.766  0.766 0.786  0.786  0.766 0.786 0.786 0 790  0.766 0.786 0.766 0.766 0.766 0.766  0 790  0.790  0 766
Total Benefit                                        0.767  1.140  1.010 2 906  3110  3.327 3.560  3.809 3.809  3.809  3.809 3.809  3.809 3.809 3.809 3.809  3 809  3 809  3.809 3.808390 3.809     3.809 3.80  80  39809  3 809 3.809   4
Total Cost                        0 000 0.733 2.208 3.468  1.635  1 377  1.137 0.796 0.845  0.899 0.955 0.955 0.955 0.955  0.955 0.955 06955  0 955  0 955  0.855 0.955 0.955  0.955 0.955 0.955 0.955 0.955 0 955  0.955 0 955
Total Benefit                        0      0      01 0.7671 1.1401 1.010 2.906 3.110 3.3271 3.560 3.909 3.809 3.809 3.809  3.809 3.090 180399 3.809 3.899  3 808  3.808  3.809 3.809 3809 3.809  3.890   3 808  3.809  3.809 3.809
Net Baeneft                       0D  -00007303 .2.208 -2.701 .0.495 .0.367  1.769 2.314 2.482 2.662 2.854 .84 2.854  2.854 2.8942 2694 2 895 4 2 .854 2.854 2.854  2.854 2.854 2.884 2.854 2 .84   894 2.854 2.854  2.854  2.8.54 2 804
IEIRR                              23%
Assumptions:
11 1% 01 assets.
2t 7% increase to demand fmm 2000 untit 2003 From 2003 onwards. coesumptioxi tenets remain constant as increased in consumlpoon would required add itonat invsetments that are beyond the scope ot the project.
3/Suppyf  cost is expected to felt starting in the year 2000 en Thaitetnds avoided coDsts are down and this is; being reflected in Mte new prnoes negotiated with EdL.
supply coot 1995-1999                          0.054
suppy cost 2000-2022                           0.045
WTP for ResidentiaLCoustPSrlnfl                 0 23
WTP for AgMricllfldss8le demand                0.177
60M
i-fo



Provincial Grid Integration Project
Project Internal Rate of Return
Table 4: Saravan & Sekorng Provinces (Southern Grid)
Saravan &Sekeng Provinces          1993  1994  19951 19961 '1997  199  '19991 20001 2001  2002  20031 2004  2005  20061 20071 2008  2009  2010J 2011  20121 2013  20141 2015  2016  20171 201S  2019  20201 2021  2022
Investment Costs (US$ Millions)
CIF                                       0.176  06528  0.704  0,176  0.176
Local                                                  0.112  0.400  0.287 0.01
OSM Cost (USSMIiost) 1/                0.002  0.00?  0.015  0.021  0.06  0.026  0.026  0.026  0.026  0.026  0.026  0.026  0.026  0.026 0.026  0.026  0.026  0.026  0.02e  0.026 0.026  0.026  0.026  0.026  0.026  0.026  0.026 0.026  0.026
Subtotal                                 0.178 0.535 0.831  0.597  0.489  0.097  0.026  0.026  0.026  0.026  0.026  0.026  0.026  0.026  0.026  0.026  0.026  0.026  0.026  0.026  0.026  0.026  0.026 0.026 0.026  0.026  0.026  0.026  0.026
Incremantal ConsumoSon gWlt 2/
Residenfialrornmerret.tS5InO.                          0.041 0.093 0.706 5.234  5.600  5.992  6.411  6.660  6.860  6.660  6.660  6.860  6.860  6.860  6.860  6.860  6.660  6.8600  6.660  6.660  6.860  6.860  6.a60  6.860  6.860  6.66   6.960
AgrnAndustry                                                        0.051  2.726  2.917  3.121  3.339  3.573  3.573  3.573  3.573  3.673  3.573  3.573  3.573  3.573  3.673  3.573  3.573  3.573  3.573  3.573  3.573  3.573  3.573  3.573  3.573
Subtotal                                               0.041 0.093 0.757  7.960  8.517  9.113  9.751 10.433 10.433 10.433 10.433 10.433 10.433 10.433 10.433 10.433 10.433 10.433 10.433 10.433 10.433 10.433 10.433 10.433 10.433 10.433 10.433
Supply cost atO0.054$lkWh for 1965-96                  0.002 0.006  0.045  0.473  0.422  0.451  0.483  0.516  0.5116  0.616  0.516  0.516  0.516  0.516  0.516  0.516  0.516  0.516  0.516 0.516 0.616  0.516  0.516  0.516  0.516  0.516  0.516
and 0.045$/kWh for 2000 onwards 31
(before 10% dlsttibvUton toss)
Benefit (US$ Millimnt
ResJConPSAtFSo. at 023S$IksWt                          0.009 0.021  0.162  1.204  1.288  1.378  1.475  1.576  1.576  1.578  1.578  1.578  1.576  1.678  1.576  1.678  1.578  1.578  1.578  1.578  1.578  1.578  1.579  1.679  1.578  1.578 1.676
AgriOondustry at 0. 1779966K                           0.000  0.000 0.009 0.483  0.516  0.552  0.591  0.632  0.632  0.632  0.632  0.632  0.632  0.632 0.632  0.632  0.632 0.632  0.632  0.032  0.632  0.632  0.632  0.632 0.632  0.632 0.632
Total Benefit                                          0.006  0.021  0.171  1.686  1.804  1.931  2.060  2.210  2.210  2.210  2.210  2.210  2.210  2.210  2.210  2.210  2.210  2.210  2.210  2.210  2.210  2.210  2.210  2.210  2.210  2.210 2.210
Total Cost                         0.000  0.178 0.635 0.834 0.602  0.534  0.570  0.440 0.477  0.509  0.543  0.543  0.543  0.543  0.543  0.543  0.543  0.543  0.643  0.043 0.543  0.043  0.043  0.543  0.643  0.643  0.543  0.543  00543  0.543    4
Total Benefit                          0     0      0 0.009 0.021  0.171  1.666  1.804  1.931  2.066  2.210  2.210  2.210  2.210  2.210  2.210  2.210  2.2`10  2.210  2.210  2.210  2.210  2.210  2.210  2.210  2.210  2.210  2.210 2.210  2.210  .
Net Benefit                        0.000 -0.176 -0.535 -0.824 -0.581 -0.362  1.116  1.356  1.453  1.567  1.668  1.6068  1.668  1.6068  1.668  1.6068 1.668  1.668 1.868  1.668 1.686  1.686  1.8668  1.668  1.668  1.868  1.668  1.668  1.8668 1.668
,EIRR                               33%
Assumptsons:
1/ 1% ot assets.
2/ 7% increase in demand from 2000 unbi 2003. Ftnxs 2003 orwards, conlsumtpSon levels reotmn constant as incemased is consumpbion would required additionat investsoents that are beyond the scope of the project.
3/Supply cost is expeceod to falt statting in the year 2000 as Thtaitancra avokled co8ws are down and this Is beinig reflected is the new prices negofsated with EdL.
supply cost 1696-1999                           0.064
supply oost 2000-2022                           0.045
WTP for ReskWWsA81ik~1JPSn1J                     0.23
WTP for A.rtthsu$WWa dernand                    0.177
0 
P% 



EdL's Key Financial Indicators (1992-1998)
Financial Year Ended Dec. 31          1992           1993           1994          1995          1996           1997          1998
SAR   Actual  SAR   Actual  SAR   Actual  SAR   Actual  SAR   Actual  SAR   Actual  SAR  Actual
Primary Ratios:
Self Financing Ratio a/           %   31.9   24    32.9    41    19.4   11    28.3   -14    30.0   -22    20.0   10.2   23.6   1.64
Debt Service Coverage          times   2.0   1.85    1.7    1.53    1.4   1.05    1.7   1.01    1.8   0.96    1.3   1.51    1.3   1.48
Current Ratio  c/                 %   69.0   37    60.3    7.7   65.4   3.0   61.6   5.0   57.3   3.7   59.7   0.82   62.3   0.48
Accounts Receivable          months   2.9    4.7    2.9    3.4    3.1    3.1    3.2    3.7    3.3    4.7    3.4               3.3
a! The ratio of cash available from operations divided by the three year average of capital expenditures (the previous year, the current year and the following
year).
b/ The ratio of total borrowings divided by the sum of total borrowings plus equity (net of any revaluation reserves).
c/ The ratio of current assets net of cash divided by total current liabilities.
OQ
CD
o X



44
Annex E
Page 1 of 1
EdL's Tariff Schedule effective February 1999
Categories             New Tariff Base           Monthly Increase
1. Residential
1 - 50 kWh/mo          Kip 20/kWh                           3%
51 - 100 kWhmo          Kip 40/kWh                          3.5%
101 - 200 kWh/mo       Kip 60/kWh                           3.5%
Over 200 kWh/mo         Kip 130/kWh                         3.5%
2. Foreign                US$cents 9.5/kWh                  2% yearly
3. Commercial             Kip 160/kWh                          3%
4. Entertainment          Kip 200/kWh                          3%
5. Government             Kip 120/kWh                          3%
6. Irrigation             Kip 50/kWh                          3.5%
7. Bulk 22kv or over      As above 2-5                  Discounted by 5%
Minimum charge            Kip 650/mo for residential
Minimum charge            Kip 4500/mo for others



Summary of Objectives and Key Performance Indicators
Laos Provincial Grid Integration Project - Credit 2101 LA
(with retrofitted amendments to the logicalframework shown in italics)
Objectives                       Inputs (Resourcs in    Outputs (Goods and services   Risks and Critical Assumptions   Outcomes and Impacts (of project activitics)
(Schedule 2 of Credit Agreement)  USS provided from     produced by the Project)    (The outcome is dependent on ...)  (Covenanted requirements underlin-d ref clause of PA (Project
(IDA SDR 25.3 m plus                                                                 Agreement; and CA Credit Agree nent). Others as indicated in
Loca' USS 4.6 m)                                                                     SAR (Staff Appraisal Report)
Parts A &B. Exteading &          hun&d far0rcpmni   Expanded cetetiit network:  Delays in distribution construction    Project completed by Decmber 1998 at whlch time:
enhancing quality of suapply to  of aquip't n worksv _                              - delays in EGATportion of the      SAR 6.t (a) EdL to acquire assets liabilities of provincial
exbting and new consumers In     FC & LC' in USS in':   2 22 kV substations        owork-                              authorities in Bolikhamxay and Sekong;
five;                             Origv >    Amneded   850 kmc of MV line           - constraints in aupply of cement;  - 14000 new consumers connected
(A) -Southern 4'12.                          --ZJ    950 kmc of LV line             ' prolonged drought affecting EdL's    -power sales increase to 1208 GWh
(B) - Central Regions            fl,  xx MVA of 115/22 kV                           financing local component          - per capita consumption increases to 60 KWh/capita
capacity                    - EdL constuetion department
xx kmc of 115 kV line       provide with adequate budget and
B &C  1585   14,000 households             staffresources
Pirt C. Improving EdLs system    4IJA                   - loss reduction materials,  -Vienutanne Town Distribution    - SAR 6.2 (b) EdL to implement action plan (Annex 3.3) to
eficiency                                               spares for generation       project coklted in 1998 (MAR 1.21)  reduce losses from 16% in 1993;
Part D: Continuing EdL's                          m    Technical Assistance for:    - Government commercialization of    EdL Financial /Institutional Performance
institutional Development        Consulting Services &    (i) Institutional Development  -SOE on sehedule..            - PA IV 4 03 From 1992 Fdl to provide for at least 20% ot
training              - FinanFcg& Accounting         .dgives priority to disiribution  annual average capital expenditure
-Organization management    operations over JPPs              - PA IV 4 04 net revenues of EdL. should be at least 1. I          UJ
Orig                  study                       .-EdL to refrainfrom incurring debt    estimated debt service reauirements
Strengthening FdL's autonomy and   Amended              -Computerized RE Planning    without implement tariff increases;    - SAR 6.1 (c) Implement program to reduce arrears from k 438
financ                            372     '      ,2   tools                         - EdLto implement 1997 ADB         m in 1993 to k 150 m in 1994; with outstanding reduced from
organization, management and tariff  8.7 months to 3.0 months (refer Annex 4.2);
study recommendations.            - SAR 6.1 (e) adjust electricity rate to increase av. revenue from
3.4 cikWh to 4.3 by 1996;
Training of dLstaff                                    (ii) Technical cooperation   - Edlt staff able to communicate in  - SAR Annex 3.7 (para 6): 612 person weeks abroad;
program with utility (TNL);    English
- Training Upgrading Program   - Training upgrading program to be    -3100 personweeks of training comolcted
financed with French assistance.
Plannine new distribution                               (iii) Project Management and   -PIP/RAP completed satisfactorily  - new ST&REproject to be submited to IDA by July 1997
itw.slwtenk.                                            project preparation
Part E: Developing EdL's         Engineering Studies:    Technical Assistance:                                         Expansion of exports
additional power export projects    USS                (iii) Prefeasibility of Nam  *  Nam Ngum project may not be     - Minor rehabilitation ofNam Ngun by 1998 iffunds available.
Ngun Extension              viable         -Q
- EdL 's annual investment not to  - SAR 6.1 (k) Gov't to make equi;y injection if EdL debt in   D>
exceed $30 m/ysar                 excess of 70 %  of total capital
Orig       Amended  (iv) TAsfor Nam Theun          - conditionfor Bank support not   - 8ank decision in June 1997 whether on not to support Nam     O
.LQ1 i          .Q.   Project                      accepted by GOL                   Theun                                                          "X
I      .                        I~                                                               tj



46                                          Annex G
Page 1 of 2
LAO PDR
PROVINCUAL GRD INTEGRAION PROJECT
Eketrldts du Lao
ExisUng Organdon Chart
GENERAL MANAGER
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
r  DEPUTY. |
GENERAL MANAGER 
ADLfNSTAION       PBSONNEL        ACONlGPLANN                                   EWORK        TRENTER
RNOEPWa  LOOM   C>P R                       PPROJECT        CUSTOMER        H1AM NO
(22#h           (1281)                    (ll4SSaft        (1276W1          (IIEW
B.ECRiKCAL      SUSWTATIONS    i  REGON 2                    REGION 3     |REGON 4            RE1O 1 
(4_             (t22SW1)         (379dl) SL M(40OI                          (as) SUM         (23    I
SARAAt   Al"UN PRAANGKAMU
(28                              S"                      Cm ft          (So|l 



47                                  Annex G
Page 2 of 2
LAO PDR
PROVINCIL GRID INTEGRATION PROJEC=
EwiscitrI    du Lao
Propos  Rsog.iato
-                          w .  l     u                       .      _  
M=r          __ 
=~~~~~~=LO
I  I  L L L I ~~~PAU



ELECTRICITE DU LAOS
[Wardi or Drwcors               1
| Ahlfdbn ^ Ft""e l l r 24Yi                     3415                                                                            1473          d          i                     47| t>i, 2473
I- .1f -/H                           /S                            N     Ih n seA.lSH147n1                                                ShnbM;AIGNAHhIS imM/XAS744IJ ...  t {:s9iV 
Adn.& FiZ. {Nif L [ t4  L { 01)                                                                                                      II1   o.r,, N  iloiOt<'w{Wc 
M.                     .....                                                     I. I  fI T  Lw,,^   ..... I'h.                   ..InInhtX .....|l h,^l / ;lhlb.w
FAA.b-l, Wi Z            2477      I      lSymm pl.n."h            2204              -Th-oIIihn . ,PC  (NfwrA)            rN... Np.-I nIrP         21 324?          JYI.16nM.nkidp.i,Iy             2234,                                     11 2)2 |
71 TI,  P.                      I            /rt mf /                                       Td 412V424               m        hh71'              1 Sl(All                 WI                                             h.lhm
Noo.n..d                2WI            _  Tedo.itl.S,dmdxrri      231)19                      Fn5 1.3214351            _ X..  IlPi                                     Los1P,l.b.., A3.o,y   11712121'1 |) 1.h7  sc A W00d Pta.   II 2w72
N,   N. ~  ~~~~-k- IIoo .10PC   ( 2(1%)                                     N
{   NeZllt X            Nr7 M                                          ~~~~~~~~~ ~             ~ ~~~                 ~            ~         ~ ~~~Tcl 4141 71   y       Xmlx|                I /w.z1
_Ahrtrbttrn.llg         24111)    |         .j.oi1                2300                        Ps 414914                  liN.m D.  HrPt                     |       _  II rph.ohAgooFy  _4Wo,k3h,,- 3h3)7'
t.ppdy                  2314                  N- Lok IIPP(AODlOECF)                           Tcl 21U421/2                                                           S121121i7
| -&, l Pr7nhn h.14(Ans,. )                                                              Fs 2174241                                                              I                                                                           X1
* PT UDP ( AO1 ND)F/ F-)              .Nm N. 3 PC   (43%l                                                                         k
IgCdro   ill2                                                                                                              _  Lbzr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"(I..,p,k Apooy  1111 2)2363        C
l  Jlhrnrhna>  L                   .~~~~~~~SPREP(ID.VGEF)                                                                                                         9--trh N
_Lty;rdTlst    *-        |          .~~~~~~~Sn,ppiy F-r7 PRC. 1 Lmg tNamTh~                                                                                                             IthrrogvAet  II21-21-M
@ I ~~~~~~~~~~Ood Xals A Phort SrFy ( KfW77)I hrw.-tI
.WSsppy F-oo, SRV to SW0    ) EDLIGOL3)                                                                                    .   X4   C h           t12 I
. S.ppiy F-.., PEA 1l 8N&-o ( EIJGOL I
Xt.7nl-2                                                                              _[904zX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Oh;r..yAg-,y  1fi1212244|
bt r A   -y          11M.1-2zx
*'I Dpis -hxrt. wst7 be *dRiishe InA7.                                                                                                                                                                                                                               t
I-1.lx
23*05-L-) 3:S7 PM



ELECTRICITE DU LAOS
PROFIT AND COST CENTRE STRUCTURE
Overall ProfitlCost Centre
EDL Business Enterprise
Main Cost Centre      Main Cost Centre                       Main Cost Centre         Main Profit/Cost      Main Profit/Cost         Main Profit/Cost
Centre                 Centre                  Centre
Administration &        Development
Finance                                                    GM's Office              Generation            Distribution              Services
Sub-Profit/Cost        Sub-Profit/Cost      Sub-Cost Centres
Sub-Cost Centres       Sub-Cost Centres       Sub-Cost Centres                        Centres (HPPs)             Centres
- Selaban            - Vientiane            - Training Centre
- Corporate           - Environmental         - Business                              - Nam Ngum                Province           - Kindergarten
Planning            - Systems                 Ventures                             - Xeset               - Vientiane            - Pakse Pole
- AdPrnnstraon           Planning                                                     - Nam Dong                Municipality           Factory
- Personnel            - Technical     l   l                  l                                               Branches:            - Workshops
- Accounting             Standards                                                                          - Luang Prabang
- Supply               - Projects                                                                           - Houaphanh
- Computer                                                                                                  - Saravan
- Champasak
- Khanmnouane
- Savannakhet
- Bolikhamxay
- Bokeo
- Installation                              >
Agency






IBRD 23467
102>    "'?   Pv         \ ,              \ 104                                        1d6 'l                  ~6~ \   CHINA
o Oio,8msay. - --_. .
0        v e   .        . ,                       - .    ,                                     MYAN4MAR  >!pAECCF>LE5 XM A
DE
-@ "/            JA NAG                                         ,
Sam Nuao         . ....o....
3' ,          ; . /      G -,,,.-    ) G                                                                   THAI  D
4 .    . -1C    A P ' A. N                                                          "  .ET
-20t: --; . -: .  ~~~~~~ /  S * 4      .)           \>                       '     NCAM~~~~~BODIA)NA
Luang Prabaegd-N,          \
-  .     X- I~~ A N G  K h- C A iA\ G    5    J
0 Xi-Kang                                                                       MALAYSIA
Khoang
Singapore
f.ngviengo  .)  '.     '*'~INDONESIA
, PhoINAMNGUM   --A -X Y  -    L-
iSHongO  Xen Cn To Be S<ded                                                 -
PidR,'CTD1                     A/j &  O Nape"
18             h               BUNGKAN
VIENTIANE                                    ''
UDON THANI                 S                             -
Sakon
NakhonA
,A M/ M O U A N E '
T H A  I L A  N D THAT PHANOM
!' S Bong Foi .
jfmsen,Ao,                 Sepone 0
o.g v(;ntl:eoke:       ;      ~
MukdahanA Q  ,f
< \ vy xti 5A VA,N @N NAK gH ET
-16'           LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
PROVINCIAL GRID INTEGRATION PROJECT                                                        A               / N E
OTHER WORKS   PROPOSED                                                      ravane
EXISTING     (BY EGAT)    PROJECT
-   115kV Transmission Lines                                                     V
22kV Transmission Lines                                                       G
*                         i       Hydropower Plants         -                              ks
(Design Studies)        Srn
A                                 I 1 5kV Substations        Sirindhorn Dam
A                        ZL       11 5kV/22kV Substations
A                        29       22kV Substations
tHAMPA S SAKJ
Distribution Networks
Paved Roads            -'  '
-   Unpaved Roads                                   KhO
-14'                                                                                ng69~                        b, Tho WoO,I~6k 
National Capital                                    j .
\                   ns6rno~~~~~~- l  -s  of Th, Vv-?l B.",M
Province Boundaries                                                              -J.o,o =FoWBd,
-  -   International Boundaries                                                            f Th ,d 8- G,-,
s,        o        100       150                         C   A   M   B  O   D   I A             ooo,,eWo'oo,
Kilometers                                                  II6 
MAY 1992



