Page  1
November 06,1995
His Excellency
Mr. Xaysomphone Phomvihane
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box No. 46
Vientiane
Lao People's Democratic Rel2ublic
Mr. Viraphonh Viravong 
General Manager 
Electricite du Laos 
Samsenethai Road
Vientiane
Lao People's Democratic Republic
Re:
Provincial Grid Integration Project (IDA Credit No. 2425-LA)
(Amendment to Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement)
Gentlemen:
Please refer to the Development Credit Agreement (the "Agreement") entered into 
between the Lao People's Democratic Republic (the "Borrower") and the International 
Development Association (the "Association"), as amended, and also to the Project 
Agreement entered into between the Association and the Electricite du Laos (the 
"EDL"), both dated December 2' ), 1992, in respect of the above-referenced Project.
We have received from H.E. the Minister of Finance, in his capacity as the 
Borrower's official representative, a letter dated October 28, 1995 (r@. 1148/MOF) 
requestina that the description of the Project be further amended so as to provide for 
the carrying out of certain social, environmental, macroeconomic and power sector 
studies and related technical activities in connection with the Borrower's proposed 
Nam Theun II Hydroelectric Project.  Accordingly, the purpose of this letter is to 
amend Part E (2) of Schedule 2 to the Acreement to henceforth provide as follows 
immediately below:
"2.     Provision of specialized technical assistance and related capacity 
building services in respect of the Borrower's proposed Nam Theun 11 
Hydroelectric Project for: (i) legal and financial counsel; (ii) establishment 
of a 
panel of environmental and social experts; (iii) conducting each of (A) a 
study 
on economic impacts, (B) an environmental and social impact assessment, 
(C) an 
analvsls of alternatives, and (D) a power sector development strategy; 
and (iv) 
preparing and carrying out a biodiversity conservation management  plan."
Kindly confirm your agreement as the duly authorized representative of the 
Borrower and the EDL, respectively, to the foregoing amendment by signing and duly
datin- the corresponding  form  of  confirmation  set  forth  below  and  returning  
this amendment letter to us at your earliest convenience.  Signed duplicate originals 
of this amendment letter are enclosed herewith for your respective records.  This 
amendment letter shall become effective as of the date first above written, once it 
has been fully executed by the parties thereto.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ 
Authorized Representative
AGREED AND CONFIRMED
AGREEMENT AND CONFIRMED
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
ELECTRICITE DU LAOS
Page  2
By /s/ Xaysomhpone Phomvihane
By /s/ Hatsady Sysoulath
Authorized Representative
Authorized Representative
Date:
November 7, 1995
Date:
November 8, 1995
