Page  1
April 6, 1995
His Excellencv
Mr. Khamsay Souphancu-vong
Z
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box No. 46
Vientiane
Lao People's Democratic Republic
Mr. Viraphonh Viravong
General Manager
Electriciti du Laos
Samsenethai Road
Vientiane
Lao People's Democratic Republic
Re:
IDA Credit Number 2425 LA
Provincial Grid Integration Project
Amendment to Schedule 2 to the Develooment Credit Aareement
Gentleman:
Please refer to tne Development Credit Agreement (the "Agreement") entered into 
between the Lao Pecule's Democratic Republic (the "Borrower") and the International 
Development Association (the "Association,,), and also to the Project Agreement 
entered into between the Association and the Electricit6 du Laos (the "EDL"), each 
dated December 23, 1992, in respect of the above-referenced Project.
We acknowledge receipt of letter No. 261/MCF dated March 27, 1995, from H.E. 
Kikham Vongsay (Vice Minister of Finance) on behalf of the Borrower, letter No. 
023/EDL dated January 27, 1995, from Mr. Houmphone Bulyaphol (Former General Manager) 
or, behalf of the EDL and letter No. 81/MIH dated February 17, 1995 from IJ.E. 
Khammone Phonekeo (vice Minister of Industry and Handicrafts) on behalf of the 
Borrower's Ministry of Industry and Handicrafts.
In response to the Borrower's and EDL's request, and the concurrence of the MIH, 
the purpose of this letter is to amend the provisions of Part E of the Project (on 
"Future Power Projects"), as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Agreement, so as to 
further allow for the provision of scecialized legal and financial advisory services 
under the Project for the purposes of assisting the Borrower and EDL to assess and 
resolve certain legal and financial issues related to the preparation, f4-nanci.-i(= 
and implementation of the Barrower's proposed Nam Theun II Hydrocower Project.
Therefore, said Part E is hereby amended to read as follows hereinbelow:
"l.   Preparation  of  a  feasibility  and  design study for: (i) the 
installation of additional capacity at the Nam Ngum hydroelectric 
station; and (ii) the upgrading of the transmission line from Nam 
Ngum to the border with the kingdom of Thailand.
2.
Provision of specialized legal and financial advisory services in 
respect of the proposed Nam Theun II hydroelectric project."
Kindly confirm your respective agreement, as the duly authorized representatives 
of the Borrower and the EDL, respectively, to the foregoing amendment by signing and 
duly dating the corresponding form of confirmation set forth below, and returning this 
amendment letter to us at your earliest convenience.  Two additional signed duplicate 
originals of this amendment letter are enclosed herewith for your respective records.  
This amendment letter shall become effective, as of the date first above-written, once 
it has been fully executed by each party thereto.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  2
By /s/ 
Authorized Representative
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:                      AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC           ELECTRICITE DU LAOS
By /s/ Kikbam Vongsay
By /s/ Viraphonh Viravong
Authorized Representative
Authorized Representative
Date:
April 28, 1995
Date:
April 29, 1995
