CREDIT NUMBER 2425 LA
Development Credit Agreement
(Provincial Grid Integration Project)
between
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated )C       L        2>3, 1992


﻿CREDIT NUMBER tJ-1 2 LA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   &CtU.     - 23            , 1992, between
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
WHEREAS: (B) the Project will be carried out by Electricit6 du
Laos, as hereinafter defined, with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the
proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS: (C) the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
Electricite du Laos:
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section   1.01.  The  "General  Conditions   Applicable  to
Development   Credit  Agreements"   of  the   Association,  dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth,
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "EdL" means Electricit& du Laos, an enterprise organized
and existing under the laws of, and wholly owned by, the Borrower;
(b)   "EdL's Subsidiaries" means the electricity authorities
of the Borrower's provinces of Savannakhet, Khammouane, Champassak,
Saravane and Luang Prabang, all of whose assets have been duly


﻿- 2 -
purchased, and all of whose liabilities duly assumed, by EdL at
different times during 1991;
(C)   "EGAT" means   Electricity  Generating  Authority  of
Thailand, a company organized and existing under the laws of, and
wholly owned by, the Kingdom of Thailand;
(d)   "Fiscal Year" and "FY" mean EdL's fiscal year which
commences on January 1 and ends on December 31;
(e)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and EdL, of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(f)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(g)   "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan to be extended by the
Borrower to EdL pursuant to the terms of the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and
(h)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and EdL pursuant to Section 3.01
(b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes any schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty five
million   three   hundred   thousand   Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR25,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 3 -
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Banque
Pour Le Commerce Ext6rieur Lao on terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Asscciation, including appropriate protection against set-
off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998, or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date, or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions, or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Air-ciation a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per ccnt (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.


﻿-4-
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each January 1 and July 1 commencing
January 1, 2003, and ending July 1, 2032. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on July 1, 2012 shall be one
percent  (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association, and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. EdL is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted
to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement
and Article V of the General Conditions.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, shall cause EdL to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of EdL
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable EdL to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to
EdL under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and EdL, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association which shall include, without limitation, the principal
terms and conditions set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of tae goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
credit, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the
Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out
by EdL pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to the provisions of Section
3.01 hereof, the Borrower shall: (a) take measures, including
increase of EdL electricity tariffs, necessary to enable EdL to meet


﻿- 6 -
its obligations under Sections 4.04 and 4.05 of the Project
Agreement; (b) by April 30, 1994, complete an action program,
satisfactory to the Association, to decrease EdL receivables from
agencies of the Borrower; and (c) cause EdL to enter into such
agreements, and carry out such actions, as shall be necessary on
EdL's part to duly purchase all of the assets, and assume all of the
liabilities, of the electricity authorities of the Bolikhamxay and
Sekong provinces of the Borrower by June 30, 1994.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)   maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
with sound accounting practices, separate records
and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) ensure that    all records   (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures are retained until
at least one year after the Association has
received the audit report for the Fiscal Year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made; and
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to
examine such records.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) (i) of this Section, and those for
the Special Account, for each Fiscal Year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, the report of such


﻿-7-
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested, including a separate opinion by said
auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals;
and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records and accounts and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time
to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
.Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)   EdL shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that EdL will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)   Any law, decree or regulation governing the organization
and operation of EdL shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the
ability of EdL to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of EdL, or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:


﻿-8-
(a)   Any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower; and
(b)   Any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of this Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely,
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on behalf of
the Borrower and EdL.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by EdL, and is legally binding upon EdL in accordance with
its terms; and
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and EdL and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and EdL in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.01 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate, or on the
date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister of Economy, Planning and Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Economy, Planning and Finance
Ministry of Economy, Planning and Finance
Vientiane
Lao People's Democratic Republic
Cable address:                Telex:
MINFINANCE                4491 VTE
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC),
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿- 11 -
SCBEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category             SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)   Equipment,                              100% of foreign
materia.s and                            expenditures,
installation                            100% of local
expenditures
(a) under Part A         11,300,000      (ex-factory
of the Project                       cost) and 80%
of local
(b) under Parts           8,500,000     expenditures for
B, C and D of                        other items
of the Project                       procured locally
(2)   Spare parts               1,400,000     80%
(3)   Consultants'              2,900,000     100%
services and
training
(4)   Unallocated               1,200,000
TOTAL                     25,300,000


﻿- 12 -
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower, or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures: (a) prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR100,000, may be
made in respect of Category (3) on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after June 1, 1992; and (b) under
Category 1 (a), unless evidence satisfactory to the Association
shall have been furnished to the Association that contractual
arrangements in respect of interconnections with EGAT's electricity
grids specified in Part A.1 of the Project have been made and are in
force between EdL and EGAT.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) extend electricity
supply in the central and southern regions of the Borrower; (ii)
improve the quality of electricity supply for existing consumers in
the said regions; (iii) develop additional power export prospects
for the Borrower; (iv) improve EdL's power system efficiency; and
(v) assist in EdL's institutional development.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Central Region Electrification
1.    Construction of: (i) a new 115 kv overhead river-crossing line
to interconnect with EGAT's electricity grid at Savannakhet, and a
new 22 kv double-circuit overhead river-crossing line at Thakhek;
(ii) new 22 kv lines to interconnect with EGAT's electricity grid at
both Se Bang Fai and Paksane; and (iii) a new 115 kv/22 kv
substation at Savannakhet and two 22 kv new substations, one each at
Se Bang Fai and Paksane.
2.    Extension  of  electricity  networks  in  the  Savannakhet,
Khammouane and Bolikhamxay provinces of the Borrower.
Part B:     Southern Region Electrification
Extension of electricity networks in additional areas in the
Champassak, Sekong, and Saravane provinces of the Borrower.
Part C:     System Efficiency
1.    Undertaking of an action program for EdL to monitor and reduce
system losses, increase collections and improve billing practices.
2.    Provision  and  installation of equipment and materials,
including spare parts, with a view to improving EdL's operation and
maintenance services and particularly those of EdL's Subsidiaries.


﻿- 14 -
Part D:     Institutional Development
1.    Provision of technical assistance to EdL and EdL Subsidiaries'
financial staff in the fields of accounting and finance.
2.    Carrying out of an organization and management study for the
development of policies, regulations, systems, procedures and
guidelines needed to enable EdL to function effectively as a
decentralized national public utility.
3.    Provision of computer hardware and software and associated
technical assistance to assist EdL in screening, ranking and
appraising investment options involving extensions of electric power
to consumers in nonelectrified areas of the Borrower.
4.    Provision of training and equipment to acquaint EdL's staff
with such practices as are currently followed by public utility
companies in the South-East Asian region.
Part E:     Future Power Projects
Preparation of a feasibility and design study for: (i) the
installation of additional capacity at the Nam Ngum hydroelectric
station; and (ii) the upgrading of the transmission line from Nam
Ngum to the border with the Kingdom of Thailand.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;
(b)   the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Association shall
specify.


﻿- 16 -
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
such request, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
and as shall have been shown by said documents
and other evidence to have been paid out of the
Special Account for Eligible Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective Eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
Eligible Expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph     3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the       Credit
allocated to the Eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall


﻿- 17 -
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 4
Subsidiary Loan Agreement
Principal Terms and Conditions
The following sets forth the principal terms and conditions
under which the proceeds of the Credit shall be relent by the
Borrower to EdL in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.01
(b) of this Agreement.
1.    The principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan extended by the
Borrower to EdL shall be the equivalent in the currency or
currencies in which the Subsidiary Loan shall be extended,
determined as of the date or respective dates of disbursement by the
Borrower, of the value of such currency or currencies withdrawn from
the Credit Account on account of expenditures in respect of goods
and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
2.    EdL shall repay the Borrower the principal amount of the
Subsidiary Loan over a period not exceeding twenty (20) years,
inclusive of a grace period of five (5) years.
3.    EdL shall pay the Borrower interest on the principal amount of
the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at
the rate of eight percent (8%) per annum.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


