CREDIT NUMBER      LA
Project Agreement
(Provincial Grid Integration Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
ELECTRICITE DU LAOS
Dated D&     4 J, 1992


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2 Ll lb LA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated Dg4AVJAsJ v's           , 1992, between
INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION  (the   Association)  and
ELECTRICITE DU LAOS (EdL).
WHEREAS: (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Lao People's Democratic Republic (the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty five
million   three   hundred   thousand   Special   Drawing   Rights
(SDR25,300,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that EdL agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set
forth in this Agreement;
WHEREAS: (B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and EdL, the proceeds of the credit provided
for under the Development Credit Agreement will be relent to EdL on
the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan
Agreement; and
WHEREAS: (C) EdL, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Preamble to this Agreement, the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined therein) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) EdL declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the


﻿- 2 -
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public
utility practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association and EdL shall
otherwise agree, EdL shall carry out the Project in accordance with
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. EdL shall carry out the obligations set forth in
Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and  schedules,  records   and  reports,  maintenance   and  land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of this Agreement.
Section 2.04. EdL shall duly perform all its obligations under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, EdL shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) EdL shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   EdL shall promptly   inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by EdL of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of EdL
Section 3.01. EdL shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and
public utility practices under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
Section 3.02. EdL shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
public utility practices.
Section 3.03. EdL shall take out and maintain with responsible
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) EdL shall maintain separate records and
accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)   EdL shall:
(i)    have  its  records,  accounts   and  financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each
Fiscal   Year  audited,   in  accordance  with
appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
the Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so
audited and (B) the report of such audit by said


﻿-4-
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and
(iii) furnish    to   the  Association   such   other
information concerning said records, accounts
and financial statements as well as the audit
thereof, as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. EdL shall: (a) by June 30, 1994, prepare and
furnish to the Association for its review and comments EdL's
proposed (i) tariff structure policy; and (ii) measures to address
issues of EdL's supply cost differentials and size of lifeline
block; (b) by December 31, 1994, exchange views with the Association
with respect to the above-mentioned policy and measures; and,
thereafter (c) on the basis of said exchange of views, take all
measures required on its part to ensure proper and timely
implementation  of   said   policy  and  measures,   taking  into
consideration the Association's comments thereon.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, EdL shall produce, for each of its Fiscal Years after its
Fiscal Year ending on December 31, 1992, funds from internal sources
equivalent to not less than 20% of the annual average of EdL's
capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, for that
year, the previous Fiscal Year and the next following Fiscal Year.
(b)   Before November 30 in each of its Fiscal Years, EdL
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by EdL and satisfactory to
the Association, review whether it would meet the requirements set
forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next
following Fiscal Year and shall furnish to the Association a copy of
such review upon its completion.
(c)   If any such review shows that EdL would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for EdL's Fiscal Years
covered by such review, EdL shall promptly take all necessary
measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the
structure or levels of its rates) in order to meet such
requirements.


﻿-5-
(d)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)    The term "funds from internal sources" means the
difference between:
(A)   the sum of revenues from all sources
related to operations, consumer deposits
and consumer contributions in aid of
construction, net non-operating income and
any reduction in working capital other
than cash; and
(B)   the  sum  of  all  expenses  related  to
operations,   including   administration,
adequate   maintenance  and   taxes   and
payments in lieu of taxes (excluding
provision for depreciation and other non-
cash operating charges), debt service
requirements, all cash dividends and other
cash distributions of surplus, increase in
working capital other than cash and other
cash   outflows   other   than    capital
expenditures.
(ii)   The term "net non-operating income" means the
difference between:
(A)   revenues from all sources other than those
related to operations; and
(B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
of revenues in (A) above.
(iii) The term "working capital other than cash" means
the difference between current assets excluding
cash and current liabilities at the end of each
Fiscal Year.
(iv)   The term "current assets excluding cash" means
all assets other than cash which could in the
ordinary course of business be converted into
cash within twelve months, including accounts
receivable, marketable securities, inventories


﻿and pre-paid expenses properly chargeable to
operating expenses within the next Fiscal Year.
(v)    The  term  "current   liabilities"  means  all
liabilities which will become due and payable or
could under circumstances then existing be
called for payment within twelve months,
including accounts payable, customer advances,
debt service requirements, taxes and payments in
lieu of taxes, and dividends.
(vi)   The term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate  amount   of  repayments   (including
sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest
and other charges on, debt.
(vii) The   term  "capital  expenditures" means   all
expenditures on account of fixed assets,
including interest charged to construction,
related to operations.
(viii) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
currency of the Borrower, debt payable in
another currency, such valuation shall be made
on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
exchange at which such other currency is, at the
time of such valuation, obtainable for the
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
exchange acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, EdL shall not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of
the revenues and expenditures of EdL shows that the estimated net
revenues of EdL for each Fiscal Year during the term of the debt to
be incurred shall be at least 1.1 times the estimated debt service
requirements of EdL in such year on all debt of EdL including the
debt to be incurred.
(b)   For the purposes of this Section:
(i)    The term "debt" means any indebtedness of EdL
maturing by its terms more than one year after
the date on which it is originally incurred.


﻿-7-
(ii)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
loan contract or agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt or for the modification
of its terms of payment on the date of such
contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under
a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement
providing for such guarantee has been entered
into.
(iii) The term "net revenues" means the difference
between:
(A)   the sum of revenues from all sources
related  to   operations  and  net  non-
operating income; and
(B)   the  sum  of  all  expenses  related  to
operations   including    administration,
adequate maintenance, taxes and payments
in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision
for depreciation, other non-cash operating
charges and interest and other charges on
debt.
(iv)   The term "net non-operating income" means the
difference between:
(A)   revenues from all sources other than those
related to operations; and
(B)   expenses, including taxes and payments in
lieu of taxes, incurred in the generation
of revenues in (A) above.
(v)    The term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate  amount   of  repayments   (including
sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest
and other charges on, debt.
(vi)   The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast
prepared by EdL not earlier than twelve months
prior to the incurrence of the debt in question,
which both the Association and EdL accept as
reasonable and as to which the Association has
notified EdL of its acceptability, provided that


﻿- 8 -
no event has occurred since such notification
which has, or may reasonably be expected in the
future to have, a material adverse effect on the
financial condition or future operating results
of EdL.
(vii) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it
shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
currency of the Borrower, debt payable in
another currency, such valuation shall be made
on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of
exchange at which such other currency is, at the
time of such valuation, obtainable for the
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the
absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of
exchange acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of EdL thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of
the following two dates:
(i)    the  date  on which the    Development  Credit
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms; or
(ii)   the date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify EdL of
this event.


﻿-9-
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                        248423 (RCA),
Washington, D.C.                82987 (FTCC),
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For EdL:
General Manager
Electricite du Laos
Vientiane
Lao People's Democratic Republic
Cable address:                      Telex:
DIRELEC                        4311 EDL VTE LS
Vientiane
Lao PDR


﻿- 10 -
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of EdL, or by EdL on behalf of the Borrower
under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed by
EdL's General Manager or such other person or persons as the said
General Manager shall designate in writing, and EdL shall furnish to
the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03.   This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
ELECTRICITE DU LAOS
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I: Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Lao People's
Democratic Republic may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55
and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2
thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, EdL may grant a margin of preference to
domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Equipment, materials and installation, estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $2,000,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.    Contracts for spare parts for existing equipment shall be
awarded on the basis of direct negotiations with the original
suppliers of such equipment, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.


﻿- 12 -
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $500,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II: Employment of Consultants
In order to assist EdL in carrying out Parts C, D and E of the
Project, EdL shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
A.    Parts A and B of the Project
1.    EdL shall, by December 31, 1992, employ a consultant, in
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 1 of this
Agreement, to assist in supervising implementation of Parts A and B
of the Project.
2.    EdL shall, in the event of any design modification in the
facilities to be provided under Parts A or B of the Project which
would warrant, in the opinion of the Association, the carrying out
by EdL of an environmental impact assessment, furnish the
Association with such assessment, carried out in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association, not later than 60 days
from the date of receipt by EdL of the Association's written request
to carry out the said assessment.
B.    Part C of the Project
EdL shall carry out an action program, satisfactory to the
Association, to (i) monitor and reduce system losses of EdL's
Subsidiaries; (ii) increase EdL's overall collection efficiency; and
(iii) improve implementation of EdL's computerized billing system,
especially with respect to consumers residing in areas served by
EdL's Subsidiaries.
C.    Part D of the Project
1.    EdL shall, by December 31, 1992 and September 30, 1993, employ
consultants, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of
Schedule 1 of this Agreement, to carry out the studies referred to
under Parts D.1 and D.2 of the Project respectively, and shall
furnish to the Association for its review and comments the findings
and recommendations of said studies by December 31, 1994.
2.    The Association and EdL shall, by June 30, 1995, exchange
views with respect to recommendations of the studies referred to in
sub-paragraph 1 hereof and EdL shall, on the basis of said exchange
of views, take all measures required on its part to ensure
implementation of the studies' recommendations taking into
consideration the Association's comments thereon.


﻿- 14 -
3.    EdL shall carry out training under the Project through a
technical cooperation arrangement with a power utility company
acceptable to the Association, in accordance with a program agreed
by the Association.
D.    Part E of the Project
1.    EdL shall, by September 30, 1993, employ consultants, in
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 1 of this
Agreement, to carry out a feasibility and design study for the
installation of additional capacity at the Nam Ngum power plant, and
shall furnish to the Association for its review and comments the
findings and recommendations of said study by June 30, 1994.
2.    The Association and EdL shall, by December 31, 1994, exchange
views with respect to recommendations of the study referred to in
sub-paragraph 1 hereof and EdL shall, on the basis of said exchange
of views, take all measures required on its part to ensure
implementation  of   the  study's   recommendations  taking  into
consideration the Association's comments thereon.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


