CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 326 PNG
Development Credit
Agreement
(Ports Project)
BETWEEN
THE ADMINISTRATION OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 21, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 326 PNG
Development Credit
Agreement
(Ports Project)
BETWEEN
THE ADMINISTRATION OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 21, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT,         dated     July    21,    1972,    between      THE
ADMINISTRATION OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the cost of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out by the Papua New Guinea Harbours
Board (hereinafter called PNGHB) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to PNGHB the proceeds of the
Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter, in a project agreement of even date herewith
between the Association and PNGHB, and in a letter of undertaking of even date
herewith from the Commonwealth of Australia to the Association;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.0!. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the modifications thereof set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the Association, as so modified, being
hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:


﻿4
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and PNGHB of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and PNGHB pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)   "Ordinance" means the Papua and New Guinea Harbours Board
Ordinance 1963 (No. 17 of 1964), as amended to the date of this Agreement;
and
(d)   "PNGHB" means the Papua New Guinea Harbours Board, a body
corporate established and existing under the Ordinance.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to nine million two hundred thousand
dollars ($9,200,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1977 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿5
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 15 and
October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing
October 15, 1982 and ending April 15, 2022, each installment to and including
the installment payable on April 15, 1992 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without iy limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
PNGHB to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement
and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take
and cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate to enable PNGHB to
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to PNGHB under
a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and PNGHB
under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association.
The Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall provide, inter alia, for relending of the
proceeds of the Credit to PNGHB for a term of twenty-five years, including four
years of grace, and for payment of interest by PNGHB at the rate of 7-1/4% per
annum on amounts withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
(c)   The Borrower shall provide to PNGHB, promptly as needed, any
additional funds, facilities, services and other resources required by PNGHB to
enable it to carry out the Project.
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the


﻿6
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary
for PNGHB to acquire by a date not later than June 30, 1972, or such later date
as shall be agreed to by the Association, all such land and rights in respect of
land and water as shall be required for the construction and operation of the ports
and related facilities presently under the jurisdiction of PNGHB or included in
the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, promptly as required, take all steps
necessary on its part to enable PNGHB to set and maintain its tariffs at the levels
required by Sections 4.03 and 4.04 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall .rom time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views throtfh     their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by PNGHB of its obligations under the Project
Agreement, the appointment of the chief executive or chief financial officer of
PNGHB, the administration, operations and financial condition of PNGHB and,
in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out any part of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request


﻿7
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition of PNGHB and,
in respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement or the performance by PNGHB of its obligations under the Project
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall afford ail reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General 'Conditions
or in Section 6.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately


﻿8
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   PNGHB shall have failed to perform   any covenant, agreement or
obligation of PNGHB under the Project Agreement.
(b)   PNGHB shall have become unable to pay any of its debts as they
mature.
(c)   The Ordinance shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and adversely affect the ability
of PNGHB to carry out the covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in
the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of PNGHB or for the
suspension of its operations.
(e)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that PNGHB will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 6.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and PNGHB;
(b)   any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 6.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower and PNGHB; and
(c)   any event specified in paragraph (c) or paragraph (d) of Section 6.02
of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿9
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)  the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
PNGHB have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action; and
(b)   the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and PNGHB, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, PNGHB, and constitutes a valid and
binding obligation of PNGHB in accordance with its terms; and
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and PNGHB,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
PNGHB in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date October 19, 1972 is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 4.01 (a) and
4.02 (a) of this Agreement and the provisions of Section 6.02 and of Section
6.03 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty-five years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Treasurer of the Borrower is designated as representative
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿10
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Treasurer
The Administration of Papua New Guinea
Port Moresby
Papua New Guinea
Cable address:
Treasurer
Port Moresby
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
THE ADMINISTRATION OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA
By /s/ E. M. W. Visbord
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
I.    Civil Works                  5,850,000           82% of total ex-
penditures (re-
presenting the
estimated foreign
expenditure com-
ponent)
II.   Engineering Ser-               320,000            100% of foreign
vices, Soil Inves-                                expenditures
tigation and Hydro-
graphic Studies
III.  Cargo-Handling                 600,000            100% of foreign
Equipment                                         expenditures
IV.   Training and Man-              110,000            100% of foreign
agement Consultant                                expenditures
Services
V.    Unallocated                  2,320,000
TOTAL         9,200,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of


﻿12
the Borrower is also that of another country in the territories of which goods
are produced or from the territories of which services are supplied, expenditures
in such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures"; and
(b)   the term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of Category II on account of expenditures
incurred after November 1, 1971 in an aggregate amount not exceeding the
equivalent of $250,000; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association  shall have reasonably   determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set


﻿13
forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement, no expenditures
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category I shall
increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to such
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A.      Civil Works
(i)         at Port Moresby:
(a)   land reclamation adjacent to the existing port, to provide
approximately three acres of storage area fronting the foreshore;
(b)   construction of a cargo shed; and
(c)   provision of one acre of asphalted hard standing for open storage.
(ii)         at Lae:
(a)   construction of one deep-water berth (as an extension of the
existing wharf);
(b)   construction of one transit shed and open storage areas and
necessary ancillary facilities; and
(c)   construction of a mooring post and breasting dolphins for coastal
tankers.
(iii)        at Kieta:
(a)   construction of two coaster berths; and
(b)   construction of two small cargo sheds and open storage areas
and necessary ancillary facilities.
(iv)        at Alotau:
Construction of a new port with the following facilities:
(a)   a deep-water berth about 300 ft long for ocean-going vessels;
(b)   one berth for coasters;


﻿15
(c)   one transit shed, one copra storage shed and open storage areas;
and
(d)   necessary ancillary facilities including office buildings and
workshops.
Part B.    Engineering, Soil Investigation and Hydrographic Studies
(i)        provision  of detailed  engineering, preparation  of tender
documents, and supervision of construction under Part A of the
Project; and
(ii)       further soil investigations and hydrographic measurements
required in the preparation of the final designs.
Part C.     Cargo-Handling Equipment
Provision of cargo-handling equipment comprising: forklifts; tractors; and
mobile cranes.
Part D.    Accounting and Management Reporting Systems
Provision of improved accounting and management reporting systems in
PNGHB, including necessary training of personnel to operate these systems.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1976.


﻿16
SCHEDULE 3
Modifications of General Conditions
(A)   Section 5.01 is deleted.
(B)   Section 6.02 (h) is deleted and Section 6.02 (i) becomes 6.02 (h).
(C)   In Section 2.01, the following paragraph is added after paragraph 12:
"13. The term 'Project Agreement' has the meaning set forth in Section
1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement."
(D)   Paragraph 5 of Section 2.01 is deleted and the following paragraph
is substituted therefor:
"5. The term 'Borrower' means The Administration of Papua New
Guinea."
(E)   The last four lines of Section 4.01 shall read as follows:
"may be made in respect of expenditures in the currency of the
Commonwealth of Australia or of the Borrower such withdrawals shall
be made in such currency or currencies as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably select."
(F)   Sub-paragraph (ii) of paragraph c of Section 6.02 is deleted and the
following paragraph is substituted therefor:
"(ii) the Bank shall have suspended in whole or in part the right of
the Borrower to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with
the Bank guaranteed by the Commonwealth of Australia because of
a failure by the Commonwealth of Australia to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement."
(G)   Paragraph (d) of Section 6.02 is deleted and the following paragraph
is substituted therefor:
"(d) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Project can be carried out or that the Borrower
will be able to perform its obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement or there shall occur any such change in the nature and


﻿17
constitution of the Borrower as shall make it improbable that the
Borrower will be able to carry out its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement."
(H)   The word "Borrower" is deleted in paragraph (e) of Section 6.02 and
in the sixth line of Section 7.01 (b) and the words "Commonwealth
of Australia" are substituted therefor.
(I)   In Section 6.06, the words ", the Project Agreement" are added after
the words "the Development Credit Agreement".
(J)   In Section 8.02, the words "or the Project Agreement" are added after
the words "the Development Credit Agreement".
(K)   The term "or the Commonwealth of Australia, as the case may be"
is added after the word "Borrower" in paragraph (k) of Section 8.03.
(L)   Paragraph (a) of Section 10.01 is deleted and the following paragraph
is substituted therefor:
"(a) the execution and delivery of the Development Credit Agreement
on behalf of the Borrower have been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary governmental action, including action of the
Commonwealth of Australia; and".


