> gz,,r - -RESTRICTED
Repb t No.          PA  I I ha
Fg-X. - sS, NA
This report is for official use only by the Bank Group and specifically authorized organizations
or persons. It may not be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL MARKETS PROJECT
INDIA
February 8, 1972
Agriculture Projects Departmerit



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00      =  Rupees (Rs) 7.28
Rs 1          =  US$ 0.14
Rs 1 million  =  US$ 137,376
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)                     - 2.20 pounds
1,000 kg  -    1 metric ton         = 0.98 long ton
1 meter (m)                         = 1.09 yards
1 kilometer (km)             2      = 0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)  =   10,000 m        = 2.47 acres
I square kilometer (km2) = 100 ha D 0.39 square mile
ABBREVIATIONS
G01            Government of India
ARC             Agricultural Refinance Corporation
LDB       -    Bihar State Cooperative Land Development Bank
RBI       5    Reserve Bank of India
REO             Rural Engineering Organization
RMC       =    Regulated Market Committee
SBI             State Bank of India
SMB       =    State Marketing Board
TPO       -    Town Planning Organization
FISCAL YEARS
GOI .April 1 through March 31
ARC          July 1 through June 30
SBI .January 1 through December 31



INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL MARKETS PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  . .............................   * .  *                   i-i
I.    INTRODUCTION  ........... . .......... .................... .                           1
II.    BACKGROUND OF AGRICULTURE  ........ . . . . .   ....................... e .... .         2
A.  India                   .. .. ..2............                                       2
B.   Agricultural Marketing  ....... . . . .  ............................  .           2
C.   The State of Bihar  ............ .............. . . .. . .                         3
D.   Agricultural Credit in Bihar  ........................                            6
E.   Planning and Engineering Agencies  ....... .............                           8
III.    THE PROJECT  ....................... .................. ...                              8
A.   Brief Description  .............. ....             ......... . ......              8
B.   Detailed Features  . ............                           . ...... ..0 ...........*  9
C.   Land Acquisition  ........... ..*..... ..  .....  ...*.....                      11
D.   Construction Schedules  .........                .....................           11
E.  Cost Estimates  ....... 0...*..... .... ,.   ......                               12
F.   Financing  .....................................    ...............              13
G.   Procurement  . ........... .. ...........................                        14
H.   Disbursement  . ..............                   .. .......*........             14
IV.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  .............................. . .                        14
A.   The State Marketing Board                       ...........................      14
B.  State Bank of India  . .......... .           . .....................             16
C.   Subappraisal Procedures                      .............................       16
D.   Contracting and Supervision  .... ...................                            17
E.   Accounts  and Audit  . .......................................                   17
F.   Training and Project Evaluation  .........                ..     ..........      18
V.    PRODUCTION,  MARKETING,  PRICES AND FINANCIAL RESULTS  .....                           18
A.   Production and Mandi Arrivals                     .......................        18
B.    Prices  ................................. ........... *............             19
C.   Financial Results  ......... . ...  .......................  ..                  20
VI.   BENEFITS  AND JUSTIFICATION  ..............................                              20
VIII.    RECOHMENDATIONS  ..................... ............                                     22
This appraisal report is based on the findings of a mission that visited India
in June/July 1971 and was composed of Messrs. T. Davis, R. Golkowsky and L.
LJungman (IDA), and Messrs. H. Kramer and J. Moore (Consultants).



-2-
ANNEXES
1. Main Features of Agriculture in Bihar
Appendix  1-1  Production of Major Commodities in Bihar
Appendix  1-2  Production of Major Commodities in Patna District
Appendix  1-3  Production of Major Commodities in Kosi Command
Area
Appendix  1-4  Production of Major Commodities in Son Command Area
Appendix 1-5 Production of Major Commodities in Gandak Command
Area
2. The Existing Marketing System for Agricultural Products in Bihar
Appendix 2-1 Arrivals of Major Commodities in Selected Mandies
Appendix 2-2 Monthly Arrivals of Major Commodities in ForbesganJ
Appendix 2-3 Monthly Arrivals of Major Commodities in Sasaram
Appendix 2-4 Major Commodity Prices in Selected,Markets
3. Bihar Agricultural Produce Markets Act, 1960
4. The Agricultural Refinance Corporation
Appendix 4-1 Condensed Statement of Net Income
Appendix 4-2 Condensed Balance Sheets
5. The State Bank of India
Appendix 5-1 Comparative Balance Sheet
Appendix 5-2 Comparative Profit and Loss Account
6. Markets Tentatively Selected for Development
7. Layout for a Typical Market
Appendix 7-1 Example of Market Yard Layout
8. Technical Specifications for Market Construction
Appendix 8-1 Engineering Aspects of Subappraisal
9. Phasing
10. Cost Estimates
Appendix 10-1 Capital Cost of Model "A" Mandi
Appendix 10-2 Capital Cost of Model "B" Mandi
Appendix 10-3 Operating Cost of Model Mandis
Appendix 10-4 Staff Training Costs
Appendix 10-5 Project Evaluation Costs
11. Disbursement Schedules
12., Credit Policies and Procedures
13., Evaluation Procedures
Appendix 13-1 Tentative Terms of Reference



-3-
14. Functioning of the New Markets
Appendix 14-1 Market Charges in Bihar Markets
15.  Cash Flow Projections and Financial Return Calculations
Appendix 15-1 Cash Flow Model "A" Mandi
Appendix 15-2  Cash Flow Model "B" Mandi
Appendix 15-3 Cash Flow Agricultural Refinance Corporation
Appendix 15-4  Cash Flow State Bank of India
16. Economic Evaluation
Appendix 16-1 Economic Rate of Return Calculation
Lap






INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL MARKETS PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises an Agricultural Markets Project in the
State of Bihar for which an IDA credit of US$14.0 million is proposed. It
would support a five-year development program for investments in market
facilities in about 50 towns in the State and would also provide funds for
training of marketing personnel and for Project evaluation.
ii.       Bihar, one of the poorest states in India, is making substantial
efforts in agricultural development.  These efforts include programs for
substantial extension of surface and tubevell irrigation, increasing the use
of fertilizers and high yielding variety seeds, expansion of agricultural
credit and improvement of agricultural marketing.
iii.      Agricultural marketing has changed little in the last century,
but the State has enacted the Bihar Agricultural Produce Markets Act aimed
at a reduction in marketing losses. A major factor preventing enforcement
of the Markets Act has been the lack of suitable market facilities.
iv.       The proposed Project would provide about 50 such facilities and
include land, access roads; and, within fenced market yards of 6 to 25 ha,
office buildings, auction platforms, wholesalers' shops and storage godowns.
In addition, the market yards would have amenities for the farmers which
would include resthouses and canteens, water for human and animal consumption,
parking areas for bullocks and carts, and fences for security.
V.        The market yards would be natural meeting places in the towns for
farmers and would also include buildings for other facilities such as banks;
post offices; credit cooperatives; extension services; and shops selling
fertilizers, seeds and equipment. The Project would not provide finance for
these items, but land would be provided within the market yard to be leased
out for the building of such facilities. The market yards and facilities
would be owned and operated by Regulated Market Committees (RMCs) created by
the Markets Act with power to act in a corporate capacity as well in the
enforcement of the regulatory provisions of the Act. RMCs have been
constituted in some 60 towns within the State and have accumulated some funds
from the collection of a market fee of 0.25% on the value of produce handled
by the market. Until now, regulation and market fee collection have covered
only a small number of the traders and a small part of the marketed produce,
simply because the marketing operation is so scattered throughout the narrow
streets of the market towns that the RMC personnel are unable to effectively
regulate the transactions or collect the fees.
vi.       A State Marketing Board (SMB) has been created by amendment to
the Bihar Agricultural Produce Markets Act. SMB has general supervisory
powers over the RMCs and would be the key management agency in planning for
the development of the markets and for their proper operation. It would



- ii -
have power to take over the operations of RMCs at time of financial default
or upon failure to properly regulate the marketing operations. The State
of Bihar has the power to issue rules including the power to fix market
fees which would be raised to 1% of the value of marketed produce.
vii.      The State Government and the RMCs would provide 11% of the project
cost. The remainder would be provided by the State Bank of India (SBI),
which would be refinanced by the Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC),
which in turn would be refinanced by IDA. SBI and ARC would finance out of
their own funds 9% and 20% respectively of project cost. The proposed IDA
credit would cover the remaining 60Z.
viii.     GOI would onlend,the IDA funds to ARC at 6.0% interest-(with
1/4% rebate for prompt repayment of principal and interest), repayable over
15 years. ARC would refinance SBI loans at 6-1/2% interest and.SBI would
lend to the RMC8 at 9% repayable on terms up to 15 years with.twpo years grace.
ix.       The planning of the markets would be done by the Town, Planning
Organization (TPO) of the State Government, with final plan approval by SMB.
Construction of the market yards would be by local contractors after com-
petitive bidding on tender documents prepared by the Rural Engineering
Organization (REO), which would also supervise construction. Each market would
be planned according to its particular situation and the needs of the hinter-
'Land which it serves. Because of these differences and because the market
t:owns are scattered over the entire State, each market would be the subject
of a separate contract. For these reasons and also because each contract
would be too small, the project would not be suitable for international
bidding.
21.       ARC has competent management and is in sound financial condition.
SBI, the largest commercial bank in India, is expanding its agricultural
lending and would create a Project Unit in its Patna office to appraise
and supervise the subloans. Training would be provided to staff of the
State Marketing Board and Market Committees.  Project evaluation would be
required through a contract between State Government and an appropriate
university or other institution.
xi.       Financial returns to the Market Committees are estimated to range
from 20% to 40% and the return to the economy is estimated to be at least
29%. Of course, there may be difficulties in establishing the markets
because of legal difficulties in land acquisition, local political
difficulties with RMCs traders, or other organizational problems. Experience
in the States of the wheat belt in Northwest India where regulated markets
are successfully operating has shown that it may take two to three years
before all traders would fully participate in the new marketing arrangements.
This has been taken into account in the rate of return analysis. The Pro-
ject is of high priority and, subject to the recomended assurances and
conditions, it is suitable for an IDA credit of US$14.0 million.



INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL MARKETS PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of India has requested an IDA credit of US$14.0
million to meet part of the costs of developing about 50 agricultural market
centers in the State of Bihar. The Project would be a part of India's
continuing program of regulated market development aimed at reducing losses,
increasing farmers' incomes and stabilizing supplies and prices of food to
the consumers. At full development the proposed markets would handle
annually 4 million tons of agricultural products valued at Rs 3.5 billion
(US$465 million).
1.02      The proposed Project would be the Bank Group's first operation in
the development of agricultural market centers. These markets would provide
essential services to farmers, mostly smallholders. By concentrating facil-
ities in a designated area, the marketing function would be regulated (see
para 2.02); competition would be maximized; wastage of products would
be lessened; efficiency of the market operation would be improved and con-
gestion of transportation would be minimized. The establishment of regulated
market centers has increased throughout India during the last two decades but
particularly in the more progressive states of Maharashtra, Punjab and
Haryana. Bihar enacted appropriate legislation in 1960 but has not had
the resources and organization to effectively implement it. The Project
would provide the resources for implementation of Bihar's Regulated Agri-
cultural Markets Act (para 2.17).
1.03      This report is based on information furnished by the State of Bihar
through the Government of India (GOI). In February 1971 an IDA mission dis-
cussed a possible project with interested agencies in Bihar and GOI and
assisted those agencies in completing preparation. In May 1971 GOT submitted
a proposal and in June-July an appraisal mission visited India composed of
Messrs. T. Davis, R. Golkowsky and L. LjungmAn (IDA), and Messrs. H. Kramer
and J. Moore (Consultants).
1.04      The total of past Bank Group lending for India's agriculture is
about US$420 million as of January 1, 1972. Until 1969, most Bank Group
lending was for irrigation projects and the Bank Group is continuing to fi-
nance such projects. Emphasis is now also being given to direct on-farm
investments and ancillary services. In the past financial year, there have
been four agricultural projects, three of which were for agricultural credit
(Andra Pradesh, US$24.4 million, 226-IN; Haryana, US$25.0 million, 249-IN;
Tamil Nadu, US$35.0 million, 250-IN). The other was for agricultural avia-
tion (US$6.0 million, 230-IN). In the current financial year, credits for
wheat storage (US$5.0 million, 267-IN; SIDA also US$5.0 million) and
irrigation (US$39.0 million, 268-IN) have been made. Two other projects
are pending, Maharasha credit has been negotiated and an irrigation project
has been appraised, in addition to the present Project.



II.  BACKGR)UND OF AGRICULTURE
A.  India 1/
2.01      Since 1965 India has changed the emphasis of its development ef-
forts from industry to agriculture. As a result, priority has been given
in recent years to accelerating the introduction of the new agricultural
technology, through increasing the availability of improved inputs, by pro-
viding economic incentives to farmers and by concentrating on improved mar-
keting.  The new agricultural strategy has brought some encouraging results,
and the increased use of high yielding seed varieties and fertilizers, par-
ticularly when combined wdt- irrigation, has contributed to 'as--adgficant
increase in farm production.  Progress has been made in more,A xiAent mar-
keting; however, marketing facilities have not kept pace with tba- :ncreases
in production.
B. Agricultural Marketing
2.02      GOI has encouraged the state governments to pass Regulated Agri-
cultural Markets Acts, and all states except Assam and Kerala have passed
such legislation. The states, however, have had varying degrees of success
at implementing the legislation depending on the capacity of state govern-
nments to provide the necessary staff and facilities. The provisions of the
marketing acts vary in some particulars from state to state, but basically
they all provide for the establishment of regulated markets administered by a
Regulated Market Committee (RMC) on which are represented both traders and
producers. A regulated market is essentially a meeting place for buyers and
seLlers with facilities for handling large quantities of pr*msme under a
system that assures maximum competition, efficient handling an& cleaning and a
minimum of wastage. The aim of these regulated markets is the wradication of
erroneous weighing practices, excessive market deductions and collusion among
traders.
2.03      The methods of sale of produce are designed to assure fair trading
practices and competitive prices through auctioning of all produce. Only
licensed traders, cotmission agents and other market functionaries are allowed
to operate in such markets and their coummission and other service charges are
fixed.  Proper enforcement of the Regulated Markets Acts provides for prompt
-payment to sellers and procedures for settlement of disputes between buyers
ancl producers.
2.04      Licensed commaission agents and buyers must be located in one area
foor effective regulation. Historically traders have been scattered in
narrow town streets making it difficult to carry on competitive auction sales,
1/   A detailed discussion of the present situation and prospects of agri-
culture in India is given in Economic Situation and Prospects of India,
Report No. SA-25.



-3
to enforce maximum charges, to collect market fees (legal fees collected by
RMCs for providing facilities and services) from traders, and to enforce
standard weights and measures. Moreover, the serious congestion prevents
quick and efficient handling and storage of produce.
2.05      Though the first market was regulated in India late in the 19th
century, there were only a few regulated markets until 1950. By January
1970 legislation had been passed covering regulation of over 2,100 of 3,400
major primary markets; however, implementation has been mainly successful
in Punjab, Haryana and Maharastra. By the end of the Fourth Plan in 1974,
it is envisioned that all the remaining markets will have the legal framework
for regulation.
2.06      Regulated Market Committees (RMCs) under the State regulated
Markets Acts are legal bodies with designated powers from the state govern-
ments. These committees are granted, in addition to their regulatory
functions, corporate powers enabling them to own property, borrow money,
acquire facilities, collect fees, sue and be sued, etc.
C. The State of Bihar
General Description
2.07      Bihar, situated mostly in the Ganges plain in northeast India, oc-
cupies an area of 173,000 km2. Its estimated population of 58.8 million
(1971) representes about 11% of the Indian total. The State's per-capita
income of about Rs 225 (US$30) is less than one-half the average for all
India. Over 90% of the working population is engaged in agriculture, which
accounts for only 43% of the State's part of GNP. The State is divided into
four divisions and 1 7 districts for governmental and administrative purposes.
2.08      Bihar has two main geographical regions:  the Gangetic plain and
the Chotanagpur plateau. The former, covering roughly two-thirds of the
State, is divided by the Ganges river into the north and south Gangetic plains.
The plains are characteristically endowed with rich alluvial soils and have
an average rainfall of 1,200 mm, while the plateau, located in the south
part of the State and ranging from 300 to 1,200 m in elevation, is mainly red
soils on crystalline rock formations with an average rainfall of 1,350 mm per
year. The rainfall in the State is concentrated during the southwest monsoon
from June through September when over 80% of the annual precipitation occurs.
In addition to the Ganges which flows from west to east bisecting the State,
many important rivers feed into the Ganges mainly from the Himalayas but also
from Indian highlands to the west and southwest.
Agricultural Structure
2.09      The net cropped area is about 7.3 million ha (43% of total area),
while a further 4.9 million ha is classified as pasturage or culturable
wasteland. Farm holdings in Bihar are small and fragmented. Forty-eight
percent of holdings are smaller than 1 ha, 36% are from 1 to 3 ha and 16% are
above 3 ha. The main features of agriculture in Bihar are further discussed
in Annex 1.



-4-
2.10      A serious problem in Bihar is the prevalence of a heavy smallholder
tenancy system ir spite of a series of land reform measures. In theory the
zamandari system (an elaborate method of renting and subrenting) was abolished
in the 1950's, but former zamandaries have retained their powerful position by
sub-dividing land among family members, illegal oral leases, lending money
against future crops and shifting under-raiyats (sub-tenants and share croppers)
from plot to plot. Some hope for reform is foreseen in the Bihar Tenancy Act
of 1970 which gives the Revenue Officers the power to issue prohibitory orders.
Agricultural Production
2.11      Although paddy is the State's most important single crop (repre-
senting about 50% of the total area under foodgrains), rice production
(about 4 million tons) is inadequate to meet local consumptial demands, and
cereals must be imported from surplus states or from abroad. Imports of
cereals amounted to 1.9 million tons in 1967-68 and 5 million: tow in
1968-69, reflecting the preceding bad crop year. Projections of population
amd production indicate a continuing deficit in the State during the fore-
sieeable future. Wheat is growing in importance, its production doubling
in the last decade to nearly 1 million tons in 1969-70. The total production
of cereals and pulses averaged 7.2 million tons per year over the three years
to 1968-69 while, of the commercial crops, 1968-69 production of sugar cane
was 5.8 million tons, potatoes 1.1 million tons and jute 800,000 tons (Annex 1).
Altricultural Development Priorities
2.12      The State's main agricultural priority is to increase the produc-
tiLon of foodgrains through irrigation, increased cropping intensity, greater
tuse of high yielding varieties and increased use of fertilizer and credit.
The Fourth Plan aims to increase HVP (high-yielding varieties trogram) from
324,000 ha of paddy in 1969-70 to 560,000 ha in 1973-74, resultfng in an
inicrease in total paddy production from 4.7 million tons to 5.7 million tons
at: the end of the Plan.
2.13      The State is also making substantial investment in three large
surface irrigation projects -- Kosi, Gandak and Sone -- and efforts are being
made to stimulate agricultural finance for tubewell construction. About 26%
of the total cropped area in Bihar presently receives irrigation from different
sources. The Fourth Plan aims to increase this to 50% by the end of 1973/74.
The sources of irrigation include canals (71%), tubewells (12%), dugwells (9%),
and tanks (8%).
2.14      The use of fertilizers is low, only 500,000 tons having been con-
sumed in 1968/69 on a total cropped area of 7.5 million ha. The goal for the
Fourth Plan is 2 million tons, which will be achieved only if additional
credit and distribution systems are implemented.
Agricultural Marketing
2.15      The agricultural marketing system in Bihar has changed little in
the last century (Annex 2). Farmers sell their surpluses (about 30% of pro-
duction) either (a) in the village, (b) in a small nearby weekly market



called a hat, or (c) in a larger, normally daily wholesale market called a
mandi.  In Bihar there are 2,894 hats and 314 mandies.
2.16      The buyers in the hats are either local consumers or itinerant
merchants who buy produce for speculation to be resold in either hats or
mandies.  The characteristics of a mandi are:  (a) a number of resident
grain traders owning their own shops which include some storage area, (b)
daily transactions of business, and (c) a traditional system of market
charges applied to the transactions which are deducted from the gross return
to the seller. In general a mandi in Bihar is no more than a section of a
town where traders' shops are located along the old narrow commercial streets.
One of the serious historical problems in the mandies is that the grain dealers
all belong to a particular subcaste, and any expansion of traders or dealers
would be within the subeaste. Tradition, if not collusion, calls for each
dealer to make identical deductions or marketing charges which have no re-
lationship with services actually rendered. Another characteristic of the
grain dealer's operation is his role as a moneylender which effectively ties
the cultivators to him as a part of their obligation of repayment, usually
accompanied by exorbitant interest rates. This exploitation of the farmers
by the dealers has been a serious impediment to the economic growth of the
farmers and has been attacked on a national scale by the Regulated Markets
Act, promoted by GOI (para 2.02).
2.17      Bihar has lagged behind most of the other states in implementing
its Regulated Markets Act. This Act, passed in 1960 (Annex 3), has yet to
result in significant improvements in agricultural marketing in the State.
This is due to: (a) legal attacks brought upon the constitutionality of the
Act by traders and dealers, (b) lack of sufficient organizational assistance
from the State Government, and (c) lack of physical facilities for market
yards where the marketing function could be concentrated and therefore effec-
tively regulated.
2.18      The legal attacks against the Markets Act were resolved in favor
of the legislation in 1968, and the State Government is now giving priority
to full implementation under the Act. The remaining difficulty stems from
the lack of physical facilities, which would be remedied by the Project.
2.19      In addition to enclosed market yards there is a need for buildings
and equipment necessary for the efficient functioning of a market. One of
the most important needs is for storage, which would reduce damage by weather,
rodents and insects. The availability of such storage would also assist the
seller by providing an alternative to the depressed prices at harvest. The
market yards need to include covered display platforms to protect the produce
and maximize competition among buyers to the benefit of the seller. An
adequate market yard should also include permanent locations for the traders
and dealers, headquarters for the Market Committee and its staff, an area
for parking and watering bullocks and resthouse and latrines for the farmers.
In addition to these essential facilities the market area is a natural
location for reaching the farmers and should therefore also include locations
for extension services, credit institutions, postal services and shops for
agricultural inputs including fertilizers and pesticides.



-6-
2.20      Under the Regulated Markets Act, Market Committees, composed of
representatives of farmers, traders and government agencies, own and operate
the market facilities. Under the Act the committees are entitled to charge
a market fee equal to 0.5% of the value of the produce handled within the
market. The normal market fee in other states of India where regulated
markets are operating successfully (para 2.05) is 1%. In 1970 there were
about 60 regulated markets within Bihar usually charging a fee of 0.25%, but
without exception these markets are having difficulties providing the regula-
tion and services envisioned by the Act because of an absence of market yards
and facilities so necessary to their effective operation.
D. Agricultural Credit in Bihar
General
2.21      Agricultural credit in the State is very poorly developed, although
there are a number of institutions that are attempting to serve the State's
10 million farmers. However, only about 25% of farmers are served by any
institutional lending program. Medium- and long-term loans are mainly pro-
vided by the Bihar State Cooperative Land Development Bank (LDB) and some
Commercial banks. LDB, which was established in 1957, by 1970 had 11,022
loans outstanding totaling Rs 80 million. LDB has a seriously deficient re-
payment record with overdues of over Rs 5 million. It has only 60 branches,
too few for a satisfactory covering of the State. A number of branches are
still too small to be considered viable units. The Fourth Five-Year Plan has
set targets of 20 additional branches to be created each year during the Plan
period. The number of borrowers, some 11,000 as of June 30, 1970, is about
0.1% of all farmers in the State, a very meager result after 14 years of
operation. Of the commercial banks, the State Bank of India is the most
important in Bihar for medium- and long-term loans; and it would be a suitable
lending channel for this Project. It is further discussed in paragraph 2.29.
2.22      There are also several other sources of agricultural credit,
mainly short-term, in Bihar: direct government loans, Marketing Federation
credit (mostly for fertilizers), Bihar Agro-Industry Corporation credit and
agricultural credit societies. All of these agencies have extended short-
term credits amounting to only about Rs 250 million annually, or 1/10 of the
farmers' estimated short-term credit requirements. The growth in the use of
modern inputs -- fertilizers and improved seeds -- has been adversely affected
by the lack of credit.
2.23     The cooperative credit system is particularly weak.  Many of the
16,500 primary cooperative credit societies have had managerial and financial
difficulties in recent years, which has led the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to
reduce its financial support. While 30% of farmers are members of cooperative
credit societies, not more than 75% of these are getting loans. Hence, only
about 22% of the farmers benefit from credit facilities of the cooperative
banking system. In 1967-68 cooperative credit societies advanced loans of
only Rs 150 million and their lendings dropped to RS 125 million in 1968/69.
As of June 30, 1969, their loans were only about Rs 120 million, of which 46%
were overdue.



-7-
2.24      Commercial banks are expanding their short-term credit operations,
but do not fill the gap. These banks are making efforts to equip themselves
to develop their agricultural operations by establishing branches in rural
areas, recruiting agricultural technicians and training staff in agricultural
credit operations. Even so, progress in agricultural credit by commercial
banks has been slow, their total agricultural loan portfolio being only about
Rs 60 million as of December 31, 1970'-
Agricultural Refinance Corporation
2.25      ARC, a subsidiary of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), was estab-
lished in 1963 to provide medium- and long-term finance to agricultural
lending agencies throughout India. ARC is important not only as a channel
for development funds but also for its influence on the lending policies and
operational procedures of the agencies it assists. The latter are state
cooperative land development banks and commercial banks and ARC refinances
their individual loans to farmers or groups of farmers on an approved scheme
basis.                                             1
2.26      ARC has a regional office in Patna and has been active in refinancing
six development schemes in Bihar -- five for minor irrigation in various
localities in Bihar and one for land reclamation in the Kosi irrigation
project area. These schemes involve medium- and long-term loans totaling
some Rs 137 million and have so far been fairly successful. Collections
under ARC schemes are reportedly better than loans financed from land devel-
opment bank debentures, but only a few installments have become due; there-
fore, it may be premature to draw conclusions as to collection records under
ARC schemes.
2.27      Most of ARC's growth has occurred since 1967 and, as of June 30,
1970, its commitments totalled nearly Rs 2,150 million (US$295 million);
although not directly comparable, IDA's commitment for its three approved
credit projects is Rs 611 million (with a further Rs 45 million for an agro-
aviation project). With about 65% of its lending devoted to minor irrigation
investments, ARC's loan portfolio at June 1970 was Rs 588 million.
2.28      With its head office in Bombay and regional offices in most of the
states, ARC has a management staff of about 90, most of whom are seconded
from RBI. Its operations continue to expand rapidly and IDA has been con-
cerned that ARC be staffed adequately both to supervise existing investments
and to play a larger role in the appraisal of schemes submitted by states.
To this end ARC has strengthened its technical expertise (previously pro-
vided solely by consultants) by appointing a nucleus of its own specialist
staff. Further details about ARC are given in Annex 4.
State Bank of India
2.29      SBI is a "scheduled" (i.e. major commercial) bank, established by
Act of Parliament in 1955, and is 92% owned by GOI through RBI. As at Decem-
ber 31, 1970, SBI had paid-up capital and reserves of Rs 212 million (US$30
million), and deposits of some Rs 14.4 billion (US$2.0 billion). SBI is
required by law to act in the public interest and to be guided by GOI, but
it is emphasized that in discharging its functions the management should act
on business principles. Its financial situation is satisfactory and its



-8-
record of service to the agricultural sector is good. Within the State of
Bihar S8I has 91 branches and a regional office in Patna. With an increase
in technical staff SBI would be an appropriate channel for project lending
(para 4.06). Further details about SBI are given in Annex 5.
E. Planning and Engineering Agencies
The Town Planning Organization
2.30      The Town Planning Organization (TPO) is an agency of the Bihar
State Government located in the office of the Development Cormissioner. The
IPO is staffed with two professional town planners as well -as-sepecialists
In engineering, architecture and drafting.  It has considerX-4le-e-cperience
in town planning and is a suitable agency to assist the RMCs in -the location
and planning of market yards.
The Rural Engineering Organization
2.31      The Rural Engineering Organization (REO) is an agency of the Bihar
State Government with regional offices in the four divisions of Bihar. It
has been primarily concerned with rural roads and minor irrigation development
and has prepared plans and specifications as well as contracting and super-
vision for three markets in the Purnea district. It is a suitable organiza-
tion for engineering contracting procedures, and for supervision of construc-
tion of market yards.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Brief Description
3.01      The proposed Project forms a part of the ongoing GOI program to
develop regulated agricultural markets throughout the country (para 2.02).
It would provide facilities for such regulated markets in about 50 towns in
the State of Bihar. The Project is aimed at reducing market losses and would
assist the Bihar Government in implementing its Marketing Act (para 2.17).
The principal responsibilities for the project would be with a State Market-
ing Board (para 4.01). The facilities owned and operated by Regulated Market
Committees would include land, entrance roads, office buildings, auction
platforms, storage godowns, traders' shops, and the equipment necessary for
efficient operation. Market Comnmittees would borrow funds from the State
Bank of India which would be refinanced by ARC, the channel for 99% of the
IDA credit. Training and Project evaluation (1%) would be channelled from
GOI to Bihar State Government. For a list of the proposed market towns to
be included in the Project see Annex 6.



-9-
B. Detailed Features
Market Planning
3.02      Each market would be owned and controlled by a Regulated
Market Committee (RMC) created under the Bihar Agricultural Produce Markets
Act. The physical location of each market would be determined only after
detailed surveys and planning by the Town Planning Organization (TPO) (para
2.30) and the State Marketing Board (SMB) (para 4.01). Assurances were
obtained from State of Bihar during negotiations that market locations would
be determined only after detailed surveys and planning by TPO and SMB.
3.03      Assurances were also obtained from State Government that SMB
and TPO when planning each market would take into account: (a) current and
projected quantities of produce coming to the market, (b) the total land
area needed based on the projected quantities, (c) the availability of
alternative sites within or near the market town, (d) the availability of
utilities and access to roads and other modes of transport, and traffic
flows of the town in relation to the prospective site, (e) a topographic
survey of the prospective site for sanitary and drainage purposes, and (f)
the buildings, equipment, roadways and other facilities necessary for proper
development of the market yard.
3.04      While each market would differ as to its particular design,
certain minimum requirements should be met in all markets. During negotiations
assurances were obtained from the State Government, SBI and ARC that unless
IDA should otherwise agree no subloans would be approved unless:
(a) the area of the market yard would be at least 6 ha when the
average market arrivals calculated on an annual basis are
less than 125 ton/day plus 1 ha for every 20 ton/day over
125;
(b) the main roads within the market yard and the entrance road
connecting the market yard to a main thoroughfare would be
hard-surfaced;
(c) a fence would be constructed;
(d) water and sewer supply system would be constructed in
accordance with minimum standards of the Indian Standards
Institute;
(e) a minimum of 20 traders' shops would be built;
(f) display platforms would be built having a surfaced area
of at least 1,000 m2; and
(g) a storage godown of 1,000-ton capacity would be built in
each market having an average arrival of more than 150
ton/day.



- 10 -
Miarket Facilities
3.05      In general the improvements contemplated for a market yard, varying
iLn size from 6 to 25 ha, would include the following: (a) survey and land
preparation, (b) entrance roads, (c) internal surfacing, (d) fencing, (e)
utilities, (f) office complex, (g) platforms, (h) godowns, and (i) traders'
shops. For details of market layout and engineering see Annexes 7 and 8.
3.06      Survey and land preparation.  Basic to the development of the mar-
ket yard would be accurate surveys and land preparation to ensure adequate
cdrainage and sanitary facilities. The survey, a part of the planning stage
(para 3.02), would also consider engineering designs of facilities to handle
not only current market arrivals, but arrivals projected at least 10 years in
t:he future. Consideration would also be given to areas withiA the market
yrard for future bulk storage operations. An entrance road would be hard-
surfaced and connect the market with a primary road in the state highway
system. Surfacing of roads within the market yard and parking areas would
be essential. Fencing of the yard would be necessary to secure the entire
area. Utilities including electricity and potable water for human and
amimal consumption would need to be provided.
3.07      An office complex designed for the efficient operation and
management of the market yard would be provided for the market secretary and
his staff. In this connection space would be provided for the accounting
department, a conference room, storage of records and supplies and toilets.
There would also be a resthouse and canteen available to the farmers and
other participants in the market.
3.08      Auction platforms would be key facilities in the market necessary
for proper implementation of the Marketing Act. These platforms, on which
grading and auctioning of produce would take place (the number and size of
the platforms would depend upon the projected quantities to be handled by
the particular market), would be designed for efficient loading- and unloading
aLnd would be covered to protect the produce from weather. Storage would be
provided in each market by construction of a godown to be operated as a
public warehouse for use by the farmers and as an overflow for the traders
in the market area. The godown (generally of 1,000-ton capacity) would be
built by the Market Committee, but leased for operational purposes to the
State Warehousing Corporation (para 4.05), a public organization authorized
to issue negotiable warehouse receipts which, of course, facilitates farmers
credit. This storage would be in addition to the private storage to be
owned and operated by the traders.
3.09      Traders' shops with a small storage would be built by the Regulated
Market Committees (RMCs) and leased to private traders licensed by the RMCs.
It is expected that these shops would earn sufficient rental to amortize their
cost over the life of the subloan (para 4.05).
3.10      Equipment required would be mechanical cleaners for grain, platform
sicales for weighing sacks of grain and other produce, sampling probes and
containers.  The cleaners are an important adjunct to markets that would
improve the quality of the produce and permit accurate grading and marketing
of grain. They would be operated by RMC staff.



- 11 -
Auxiliary Facilities
3.11      Each market would be a central meeting point for farmers and is
expected to serve as a center for all commercial activities for the hinter-
land served by the market. Therefore the plan for the market would provide
for locations for a bank, post office, extension services, cooperative
marketing and/or credit societies, and input shops. The costs of these
facilities would not be provided for in the Project but land could be leased
to individuals, companies or associations under restrictive leases to assure
proper conformity, maintenance and use (para 4.05). Each market would not
necessarily have all the above facilities, but would include locations for
structures which its market plan requires.
Training and Project Evaluation
3.12      Training would be provided for nine staff members of SMB in one
year courses operated by GOI's Directorate of Marketing. Also, training
would be provided for RMC staff including 45 market secretaries and 60
graders at institutes in Nagput and Faridabad. (See paras 4.15 through 4.17
for details.) Evaluation of the results of the Project would be accomplished
under a contract between State of Bihar and a qualified institution (para
4.18).
C. Land Acquisition
3.13      Land acquisition and its cost would not be within the capabilities
of the RMC, but would be the responsibility of the State Goverrment. The
State Government has available public lands in about 25 market towns. How-
ever, a detailed review by TCP would be necessary to determine the suit-
ability of these State-owned sites. It is expected that at least ten sites
out of the 25 would be suitable for immediate development. In addition it
has about Rs 1.5 million available in Command Areas (irrigation development
areas) for market development which can be used for land purchase. The State
Government also has the power of eminent domain (to take property of land
for government use), which would facilitate acquisition. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained from the State Government that it would provide the
proper sites for market development through the use of existing public lands
or through purchase or eminent domain on a priority time schedule to permit
the phasing of construction of the Project as follows: 10 markets in 2nd
year, 10 markets in 3rd year, 15 markets in 4th year and 15 markets in 5th
year.
D. Construction Schedules
3.14      The Rural Engineering Organization (REO) has had recent experience
in engineering and supervising construction of market facilities in three
markets in the Purnea district of Bihar (para 2.31). There are several local
contractors qualified to undertake this work. All market facilities could
probably be constructed within one year of site selection. The timing,
however, must take into account the necessary planning and engineering design.
A detailed phasing chart appears in Annex 9.



- 12 -
E. Cost Estimates
3.15      Total cost of the Project is estimated at Rs 170 million
lUS$23.3 million). The foreign exchange component of Rs 43.1 million
(US$5.9 million) represents about 25% of total costs and includes the
foreign exchange costs of steel, bitumen, utilities, equipment and Project
evaluation.  A physical contingency of 10.3% (10% plus rounding) was added
1:o all costs excluding land which would be provided by State Government.
Ill estimates are based on 1971 costs. Probable cost increases have been
taken into account by adding a 5% price contingency per annum to all costs,
]Local and foreign, but excluding land. The overall price contingency of
26% results from Project phasing.  The following table presents a summary
of the estimates. (See Annex 10 for details.)
Rs (Thousands)          US$ (Thousands)           Z
For-                       For-            Foreign
Item             Local   eign      Total   Local   eign   Total   Exchange
Il. Land              10,500   -         10,500   1,400    -       1,400     -
B. Civil Works
Survey and Land
Preparation       5,100   1,280    6,380       700    180      880      20
Entrance Roads      1,750      680    2,430      240      90      330     28
Surfacing           6,400   1,700    8,100       880    230   1,110       21
Fencing             1,870   1,010    2,880       260    140       400     35
Utilities           7,350   5,770   13,120   1,010    790   1,800         44
Office Complex    11,720   3,910   15,630   1,610    540   2,150          25
Platforms          13,400   4,470   17,870   1,840    610   2,450         25
Godowns             7,960   2,650   10,610   1,090    370   1,460         25
Traders' Shops    25,770   8,610   34,380   3,540  1,180   4,720          25
Subtotal   81,320  30,080  111,400  11,170  4,130  15,300          27
C. Equipment
Mechanical
Cleaners            390      210       600      50      30      80      35
Scales                490      260       750      70      30      100     35
Other Equipment       280      120       400      40      20       60     30
Subtotal    1,160      590    1,750       160     80      240      34
I). Training and Proj-
ect Evaluation
Training              230    -           230      30    -          30     -
Evaluation            800      350    1,150      110      50      160     30
Subtotal    1,030      350    1,380       140     50      200      25
E. Contingencies
Physical Contin-
gency (10%)       8,610   3,190   11,800   1,150    440   1,620         27
Price Contin-
gency (26%)      23,840   8,870   32,710   3,280  1,220   4,500         27
Subtotal   32,450  12,060   44,510   4,460  1,660   6,120          27
TOTAL PROJECT COST  126,460  43,080  169,540  17,370  5,920  23,290          25



- 13 -
F. Financing
3.16      The Project would be financed as follows:
Project Cost                   IDA Contribution
Total
Proj-            Through
Market                State   ect   Through   State
Committee  SBI  ARC--  Gov't.  Cost    ARC        Gov't.  Total
…-      ……- - ----  -----Rs Millions-
Land               -       -      -    10.5   10.5       -         -        -
Civil Works       5.6    11.1   94.7   -    111.4       71.0.      -       71.0
Equipment          .1       .2    1.4   -       1.7       1.1      -        1.1
Training and
Evaluation       -       -      -     1.4    1.4       -        1.0       1.0
Contingencies    2.2      4.4   37.3   0.6   44.5       28.1      0.4      28.5
Total Costs       7.9    15.7  133.4  12.5  169.5    100.2        1.4    101.6
US$ Million       1.1      2.2   18.3   1.7   23.3       13.8      .2      14.0'
% of Total        5       9      79     7    100        59        1        60
% IDA Contri-
bution           -       -    59      1      60       99        1       100
% Net of IDA
Contribution   5        9      20     6      40        -         -      -
/1   Including IDA and ARC funds.
3.17      The Market Committees have accumulated some resources and would
supply 5% of the costs of the facilities. State Government would provide the
land cost (para 3.13) and a part of training and Project evaluation totalling
7% of project cost. SBI would lend 95% of investment costs excluding land
and be refinanced up to 85% of these costs by ARC; thus, SBI would contribute
10% of investment costs excluding land from its own funds. ARC's refinances
of 85% of investment costs excluding land equal 79% of Project costs. Thus
ARC would contribute 20% of Project costs from its own funds, since IDA
would provide 59% of Project costs through ARC.
3.18      The proposed IDA credit of US$14.0 million (Rs 101.6 million) would
finance about 60% of total Project costs, which is based on (a) the foreign
exchange cost of construction steel, roofing materials, bitumen, fuel and
machinery, and (b) one-half of the local costs of the Project excluding
land. IDA would supply about 75% of ARC's refinance of the Project
(Rs 133.4 million) and 63% of the training cost and Project evaluation
(Rs 1.4 million).
3.19      The IDA credit would be on normal terms to GOI.  It would be a con-
dition of effectiveness that a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to IDA
between GOI and ARC had been executed providing that GOI would make the
proceeds relating to the lending program available to ARC repayable over 15



- 14 -
years at 6.0% (with 1/4% rebate for prompt repayment of principal and
interest) (para 5.09), and that GOI would bear the exchange risk. It would
alSo be a condition of effectiveness that a Refinancing Agreement satisfactory
t:o IDA between ARC and SBI had been executed providing for the refinance of
P'roject subloans.  The Refinance Agreement would provide for the onlending
of the proceeds to SBI at an interest rate of 6-1/2% per annum on outstanding
indebtedness (para 5.10).  SBI would in turn onlend to the Market Committees
at 9% for terms up to 15 years with 2 years grace.  ARC refinancing would be
repayable by SBI in installments set to coincide approximately with collections
from the Market Committees. The balance of the IDA credit in respect of
training and evaluation services would be made available by GOI to the State
of Bihar.
G. Procurement
3.20      Construction of the market facilities would be phase& over five
years in some 50 market towns (Annex 9). Each market would be designed in
accordance with its unique needs with respect to size and particular
facilities to be included.  Because of this diversity over area and time
and because each facility, consisting of simple brick and concrete struc-
t:ures, would differ in design, each market subproject would of necessity
require a separate contract with none of them more than US$400,000 and no
poossibility of bulking them. The markets would not, therefore, be suitable
for international competitive bidding. Adequate local contractors are
available in Bihar and tender documents, construction contracts, and
construction supervision would be the responsibility of REO (para 4.11).
H. Disbursement
3.21      IDA disbursements are expected to extend over five years.  Against
appropriate statements, IDA would disburse 75% of all ARC refinanced subloan
disbursements for market facilities (excluding land) under the Project; and,
against appropriate statements showing that Bihar Government had expended
Project costs for training and Project evaluation, IDA would disburse 63%
of such costs. A schedule of estimated IDA disbursements appears in Annex 11.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. The State Marketing Board
4.01      The State Government of Bihar has amended the Bihar Agricultural
Produce Markets Act of 1960 to provide for the creation of a State Marketing
Board (SNB). Similar State Marketing Boards exist in other states in India
(para 2.05).  The State Marketing Board in Bihar would be the principal
agency responsible for Project implementation. It would also be responsible
for the general supervision of the local Market Committees and would have
the power to issue state regulations effecting the enforcement of the Act.
l'he State Government has the power under the Act to issue rules to:



- 15 -
(a) set minimum and maximum market fees (and increase the
maximum fee to at least Rs 1 per Rs 100 value);
(b) supersede the market secretaries (executive officers of
the Market Committees) and Market Committees when
insolvency or default occur; and -
(c) require the use of surplus funds of Market Committees for
market development.
4.02      It would be necessary that SMB be properly organized within the
Ministry of Agriculture of Bihar and that SMB have an administrative staff
headed by a civil servant Chief Executive not below the rank of Collector
who would have the primary responsibility for carrying out the project. In
addition, there would be a Director and Assistant Director of Agricultural
Marketing, a Chief of Marketing Information, and a Chief of Grading and
Standards. This executive staff would be assisted by an agricultural expert
who would, inter alia, make projections of market arrivals, market committee
revenues and market fees, and a minimum of three junior marketing specialists
and the necessary clerical and secretarial staff. Assurances were obtained
that the qualifications and experience required of the Director of,Agricul-
tural Marketing would be acceptable to IDA. It would be a condition of
effectiveness that SMB had been created and that the Chief Executive, Director
and Assistant Director of Agricultural Marketing, and the Chief of Market
Information outlined above had been employed. Assurances were also obtained
that the other staff outlined above would be employed within three months
after effectiveness.
4.03      In order to assure the financial viability of the subloans to
the RMCs, it would be necessary for State Government to fix the market fee
at Rs 1 per Rs 100 value of agricultural produce handled by the markets. In
order to ensure a uniform regulated market system, all regulated markets
would have the same market fee arrangement. It would be a condition of
effectiveness of the credit that State Government had fixed a uniform market
fee for all regulated markets within the State of not less than Rs 1 per
Rs 100 value of marketed produce.
4.04      It is expected that all Project markets will generate surplus
funds above their requirement for operating expenses and debt service.
SMB would have control of the expenditure of such funds by RMCs. Assurances
were obtained from the State of Bihar during negotiations that SMB would
sanction the use of these funds only for contributions to SMB, the building of
feeder roads or expansion of market facilities during the subloan repayment
period unless IDA should otherwise agree.
Lease Terms
4.05      The RMCs would lease the storage godowns to the State Warehousing
Corporation (para 3.08). Likewise the traders' shops would be leased to
private wholesalers and traders (para 3.09). It would be a condition of
subloan approval by SBI that as many traders and wholesalers as practicable
had signed leases for the traders' shops as planned for a particular market.



- 16 -
These leases would have a minimum term of one year. In some instances ground
(:land without improvement) leases would be awarded for banks, post offices,
cooperative marketing and/or credit associations or to private vendors for
input shops. These leases would have a rental based on all operating costs
to the RMC including a proper proportion of administrative costs, depreciation,
maintenance costs and utility services. All leases would be conditioned on
proper use and maintenance of the facility and no construction would be
permitted on such leases without approval of the specific plans and specifi-
cations by SMB and TPO to ensure conformity with market planning. Assurances
swere obtained from the State of Bihar and SBI during negotiations that
no subloans would be approved unless subloan agreements contained lease
requirements as specified above.
B. State Bank of India
4.06      Within the State of Bihar SBI has 91 branches and a regional
office in Patna (para 2.29 and Annex 5) and has been expanding its technical
staff for agricultural lending in the State as it has throughout India;
hLowever, additional technical staff would be needed to accomplish the sub-
appraisals for the Project. It would be a condition of effectiveness of
the Project that SBI had appointed three specialists, whose qualifications
and experience are acceptable to IDA, to an agricultural marketing unit within
the regional office in Patna to appraise the expected subloan applications.
These specialists would consist of one marketing specialist, one financial
analyst and one civil engineer and be kept as a team during the five-year
disbursement period. Further assurances were obtained during negotiations
that SBI would station these three specialists in Patna as an appraisal team,
would provide the specialists with expenses and transportation for field work,
and would continue such arrangements during the disbursement period.
4.07      It would be necessary also that an officer of appropriate rank of
SBI in the Central Office in Bombay be designated who would be responsible
f'or overall operation of the subloans for the Project. Assurances to this
etffect were obtained during negotiations.
C. Subappraisal Procedures
4.08      The RMCs that want to develop market yards under the Project
would have to seek assistance from SMB, which would be in charge of overall
FProject planning. SNB would request technical assistance from TCP and REO
on behalf of the RMCs. Assurances were obtained from the State of Bihar
during negotiations that TPO and REO would provide technical assistance to
the RMCs. After plans had been completed SMB would have final authority to
approve or disapprove plans for a particular market complex.
4.09      If approved, the plans and the subloan application would be
submitted to SBI. SBI would have primary responsibility for the appraisal of
the subloan application. The SBI market appraisal team (para 4.06) would
prepare an appraisal report including an evaluation of the technical, finan-
cial and organizational aspects of the application. Assurances were obtained



- 17 -
from SBI during negotiations that such appraisal reports would be prepared.
(For more detailed procedures see Annex 12.)
4.10      After appraisal of subloans by SBI as set forth above, SBI would
submit the loan application and all supporting documentation and its
appraisal report to ARC. ARC would review such documents and verify the data
and conclusions therein to its own satisfaction. Thereafter it would advise
SBI of its approval or disapproval of the particular subloan for purposes of
refinance and if approved would refinance the subloan in an amount equal to
a maximum of 85% of the total investments excluding land (see para 3.17).
D. Contracting and Supervision
4.11      After approvals are obtained from SMB, SBI and ARC as specified
in paragraphs 4.08 through 4.10, REO would prepare the necessary detailed
plans and specifications and tender documents. These documents would be
advertised in a manner prescribed by State law and awards made would be
subiect to final approval of SMB. Thereafter REQ would be responsible for
supervision of the construction and for the approval of all payments to
contractors. A retention of 10% due the contractor would be withheld until
final approval and acceptance by the RMC and SMB after final certification
of completion by REQ. For further details on procedure and engineering
specifications see Annex 8. Assurances were obtained from the State of
Bihar during negotiations that contracting and supervision would be performed
as outlined above.
E. Accounts and Audit
4.12      Under the SBI Act the accounts of SBI are audited annually by two
auditors duly qualified under the Companies Act 1956 who are appointed by
RBI in consultation with GOI. The auditors currently appointed are Messrs.
C.C. Chokshi & Co. and Messrs. M.K. Dandeker & Co. Each of the auditors
takes a certain number of SBI local head offices' accounts and they jointly
audit the accounts of the central head office.
4.13      Assurances were obtained from SBI during negotiations that
clearly identifiable accounts would be kept of Project loans and borrowings
under the Refinance Agreement (para 3.19), and that these accounts would be
audited annually by auditors satisfactory to IDA within four months of the
close of the accounting period to which they refer. The certification
would contain a statement that, to the best of the auditors' knowledge,
all subloans included in the summary had been made to subborrowers for
the purposes of the Project.
4.14      SBI would sign loan'agreements with RMCs requiring them to keep
books and records and would cause the books and records to be made available
to the auditors annually, and assurances were obtained from SBI during
negotiations that a summary of the audits of each RMC receiving subloans
under the Project would be forwarded to IDA within four months of the end
of Government's fiscal year.



- 18 -
F. Training and Project Evaluation
Training
4.15      The setting-up of SMB (para 4.01) would require training of
its staff and personnel. Schools operated by GOI's Directorate of Marketing
and Inspection provide training for marketing personnel. The school at
Nagpur in the State of Maharastra provides a one-year course for senior
personnel of State Marketing Boards. The State Government would send a
minimum of three staff members of SMB to an appropriate course for each of
the first three years of the Project.
4.16      Market secretaries are state civil servants seconded from the
Office of the Deputy Director for Marketing (who would be replaced by SMB)
to the Market Committees. Some of the present secretaries have eompleted the
course for market secretaries run by GOI; however, all secretaries would
eventually complete this course. A minimum of 15 market secretaries for the
proposed market would need training during each of the first three years of
the Project.
4.17      There would be a need for qualified grading inspectors in each of
the markets developed under the Project. A minimum of 20 graders would
be sent to an appropriate training course provided by GOI during each of
the first three years of the Project. Assurances were obtained from
State of Bihar during negotiations that the training of the above personnel
would be carried out. For estimates of training costs see Appendix 10-4.
Project Evaluation
4.18      This would be the first IDA project aimed at improving the operations
of agricultural markets. It would, therefore, be very important that
evaluation procedures would be provided for. Assurances were obtained from
l:he State of Bihar during negotiations that within six months of the date of
signing of the Credit Agreement, SMB would enter into a contract with an
appropriate institution which would evaluate the marketing function in a
sample of towns selected for market development. For details of the contract
for evaluation and proposed terms of reference see Annex 13 and Appendix 13-1.
V. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND FINANCIAL RESULTS
A. Production and Mandi Arrivals
Production
5.01      Agricultural production in Bihar is expected to grow at different
rates by crops and by regions. For instance, GOI estimates that paddy and
wheat production will increase considerably in the three big irrigated areas
cif the rivers Kosi, Gandak and Sone that are being developed. In other
regions, land area under vegetables and other high value cash crops is being
expanded. And in the whole State there is a tendency to higher cropping
intensity, particularly through the use of more inputs and through the



- 19 -
transition to double and triple cropping on irrigated land.  Production of
foodgrains and vegetables will probably expand while some low-return crops
such as pulses will probably decrease not only in terms of cultivated area
but also of produced quantities. Jute production will not expand signifi-
cantly because of the limited absorbing capacity of the world market.
5.02      Jute, spices, fruits and vegetables are marketed to a high degree.
In contrast, paddy and pulses are primarily subsistence crops; only 5-25%
of these crops are marketed depending on the region. Although only a small
portion of the total paddy production is marketed, it represents nevertheless
at present the main cash crop. Wheat is becoming important. New high-yielding
varieties have been introduced recently and have done quite well in the
irrigated areas and a few other selected districts. Wheat will outrun paddy
as the main cash grain crop in the 1970's.
Mandi Arrivals
5.03      Under the Project, mandi arrivals would increase because:
(a) all mandi arrivals would be auctioned and market fees would be regulated,
thus providing the sellers a higher price, and (b) the prospect of higher
prices and the convenience of the market yards would encourage more farmers
to bring their produce to the mandies.
5.04      The composition of arrivals in the markets varies widely (Annex 2,
Appendix 2-1). Jute is the most important cash crop in the northeastern
Purnea district mandies of Araria, Forbesganj and Gulabbagh. In other
mandies potatoes and onions constitute the bulk of the arrivals.  Grains,
however, play an important role in all the mandies considered for financing
under the Project. Grain shares in the total arrivals range from about
40% to 90%. Undoubtedly, grain arrivals will increase at substantial rates in
the mandies, since marketable surpluses increase proportionately more than
increases in production.
B. Prices
5.05      Since the beginning of the century, foodgrain deficiency has been
growing in Bihar as population has increased by about 70% and neither
cultivated area nor average yield have increased significantly. Although
agricultural production will expand substantially in the next decade, it can
be expected that because of the population growth the State's supply/demand
gap for foodgrain will increase. It is important that efficient marketing
facilities be provided to minimize marketing wastage to the maximum extent
possible and to increase farmers' incentives.
5.06      The exact effect the Project will have on farmers' prices is
difficult to determine because of a lack of precise data. It can be expected,
however, that all in all, farmers' prices would increase. RMCs would reduce
the cost of market transactions under the Project, thus reducing marketing
charges imposed on the seller from the present average of 5.36% of arrival
value to 2.76%, including the 1% fee levied by the RMC (Annex 14, Appendix
14-1). In addition, auctioning would tend to increase sales prices because



- 20 -
of the increased competition among buyers. Since the Project would provide
storage, farmers would be able to sell some produce later after harvest,
thus receiving higher prices than immediately after harvest.
C. Financial Results
Mqarket Committees
:5.07     Two model mandies that would be financed under the Project have
been analyzed (Annex 15). In terms of arrivals, the two model mandies would
constitute approximately the two extremes among the 50 markets proposed for
financing under the Project. The principal assumptions on the income side
are (a) arrival projections, (b) a market fee of 1% of arrival value, and
{(c) rentals for traders' shops and godowns at 12% of direct investment cost.
Operating costs would mainly consist of salaries and wages for RMC staff.
15.08     Small markets (earning market fees of Rs 250,000 to Rs 500,000 per
amnum) would need a more liberal repayment schedule than the larger ones
(:earning market fees in excess of Rs 1 million). The model calculations
result in recommending flexible repayment terms depending on the projected
cash flow for each individual market. The financial rates of return were
calculated at 20% for the small market and at 40% for the large model.
Agricultural Refinance Corporation
5.09      A cash flow projection for ARC relating to its operations under
t:he Project is given in Appendix 15-3. Although ARC would have to partly
use its own funds for financing Project operations during the- first eight
years, it would later on accumulate substantial surpluses. The cash flow
shows that ARC would easily cover its operating costs and that it would
make an adequate profit.
State Bank of India
5.10      Appendix 15-4 presents a cash flow projection for SBI's lending
operations under the Project. As SBI would carry the full default risk and
have significant subappraisal and supervision expenses, its interest margin
wrould be 2.5% (9% minus 6.5%) per annum as opposed to ARC's margin of 0.75%
(6.5% minus 5.75%) per annum. The cash flow projection shows that SBI would
aLccumulate sufficient surpluses to cover anticipated overhead and risk and
that it would make a reasonable profit.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The proposed Project is the Bank Group's first project in the
field of agricultural wholesale markets. A new methodology for the assess-
ment of benefits had to be developed and the analysis presented below should
not be considered definitive. The proposed Project evaluation study (para
4.18) would provide data necessary for a complete evaluation. A list of



- 21 -
possible benefits of wholesale markets is presented in Annex 16, but a first
analysis has shown that probably only the following are important:
(a) the better quality produce that would be ensured by the
markets;
(b) the reduction in handling and storage losses;
(c) the reduction in congestion; and
(d) the induced agricultural production because of the
increased prices to farmers.
It was very difficult to quantify these benefits because of a lack of precise
data, particularly with respect to the possible additional agricultural
production that would be induced by the Project, since supply elasticities
and possible price increases are difficult to estimate.
6.02      The economic rate of return calculation has, therefore, been based
on only the first three benefits, which have been estimated as follows:
(a) grain quality improvement due to cleaning (a benefit of
Rs 24 million per annum at full development);
(b) reduction of grain losses from excessive handling (Rs 9
million) and of storage losses due to covered auction
platforms and warehouses (Rs 4 million); and
(c) savings in municipal budgets, through reduction of
maintenance and administration costs, since concentrating
market activities in one location adjacent to the township
would reduce congestion and excessive traffic (Rs 1 million).
All these benefits have been very conservatively estimated, and are based on
studies in the states of the wheat belt in Northwest India where regulated
markets are successfully operating. The resulting economic rate of return
should be considered a minimum rate of return and has been calculated
(Annex 16) at 29%. The economic rate of return would increase by about 10
percentage points if it is assumed that because of the Project agricultural
production would increase by about 1%, which is not unreasonable.
6.03      The income distribution effects of the Project are also difficult
to estimate. It is expected that most of the grain quality improvement
benefits and a substantial part of the reduction in handling losses would
be realized by the farmers, resul-ting in an increase in farmers' annual
income of at least Rs 30 million. In addition, farmers' income would
increase by about Rs 90 million per annum because market charges would be
reduced by about 2.6% of the value of market arrivals (Appendix 14-1). As
a result, the 1.5 million farmers in the hinterlands of the 50 markets
would receive an additional income of at least Rs 120 million (and possibly
more because of the induced production which has not been taken into account).
This represents on average an income increase per farmer of at least about



- 22 -
Rs 80 per annum. It has not been possible to determine how the additional
income would be distributed over the small and larger farmers (para 2.09),
but it can be expected that the small farmers would also benefit from the
Project.
6.04      Traders' income would, on the one hand, be reduced because traders
would have to give up part of the market fee (2.6% of the value of market
arrivals) that they are used to collecting; but on the other hand, their
operating costs would be lower, and also, because of the better quality
produce, their wholesale profits would increase. The net effect, as experience
in the states of Northwest India has shown, is that the new marketing
arrangements would also be profitable to the traders.
6.05      The overall result of the Project would be that farmers' as well
as traders' income would increase while consumers would get a better quality
product for which, of course, they would pay a slighly higher price. The
major uncertainty of the Project pertains to the time required for the new
marketing arrangements to become fully effective. Experience in the states
of the wheat belt in Northwest India where regulated markets are successfully
operating has shown that it would probably take on average about two to
three years before all traders would fully participate. This time delay
has been taken into account in the rate of return calculations.
6.06      Employment would be stimulated by the market construction,
which would require about 150 man years for each market built or a total
of 7,500 man years. The secondary employment effects have not been estimated
but the impact of new businesses and jobs generated would be substantial.
Permanent employment of market yard staff and labor is estimated at a minimum
of 2,000 jobs. This increase would not be the net employment increase since
some itinerant merchants would be replaced due to greater efficiency of the
marketing system.
6.07      The project requires that surpluses generated by RMCs be used
for feeder roads and further market development (para 4.04). Since agri-
culture is exempt from income tax, the market fees for such purposes are, in
a sense, a type of tax which would mobilize semipublic resources for devel-
o°pment purposes.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations agreements were reached with the State of Bihar
on the following principal points:
(a) market locations would be determined only after detailed
surveys and planning by SMB and TPO (para 3.02);
(b) it would provide the proper sites for market development
as specified in paragraph 3.13;



- 23 -
(c) it would sanction the use of the surplus funds only for
contributions to SMB, the building of feeder roads or
expansion of market facilities during the subloan repayment
period, unless IDA should otherwise agree (para 4.04); and
(d) that TPO and REO would provide technical assistance to RMCs
(para 4.08).
7.02      During negotiations, assurances were also obtained from the State
Bank of India on the following principal points:
(a) it would station three specialists in Patna as an appraisal
team and would provide them with expenses and transportation
for field work as specified in paragraph 4.06; and
(b) appraisal reports would be prepared as specified in
paragraph 4.09.
7.03      Conditions of effectiveness of the proposed IDA credit would be that:
(a)  a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOI and ARC had been
executed providing that GOI would make the proceeds of the
IDA credit relating to the lending program available to ARC
under terms specified in paragraph 3.19;
(b) a Refinance Agreement between ARC and SBI had been executed
providing for the refinance of Project subloans under terms
and conditions specified in paragraph 3.19;
(c) the State Marketing Board had been created and that the
minimum staff had been employed (para 4.02);
(d) the Bihar had set the market fee for all regulated markets
at Rs 1 per Rs 100 valuation of produce handled (para 4.03);
and
(e) SBI had appointed three specialists with qualifications and
experience acceptable to IDA (para 4.06).
7.04      The Project is suitable for IDA assistance of US$14.0 million
under standard IDA terms.
February 2, 1972






ANNEX 1
Page 1
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL MARKETS PROJECT
Main Features of Agriculture in Bihar
Land Tenure
1.        More than 90% of Bihar's estimated population of 58 million are
living in rural areas and most of them are directly living on agriculture.
The average rural population bracket for all India is 80%. Only about 7.5
million ha or 43% of Bihar is being cultivated and, on an average, six
people have to feed themselves from 1 ha of land.
2.        The Bihar Government estimates the following distribution of farm
sizes:
Percentage
Farm Size                of Farmers
Less than 1 ha                48.1
1.0 - 1.9 ha                  23.4
2.0 - 2.9 ha                  12.2
3.0 - 3.9 ha                   5.1
4.0 - 4.9 ha                   3.7
5.0 - 5.9 ha                   1.8
6.0 - 11.9 ha                  4.2
12.0 - 19.9 ha                 1.0
20 ha and above                0.5
Since a ceiling law limits the maximum holding size (classified according to
various irrigated and unirrigated soil grades), land transactions have been
made in the name of fictitious persons but for the benefit of the original
owners (benamis).
3.        In Bihar, the age-old zamindari system 1/ was officially abolished
in the 1950's. But most of the former zamindaris have virtually retained
their powerful position in several respects: They have not only extensively
used the benami practice, being now "ryots" 2/, but have also committed their
former laborers or tenants by illegal oral leases, by lending money against
the next crop connected with a marketing monopoly for the lessees' crops,
etc. The raiyats frequently shift their under-raiyats, and in particular the
sharecroppers, from plot to plot, from one agricultural season to another.
1/   Landowners renting land to peasants.
2/   "Tenants", since legally all land belongs to the Government.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
This position of the under-raiyats might gradually improve, since the Bihar
1'enancy Act of 197n gives the Revenue Officer the right to issue a prohibi-
tory order in such cases.
4.        Land records relating to raiyats are being maintained by the Reve-
rLue Officers and transfers are noted in the Registers of the Revenue Officer
ILs well. Up-to-date land records related to under-raiyats are not available.
FHowever, the State Government plans to quickly finalize the Revisional Sur-
Ney and Settlement Operations.  Besides, the Bihar Land Records Maintenance
!ill will be enacted soon to provide for the up-to-date revision and the
periodical publication of the records maintained in the Revenue Offices.
Either one of these steps will provide a good deal more information on Bihar's
land tenure situation, thus helping to more efficiently carry out land re-
f'orm measures.
Land Use
5F.       More than 2 million ha, or more than one-quarter of the cultivated
area in Bihar, is irrigated by canals, and to a lesser extent by tanks, tube-
wells and other wells. Irrigation development is increasing, particularly
in the Command Areas of the rivers Gandak (Champaran and Saran Districts),
Kosi (Purnea and Saharsa Districts). In Purnea District, for instance,
Government plans to bring another 120,000 ha under canal irrigation within
the next 10 years.
6.        Although there is an unfavorable ratio of land to rural population,
another 4 million ha is culturable waste land, presently at best used as
poor grazing land and groves. Only part of this land might become gradually
available for staple food production, since cattle numbers cannot be reduced,
and the people love orchard fruits.
7.        Most of Bihar consists of plains; only part of the south around
Ranchi is mountainous or hilly. Many crop rotation systems have been devel-
aped subject to soil quality and water availability (rainfall pattern and
irrigation). Double cropping has been practiced all over Bihar for a long
time, and triple cropping is becoming more and more comnon on the irrigated
soils in the plains. The monsoon season or kharif (end of June to October)
is the most important season, followed by rabi (November to March). The
so-called summer has been increasingly used for a third crop.
8.        Paddy is the dominant grain crop (Appendices 1-1 to 1-5).  It is
the main kharif crop on irrigated soils all over Bihar, and in some areas is
also grown as a sunmer crop. Introduction of an Intensive Cultivation Pro-
gram and Hlgh Yielding Varieties has helped raise area productivity consid-
erably. Wheat has become the second most important grain crop in recent
years, as the area under High Yielding Varieties has increased by almost 50%.
Both paddy and wheat production will benefit considerably from expansion of
irrigation in the Command Areas.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
9.        Some other crops like sugarcane,  lute, maize and various species
of oulses are also important. However, the production growth rates will
probahlv be modest because wheat and vegetable production is more profitable.
Particularly potato production is expected to increase.
10.       Yields depend on several factors like irrigation, rainfall, seed
varieties, fertilizers and other inputs. Some average vields are:
Paddy           1.2 ton/ha
Wheat           l.1
Maize           1.0
Pulses          0.6
Sugarcane       3.5
Potatoes        8.1
Jute            1.0
11.       Fertllizer consumotion increased from 1,50n tons in 1955 to 65,000
tons in 1964 and then jumped up to 500,000 tons gross weight in 1968. The
Fourth Five-Year Plan has proposed a consumption target of more than 2 mil-
lion tons gross weight in 1974.  Fertilizers are used mainly in the Coimand
Areas and for the most responsive crops including wheat, paddy and potatoes.
November 15, 1971






ANNEX 1
Appendix 1-1
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL MARKETS PROJECT
Agricultural Production of Major Commodities in Bihar
('000 ton)
1960- 1961- 1962- 1963- 1964- 1965- 1966- 1967- 1968- 1969-
61    62    63    64    65    66    67    68    69    70
Paddy          4,473 4,335 4,215 4,436 4,836 4,195 1,450 3,862 4,195 4,217
Maize             808   825   871   879   575   745   934   982   837   833
Wheat             435   514   521   411   411   470   359   899   953   966
Pulses          1,169 1,184 1,162 1,239 1,219 1,262   538   979   976   3591
Oilseeds          97   135   120    91    95    87    54   122    92    49
Jute             973 1,584 1,238 1,486 1,141 1,046 1,136 1,020   480   793
Potatoes         562   349   818   664   708   776   753   772   772 1,117
Sugarcane      6,927 6,230 4,800 5,084 6,750 5,949 4,329 3,967 5,914 5,877
/1   Only some pulses included.
Source:   Government of Bihar.
October 28, 1971



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1-2
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL MARKETS PROJECT
Agricultural Production of Major Commodities
in Bihar's Patna District
('000 ton)
1959- 1960- 1961- 1962- 1963- 1964- 1965- 1966- 1%?- 1968-
60    61    62    63    64    65    66    67    68    69
Paddy            209   303   239   266   296   303   277          7   211   285
Maize             22    30    26    33    28    23    28    31    43    51
Wheat             34    35    46    68    36    33    30    25    95    81
Pulses           184   187   178   196   176   182   181   137   183   153
O:Llseeds          2      2      3     4      2     2      3      1     4      5
Jute              -      -      -     -      -       -    -      -     -      -
Potatoes         163   139    82   198   137   156   137   124   150   211
SLigareane        27    34    36    20    20    22    16    12    13    14
C0tober 28, 1971



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1-3
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL MARKETS PROJECT
Agricultural Production of Major Commodities in Bihar's
Kosi Command Area (Purnea and Saharsa Districts)
('000 ton)
1959- 1960- 1961- 1962- 1963- 1964- 1965- 1966- 1967- 1968-
60    61    62    63    64    65    66    67    68    69
Paddy             307   359   315   452   489   423   389   185   374   378
Maize              134    97    72   106    84    53    60    92    87    73
Wheat               17    26    34    29    19    18    30    41    90   116
Pulses             54    63    63    72    58    58    60    48    61    47
Oilseeds            9    12    17    26        9      9    13    10    23    12
Jute              270   279   575   356   518   373   332   332   339   182
Potatoes            16    20    13    69    74    75    86   109    55    88
Sugarcane            5     3      4     3      4    11      5      6      7     9
October 28, 1971



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1-4
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL MARKETS PROJECT
A     _ricultural Production of _or Commodities
in Bihar's Son Command Area (Shahabad District)
('000 ton)
1959- 1960- 1961- 1962- 1963- 1964- 1965- 1966-4f9:67- 1968-
60    61    62    63    64    65    66    67  -.68    69
Paddy             421   460   504   497   489   522   475   1S5   4f4   378
Maize                7    19    10    12    16        8    23    11    24    13
Wheat              82    91   108    98    77    95   124   126   205    10
Pulses            198    30   268   206   336   253   256   184   257   197
O:Llseeds            8     7    10      9    10    10    10        4    10      5
Jute                 1     1      1     1      1      1     1      1     1      1
Potatoes           65    67    54  - 71    75    58    84    96   122   171
;Sugarcane          55    53    38    22    29    36    44    32    28    33
October 28, 1971



ANNEX 1
Appendix 1-5
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL MARKETS PROJECT
Agricultural Production of Major Commodities in Bihar's
Gandak Command Area (Champaran, Saran, Muzaffapur Districts)
('000 ton)
1959- 1960- 1961- 1962- 1963- 1964- 1965- 1966- 1967- 1968-
60    61    62    63    64    65    66    67    68    69
Paddy             498   684   666   716   729   735   740   247   647   673
Maize             241   191   243   246   215   162   248   259   256   358
Wheat              93    95   130   137    88   110   120   130   209   222
Pulses            127   146   158   187   138   159   149   130   157   140
Oilseeds            12    13    19    17    12    14    14    10    17    17
Jute               90    64   109   117    98    86    70    77    68    66
Potatoes          111   186    79   282   140   162   182   179   202   263
Sugarcane         385   399   371   283   298   398   348   264   224   358
October 28, 1971






ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL MARKETS PROJECT
The Existing Marketing System for Agricultural Products in Bihar
Introduction
1.        Bihar's major marketed agricultural products on a value basis are
grains (mainly paddy and rice, wheat, pulses, maize, oilseeds), jute, and
fruits and vegetables, particularly potatoes. Arrivals in selected mandies
appear in Appendix 2-1, and seasonal arrivals in selected mandies in Appen-
dices 2.2 and 2.3. Farmers sell their surpluses (about 30% of production)
either (a) in the village; (b) in a small nearby weekly market called a hat;
or (c) in a larger, normally daily wholesale market called a mandi. Bihar
has 68,000 villages, 2,894 hats, and 314 mandies. Prices are customarily
directly negotiated (as opposed to auction) and are based on prevailing
prices in the larger markets. Major commodity prices are given in Appendix 2-4.
Village Marketing
2.        There are typically four types of buyers purchasing grain from farmers
in the villages: (a) other villagers buying for their own consumption
needs, (b) retail food shops buying for resale in the village; (c) itinerant
merchants buying for resale in hats and mandies; and (d) village merchants
(often moneylenders collecting on debts or ryots (see Annex 1) buying and
reselling to itinerant merchants or directly in hats and mandies. The itin-
erant merchant appears to be by far the most important channel for grain
leaving the village in Bihar.
Hats
3.        There are several types of buyers in the hats.  The most important
are: (a) the itinerant merchants purchasing for resale in the mandies or to
retailers in nearby villages; (b) commission agents buying for wholesalers
in mandies and terminal markets; (c) retailers buying for their shops; (d)
processors buying for their mills; and (e) wholesale traders buying on their
own account for resale to other wholesalers, retailers in more distant towns
and villages and the larger terminal markets.
Mandies
4.        Functionaries.  There are three principal buyers in the mandies:
(a) commission agents, (b) processors, and (c) wholesale traders described
above. Several types of additional agents and other functionaries facilitate



ANNEX 2
Page 2
purchases of these buyers: (a) kutcha arhatyas - commission agents who nego-
tLate and handle the details of the sales transaction for farmers; (b)
Slcca arhatyas - commission agents who purchase grain for wholesalers in
oither markets on order. Some pucca arhatyas take out a double license and
aLso operate as kutcha arhatyas and vice versa and some may buy grain on
their own account thus operating as a wholesaler; (c) dalals or brokers -
agents who help sellers find the buyer willing to pay the highest price on a
particular day. They generally have no facilities for handling grain; (d)
waighmen - licensed weighers of grain. They are generally paid a fixed fee
per bag or quintal; (d) palladars - workmen who physically handle the grain
in the market. They can be permanent employees of a particular agent or em-
ployed on a piece-rate basis.    1
5.        The number of marketing agents in each market varies with the domi-
nant marketing channel used in the market and the type and volume of product
being marketed. Bihar Government recorded the range and average number of
commission agents, wholesalers, and brokers and reported for 42 of the 50 pro-
posed markets as follows:
Range                 Commission Agents      Wholesalers      Brokers
High                          76                 145              12
Low                           0                    8               0
Average per market            21                  40               3
6.        Market charges.  Most market charges are levied as a fixed fee per
quantity of produce marketed. The average charges of the various market
functionaries and other deductions in the 50 proposed markets reconverted
into a percentage of the sale price are as follows:
(a} Commission (2.43%) - charge by commission agent for selling
or buying on behalf of another.
(b) Brokerage (0.26%) - broker's fee for negotiating a sale.
(c)  Weighing (0.17%) - charge for weighing the grain after its
sale.
(d)  Palladar (0.14%) - charge paid laborers for loading and un-
loading grain in the market.
(e) Charities (0.23%) - the buyer customarily deducts 0.23% of
the value of the produce for such charitable undertakings
as upkeep of local temples and feedlots for aged cows.
(f) Dhalta (1.09%) - charge against the producer for having
his grain handled by the buyer.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
(g) Namoona (0.28x) - the buyer's deduction for his customary
sample.
(h) Miscellaneous (0.76%) - a summarizing item which includes
many small charges differing from market to market.
These charges, totaling 5.36%, are excessive and bear no relationship to
services actually rendered. The Marketing Acts aim at eliminating or reducing
such charges (see Annex 14). In spite of the numerous charges levied on the
grain moving through mandies in India, the farmer's share of the consumer's
rupee in India is 70-80%. This is quite high compared to that in more devel-
oped countries mainly because most Indian consumers buy grain in a relatively
unprocessed form.
7.        Physical features.  Bihar's mandies have varying physical features.
Typically the grain is sold to commission agents and traders at their shops
scattered along the congested lanes and streets of the mandi town; occasionally
it is sold in open areas within the town. In the latter cases producers often
stack their produce on the ground and await buyers to make an offer. In
nearly all market towns the market area is congested and unpaved, resulting
in inefficient handling, unsanitary conditions, and losses.
8.        Market intelligence.  Bihar's farmers and traders have several
sources of market intelligence and means of price discovery. An important
source of market price information is word-of-mouth. Farmers and merchants
return from the mandies, tell others of prevailing prices, and the word
spreads. Some price information is also available by radio and newspapers.
Farmers bringing their produce to market obtain price information from the
traders they meet, brokers, and other farmers.
9.        Grading.  Grain sold in Bihar's mandies is typically neither cleaned
nor graded. The grain is sold "as is" in the bag in which it arrives. Buyers
sample the grain from the top of the bag or through the side with a trier.
Buyers use their own grading standards. Government grading is not readily
available, especially in the more scattered mandies.
10.       Storage.  Produce-sellers have some opportunity for storing grain
on a pledge basis in the markets, though apparently few do it. Some commis-
sion agents will loan up to 75% of the grain's value using the grain as col-
lateral. Several farmer cooperatives in the area have storage space for
grain, though the two visited were both defunct from bad management.
Marketing Features of Other Major Cash Crops
11.       Jute is,one of the most important agricultural products marketed
in several of Bihar's northeast districts (see Appendix 2-1). Most of it
is sold to lute mills in Calcutta through the mills' agents located in the
important mandis in the growing districts. Some Jute moves illegally across



ANNEX 2
Page 4
the border into Nepal. Farmers bring the retted jute to the market where
prices are negotiated with buyers. The buyers (agents of the mills) sort
arnd bale the jute for shipment to Calcutta. There is a wide range among
prices for various grades of jute but little jute is sorted or graded on
the farm.
12.       Fruit and vegetables.  Bihar grows a tremendous variety of fruits
and vegetables. The bulk of production is during the monsoon season and
iTrmediately afterwards, though production can be throughout the year on irri-
gated plots. Because of their bulkiness and perishability most fruit and
vegetables are sold and consumed in the area of production. Production of
vegetables in particular is concentrated near the larger population centers
such as Patna. Farmers sell their fruits and vegetables both at retail and
wlholesale. Retail sales are- in general produce mandies and specialized fruit
and vegetable mandies. Farmers sell fruits and vegetables in the mandies
typically to wholesale traders, their commission agents or retailers.  Whole-
salers, traders and commission agents buy fruits and vegetables in large
lots and charge a commission of 5 to 6% compared to 2% for grain. The
larger commissions stem from difficulties in handling the more perishable
and bulky commodities. Packaging and grading are serious problems for pro-
duce being shipped any distance. The proposed modernized mandies might pro-
vide services to improve these activities.
13.       Potatoes are Bihar's principal vegetable crop.  Two crops are har-
vested each year, one in November-December and one in February-March. The
first crop is mainly for table use. About one-half of the second crop is
held in cold storage until the following fall and sold for seed both in
Bihar and neighboring states. The potatoes are stored by farmers, cold
storage owners, and other speculators and sold to traders directly from the
cold storage units in the fall. The cold storage business has apparently
been very good as investors built at least 165 units between 1940 and 1969
and more are being built.
November 15, 1971



ANNEX 2
Appendix 2-1
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL MARKETS PROJECT
Arrivals of Major Comnmodities in Selected Mandies, 1969/70
('000 tons)
Oil- Jute & Pota-
Paddy Rice  Wheat Maize Pulses seeds Mesta  toes  Onions Chillies
Araria       14.0   4.0   5.0   0.5   0.9    3.3   40.0   -          -        -
Arrah         1.5  15.0   5.0   2.5  21.0    4.0    -         1.0    2.1
Bhagalpur    6.0   6.0   3.0  15.0  13.0    7.2    -          5.0    1.0    0.1
Biharsharif  0.5   6.0   5.0   4.0   8.1    2.8    -    60.0    5.0           -
Dinapur       2.5   7.5   3.0   4.0  24.9    7.3    -         5.0    3.0    0.5
Forbisgani  12.5   7.0   2.0   7.5  10.2    6.0    5.5   2.0    2.5           -
Futwah        0.6   3.5   3.0   4.0   9.4    1.5    -         4.5    5.0      -
Gulabbagh    5.7   6.5   6.0   3.8  17.9    9.3    4.0   5.0    4.7    0.9
Marufganj    0.2  15.0  30.0  10.0  32.4   22.5    -    45.0    2.0    4.0
Mussalapur   -      4.0   2.0   -       0.9    -       -    32.8   22.5       -
Muzzafapur   1.5  20.0   2.0   7.5  12.5   11.0    -          5.0    4.0      -
Ranchi        2.5  27.5   7.5   3.0  21.5   16.0    -    22.0    3.0          -
Sasaram      15.0  10.0  12.0   -       3.3    1.6    -       2.0    1.0      -
October 28, 1971



INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL MARKETS PROJECT
Monthly Arrivals of Major Commodities in Forbesganj (Purnea District), 1969
( tons )
Jan.   Febr.    March    April    May    June    July    Aug.    Sept.    Oct.    Nov.    Dec.    Total
Paddy & Rice  3,500  1,300   1,300      1,400      200     800   1,200   1,000       500      200      300   4,300   19,500
Jute & Mesta  1,500    900   2,500      3,600  4.,000   2,500   2,600   5,900  12,400   12,400   4,400   2,200   514,900
Wheat           200    100      100       200      300     200      300     100      100      100      100     100    1,900
Oilseeds      1,100  1,800   1,200      1,300   2,600   1,600   1,000       800      800      800      400     700   14,000
November 16, 1971
(D i
:B ,



INDIA
BIHAR AGhICULTURAL MAtKETS PROJECT
Monthly Arrivaltof ilajor Commodities in aasaram  (Shahabad District), 1969
( tons )
Jan.   Febr.   March   April   May   June   July   Aug.  Sept. Oct.   Nov.   Dec.    Total
Paddy & Rice             5,931   1,289    717    1,700  2,000  1,816  1,110  623    3149  14142   2,486  6,537   25,000
Wheat                      805      409    143    1,010  3,000  2,021  1,058  767    641   133           707    956   12,000
Pulses                     165      215    385       309    430    401    211  156    197   227         343    261    3,300
Oilseeds                   168      171    301       1148    198     99     63  118    111   136         137    150    1,800
Potatoes                   100      143    286       210    190    238    181  157    143   133          124     95    2,000
Onions                      54       86     94       180    225    122       86   63     27    27         18     18    1,000
Noveniber 16, 1971
ro I J



ANNEX 2
Appendix 2-4
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL MARKETS PROJECT
Major Commodity Prices in Selected Markets, 1970-71
(Rs per ton)
Maximum
Rape and            Chillies
Rice    Wheat   Maize   Khesari   Mustard    Jute        dry
Araria           1,450   1,050    750       750      2,300      1,250    6,500
Arrah           1,380   1,270    860        800      1,880       N/A     6,430
Bhagalpur        1,370   1,250    800       950      1,800       N/A     7,500
Biharsharif     1,310   1,100    800        590       N/A         -       N/A
Dinapur         1,400   1,150    760        N/A      1,950        -      6,000
Forbisganj      1,420   1,330    N/A        720      1,950      1,200    6,790
Futwah          1,310   1,340    800        730      1,660        -        -
Gulabbagh       1,470   1,300    900        660      1,850        -      5,550
tMtLzzafapur     1,470   1,290    830       960      1,750       N/A     6,800
Ranchi          1,390   1,340    910        N/A      1,850       N/A     6,160
Sasaram         1,430   1,230    N/A        740      1,930       N/A     6,430
Minimum
Rape and            Chillies
Rice    Wheat   Maize   Khesari   Mustard    Jute         dry
Araria           1,100   1,050    600       700      2,200      1,200    5,500
Arrah            1,140     960    590       560      1,770       N/A     5,350
Bhagalpur        1,200   1,000    780       630      1,500       N/A     6,000
Biharsharif       940      940    620       540       N/A         _       N/A
Dinapur          1,300   1,060    690       N/A      1,350        -      4,750
Forbisganj       1,280   1,280    N/A       660      1,250      1,130    4,430
Putwah          1,290   1,290    760        720      1,390        -        -
Gulabbagh       1,170      950    800       500      1,200       N/A     5,100
Muzzafapur       1,290     940    750       580       1,470      N/A      5,600
Ranchi          1,210   1,040    780        N/A      1,600       N/A     5,350
Sasaram          1,070     880    N/A       590      1,880       N/A     5,360
October 28, 1971



ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDIA
BIRAR AGRICULTURAL MARKETS PROJECT
Bihar Agricultural Produce Markets Act, 1960
1.        In order to regulate market practices with a view to safeguarding
and protecting the interests of the farmers in the markets, the State Govern-
ment, in 19fn, enacted the Bihar Agricultural Produce Markets Act for regu-
lation of markets. The enactment has the following objectives:
(a) creation of market areas and markets with a view to ensur-
ing fair trade transactions in agricultural and allied
commodities;
(b)  appointment of Regulated Market Coi....ttees (RMC's) fully
representative of growers, traders, local authorities and
Government, to supervise the working of regulated markets;
(c) regulation of market charges and prohibition of realiza-
tion of excess charges;
td) regulation of market practices;
(e) licensing of market functionaries;
(f) arrangement for conciliation of disputes regarding quality,
weighing, deductions, etc.;
(g) arrangement of sale by open auctions; and
(h) arrangement for the display of reliable and up-to-date
market information in the market yard.
2.        The Act is applicable to all agricultural produce, whether processed
or non-processed, of agriculture, horticulture, animal husbandry and forestry.
It empowers the State Government to declare any area as a market area and
regulate the ourchase and sale of specified agricultural produce in such
area.
3.        It also empowers the State Government to appoint a Secretary for
each RMC and may provide engineers and other technical services considered
necessary for the efficient running of the market. The State Government will
realize a certain percentage of the income of the Committee in lieu of the
expenses on this account.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
4.        The Act empowers each RMC to levy and collect market fees at
a rate not exceeding 50 paise per Rs 100.00 worth of produce. It also
empowers each Market Comuittee to raise money for development of a
market on the security of any property or the fees leviable under the Act.
5.        An important provision in the Act is in regard to the operation
of the RMC Fund. The fund can be used for the acquisition of a site or
sites for the market; the maintenance and improvement of the market; the
construction and repair of buildings necessary for the purpose of such
market and for the health, convenience and safety of the persons using it;
the pay, pension, leave allowance, gratuities, compensations for injuries
resulting from allowances, pensions or provident fund of the officers and
servants employed by it; the payment of interest on the loans that may be
raised for the purposes of the market and the provision of a sinking fund in
respect of such loans; and the construction, repair and maintenanee of the
means of communication which are useful for the purposes of development of
a market or for the convenience and safety of the persons using it.
6.        The intention of Government to regulate the purchase and sale of
selected agricultural produce under Section 3(i) of the Act was issued in
December 1961 for a first lot of 10 wholesale markets. As this was a com-
pletely new type of reform in the marketing sector, which has remained sin-
gularly free from any discipline envisaged in the program, there was con-
siderable delay in the enforcement of the provisions of the Act and work in
some of the markets could not start until 1963-64. Even then, very little
progress could be made as the provisions of the Act were challenged in the
Patna High Court and subsequently in the Supreme Court. The law was upheld
by the Supreme Court in early 1968 and since then some progress has been
achieved. The Act has been enferced in 68 wholesale markets in the State and
60i RMC's have been formed; the -emaining 8 RMC's are expected to be notified
shortly.
November 15, 1971



ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL MARKETS PROJECT
The Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC)
Organization and Management
1.        The Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC) was established on
July 1, 1963, with the objectives of providing medium- and long-term fi-
nance to agricultural credit institutions and, at the same time, directing
and guiding such institutions toward a development oriented approach in
their operations.
2.        ARC's shareholders include the Reserve Bank of India (RBI),
central and state-level land development and mortgage banks and coopera-
tive banks and other institutions (scheduled banks, the Life Insurance
Corporation of India, insurance and investment companies, and others ap-
proved by the Government of India). Of the initial 5,000 shares issued,
the law provided that RBI shall subscribe to at least 50%, the central
land mortgage banks and state cooperative banks to no more than 30%, and
other institutions to no more than 20% and future issues of shares would
be allocated in the same proportion. The initial shares issued were
guaranteed a dividend of 4-1/4% per annum.
3.        ARC's management is vested in a Board of Directors of nine mem-
bers, three of whom are elected and the rest nominated. Three directors
represent RBI (a Deputy-Governor is Chairman of the Board), three the
Government of India (at present the Secretary, Department of Agriculture,
and the Additional Secretary, Department of Cooperation of the Ministry
of Food, Agriculture, Community Development and Cooperation; and a Joint
Secretary, Department of Banking of the Ministry of Finance), and three
directors are elected one each by the central land development banks, by
the state cooperative banks, and by the Life Insurance Corporation of
India, scheduled banks, and other insurance and financing institutions.
4.        The Managing Director is the chief executive officer and is
assisted by a managerial staff of nearly 90 (as of June 1971) of whom
65 are based at ARC's head office. Until early 1970, ARC did not employ
any specialists, instead relying on a panel of consultants for technical
advice in appraisal and supervision work. To supplement consultants'
advice, ARC has established a Technical Division which, as of June 1971
comprised three agricultural specialists and an agricultural economist and
to which ARC proposes to make further appointments. With the increasing
volume of lending, ARC recognizes the need to build up its staff at all
levels and has prepared a staff development plan to cover the period to
the end of 1973.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
5.        ARC's head office is in Bombay.  It has 13 regional offices
(Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Bhopal, Bhubaneswar, Calcutta, Chandigarh,
'Ryderabad, Jaipur, Kanpur, Madras, New Delhi, Patna, and Trivandrum) which
assist banks and State Governments in formulating agricultural development
projects for financing, clarify ARC's policies and procedures when required,
undertake pre-appraisal of projects submitted and supervise general execution
of projects under ARC financing. About 25 managerial staff are employed in
the Regional Offices.
6.        In general, ARC's charter provides that it shall be guided by
such directions in matters of policy involving public interest as GOI
may, after consulting RBI, give in writing. ARC can extend financial as-
sistance only to central or state-level land development banks, state co-
operative banks, and scheduled banks: in exceptional cases, and-with RBI
approval, it can also lend directly to a primary cooperative at the farm
level. Refinance is provided through purchases of special debentures
floated by central or state-level land development banks and through loans
to state cooperative banks and scheduled banks.
7.        Until June 1966, it was not normally ARC's policy to refinance
construction and energization of wells by individuals unless the outlay
involved was large and development was envisaged through a cooperative
society organized for the purpose. In July 1966, however, ARC not only
removed this restriction, but also circulated a model scheme for minor
irrigation development by farmers in compact areas. Thus, began ARC's
policy of financing individual farmers on the basis of project models.
8.        At the beginning, ARC's policy was to finance no more than 75%
of a project, leaving the balance to be contributed by State Governments.
However, the generally strained resources position of most State Govern-
ments considerably restricted the extent to which land development banks
could avail themselves of refinance facilities from ARC. Accordingly,
to stimulate investments in minor irrigation especially, ARC increased
its support of such investments to 90%, beginning with all projects sanc-
tioned in 1967/68.
9.        Special debentures purchased by ARC from central land development
banks must be guaranteed by the State Government concerned; in addition,
debentures are backed by a charge on all mortgages resulting from loans
refinanced under the issue. In the case of debentures, ARC requires that
collections from farmers be lodged in a sinking fund. The sinking fund is
invested in GOI securities and debentures of other land development banks.
It may also be used to repurchase the land development bank's own debentures.
Since from the view point of financial returns, the sinking fund arrangements
do not benefit a land development bank as issuer of debentures, ARC has
decided that repayments of its refinances under IDA supported projects
should approximately match those of ultimate borrowers to lending banks.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
10.       ARC will refinance agricultural development schemes which are
technically feasible, financially justified, and are within a reasonably
compact area for facility of loan evaluation and supervision. The scheme
can involve just one farmer, a group of farmers, or an association of
farmers. Preference, however, is given to schemes involving a large number
of farmers.
U.        Technical evaluation of schemes is carried out by consultants
drawn from a panel approved by the Government of India.  Services of the
Central Ground Water Board (formerly the Exploratory Tubewells Organization)
the Geological Survey of India and the various commodity boards are also
used and ARC prescribes the terms of reference in every case. Some important
points examined in the case of schemes for minor irrigation include, an
estimate of the quantum of water proposed to be tapped, annual water re-
charge, annual water draft, taking into account the existing and proposed
wells, and the type of pump sets needed. With the establishment of its own
Technical Division, increasing back-up support is now available from ARC's
own specialist staff which will provide a foundation of technical expertise
for scheme appraisal and supervision throughout India.
12.       Economic evaluation of schemes is performed by ARC staff.  Some
of the important aspects appraised include cost estimates, the suitability
of the cropping pattern recommended, inputs available for development,
farmer's repayment capacity, efficiency of the project executing agency, ar-
rangements for the provision of short-term credits and marketing arrangements.
Preappraisal is done generally by regional offices, but final evaluation is
made in Bombay.
13.       Periods of refinance are determined after a study of the repayment
capacity of farmers based on farm models. Refinance terms for medium-term
projects are 3 to 5 years and for long-term projects are now generally 12
to 15 years.
14.       With effect from November 1970 ARC's general lending rate was
raised from 6 to 6-1/2% per annum. Scheduled banks are required to charge
their borrowers no more than an additional 2-1/2% per annum and while land
development (and mortgage) banks are not bound by the same restriction,
they nevertheless generally follow the same interest mark-up and none
exceeds it. ARC collects a commitment charge of 1/3 of 1% on the amount
not used in any one year according to a schedule of expected withdrawals
approved for a scheme.
Lending (Refinancing) Operations
15.       The following table shows the progress in ARC's lending (less
subsequent cancellations) during the eight years of its existence:



ANNEX 4
Page 4
Number of
Schemes            Total Scheme        ARC
Year             Approved              Costs         Commitment
Rs M            Rs M
1963/64              3                  27.20           24.50
1964/65             10                 206.00          168.80
1965/66             24                 179.60          141.80
1966/67             15                 105.30           85.30
1967/68             89                 681.60          586.40
1968/69            108                 792.10          693.20
1969/70            142                 927.80          709.20
1970/71            100                 621.50          539.20
491               3,541.10        2,948.40
Less reductions or
withdrawals                 33                  611.10          461.80
458               2,930.00        2,486.60
L6.       During the initial years, ARC transacted very little business
due to the need for laying the groundwork and bases for its operations
and for building its staff. An important deterrent, however, was ARCIs
policy, at the time, of refinancing only projects in which development
'as envisaged through a cooperative society organized for the purpose.
In June 1966, this restriction was removed; furthermore, ARC agreed to
refinance up to 90% of loans for minor irrigation, against 75% previously.
Thus, during the last three years, projects approved for refinancing were
more than six times the number during the first four years.
17.       As may be expected, most of the schemes sanctioned were for
projects financed by land development or mortage banks:
ARC Commitment
Rs M          % of Total
(a)  Land development banks               2,223.70          89.4
(b)  State cooperative banks                114.00           4.6
(c)  Scheduled commercial banks             148.90           6.0
Total                     2,486.60          100.0
18.       About 85% of the cost of schemes approved for refinance were
for minor irrigation and land development:



ANNEX 4
Page 5
Total ARC
Schemes Approved         Commitment
% of                 X of
Number        Total    Rs M        Tota1
(a)  Minor irrigation            237          51.7  1,694.80       68.2
(b)  Land development             43           9.4    434.80       17.5
(c)  Tractor & Power Tillers    10             2.2      47.10       1.8
(d)  Soil conservation             2            .4      19.50      0.8
(e)  Plantations                 138          30.1    189.70        7.6
(f)  Poultry                       7           1.6       4.80      0.2
(g)  Fisheries                    10           2.2      37.60       1.5
(h)  Dairying                      5           1.1      13.80       0.6
(i)  Storage                       6           1.3      45.10       1.8
Total            458         100.0  2,486.60    100.0
Source of Funds
19.       Apart from share capital, ARC can raise funds from the following
sources:  (a) borrowings from GOI and from any entity approved by GOI; (b)
issue and sale of debentures and bonds guaranteed by GOI; (c) borrowings
from RBI for periods not exceeding 18 months; and (d) deposits from GOI,
the State Government, and local authorities for periods not less than 12
months. Total borrowings and deposits received may not exceed 20 times
the sum of ARC's capital and surplus reserves.
20.       ARC's borrowings and receipts of deposits during the eight years
of its existence are summarized as follows:
Borrowings              Deposits
Year                   GOI       Market      RBI      Total   Received
1963/64                50.00       -          -      50.00       -
1964/65                  -         -          -         -       1.13
1965/66                                                         1.25
1966/67                  -         -          -         -       1.26
1967/68                30.00       -          -       30.00     1.25
1968/69               177.50       -          -     177.50      1.26
1969/70               190.00      109.38      -     299.38      1.25
1970/71               220.00       85.25    75.20  380.45       1.25
1.25
Total                 667.50      194.63    75.20  937.33        8.65
Borrowings from GOI, none of which as of June 30, 1971 included IDA funds,
have been on the following terms:



ANNEX 4
Page 6
Rs M            Interest P.A.             Repayment
50.00              None              30 years with 15-year grace
30.00              5-1/2             At end of 15 years
100.00              5-1/2             At end of 15 years
487.50              5                 At end of 9 years
With effect from June 1, 1971, GOI interest rates to ARC have been increased
by 1/2% per annum and are now therefore 5-1/2% on loans up to 10 years and
6% on loans with longer maturities. Since August 1968, ARC has been allowed
a rebate of 1/4% on timely payments of interest on GOI borrowings. The two
market issues of ARC bonds are both dated 1982 and are at an interest rate
of 5-3/4%.  Short-term borrowings from RBI are at bank rate, presently 6%
per annum.  The special deposits represent dividends payable on ARC's shares
held by RBI which, under the law, must be held by ARC as spec-ia1 deposits.
No interest is paid on them.
21.       A comparative statement of ARC's operating results since its
establishment until 1970/71 is given in Appendix 4-1 and is summarized
below (in Rs million):
Net
Income    Statutory  Surplus
Gross    Total      Net   Income   Before    Dividend       or
Year      Income  Expenses  Income    Tax   Dividends  Liability  Deficit
1963/64    3.75      0.30     3.45    1.80      1.65         1.91      -0.26
1i964/65    4.00     0.39     3.61    1.76      1.85         2.13      -0.28
1'965/66    4.35     0.48     3.87    2.27      1.60         2.13      -0.53
11966/67    4.98     0.61     4.36    2.40      1.97         2.13      -0.16
1'967/68    6.00     1.67     4.33    2.38       1.95        2.13      -0.18
1968/69   11.04      6.29     4.75    2.61       2.14        2.13       0.01
1969/70   27.28    20.55      6.75    3.70       3.05        2.13       0.92
1970/71   42.66    35.72      6.94    3.44      3.50         2.13       1.37
22.       In the first three years of ARC's operations, income was derived
mostly from interest on investments. Beginning 1966/67, this pattern
changed when ARC began to expand rapidly its refinancing operations (para.
15).  In 1970/71 interest received from loans and debentures represented
94% of total income received.
23.       Benefitting from cost-free funds available to it during the
first four years of its existence, ARC's main items of expense at the
tLme was salaries and employee benefits. Needing more funds for its ex-
panded operation, interest paid on borrowed money has since 1967/68 been
ani important item of expenses. In 1970/71 interest paid on borrowings
and salaries and employee benefits were 86% and 10%, respectively, of
total expenses.



ANNEX 4
Page 7
24.       Until 1968/69 net income after taxes had not been sufficient
to meet the statutory dividend liability of 4-1/4% payable annually to
ARC's initial shareholders (para. 2) and the annual deficiency had to
be made good by GOI in accordance with its guarantee under the law. ARC
will have to reimburse these amounts out of future profits. In 1968/69
however, profits were sufficient to meet the statutory dividend and leave
ARC with a small surplus and this position has significantly improved in
the subsequent two years. The scale of future profits will largely depend
on ARC's future borrowing rates and the extent to which it has to borrow
from the market at higher rates than it has hitherto had to pay GOI. To
help offset this, steps are now being taken to enable ARC to borrow from
the National Agricultural Credit (Long-term Operations) Fund of RBI at
concessional rates which, although not yet fixed, might be at about 4-1/4%
per annum. This would broadly enable ARC to maintain its interest margin.
25.       ARC is in good financial condition.  Its equity position as of
June 30, 1971, is unimpaired by losses and its assets were in GOI securities
and debentures of land development banks, which are guaranteed by State
Governments. A condensed comparative balance sheet is given in Appendix 4-2.
26.       In accordance with its charter, ARC's accounts are audited
annually by accountants duly qualified under the all India Companies Act
of 1956 (the present auditors are Messrs. K. S. Aiyar and Co.). Under the
same Charter, GOI can appoint the Comptroller and Auditor General of India
to examine and report on the accounts of ARC. To date, GOI has not found
the need to exercise this power.
February 3, 1972






INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL MARKETS PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
Condensed Statements of Net Income
1964/65 to 1970/71
i964/65                1965/66               1966/6              19,67/68              1968/69                1169/7                  197/!
Rs M      % of        RS M                  R6 of  s M  I9  of                                                R .   L      ofOr       No    0   of
Total                  Total                 Total               Total                  Total                 Total                  Total
INCOME                                        _          oons      _          Income                Income    _         Income       _         Income                Income                 Incame
Interest received on loans and
Debentures                            --       --        1.09        25.1      3.06         61.3   4.83        80.5        10.20     92.4        24.09      88.31        40.12    94.1
Interest and other inicome on investments  3.99    100.0     2322         74.9      1.92         38.7   1.17        19.5         o.84      7.6         3.18      11.69         2.5 4    5.-9
Total income                          .99    100.0       4.34       100,0      4  8        100.0   6.oo        100.0       11.04    100.0 o27.27            100.00       42.66   1oo.o
EXPENSES
Interest paid                              --       --          --          --        --         -_       o.46        7.8        4.42     40.o        17.07      62.60        30.80    72.2
Salaries, allowances, consultants' fees
and employee benefits                0.27      7.0       0.36         8.4       o.47          9.5    0.91       15.2        1.43     13.0         2.04        7.48        3.40     8.o
General and administrative expenses       0.10      2.6       0.11         2.6      0.13          2.6    0.29         4.8        0.43      3.9         1.42        5.21        1.48     3.6
Depreciation of assets                    0.01      0.1       0.01         0.1       0.01          0.1   0.01         0.1        0.01      0.1          0.02       0.07        0.o4     O.
Total expenses                       0.38      9.7       o.48        11.1       0.61         1.2.2   1.67       27.9        6.29     57.0         20.55      75.36       35.72    83.7
NET INCOME BEFORE TAXES                        3.61     90.3       3.86        88.9       4.37         87.8    4.33       72.0        4.75     43.0          6.72      24.64        6.94    16.3
Taxes paid or payable                     1.76     44.1       2.27        52.2      2.40         48 3   2.38         39.6        2.61     23.7          3.70      13.56        3.44     8.1
NET INCOME AFTER TAXES                         1.85     46,2       149          36.7      1.97         39.5    1.95       32.4        2.14     19.3          302       11.08        3.50     8.2
December 6, 1971



INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL MARKETS PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS
1964/65              1965/66                   1966/67               1967/68                 1968/69 e19C6,9/70,   70/
Rs M                   Change from               Change?o              Change from           Chbage                    Change     o
Rs M    Previous Date    Rs M    Previous Date   A"   Previous Date  Rs M    Previous Date  Rs N    Previous Date    Rs N          Previoua Date
ASSETS
Cash on Hand and in Banks                  0.16          0.02      (0.15)         0.06        0.04         0.09         0.03      0.06     (0.03)        0.04        (0.02)       100.01       99.97
Investments                              99.09          55.21     (43.88)        35.79      (19.42)        8.40       (27.39)     5.14     (3.26)       24.99        19.85         00.20      (24.79)
Loans                                                    1.47       1.47          3.03        1.56         7.35        4.32      25.49     18.14        42.93        17.44         76.95       34.02
Debentures Purchased                       4.50         47.53      43.03         66.73       19.20       119.04       52.31    278.55    159.51        546.o4       267.49        812.39      266.35
Other Assets                               1.02          2.34       1.33           3.38       1.04         6.46         3.03     13.58      7.12         17.31        3.73         27.30       9.99
Total Assets                       1o4.77         106.57       1.80        10.9          2.42       141.34       3         322.82    181.48      ,631.31       3o   9      1,016.85      38.54
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL EQUITY
Loans from Government of8613                                                                                                                                                                   052
India and others                     50.00         50.00 o50.0                                       80.00       30.00    257.50    177.50        556.88       299.38  /     862.13      305.25  /
Special Deposits                            1.13         2.39       1.26            3.64      1.26         4.9o         1.26      6.15      1.25          7.40        1.25           8.65       1.25
Other Liabilities                           3.64         4.18       0.54            5.35      1.16         6.44         1.09      9.16      2.72         16.94        7.78          9377       77.64  /
Total Liabilities                     54.77        56.57       1.80          58.99       2.42        91.314       32       272       18.4         581.22       308.141        9          3814.114
Capital - Paid-up                          50.00        50.00        --            50.00      --          50.00          --      50.00      --           50.00                      50.00
Reserves and Surplus                         N           N           N               N          N           N            N        0.01      0.01                      0.08           2.30       1.40
Total Capital Equity                  50.00        50.00        N            50.00         N         50.00          N       50.01      0.01         500`9        o.08          52.30       1.40
Total Liabilities asd
Capital Equity                 o104.77       106.57       1.80          108.99      2.42       141.34        32.35    322.82    181.48       6            3            1,016.85     385.54
Includes RsllO million public bond issue.
2/  Includes Rs85 million public bond issue.
Y   Includes Rs75 million short-term borrowings frum RBI.
N ' Negligible
December 6, 1971



ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDIA
BITHAR AGRICULTURAL MARKETS PROJECT
The State Bank of India
1.        The State Bank of India (SBI) was established by Act of
May A, 1955, for the general purposes of extending banking facilities
more particularly in the rural and semiurban areas and for various other
public purposes. The same Act transferred to it the undertaking of
assets and liabilities of the Imperial Bank of India. The major state-
associated banks, located in the old princely states where the Imperial
Bank of India had not extended its activities, were also integrated with
SBI to become its subsidiaries. Among the banks which have taken some
interest in helping the agricultural sector and which have taken effective
steps to this purpose, SBI appears to have a leading role.
Capital
2.        SRI's authorized capital is Rs 200 million divided into two
million shares of 1On rupees each. The issued and paid-up capital is
Rs 56.25 million, of which about 92X is held by RBI and the balance by
about 1,3nn private shareholders, the remnants of the shareholders of
the private Imperial Bank of India. The Central Board of SBI may increase
the issued capital but in such a manner that RBI holds at any time over 55%
of it.
Management
3.        The general direction of the affairs and business of SBI is
entrusted to a central board at present comprising 21 members including a
chairman and vice-chairman appointed by GOI in consultation with RBI.
There are also seven local boards, controlling SBI's local head offices.
Organization and Staffing
4.        S1T's head office is in Bombay with seven local head offices in
Bombay, Madras, Calcutta, New Delhi, Kanpur, Ahmedabad and Hyderabad. It
has about 2,122 branches and agencies all over India and is trying
actively to increase its coverage of the rural areas. SBI employs over
67,nOn persons with professional staff experienced in current commercial
banking operations. It has established training facilities of its own
in 25 schools and zonal training centers, and in a staff training college.
It also avails itself of the training facilities extended by RBI's Bankers'
TraininR College. Recently it initiated a training course with the
assistance of the Uttar Pradesh Agricultural University to familiarize
its field officers with agriculture.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
5.        The Patna local head office which covers the project area
controls about 91 branches and agencies with about 1,000 employees and
has itself about 700 employees. The Patna head office is managed by a
Secretary-Treasurer and his deputy.
Business of SBI
6.        SBI acts as agent of RBI at all places where it is represented
and where there is no branch of the banking department of RBI for
carrying on operations on behalf of any government in India and any other
business which RBI may entrust to it.  SBI is above all intended to carry
oyI customary commercial banking business, but it is also engaged in
development banking. Since 1959, it has been empowered to advance or lend
money for periods in excess of six months and up to 15 years to persons
engaged in industries including agriculture -- in accordance with specific
directions issued by its central board. These credits may be made upon
the security of immovable property and are designed to serve bot-h the
public and private members.
Sources and Cost of Capital
7.        SBI derives its resources from its share capital and reserves
and deposits of any type received from the public.  It may float loans
from any source and has rediscount facilities with RBI. It may also apply
for funds from the Industrial Finance Corporation and ARC for specific
lending schemes or to finance projects in conjunction with these institutions.
The cost of funds raised through deposits, which form about 90% of its
resources, is about 5% p.a. including an interest paid to depositors at
the average rate of about 3% p.a. (No interest is paid on current account,
other rates range up to 6-1/2% for five-year term deposits.)
Activities
8.        As of December 31, 1969, deposits received by SBI and its
subsidiaries accounted for about one-fourth of deposits received by all
scheduled banks. Advances and investment of the SBI group were in the
proportion of 28 and 33% of total advances and investments respectively
of all scheduled banks. The growth of SBI's activities has been considerable
and appears to have been achieved through expansion over new areas and
new activities and only to a small extent at the expense of the other banks.
91.       SBI has made special efforts to expand its activities in the
industrial sector, by extending medium-term credit. It has more recently
made attempts to contribute to rural finance. Most of its assistance in
this sector has been through subscription of debentures issued by the
Central Land Mortgage Development Banks and of shares of the Central Ware-
housing Corporation and loans to cooperatives, state governments and the
Food Corporation of India in the form of short-term credit mostly to



ANNEX 5
Page 3
finance procurement and distribution of foodgrains, seeds and fertilizers.
It has also made some credit against warehouse receipts. Direct lendings
to farmers have increased substantially in the last year from Rs 330
million to Rs 750 million.
in.       SBI has reportedly experienced good repayments records since
it started operations. As with other commercial banks, most advances are
fully secured by some kind of collateral. Advances for which SBI holds
no other security than the debtor's personal security, or secured by the
personal liabilities of one or more guarantors are a small proportion of
total advances.
Financial Condition
11.       "RT's condensed balance sheet and orofit and loss accounts are given
in Appendices 5-1 and 5-2. The financial situation appears to be satisfactory
although the net worth is quite small compared with total liabilities. Its
onerating expenses compare favorably with those of other commercial banks in
spite of its claim that operations made on behalf of RBI are not profitable.
Tts operation has always been profitable and over recent years it has been
able to declare sizable dividends (23 rupees per share of 100 rupees
before tax in 1Q69 and 1970).
November 15, 1971






ANNEX 5 -
Appendix 5-1
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL MARKETS PROJECT
Comparative Balance Sheet of the State Bank of India
(Rs thousands)
December 31,   December 31,
1969           19703
Assets
Cash in Hand and with RBI                         857,402         928,595
Balance with Other Banks                           53,323         275,627
Money at Call and Short Notice                     48,600          50,400
Investments in Securities, Shares,
Debentures, or Bonds                          3,581,440       4,475,796
Advances (other than bad debits)                8,398,674      11,145,304
Bills Receivable                                  235,982         223,104
Constituents Liabilities for
Acceptances                                     460,203         406,502
116,631
Premises Less Depreciation                         97,389          85,151
Furniture and Fixture Less Depreciation            70,700         387,702
Other Assets, including Gold and Silver           231,921
TOTAL ASSETS                              14,035,634      18,094,782
Liabilities and Capital Equities
Borrowing from Other Banking Companies,
Agents, etc.                                    126,587       1,967,842
Bills Payable                                     102,346         189,436
Bills for Collection being Bills
Receivable                                      235,982         223,105
Other Liabilities                                 618,756         685,702
*Acceptances, Endorsements and Other
Obligations                                     460,203         406,502
Deposits and other Accounts                    12,273,019      14,409,547
Total Liabilities                              13,816,893      17,882,134
Capital Equity                                     56,250          56,250
Reserve Funds and Other Reserves                  160,900         156,075
Retained Earnings                                   1,591             323
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL EQUITY   14,035,634        18,094,782
* Contingent Liabilities which is not included in Liability section is
7,470,541,219.24 for 1969 and 7,980,677,651.85 for 1970.
October 29, 1971



ANNEX 5
Appendix 5-2
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL MARKETS PROJECr
Comparative Profit and Loss Account of the State Bank of India
(Rs thousands)
December 31,   December 31,
1969            1970
Income
Interest and Discount                             681,676         887,109
Commission, Exchange and Brokerage                205,363         211,781
Rents                                                 395             460
Dividends from Subsidiary Shares                   26,585          27,370
Total Income                                 914,019       1,126,720
Expenditure
Interest Paid on Deposits and Borrowing           383,518         469,829
Salaries and Allowances                           375,573         485,018
Directors Fees and Allowances                         244             244
Rent, Taxes, Insurance, Utilities                  28,173          35,632
Legal Fees                                            539             626
Postage and communications                         10,444          12,772
Auditors' fees                                        150             200
Depreciation and Repairs                           16,059          14,509
Stationary, Printing, Advertisement                15,769          17,749
Miscellaneous                                      28,547          36,140
Total Expenditures                          859,016        1,072,719
Profit                                             55,003          54,001
October 29, 1971



ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDIA
1I3AR AGRTCTLTUV.AL M4A%RKETS PROJECT
Markets Tentatively Selected For Development
Varme of
Markets flescription of the Markets Commodities Handled Market functionaries
Commis- Whole-
sion    sale  Bro-
Agents Traders kers
1. Araria   The wholesale shops are   Jute, cereals, pulses  -       -
distributed between        oil-seeds, sugarcane,
Araria Railway Station    gur, and mustard oil.
and Araria Court. The
wholesale shoos for Jute
and foodRrains are more
concentrated in Corhi tola,
Pahi!a tola and Station
Poad.
. Arrab    The maioritv of shons are Cereals, pulses, oil-  65    10          -
located in Mohalla Mir-   seeds, coarse grains,
gani and nharwan Chowk.   potatoes, onions,
In Nawada Mohalla also    vegetables, fruits,
there are a number of     mustard oil.
sho"g on the road. The
market is very congested.
1. 1anman-  The shops are located      Jute, cereals, pulses, -      65     -
kihi     between the railwav line  oil-seeds, cattle and
and Purnea-Saharsa Road.  sugarcane.
The cattle hat is located
south of the Railway
Station.
Ai. Rarh    The shops are located      Paddy, rice, grain,    65    10       -
generallv in Cola Road    maize, chillies,
and a few shops are also  potatoes, cauliflowers,
in Station Bazar.          tomatoes and other
vegetables and fruits.
5. Tesll-   The main wholesale shops  rereals, pulses, oil-  40    35       3
qarif    are located In Miachak    seeds, chillies, potatoes,
"'onbila, Rtation Road,    ghee, vegetables,
n'Tnairnnv!a mohalla and   mustard oil.
Patananur 'Road.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
aName of
Markets T)eqcription of the Markets Comiodities Handled Market Functionaries
Commis- Whole-
sion    sale  Bro-
Agents Traders kers
6. 1iettiah  The wholesale shops of    Cereals, pulses, and   17    37         5
foodgrains, pulses, oil-  oil-seeds, vegetables
seeds and lute are lo-    and fruits, mustard oil,
cated in Chota Ramna-      linseed oil, turmeric,
Mina-bazar, Lalbazar and  garlic, hides and skins,
Kalibagh.                   gur, coriander and
sugarcane.
7. Rhagal-  The wholesale transaction Cereals, pulses, oil-  -         -     -
nur      takes place in Mohalla    seeds, oils, gur,
mirianhat and Sulaganj    vegetables and fruits.
at a distance of 3 km.
from the Railway Station.
Fruits and vegetables are
sold in Sulagani mainlv.
R. Tihari-  The shoos are distributed Jute, cereals, pulses  1    hn         -
gani     in old Biharigani town-   oil-seeds, coriander,
shin and Naibazar a new   ghee, sugarcane, cattle
area which is developing. vegetables, khandsari,
The cattle hat is held    mustard oil.
near the Railwav Station.
n. Rihar-   The shops are distributed Potatoes, rice, wheat  20  145    10
sharif   in Biharsharif and Soh-   maize, gram, vegetables
sarai which is at a        and fruits.
distance of 1.5 km from
Biharsharif Court. Potato
transactions take place
mainlv in Sohsarai.
10. Bihta   In Bihta most of the shopsRice, wheat, maize,    20    8         -
are located south of the  linseed, gur, butter,
railway line on Patna-    tomatoes, potatoes, onion,
Aurangabad Road.  This    sugarcane.
area is known as Gultera
Bazar. Some shops and
godowns are on the north
side of the railway line.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
Mare of
'arkets  Description of the Markets  Comodities Handled  Market Functionaries
Commis- Whole-
sion    sale  Bro-
Agents Traders kers
11. 1Rtxar   The shops, arhats and    Cereals, pulses, oil-  16    60         9
godowns are spread over  seedds, coarse grains,
the entire township.      potatoes, gur, bajra,
The majority of these    fish, fruits, mustard
are located on the road  oil, linseed oil.
from the Railway Station
to Buxar town as well as
on the Buxar-Itarhi Road.
1V. Chakia- The shops are located    Jute, mesta, oil-seeds, 8    25          -
mainly on Chakia-Kesaria pulses, cereals, sugar-
Road and the road lead-  cane, gur.
ing towards the hat. A
few shons are located
in the Mill area colony.
1'. rha-    The shors are located in Paddy, other cereals,   -    22 2
kulia   the heart of the town-   pulses, oil-seeds,
shin on both sides of    myrobolans, urid.
the Chakulia-Tata
RaivwayT Line.
14. rhanra  The wholesale market is  Cereals, oil-seeds         20    60      -
located in Vauna-bazar   and pulses, mustard
and local hat is held    oil, linseed oil,
south of Mauna outpost   ghee, and potato.
where wholesale trans-
actions of potatoes take
ol ace.
15. Pal -    The shops are situated   Cereals, pulses, oil-  20    30         -
singsa- in areas known as Andar  seeds, chillies, jute,
rai     Razar and Bahar Bazar.   turmeric, coriander,
The shops dealing in       funnel seed, gur, potatoes
foodgrains and oilseeds  and onions.
are located in Andar
Razar and traders
dealing in chillies,
turmeric, Jute and other
commodities are located
in Bahar Bazar.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
Mame of
Tmarkets  Description of the Markets  Commodities Handled  Market Functionaries
Commis- Whole-
sion    sale  Bro-
Agents Traders kers
16. Dar-    The wholesale transactionsCereals, pulses,         35     50       8
bhanga  for foodgrains, oilseeds, oil-seeds, gur, ghee,
ghee and gur are concen-  makhana, potatoes, and
trated in Gulobara and    mango, mustard oil,
Masrabazar Mohallas.       linseed, hides and skins.
Mango is sold in Kathal-
bari. Hides an& skins
are sold in Rillaghat
M4ohalla. Kirana shops
are more concentrated in
Gudri Bazar of Laheriasarai.
17. 1nand-   The old market is locat- Cereals, pulses,         76     24       2
nagar   ed on the west of the    coarse grains, oil-
canal.  With construc-   seeds, groundnuts,
tion of the Patna-        chillies, fish, ghee,
Aurangabad Road a         onions, potatoes, gur,
number of shops and       sweet potatoes, vegetables,
arhats have been opened  mango and papaya.
on the watna-Aurangabad
Road at Bhakarua Nor.
18. Di gh-   The shoDs are located    Cereals, pulses,          5     21
wara    in Raipatti Mohalla of   fruit and vegetables,
nighwara.  Shops are      potatoes, onions and
also located on both      betel leaves.
sides of the Chapra-
Sonepur Road and
Station Road.
19. Dina-   The shops are situated   Cereals, pulses,          42     15      10
our     mainly in the area bet-  oil-seeds.
ween the Patna-Dinapur
Road and the river
Ganga outside the canton-
ment area.
90. Forbes- The shops are mainly      Jute, cereals,            7     95       3
gani    located in Hatkhola,      pulses, oil-seeds,
Chohapatty, Bhakolia,    mangoes, mustard oil.
Sadar Road, Hospital
Road and norihari.



ANNF.X 6
Page 5
"Tame of
M4arkets nescriDtion of the Markets Commodities Handled Market Functionaries
Commis- Wihole-
sion    sale  Bro-
Agents Traders kers
91. rutamh  The shops, hats and god- Cereals, pulses,           71     19       6
owns are spread over the oil-seeds, potatoes,
entire township.  The    onions, vegetables,
area is very congested   fruits, gur, cattle.
as the shops are located
in the lanes criss-crossing
the main road and the Ganga.
Some of these are also
located on the lanes from
the main road to the Railway
Station. Sale and purchase
of cattle take place in an
orchard at Maulipur at a
distance of 2 km from Wutwah.
2?. f,arhwa  The shoos are located    Cereals, pulses,           -      -       -
in rarhwa Nagar Road      oil-seeds, mahua
and the Chaudharana       flower and sesamum.
Mohalla of Carwa town.
The small lac factories
are spread over the entire
townshio.
25. Cava    The wholesale shops and  Cereals, pulses,           12     12       -
arhats are concentrated  mustard oil, mustard
in Purani Godam, Andar   cake, castor oil and
Codam, Bathe Godam and   sesamum oil, fruits,
C.arikhana for grains,    vegetables, potatoes,
oilseeds and gur.         beans, chillies, betel
Kedarnath Market is       leaves, turmeric,
important for fruits      garlic, ghee, hides,
and vegetables.           skins and butter.
94. %lah-  The wholesale shops,        Jute, cereals,           37    108       -
hagh    arhats and godowns are   oil-seeds, potatoes,
located on both sides    onions, gur, mustard
of the National Highway. oil, sweet potatoes,
The bi-weekly hat is       chillies, coriander,
also held on a plot of   betel nuts, Jute and
land south of the         mesta seed.
National Fighway.
?5. Tavna-  TTholesale trade is over  Cereals, pulses,           7     16       2
gar     the whole townshio and a lute, mustard oil,
number of shops are lo-  linseed oil, Sabai
cated on both sides of   grass.
the road leading to
Nepal border and towards
ITsrahi.



ANNEX 6
Page 6
Namne of
Markets  Description of the Markets  Commodities Handled  Market Functionaries
Comis- Whole-
sion    sale  Bro-
Agents Traders kers
26. Kasba   The shops are located    Jute, paddy, rice,               60
on both sides of the      mustard seed, maize,
Purnea-Jogbani Road and  gram, potatoes, fruits
in the lanes branching   and vegetables.
off from the main road.
27. Katihar The wholesale shops for  Jute, cereals, pulses,  5       40       5
grains, jute and oil-    coarse grains, fish,
seeds are located in      potatoes, vegetables,
Baribazar, Tingachia,    and fruits including
Mangalbazar and Gandhi-  mango, oranges and pine-
tola.  The fish market   apples.
is near the telegraph
office.
2R. Kha-    The shops are located    Chillies, cereals,       20      15      1
garia   in the area lying be-    pulses, oil-seeds,
tween the river Gandak   ghee, fish, coriander,
and the Railway line.    mustard oil, funnel
The wholesale fish        seed, fruits and vege-
market is located near   tables, gur.
the Rail Station.
24. Kishan- The wholesale shops and  Jute, mesta, cereals,  20        75     10
gani    godowns are mostly lo-   pulses, oil-seeds,
cated in Mohalla Purab-  potatoes, mango, oranges,
patti, Pachimpatti,       pineapples, mustard oil.
IUttarpatti and Khagra,
Bhagat Toli Road and
Dharamshala Road.
30. Lakhi-  The shops are mostly      Oil-seeds, coarse
sarai   located on the road       grains, cereals, pulses,
running east to west      fruits, vegetables and ghee.
parallel to the Kiul
River.
V'I. Mahar- Vost of the wholesale    Cereals, pulses,          5      34      -
algani  shops are located on      oil-seeds, chillies,
the main road in be-      Jute, turmeric,
tween hospital and water-mustard oil, ginger,
wavs Inspection Bunga-   garlic, potatoes.
low.



ANNEX 6
Page 7
game of
Markets Description of the Markets Commodities Handled Market Functionaries
Codmis- Whole-
sion    sale  Bro-
Agents Traders kers
12. maruf-  warufganj in Patna City  Cereals, pulses,         31      95     12
gani    is the main wholesale    oil-seeds, oils,
market for foodgrains,   spices.
oils, spices, chillies
and other commodities.
The shops are located in
Marufganj and the foodgrain
shops at Mansoorgani.
13. 'esaur- The shops are situated   Paddy, rice, wheat,       5      45      -
hi      on both sides of Thanau- maize, gram, linseed,
ra Nlaubatpur Road.       mustard seed, gur,
potatoes, onions, tomatoes,
mustard oil.
34. Mohan-  The wholesale shops are  Cereals, pulses,           6     30      4
ia      located on both sides    oil-seeds, mustard oil.
of the Grand Trunk Road,
as well as in the area
hetween the Grand Trunk
Road and railway line.
15. Wokameh The shops and godowns    Cereals, pulses,          21     23      _
are located in the area  oil-seeds, chillies,
between the National      potatoes, sweet-potatoes.
Righwav and the Canga.
Some shops and godowns
have been established in
the area lying between
the National Highway
and the railway line.
The sale of chillies takes
place on the bank of Ganga
east of the township.
36. Murli-  The majority of shops   Jute, cereals, oil-         1     65      -
ganj    located on the road      seeds, coarse grains,
leading from local Dak  potatoes, sweet potatoes,
Rungalow to Kashipur.   fish and vegetables.
Some shops are also
located on both sides
of the rimvlet known as
1Rangadhav and also in
in the heart of the town.



ANNEX 6
Page 8
Nawme of
Markets  Description of the Markets  Commodities Handled  Market Functionaries
Commis- lWhole-
sion    sale  Bro-
Agents Traders kers
37. Musal-  Musallahpur is 4 km        Vegetables, fruits,    55      15       -
lahnur  from the Patna Railway   flsh, foodgrains,
Station and is the prin- oil-seeds, oils, spices,
cipal wholesale market   pulses, chillies.
for vegetables and fruits,
fish, etc. The grain
market is at Bakarganj 3 km
away. There is also a
vegetable hat at Antaghat
and a vegetable and grain
hat at Chitkohra.
1,. Muzaf-  The wholesale transac-   Cereals, pulses,          60     20       -
farpur  tions are spread over    oil-seeds, fruits,
different parts of the   vegetables, litchies,
town.  The main grain    gur, mango, potatoes,
market is in Gola         onions, cauliflower,
Road and Akhara           cabbage, hides and skins.
Chat Road. The oil-seed
market is in
Kalyani-Puranibazar Road.
The fruit market is
in Amgola. The wholesale
transaction of lichies
takes place in Companybagh
Mohalla north of the Court
cormound. Hides and skins
are transacted in Berhampura.
39. Nauga-  The shops are located    Maize, wheat, pulses    -         25     10
chia    generally on the Station including urad, arhar,
Road, Dharamshala road   gram, oil-3eeds,
and Goshala Road.  Some  coriander, ghee, tomatoes,
shops are also on         jute, fish.
Nandlal Ghat Road.
4(i. Nir-    The wholesale transac-   Cereals, oilseeds,        -      -
mali    tions are spread over thepulses, jute and mesta.
township which itself is
within the ring levy on
the Western Embankment
of Rosi.



ANNEX 6
Page 9
"ame of
'arkets Description of the Markets Comnodities Handled Market Functionaries
Comis- Whole-
sion    sale  Bro-
Agents Traders kers
41. w7okha   The main market is lo-   Cereals, pulses,         14     27      -
cated on both sides of   oil-seeds, potatoes, gur.
the road leading from the
Arrah-Sasaram Road to the
west towards Natwar. The
rice mills where sale of
vaddy takes place are
sDread over the area within
a radius of 2 km of the
Railway Station.
42. Puipri   Most of the shops are    Cereals, pulses,          2     20      -
located on the road       oil-seeds, mustard
leading towards Nepal    oil and gur.
border and around the
local hat.
41. Ranchi The wholesale shops for Cereals, pulses, - - -
grains, oil-seeds, and   oil-seeds, fruits,
nulses are located in    and vegetables, karanj
TTnper Bazar.  The vege-  and kusum, mahua flower
tables are sold near      and mahua seed.
taxi stand on the main
road.
44. Saheh- Majorlty of shops are    Cereals, pulses,            -
gani    located near the Court   oil-seeds, fruits and
compound and Tarbanna    vegetables, ghee and
Mohalla.  Milk and        butter, poultry and
milk products assemble   cattle, jute, mesta and
in Chowk Bazar.  The      gur.
hat is held in Corahari
south of railway line.
/'ci. Samas- The shops are located    Cereals, pulses, jute,  -
tipur   in Clola Bazar, and       chillies, turmeric,
Magardahi Road.  The      mangoes, coriannder,
hat is however held in   sugarcane, vegetables,
Pethiagachi where major  and fruit.
auantities of chillies,
turmeric and garlic are
aqsembled.



ANNEX 6
Page 10
Nasne of
Markets  Description of the Markets  Commodities Handled  Market Functionaries
Commis- Whole-
sion    sale  Bro-
Agents Traders kers
46. Sasa-   The wholesale market is  Cereals, pulses,          35      47      3
ram     located 2 km from         oil seeds, potatoes,
Sasaram R.S. at Takia    and fruits.
where more than fifty per
cent of market arrival
takes place. Shops are
located on both sides
of Sasaram-Chausa Poad.
The remaining shops and
arhats are spread over
the other areas of the
township.
47. Sing-   The wholesale shops are  Jute, cereals, oil-        2      15      -
heshwar-distributed between        seeds, pulses, ghee,
sthan   Singheshwarsthan and       cattle.
(Madhe-   Madhepura and a few
pura)   shops are also located
at Bharrahi. The larger
number of shops are in
Singheshwarsthan.
4FP. Sita-   The grain shops are lo-  Cereals, Pulses,          3     27       -
marhi   cated in Court Bazar       oil seeds, coriander,
and Mehsaul Chowk of      sugarcane, jute and
the town.  Gur is         mesta, gur, vegetables,
assembled mainly in       and mango.
Mehsaul.
4&C. Supaul  The shops are scattered  Jute, cereals, pul-       6      70      -
in the township but the  sea, oil seeds, coarse
big jute merchants are   grains, potatoes and
located in the north of  fruits, especially mango.
Hatkhola Road. A large
number of shops are also
located on Supaul Railway
Station-Pipra Road.
'10. Tevhrn  The shops are located    Chillies, cereals,       10     19       _
on both sides of the      pulses, oil seeds, castor-
road leading from         seed, turmeric, ghee,
Teghra Post Office to    potatoes and onions.
Teghra block.
November 15, 1971



ANNEX 7
Page 1
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL MARKETS PROJECT
Layout for a Typical Market
I.   Requirements
A.   A single block of land would be made available for both present
and foreseeable needs.
B.   The market would be located on a well-drained site, safe from
damage by surface or seepage water and not subject to
inundation caused by heavy rain.
C.   Proximity to existing markets and to public transportation
routes would be considered in the choice of the new market
site.
D.   The market would, as far as possible, be located away from
garbage dumps, kilns, and other sources of fire, slaughter-
houses, tanneries and such other offensive trades, the
close proximity of which would be deleterious to the quality
and safe storage of agricultural products.
E.   An adequate and dependable source of potable water would be
made available.
F.   An adequate and dependable source of electric power would be
made available.
II. Objectives
A.   Efficient utilization of space
A centrally located area for the administration of the market
and for general services such as extension center with
market information, canteen with dormitory, bank, post office,
and public toilet with lavatory.
B.   Avoidance of congestion    -
1.   Ample roads and walkways for both vehicles and pedestrians.
Internal roads would be not less than 20 m wide.
2.   Ample parking and maneuvering space for bullock carts and
trucks. A minimum of 10 m2 for each cart and 14 m2 for
each truck.



ANNEX 7
Page 2
C.   Provision for future expansion
Increased quantities of products and additional services
such as bulk handling and processing would be anticipated.
I]:I. Appendix 7-1 illustrates the layout for a market, which follows the
above Requirements and Objectives.
November 15, 1971



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  ~
ANNEX 7
APPENDIX 7-1
INDIA
BIHAR MARKETS PROJECT
EXAMPLE OF MARKET YARD LAYOUT
I     Iz                                                                                  wz
I  O                                  UNPAVED PARKING AND                                  C
H  Cl                           S BULLOCK REST AREA                                  0
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ --i r-                                       I ____ 
I             L.____                                               L_    _ _JI 
I LI
I      I      r--                                                  zz      --        '   I
4                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(f
O             r                                                                            I  j
I  I-  I      r--E--nr   -t-_ i      
I      I                                                                                 I
L      I                                                                                 L_
X        ~      ~~r -                                         r- - ---     -
L      -      I
z                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z
o                                                                                       0
a                                                                                       0
o                                                                                       0
0
w                                                                                           EL~~~~~~ 
>.                                                                                                       z
4                                          23
HARD SURFACE TRAFFIC AREA                                         F
AREA FOR FUTURE SHOPS                              AREA FOR FUTURE SHOPS
ENTRANCE
I1. ADMINISTRATION BUILDING    4. EXTENSION BUILDING                               SCALE
2. CANTEEN WITH DORMITORY   5. PUBLIC TOILET AND LAVATORY                      L,,,,L..L4JL 
3. BANK AND POST OFFICE    6. ADULT EDUCATION AREA                             0  10 Z0  30IBD-67
(L~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EESED-67






ANNEX 8
Page 1
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL MARKETS PROJECT
Technical Specifications for Market Construction
General
1.        The technical specifications outlined in this Annex serve only
to provide basic requirements. It would be essential to ensure that detailed
designs and specifications would be drawn up for each site for tender documents.
Since neither the State Marketing Board (SMB) nor the Regulated Market
Committees (RMC's) have any experience in construction and contracting, the
Rural Engineering Organization (REO) would be responsible for preparing
the final plans and specifications, preparing tender documents and supervis-
ing the construction.
2.        A tentative list of market towns where market yards would be
constructed appears in Annex 6 but these would be confirmed under procedures
requiring the necessary approval of preliminary plans by the Town and
Country Planning Organization (TCP), SMB, the State Bank of India (SBI) and
the Agricultural Refinance Corporation (ARC).
3.        After approval of the preliminary plans have been approved and
title to land has been acquired, complete surveys would be made to delineate
exact boundaries and topographical features. Thereafter, general soil
condition at each site would be investigated by a competent soil engineer
to determine the necessary foundation designs and road specifications.
4.        REO would then complete final plans and specification for the
complete development of the market yard, including plans and specifications
for the individual buildings, roads, utilities and fences,and would obtain
SMB's approval of these final plans and specifications.
5.        Before inviting tenders, it would be necessary to draw up
prequalification criteria for prospective bidders. Tender documents would
be prepared by REO and approved by SMB; tenders would define in detail the
work to be executed and would serve as a basis for the preparation of the
working drawing by the successful tenderer.
6.        Tenders received from prequalified contractors would be
evaluated by ReO with the assistance of SMB's Engineer to determine their
conformity with tender invitation. Selection of successful tenderers would
be in accordance with standard procedures. Successful tenderers would be
awarded construction contracts in conformity with REO procedures.
7.        REO would supervise construction and equipment installation at
all yards to assure conformity with tender requirements.



ANNEX 8
Page 2
Market Yard Locations
8.        Market yards would be suitably located, keeping in mind the
following requirements: Market yards would be located on well-drained
sLtes, safe from damage by surface or seepage water and not subject to
inundation caused by heavy rains. The Chief Engineer of REQ would
determine if an adequate and feasible drainage outlet can be provided.
Proximity to existing markets and public transportation routes would be
considered in the choice of a new market site. Market yards would be
located as far away as possible from residential buildings, factories,
dairies, poultry farms, kilns and other sources of fire, garbage dumps,
s:Laughterhouses, tanneries and such other offensive trades, the close
v:Lcinity of which is deleterious to the quality and safe storage of agricul-
tural commodities. Adequate and dependable supplies of potable water and
e:Lectric power would be available for the market yard. Single blocks of
land of adequate area would be available for present and foreseeable
needs. Land reserved for future expansion would be utilized for agricul-
tural production and income until needed for market use.
S:te Preparation
9         A topographic survey would be made of each market yard site.
A contour interval of 10 cm Is recommended for the purchased area with
3I1 cm or less contours extending into the adJacent area. An open drain
wwould be excavated around the perimeter of the site to carry runoff from
within the site to the drainage outlet. A levee would be constructed
around the perimeter of the site (where needed) to prevent inflow of
runoff water from adjacent areas. Earth fill would be added to low areas
within the site and the entire area graded to provide a uniform slope of
0.)8% from the lowest point along the perimeter to the highest point within
the site. No point within the site would have a lower elevation than
the prevailing natural ground level of the area surrounding the slte. Open
drains constructed within the site would have a minimum grade of 2.0%
to ensure "self cleaning" water velocity in the respective drains.
Fence to Enclose the Market Yard
10.       A fence would be constructed around the perimeter of the market
yard, including the area intended for future development. The fence would
consist of woven wire mesh 2.0 m high, fixed by means of iron staples to
iron posts set in concrete at 4.0 m intervals. Corner posts and gate posts
would be securely braced to maintain tension in the fence. The iron posts
and staples would be painted with paint of an approved color and quality. A
wide entrance is anticipated, to avoid congestion between ingoing and
outgoing traffic. A heavy gate is assumed impractical and instead a chain
stLpported at intervals by removable posts is suggested for the short periods
when the market may be closed.
ErLtrance Road
11.       An entrance road would be constructed between the new market
and an existing transportation route. This road would be an integral



ANNEX 8
Page 3
part of the new development. The entrance road would have a minimum
top width of 7.5 m and side slopes of 1:2. The embankment height would
be 0.5 m above the highest flood level. The construction of the road would
meet minimum specifications of the Indian Roads Congress and REO.
Utilities
12.       Water supply.  A tubewell would be drilled to a depth of about
100 m to obtain an adequate and dependable supply of potable water. A
well with a 15.25 cm casing and a 10.15 cm strainer is recommended to
supply up to 75,000 liters per day. Storage tanks elevated 10 m and with a
total capacity of about 40,000 liters would provide a reserve supply of
water and a uniform pressure in the water pipes. Underground pipes would be
installed to distribute potable water throughout the market yard.
13.       Electrical supply.  A three-phase power line would be constructed
and transformers to supply 25 kw of 440 and 220 volt current would be
installed to supply electricity to the market. Single-phase 220 volt
current would be distributed throughout the market for illumination,
ventilating fans, power outlets for fractional HP motors, etc. Three-phase
440 volt current would be distributed to the water pump and for other uses
exceeding 1/2 HP.
14.       Lighting.  The entire market would be illuminated at night
using conventional mercury vapor lamps mounted on poles. These lamps
would be on a separate circuit and would be turned on and off automatically
by a photo cell. Sufficient lamps would be installed to obtain a minimum
illumination level of 5 foot candles throughout the market.
15.       Sewage.  Sewage from toilets within the market would be
collected and disposed of according to existing regulations, standards,
and recommendations for the State of Bihar. REO's Chief Engineer would be
responsible for the approval of designs for adequate and reliable disposal
facilities.
Hard Surfacing of Roads, Parking Areas, and Walkways
16.       Traffic areas within the market yards would be hard-surfaced in
order to reduce cleaning and maintenance costs, to avoid dust in the dry
season, and to decrease the accumulation of mud and water in the wet
season. Prior to the application of hard surfacing material, the surface
of the yard would be carefully graded to provide for surface drainage and
drainage channels needed to carry away excess water. Roads and vehicle
parking areas within the yards would be required to withstand loads and
impacts from steel-rimmed bullock carts and from trucks, tractors, and
trailers. Excessive maintenance costs would be avoided by constructing
these traffic areas on well-drained soil covered with a 16-cm *foundation
layer of well compacted stone or broken brick, which in turn would be
covered with a 2.5-cm layer of bitumen.



ANNEX 8
Page 4
St:ructures
1'.      An administration building would house the administrative offices
of the market. Space would be provided for the Marketing Officer, the
Accounting Department, a conference room, storage of records and supplies.
and toilets. The total floor area would be about 352 m2.
18.       Auction platforms.  Covered platforms would protect products,
displayed for auction sale, against rain and sun. Their design would be
ass follows: (a) the floor would be not less than 0.3 and not more than
1.0 m above the surrounding road surface to facilitate loading, unloading,
aLd cleaning; (b) the surface of the floor would be paved smooth and sloped
toward the edge for drainage; (c) the roof with its trusses would be
sLLpported by columns located along the sides of the floor; (d) the minimum
clearance between the roof and the floor would be 3.75 m; (e) the roof would
extend about 1.0 m beyond the edge of the floor; (f) rain gutters would be
inLstalled to direct runoff from the roof to drainage outlets; (g) wind ties
would be installed so the roof could withstand maximum expected wind
velocities; (h) the dimensions of the platform are not critical, but a width
of 6 m and a length of 40 m would be practical. A platform of this size
would have a product capacity (assuming grain in open bags placed on end
across the platform) of about 40,000 kg or 40 tons.
19.       Uncovered platforms would be provided for peak marketing periods
and for products not requiring protection against rain and sun. Their
floors would have the same area, elevation, and construction as specified
for the covered platforms.
20.       ShoPs for traders.  Shops would be constructed and made available
on a rental basis to traders licensed to conduct business in the market.
The shops would be single story and of conventional flat roof design. They
would be constructed side by side in commodity groups, with a common wall
between shops. Each shop would have a platform and covered arcade at the
front leading into an office and godown. At the rear a hard-surfaced yard,
enclosed by a wall, would serve as a drying platform and/or for cleaning
grain. Each shop would be about 5.5 x 14.0 m with a front platform and a
rear yard, each about 5.5 x 5.0 m.
21.       A Storage godown would be constructed at each market and made
available to the State vJarehousing Corporation on a rental basis. The design
would be the same as or similar to conventional godown designs already
found to be practical by the State Warehouse Commission. The floor of the
godown would be raised not less than 0.3 m above the prevailing ground
level. No provision would be made for mechanical equipment, but doorways
would be sufficiently large and provided with ramps to permit future use
of fork-lifts and trucks. The capacity of each godown (based on grain in
bags) would be about 1,000 tons.
22.       A public toilet and lavatory would be constructed at a
central location in the market for the convenience of the market laborers
and the general public. This structure would be well-built to withstand



ANNEX 8
Page 5
abuse and frequent cleaning. Durable materials and good workmanship would
be necessary in order to avoid high maintenance costs. The design would
be basic and simple with emphasis on sanitation. A minimum of roof area
would admit sunshine and aid ventilation. An ample supply of water would
facilitate cleaning and the flushing of wastes. The commodes and urinals
would be connected to an approved sewage disposal system. A structure with
an area of 100 m2 (perhaps 5 m x 20 m) is recommended.
23.       A canteen and dormitory would be constructed at a central location
-in the market for the convenience of market employees, laborers, and the
general public. These facilities would be available on a rental basis to
private individuals2licensed by the Market Committee. A structure with an
area of about 112 m is recommended.
24.       A residence for the head guard would be provided.  He would be
responsible for the security of the market and would be on call 24 hours
a day. A structure with an area of about 6 x 8 m including a toilet and
lavatory is recommended.
25.       Bank and post office.  A suitable location for a bank and post
office would be provided, at a central location in the market and made
available on a rental basis for such use. A structure with an area of about
140 m2 is recommended.
26.       Extension building.  A location for office suitable for an Extension
Agent, and with additional rooms for display of market information, adult
education, etc. would be provided at a central location in the market.
A structure with an area of about 128 m2 is recommended.
Equipment
27.       Mechanical cleaners.  Two mechanical grain cleaners would be
provided at each market. They would be the oscillating screen type with
one coarse and one fine screen plus air for aspiration of light foreign
material. The capacity of each unit would be 7,000 to 14,000 kg per hour,
depending on the amount of foreign material to be removed.
28.       Platform scales.  Ten of these would be provided at each market
for weighing sacks of grain, fruit and vegetables. The capacity of each
scale would be 500 kg.
29.       Sampling probes.  Three of these would be provided at each market.
They would be used to remove samples from open sacks standing on end. The
probes would be the compartmented type.
30.       Ventilating fans would be provided for offices in the Administration
Building.
31.       Drinking fountains connected to the central supply of potable water
would be provided at convenient locations throughout the market. Waste
water from the fountains would be directed into the drainage system.



ANNEX 8
Page 6
32.       Water troughs (a minimum of two) would be provided in rest areas
for bullocks. The troughs would be constructed of concrete and would be
mounted on a hard-surfaced platform having good drainage.
November 15, 1971



ANNEX 8
Appendix 8-1
Page 1
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL MARKETS PROJECT
Engineering Aspects of Subappraisal
The subappraisal would determine if a proposed market meets
minimum requirements and standards established for all markets in the
State of Bihar. It would also determine if the proposed construction
works and equipment meet minimum specifications established by agencies
such as the Rural Engineering Organization, Indian Standards Institution,
Indian Roads Congress, etc.
The following aspects are intended as guidelines for the sub-
appraisals:
(1) Market Area:
Each market would have a minimum area of 6 ha plus 1 ha for
each 20 ton/day average market arrival over 125/ton day which
are projected for the next 10 years.
(2) Market Layout and Topographic Survey
There would be a detailed map (to scale) showing property
lines, contours, location of traffic areas, structures, etc.
within the market. Another map would show the market location
with respect to existing transportation routes and villages.
(3) Drainage
All surface area within the market would have an elevation
equal to or greater than surface area surrounding the market.
There would be protection against overflow and an adequate
outlet for drains and sewer lines within the market.
(4) Entrance Road
This road would connect the market with an existing transportation
route. It would be hard-surfaced and meet specifications of
the Indian Roads Congress for roads for this use.
(5) Boundary Fence
The market would be enclosed by a boundary fence.



ANNEX 8
Appendix 8-1
Page 2
(6) Water SUpply
A potable water supply, up to 75,000 liters per day,
would be needed for the market. This water would be
distributed throughout the market from gravity storage.
(7) Electrical Supply
Electric power consisting of 25 kw of 3-phase 440 and 220 volt
current would be needed for the market. Separate meters would
be installed for current supplited to private shops, etc.
(8)  Area Illumination
The entire market would be illuminated at night by using
conventional mercury vapor lamps mounted on poles. -An:
illumination level of 5 foot candles would be needed.
(9) Sewage Disposal
Sewage from the market would be disposed of according to
existing regulations, standards, and recommendations for
the State of Bihar.
(10) Hard-Surfacing
Hard-surfacing would be required throughout the market, except
for the bullock and cart rest area, boundary fence roads
to the rear of market, and the grass and tree area adjacent to
the centrally located buildings (refer to Annex 7, Appendix 7-1).
(11) Structures
Each market would have the following:
(a)  administration building                         (1)
(b)  shops for traders                               (minimum of 15)
(c)  auction platforms                               (minimum of 5)
(d)  storage godown                                  (1)
(e)  canteen and dormitory                           (1)
(f)  residence for head guard                        (1)
(g)  public toilet and lavatory                      (1)
Each market would provide space for:
(a) residence for Marketing Officer
(b) agricultural input shops
(c) additional auction platforms



ANNEX 8
Appendix 8-1
Page 3
(d) additional godowns
(e) covered rest area for bullocks
(f) veterinary dispensary
(g) future weighbridge
(h) bank and post office
(i) extension building
November 15, 1971






IN A
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL MARKETS
PHASING CHART
YEAR 1                   YEAR 2                    YEAR 3                    YEAR 4                    YEAR 5
Quarters                 Quarters                  Quarters                  Quarters                  Quarters
SET UP SMB AND
APPRAISAL UNIT OF SBI…------_---
PLANNING AND APPRAISAL_____I _Markets                          lo Markets              15 Markets  iIMakts                      ]
PROVISION OF LAND BY                                1 0 Markets!        0I Markets            1S harkets                15N
STATE GOVERNMENT- ----------------------
SUBLOAN APPROVALS         -I                                 ti 0 Markets     10 Mark               15 Markets                15 Markets;,
10 Markets        10 Markets             15 Markets                15 Markets
CONTRACTI NG ____MB  __________    ______----------___                  1  T 
TRAINING SMB                               _      3 Staff         |3 Stoff                 |3 Staff  
15 Secretaries           15 Secretaries            15 Secretaries
TRAINING MARKET SECRETARIES  --…      I-I                         [                         [1m1L1I11
20 Graders               20 Graders               20 Graders
TRAINING GRADING OFFICERS  -  ------- ----
PROJECT EVALUATION                 Contracting       Data Collection, Analysis and Reporting
z
___________.                                                                                                                      L li .J . 
.  I  _   I  I  I   I  I  I       I      L     I             I .   I      I            I     i        _      X~~~~~~






AWINX 10,
DiDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL MArKTS PROJECT
Cost Estimates
(Rupees '000)
CATEGORY                         Year 1    Year 2    Year 3   Year 4    Year 5        Total -  of which foreign exc_nge compoient
Amount   % of Total
I.  LARD                                 -       2,100     2,100     3,150      3,150    10,500       -             -
II. CIVIL WORKS
Survey and Land Preparation          -       1,280     1,280     1,910      1,910     6,380      6,280         20
Entrance Roada                       -         4190      480        730       7.30    2,430        680         28
Surfacing                            -       1,620     li620     2,430      2,430     8,100      1,700         21
Fencing                              -         580       580        860       860     2,880      1,010         35
Utilities                            -       2,620     2,620     3,940      3,940    13,120     5,770          44
Office Complex                      -        3,130     3,120     4,69o      4,690    15,630     3,910          25
Platforms                                    3,580     3,570     5,360      5,360    17,870     4,470          25
Godowns                              -       2,120     2,130     3,180      3,180    10,610     2,650          25
Traders Shops                        -       6,880     6,880    10,310    10,310    34,380       8,610         25
SUB-TOTAL                        _     22,300    22,280    33,410    33,410   111,400    30,080           27
III.  EqViIqr
Mechanical Cleaners                            120       120       180        180       600       210          35
Scales                               -         150       150       230        220       750       260          35
Other Equipment                                 80        80       120        120       400       120          30
SUB-TOTAL                         -         350       350       530        520     1,750       590         34
IV. TRAINMI  & PROJECT EVALUATION
Training                             50         90        90         -         -        230      -              -
Evaluation                          230        230       230       230        230     1,150       350          30
SUB-TOTAL                        280        320       320       2?0)       230     1,380       350         25
TOTAL OF II, III, & IV           280    22,970    22,950    34,170    34,160   114,530    31,020            27
V. CONTINGEUCIES
Physical Contingency (10.3%1          30     2,370     2,360     3,520      3,520    11,800     3,190          27
Price Contingency (57 p.a.J )         30     4,000     5,470    10,400    12,810    32,710      8,870          27
SUB-TOTAL                         60     6,370      7,330    13,920    16,330    44,510    12,060          27
TOTAL PROJECT COST               340    31,440    32,880    51,240    53,640   169,540    43,080            25
us$ '000  Equivalent                 50      4320      4,520     7,040      7,360    23,290     5,920          25
11 On -ivil 'orks, Equipment, and Training and Project Evaluation.
#/ Based on 1971 prices, including physical contingency.
2/ At current (October 1971) official foreign exchsage rate.
Sub-total and total percentages are rounded.
October 21, 1971






ANNEX 10
Appendix 10-1
INDIA
BIIIAR AGRICULTURAL MARKETS PROJECT
Capital Cost of Model "A" Mandi
Foreign Exchange
Component        Economic Life
Total Cost   Amount         (Z)       (Years)
---Rs '000…
A.   CIVIL WORKS
Survey and Land
Preparation               102        20           20      indefinite
Entrance Roads                  48         13           28         30
Surfacing                      240         50           21         30
Fencing                         80         28           35         10
Utilities                      279        123           44         20
Office Complex                 295         74           25         30
Platforms                      540        135           25         20
Godowns                        350         88           25         20
Traders Shops                  688        172           25         20
Subtotal          2,622        703           27
B.   EOUIPMENT
Mechanical Cleaners             15          5           35         10
Scales                          18          7           35         10
Other Equipment                 10          3           30          5
Subtotal             43         15           34
Total             2,665        718           27
Add physical contin-
gency (10.3%)                 274         73           27
Total             2,939        791           27
/1   This model was designed to reflect the larger markets expected to be
developed. It would handle 500 tons of produce per average market day.
For financial return calculation and further details, see Annex 15.
November 16, 1971



ANNEX 10
Appendix 10-2
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL MARKETS PROJECT
Capital Cost of Model "B" Mandi -
Foreign Exchange
Component        Economic Life
Total Cost   Amount         (Z)       (Years)
---Rs '000-s-
A.   CIVIL WORKS
Survey and Land
Preparation                58         12           20    indefinite
Entrance Roads                  49         14           28         30
Surfacing                       93         20           21         30
Fencing                         40         14           35         10
Utilities                      253        111           44         20
Office Complex                 301         75           25         30
PlatfoLD                       180         45           25         20
Godowns                        180         45           25         20
Traders Shops                  375         94           25         20
Subtotal          1,529        430           28
E.   EQUIPMENT
Mechanical Cleaners              8          3           35         10
Scales                           7          2           35         10
Other Equipment                  3          1           30          5
Subtotal             18          6           33
Total             1,547        436           28
Add physical contin-
gency (10.3%)                 160         45           28
Total             1,707        481           28
/1   This model was designed to reflect the smaller markets expected to be
JovolopoA. It wqotld handle 120 tons of produce per average market day.
For financial return calculation and further details, see Annex 15.
November 15, 1971



ANNEX 10
Appendix 10-3
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL MARKETS PROJECT
Operating Cost of Model Mandi/1
Model "A" Mandi                            Model "B" Mandi
A.  STAFF /2                            A.  STAFF /2
1 accountant              3,800         1 accountant              3,800
1 cashier                 3,200         1 cashier                 3,200
2 office assistants       4,800         2 office assistants       4,800
6 supervisors            19,200          2 supervisors            6,400
2 graders                 6,000          1 grader                 3,000
3 cleaning machine                      2 cleaning machine
operators            9,000              operators /3         4,500
5 sweepers                6,000         3 sweepers                3,600
12 weighmen               18,000         4 weighmen                6,000
10 guards                 15,000         4 guards                  6,000
Subtotal       85,000                     Subtotal     41,300
B.  UTILITIES AND SUPPLIES              B.   UTILITIES AND SUPPLIES
Electricity               10,000         Electricity               5,000
Telephone                  1,200          Telephone                1,000
Maintenance Supplies      15,000          Maintenance Supplies   10,000
Subtotal       26,200                     Subtotal     16,000
C.   INSURANCE AND MISC.       15,000   C.  INSURANCE AND MISC.        10,000
Total         126,200                     Total        67,300
/1   For the first year of full operation under the Project.
/2   The market secretaries are state civil servants and their salaries are
paid by Government.
/3   One full-time and one half-time.
November 15, 1971



ANNEX 1 0
Appendix 10-4
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL MARKETS PROJECT
Staff Training Costs
Rs
A. State Marketing Board Staff
For one year:
3 senior staff at Rs 8,000                           -24,000
6 junior staff at Rs 5,000                            30,000
Subtotal                                     54,000
B. Market Committees Staff
45 Market Secretaries for 1/2 year, at Rs 3,000        135,000
60 Graders for three months at Rs 700                   42,000
Subtotal                                    177,000
Total                                       231,000
Add Contingencies (20Z)                                     46,200
Grand Total                                 277,200
November 15, 1971



ANNEX 10
Appendix 10-5
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL MARKETS PROJECT
Project Evaluation Costs"
Tentative terms of reference are in Annex 13.
Rs
A. Staff Remuneration
1 Senior Research Officer at Rs 16,000 per annum        80,000
10 Research Workers- at Rs 7,200 per annum              360,000
5 Subordinate Staff at RS 3,000 per annum               75,000
5 Consultant man-months at Rs 25,000 per month         125,000
Subtotal                                640,000
B. Travel Expenses
120,000 km per annum by road at Rs 0.50                 300,000
10 return flight tickets India-Washington
at Rs 16,000                                          160,000
Subtotal                               460,000
C. Miscellaneous
Stationery, Printing and Supplies                       200,000
/3
Total-                                1,300,000
Add Price Contingency (16%)                                  208,000
Grand Total                          1.508,000
/1   Only for the IDA disbursement period of 5 years.
/2   Master's degree level.
/3   Including physical contingency of 10%.






ANNEX 11
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL MARKETS PROJECT
IDA Disbursement Schedule/
(Rs '000)
Year     Quarter         Disbursed      Undisbursed
1973        1               -              101,600
2              60              101,540
3              70              101,470
4              70              101,400
1974        1            4,675              96,725
2           4,675              92,050
3           4,675              87,375
4           4,675               82,700
1975        1            4,900              77,800
2           4,900               72,900
3           4,900              68,000
4           4,900              63,100
1976        1            7,700              55,400
2           7,700              47,700
J           7,700              40,000
4           7,700               32,300
1977        1            8,075              24,225
2           8,075               16,150
3           8,075                8,075
4           8,075
/1  Assuming effectiveness in October 1, 1972 and a
time contingency of six months.
November 15, 1971



ANNEX 12
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL MARKETS PROJECT
Credit Policies and Procedures
Loan Applications
1.        After approval of detailetd market designs by the State Marketing
]3oard including engineering cost estimates and after provision of land by
ithe State Government has been assured, the Market Committee (RMC) would
submit a subloan application to SBI which would include the detailed designs,
cost estimates, a financial plan and its proposals for its organization and
management as basic documents for SBI decision. Designs would be established
by the Town and Country Planning Organization of the State and all works
3upervised by the Rural Engineering Organization of the State.
Trerms and Conditions of Subloans
2.        Loans would be made by SBI at an interest rate of 9% and have a
maximum term of 15 years with a grace period of usually not more than two
(but sometimes three) years. SEI would lend 95% of the value of the improve-
ments to be built and receive a mortgage from the RMC subborrower on the land
and improvements placed on the land.
Loan Disbursements
3.        Whenever possible disbursements would be made through direct
payments by SBI to suppliers of goods and services or contractors against
commercial documents.
Supervision
4.        Field inspections would be made by SBI technicians who would check
the use of funds in accordance with the subloan agreements, and see to it
t:hat the assets assigned to the guarantee of the loan exist and their value
as security remains adequate. SBI would also check into the organization and
management to see that sound financial practices are being followed by the
RMC and that market fees, license fees and rents are being collected according
t:o law.
Rtemedies
5.        SBI would suspend disbursement on subloans and, where appropriate,
ask the SMB to supersede the RMC subborrowers when informed by its super-
visions that the operations of the RMC are inadequate to pay the necessary
subloan installment in accordance with the subloan agreement. Upon default
of the RMC for a period of one year, and upon failure of State Government
to supersede, SBI may (a) foreclose on its mortgage and/or (b) take other
remedies permitted by law.



ANNEX 13
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL MARKETS PROJECT
Evaluation Procedures
1.        This would be the first Project aimed at improving the operations
of regulated agricultural markets. It is therefore very important that
evaluation procedures are provided for.
2.        Assurances would be obtained from the State of Bihar that the
State Marketing Board (SMB) would enter into a contract with an appropriate
institution such as the Agricultural University of Bihar, an Agro-Economic
Research Center or the National Council of Applied Economic Research or the
Directorate of Marketing and Inspection, which institute would evaluate the
marketing function in a sample of towns selected for market development. The
contract would specify: (a) the senior research officer who would be in
charge of evaluation as well as the personnel who would collect the data
and perform the analysis; (b) the time period for data collection, for
analysis and for reporting; and (c) the compensation to be paid to the
institute by the SMB and the time of such payments.
3.        It is anticipated that evaluation would commence as soon as pos-
sible after the effectiveness of the credit, so that data can be collected
on the operations of the sample markets before improvements are constructed
as well as during the development period and after full development of the
market facilities. Suggested terms of reference for the evaluation are in
Appendix 13-1.
November 15, 1971






ANNEX 13
Appendix 13-1
Page   1
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL MARKETS PROJECT
Tentative Terms of Reference
for an Evaluation of the Bihar Markets
Purpose
1.        To examine the changing marketing pattern and to estimate the
benefits resulting from setting up of the Bihar markets.
Specific Objective (Guidelines)
2.        The behavior of the following factors would be specifically
evaluated before and after the setting up of the regulated markets.
(a) prices after market charges received by farmers;
(b) wholesale market prices;
(c) margins between (b) and (a);
(d) costs of marketing;
(e) losses in transporting the grain from farms to market
yards;
(f) handling losses in the market yards -- including those
due to uncovered platforms;
(g) storage losses;
(h) storage costs;
Ci) quantities of grain marketed in the market yards;
(j) market arrivals: seasonal pattern of marketings;
(k) market intelligence available to cultivators on
prices, supplies, production, etc.;
(1) market intelligence available to market functionaries
on prices, supplies, etc.;
(m) quantities and pattern of grain dispatches to
major terminal markets;



ANNEX 13
Appendix 13-1
Page 2
(n) difference between prices prevailing in the newly
constructed regulated markets and those in the
major terminal markets;
(o) number of market functionaries (i.e. traders, com-
mission agents, brokers and employees for weighing,
cleaning, bagging, loading, unloading, grading, etc.);
(p) quantities of grain cleaned before selling in the yard
- as proportion of total market arrivals; and
(q) difference between the prices received for cleaned
and uncleaned grain.
Research Methodology (Guidelines)
3.        Five markets constructed in the first year of the loan disburse-
m[ent, and five additional markets constructed in the second year of the
loan disbursement, would be selected for evaluation. The selection of the
markets would be such as to allow as much variability in the volume and
area of their operations as possible. Data collection would commence from
the date of loan disbursement, i.e. prior to the construction of the mar-
kets, and should continue for two years subsequent to the end of the dis-
bursement period. This is essential since the purpose of the study is
to compare the performance of the markets before and after the construction
of the new market places, and since changes in marketing patterns will
occur only gradually over time.
4.        One investigator would be assigned per market studied.  If the
investigator cannot be located in the market center, he should be able to
make frequent trips to the market yard, e.g. two trips per week in the
offseason and a continuous stay in the market place for two or three months
after the major harvest.
5.        The data gathering would be a combination of statistical informa-
tion and careful direct observation.
6.        In gathering information on the terms listed under specific
objectives, the following considerations should receive prime attention.
(a) every effort should be made to collect prices of com-
parable varieties and grades of a particular crop; and
(b) if there is no system of open auction and if no
machinery is in existence for maintenance of price
records, maximum, minimum and the most common prices
prevailing in the market should be collected. For
the purpose of this study daily, and if that is not
feasible at least weekly, wholesale prices should
be maintained.



ANNEX 13
Appendix 13-1
Page 3
7.        The estimates of market arrivals should be as complete as possible
from the commencement of the study. This is important so that increase in
the market arrivals, if any noted, is not a result of improvement of cover-
age but a genuine increase in the quantities marketed.
8.        If it is not possible to collect data from all the traders on
their purchase and sale operations, data from at least five major whole-
salers and/or commission agents should be collected.
9.        Direct observation would involve maintenance of a diary by each
investigator in which detailed information should be maintained on the
following factors:
(a) each year's production of principal crops in the tahsil
and/or district in which the market is located; distribu-
tion of farm sizes in the area; if possible some informa-
tion on whether marketings come from small or big farmers;
(b) population of the district;
(c) major terminal markets to which supplies are usually
shipped;
(d) description of rail and road connections joining the
markets with feeder markets and with the terminal
markets;.
(e) description of availability of transport facilities
generally and during specific seasons - difficulties
encountered by traders in acquiring transport;
(f) number and types of market functionaries;
(g) description of existing storage facilities;
(h) data on storage losses by interviewing traders
regarding length and type of storage;
Ci) interviews of cultivators regarding their views on
market facilities, Importance of cleaning, market
charges, availability of credit, their general
bargaining position, interest rates, etc.; and
(j) description of availability of market intelligence to
traders and to cultivators.
Analysis of the Data
10.       The data collected for each market may be of interest to the
State and/or the Central Government and, therefore, may be analyzed there.
The data would, however, be made available to IDA annually to enable it



ANNEX 13
Appendix 13-1
Page 4
to conduct an evaluation of the Bihar Markets Project. A report would be
prepared by the senior research officer annually. The report would include
analysis of the statistical information collected in the previous year and
the direct observations made by the research investigators to evaluate the
effects of the improvements on the marketing system.
1I.  Tentative cost estimates are in Annex 10, Appendix 10-5.
iIovember 30, 1971



ANNEX 14
Page 1
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL MARKETS PROJECT
Functioning of the New Markets
Introduction
1.        The new markets would function quite differently from the old, both
because of the new facilities being provided (Annex 8) and the enforcement
of Bihar's Agricultural Produce Markets Act of 1960 which is virtually unen-
forceable without the concentration of trading the new markets would pro-
vide. The regulation of markets under the Bihar Agricultural Produce Markets
Act is described directly below, followed by a discussion of the functioning
of the new markets, particularly as it would contrast with the old.
Market Regulation
2.        Bihar's Agricultural Produce Markets Act was passed in 1960 and
upheld by the Supreme Court in 1968 (see Annex 3). Since then 68 markets
have been notified for regulation under the Act. Enforcement of the Act is
not feasible without the type of markets envisioned in this report. The Act
provides for the following:
(a) the State Government to designate markets and commodities
to be regulated and appoint and supervise market secretaries
and their committees;
(b) market secretaries to supervise the regulation of their res-
pective markets. Market secretaries of the proposed modern-
ized mandies (agricultural wholesale markets) would receive
training for one year at the Directorate of Marketing and
Inspection's training center in Nagpur, Maharashtra;
(d)  local Market Committees (RMC's) composed of the secretary,
farmers, traders, and local authorities to advise in the
enforcement of the Act;
(d) market regulations specifying some of the conditions of
sale. They include the following:
(i) sales are to be by open auction rather than by direct
negotiation;
(ii) traders and market functionaries are to be licensed
by the RMC;
(iii) the legal market area is to be delineated by the
RMC. Wvholesale transactions in the market town
cannot be made outside this area;



ANNEX 14
Page 2
(iv) maximum market charges are to be fixed for various
marketing activities;
(e) construction of market facilities.
(f) collection of a market fee to finance operating costs and
new construction. The current market fee is 0.25% of the
sales price. It has been raised to 0.50% under present
legislation, but in most cases it would need to be 1.00%
to finance the construction and operation of the proposed
markets;
(g)  arbitration of the settlement of disputes between farmers
and traders and among traders; and
(h) supervision of transactions by the RMC staff;
Though not required under the Act the following activities and facilities
could logically be supplied and/or operated by the RMC's; (i) marlcet
information. Prices for recent transactions in the local and alternative
markets could be posted; (ii) cleaning facilities. The RMC could provide
cleaning facilities at cost; (iii) grading facilities. Government graders
and grading facilities could be provided at cost.
Differences Between the New and Old Markets
3.        The proposed modernization of mandies would involve concentrating
all the wholesale traders, their shops, and their purchases in a 6-25 ha
surfaced area controlled by a government-supervised RMC. The new markets
would function differently from the old (see Annex 2) in the following
respects:
(a) Concentration of traders -- Traders and their transactions
for the most part are currently scattered throughout the
mandi towns along congested streets and lanes. The pro-
posed mandis would concentrate both within a single area,
the market yard. This would facilitate communications be-
tween farmers and traders and among traders themselves
with resultant savings in transportation, time and sales
effort. It would also greatly facilitate the enforcement
of Bihar's Agricultural Produce Markets Act.



ANNEX 14
Page3
(b)  More sanitary markets with greater capacity and
maneuverability - The streets and lanes and market centers
of most mandi towns are ill-paved and -drained. As a result
they are often muddy, unsanitary and congested. The streets
and market yards of the proposed mandies would be paved and
the auction platforms covered. This would help keep the
produce out of the mud and rain, particularly during the
monsoon season. It would also increase maneuverability in
the market yards and increase their capacity.
(c) Auction sales - Currently market transactions are by nego-
tiation, either direct or through an intermediary such as a
commission agent or broker. Sales in the new markets would
be by open auction in the market yard at specified hours.
This arrangement would provide the sellers contact with the
largest number of buyers with the least effort and should
result in sales at competitive prices.
(d) Supervised transactions and weighing -- Market transactions
in the mandies are currently unregulated and unsupervised
leaving room for considerable dispute among parties. This
explains in part the general reluctance of farmers to sell
their produce in the mandies and to use itinerant merchants
instead. Each auction sale in the new mandies would be super-
vised by a market official. The names of the buyer and sell-
er, the price, grade and the approximate quantity sold would
be recorded at the time of sale. The record would provide
the basis for settling disputes. In addition, weighing
would be by licensed weighmen contracted by the RMC using
rested scaies.
(e) Market charges -- Each market has customary deductions for
various types of market services and taxes. They vary by
market and are presently unregulated. Market charges in
the new mandies would be regulated by the RMC. Some repre-
sentative current and proposed market fees for grain are
listed in Appendix 14-1. Market charges in the new mandies
would be about 50% (two and one-half percentage points) less
than with the present system.
(f) Change in number and type of market functionaries -- The most
common market channel for grain moving from the villages to
the market towns in Bihar is the itinerant merchant.   The in-
troduction of regulated auction markets would encourage farm-
ers to bring their produce directly to the mandies, thus dimin-
ishing the importance of the itinerant merchant. The farmers
would thus gain part of the margin now taken by the displaced
itinerant merchant. It appears, however, that farmers would
still need the services of a kutcha arhatya (seller's
agent) in the new markets since the latter facilitate the
handling of the details of the sales transaction for
the farmers and thus the numbers of agents would likely
increase.



-ANNEX 14
Page 4
The RMC could hire agents to operate as kutcha arhatyas,
but they would likely be less efficient than those operating
on a commission basis.
(g) Market facilitating activities -- Market transactions are
facilitated by a system of market information, cleaning
and grading. None of these are adequately provided in the
present mandies. The proposed mandies would provide equip-
ment for cleaning grain and grading by government standards
(see Annex 8) and would post prices of recent transactions
in the mandi and alternative trading centers. Data on
market arrivals could be provided as well. Cleaning and
grading would be expected to raise the market value of the
produce while market information would reduce buyers' and
sellers' price risk and keep prices more competitive, thus
raising the general level of prices to producers (see Annex
15).
(h) Storage - Some traders will store producers' grain for
several months and lend them up to 75% of its value. Stor-
age for a week or less is generally not available in the
markets. It is felt that the quality of medium-term storage
(2-4 months) is inadequate and that short-term storage
should be made available for farmers not satisfied with the
day's price. To these ends the planned mandies include lim-
ited free short-term storage in holding areas (see Annex 8)
and the Bihar State Warehouse Corporation, would be encour-
aged to provide medium-term storage at commercial rates in
about one-half of the new mandies.
(i) Farm services and supplies -- Farm services and supplies are
presently scattered throughout the mandi towns with resultant
inconvenience to farmers. Most of the planned mandies would
include a post office, bank, and extension education center,
and space for farm supply shops (fertilizer, seed, machinery
and parts) which would be built upon application if to
prescribed specifications. The greater availability and use
of services and supplies would have primary benefits for
the farmers and secondary benefits for the economy.
(j) Amenities for farmers and their bullocks -- Bihar's mandies
presently have no formal arrangements for farmers and their
bullocks to rest, eat and drink water. Such accommodations
are proposed in the new mandies and would encourage farmers
to use the mandies.
(k) Well-constructed shops and godowns -- Most traders' shops
and godowns are old and rather poorly constructed and main-
tained. The new facilities would be well-designed and
built with a corresponding reduction in maintenance and
storage losses.
November 30, 1971



ANNEX 14
Appendix 14-1
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL MARKETS PROJECT
Market Charges Before and After 1
Market Regulation in Bihar Mandis-
Amount of Charge
Before          After
Charge Item            Regulation      Regulation        Net Charge
- (percent)----            (percentage
points)
Commission                2.43             1.40      -        1.03
Brokerage                 0.26            0.24       -        0.02
Weighing                  0.17             0.05      -        0.12
Market Labor              0.14            0.07       -        0.07
Charities                 0.23             -         -        0.23
Dhalta (handling)         1.09             -         -        1.09
Narnoona (sample)         0.28             -         -        0.28
Miscellaneous             0.76              -        -        0.76
Market Fee                 -               1.00      +        1.00
Total           5.36            2.76      -        2.60
/1   Estimates from data in Government of Bihar's Project Report
on Development of Markets in Bihar, Patna, 1971 and Govern-
ment of Bihar supplemental reports.
November 15, 1971






ANNEX 15
Page 1
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL MARKETS PROJECT
Cash Flow Projections and Financial Return Calculations
Typical Market Committees
1.        Based on data collected during the field visit, two model mandies
have been constructed to test their financial viability. Model "A" would
represent the larger markets to be financed under the Project, while model
"B" would be a typical small- to medium-scale mandi.  Expected arrivals would
primarily determine market yard sizes and investment requirements, apart
from an invariable need of land area and structures for overhead activities
(see Annexes 7, 8 and 10). The loan would normally cover 95% of initial cost
for civil works and equipment, and RMCs would be expected to contribute an
equity of 5%, since most of them have already accumulated sufficient funds.
Only in exceptional cases would the loan cover 100% of initial investment
cost. Breakdowns of capital and operating costs are given in Appendices 10-1,
10-2 and 10-3.
2.        Market fees, the major income component of RMC's, would be 1% of
the arrival value and would grow as arrivals go up. Rentals at 12% of in-
vestment cost would be levied for traders' shops and godowns.  Traders' li-
censp foes and srain cleaning fees would be two minor income components.
Market fees would not only be the largest income item, but would also crucially
determine the financial results of the RMC's operations: Although the ini-
tial investment for model "B" mandi would be less than 60% of the relevant
amount to be spent for model "A" mandi, accumulated surpluses of model "A"
would grow much faster. The anticipated tighter cash situation of model "B"
mandi would necessitate a difference in loan terms, as follows:
Grace Period      Repayment Period
…___------…(years)---------
Model "A"         2                    10
Model "B"          3                   12
3.        It would be in line with the Bihar Market Act to allow RMC's an
upper limit of accumulated surpluses equal to three years' gross income. Funds
in excess of these amounts would have to be controlled by the State Marketing
Board (SMB) for investment in programs geared to building feeder roads or pro-
viding additional marketing facilities (para 4.04). The rates of return of
40" for model "A" mandi and 20% for model "B" mandi suggest the fact that
considerable economies of scale would favor financing only larger mandies.



ANNEX 15
Page 2
However, smaller mandies would also be financially viable and tend to be
closer to the producers, thus having additional economic benefits. Cash
flow projections for the models appear as Appendices 15-1 and 15-2.
The Banks
4.    -   General.  Under the Project, all IDA funds for financing civil
works and acquisition of mandi equipments would be channeled via GOI, ARC,
and SBI to the RMCs. In addition, ARC and SBI would contribute their own
funds for financing these project components. Details on the sharing the
Project financing by major components are given in paragraphs 3.16 through
3.18.
5.        ARC's projected cash flow is shown in Appendix 15-3.  GOI would
transfer the relevant IDA funds to ARC based on the Project phasing, from
Year 2 to Year 5. ARC would scart repayment to GOI in Year 5 and finalize
it in Year 19. ARC's borrowing rate would be 6% (with 1/4% rebate for
prompt repayment of principal and interest). Subsequently, SBI would
disburse the ARC funds. SBI would repay the loans to ARC over a 15-year
period starting in Year 5. The interest rate would be 6.5%; therefore
ARC's margin would be 0.75%. The accumulated surpluses would substantially
exceed ARC's cost of administering the loan. ARC's current and projected
income statements and balance sheets are presented in Annex 4.
6.        SBI's cash flow is shown in Appendix 15-4.  The cash inflow would
miainly consist of the IDA funds disbursed between Years 2 and 5, and the RMC's
repayment of loans at 9% interest. As for the repayment schedules for the
PMC's, a two-year grace period and a 12-year repayment period, on an average,
has been assumed.  SBI's interest margin would be 2.5% per annum, since it
would have to spend significant amounts for subappraisals and for super-
v-ision, apart from increasing overhead cost.
7.        In spite of all these expenses SBI would be able to accumulate
enough surpluses. Because of only 50 subborrowing RMC's which would be
closely supervised by SMB, there would be no substantial default risk.
In addition, SBI itself would do thorough subappraisals and supervision
to avoid defaults. Therefore, the calculated surpluses would suffice to
cover the default risk.
F'ebruary 2, 1971



INDIA
BRIAR AGRICULTURAL NAPEETS PROJECT
Cash Flow Projections - Model "A" Mandi (in RsIOGO)
1        2        3         4         5         6         7         8        9          10       11        12         13         14         15         16         17         18          1L         20
I, INCOME STATEKENT PROJECTIONS
Market reqs3/                 400       562       737       923     1,138    1,365      1,612     1,693    1,778     1,867     1,867     i,867       1,867      1,867      1,867      1,867      i,867      1,867      1,867     1i867
ee      fs                      5         5         5        5         5         5         5         5         5         5         5         5           5          5          5          5          5          5          5          5
Rentals                        -        144       144       144       144       144       144        4        144      i44       144       144         144        144        144        144         144       144        144         144
Cleaning fees                  -          5         6         7         8         9         9        9         9        10        10        10          10         10         10         10         11         n           i2        12
TOTAL REVENUES              (1)   405       716       892    1,079      1,295     1,523    1,770     1,851     1,936     2,026     2,026     2,026       2,o26      2,026      2,026      2,C26      2,027      2.027      2,027      8,027
Operating Cots              (2)    20       126       129       132       134      137       140       143       146       149       152       155         165        165        170        170        175         "         i80        1110
Profit before interest sod
depreciation                (3)   385       590       763       947   l1,1l       1,386     1,630    1,708     1,790     1,877     1,874     1,871       1,86i      i,86i      1,856      1,856      1,852      1,852      1,848      1,848
Interest Projeqt ILan-4       122       243 1     243  _,  234''-.  2t5         196   .   175    -151        119        93        68        35         -          -          -          -          -          -
Depreciation  /               137       137       137       137       137       137      137       137       137       137       137       137         137        137        137        137        137        137        137        137
NET PROFITS                       i26       210       383       576       809    1,053      1,318    1,420     1,534     1,647    1,669      1,699       1,724      1,724      1,719      1,719      1,715      1,715       1,711     1,711
II. CASH FLOW PROJECTIONS
Investment co7tsW       (4) 2,939        -         -         -         -         10        -        -         -         -        136        -         -           -          _           10
Debt ServiceZ           (5)   -          -        496/      496       496       496       496      496       496       496       496       496        -           -          -          -          -          _          _           _
CASH Ol)TFLOW
Tt(a) of    (5)         (6) 2,959       126       625       628       630       643       636      639       642       645       784       651         3A5        165        170        180        175        175         180       IBo
Loan Received §/        (7) 2,792             -         -         -         -         -         -         -        -         -         -         -          -           -          -          -          -                -          -
CASH INFLOW
Total of lines          (8) 3,197       716       892     1,079     1,295     1,523     1,770     1,851     1,936     2,026    2,026     2,oe6       2,026      2,026      2,026      2,026      2,027      2,027      2,027       2,027
(1) and (7)
NET CASH FLOW                     238       590       267       451       665       880     1,134     1,212    1,294      1,381    1,242     1,375       1,861      1,861      1,856      1,846      1,852      1,852       1,847      1,847
Line (8) less line (6)
Interes3jon sccumulated
sorplus.                      -          14        50        70       101       147       208      290       379       480       591       702         826        987      1,158      1,339      1,530      1,733       1,9448     2,176
TOTAL CASH FLOW
- Annual                238       604       317       521       766    1,027      1,342     1,502     1,673     1,861     1,833    2,077        2,687     2,848       3,014      3,185      3,382      3,585      3,795      4,023
- Cunolative            238       842     1,159     1,68o     2,446    3,473    4,815       6,317    7,990      9,851    11,684    13,761      16,448    19,296      22,310     25,195    28,877      32,462     36,257     40,280
III. FINANCIAL RA'E OF RETURN
NET COST/BENEFIT STREAM _/
Line (3) less lne)(4)      (2,554)      590       763       947    1,i61      1,386     1,630     1,708     1,790     1,877    1,874      1,871       1,861     1,861       1,856      1,856     1,852       1.852      1,848      2,144
Pate of Return: 40%
1/ Collected on 30% of arrivals in Year 1 which percentage would increase by 10  p.a. up to 90% in Year 7.
Arri-als incresse by 5% pa. in the first 10 years. Further increases would require new investants.
2/ Actual license fee 1970-71.
V/ Ab-t 12% of investment in godow-s and traders shops.
4/ At 98 p.s.
5 traight line; for "econo-ic life" of investsment items see Appendices 10-1 end 10-2.
§/ Initial inves.nent and replacements. For details see Appendices 10-1 and 10-2.
|  10 eqall annuities including repayment of principal and payment of interest at 9% p..; two years grace period.
Covering 951 of initial investment, encloding land.
/  Including residual values.



INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL MARKETS PROJECT
Cash Flow Projections - Model 'B' Mandi (in BslOOO)
1        2         3          4         5          6        7           8         9          10        11         12        13         14        15         16        17         18         t9        20
1.  INCOME STATEHNT PROJECTIONS
Market fees                          105      147        193       243        296       359        422       44i       465        488       488        488       488        488        488       488        488       488        488        488
Licensefes                                  4         4         4         4          4               4         4          4         4         4          4         4          4          4         4          4         4          4          4
Rentals V                           -         75         75        75         75        75        75         75        75         7'        75         75        75         75         15        75         75        75         75         75
Clening fees                         -          2          3         4          5         6          7         8          9        10         10        10         10        10         10        10         10         10        10         10
TOTAL REvENUES                (1)        109      228        275       326        380       444        508       528        553       577       577        577        577       577        577       577        577       577        577        577
Operating costs               (2)         10        67        70        73         77        82         88        92         97       100        100       100        100       100        100       100        100        100       100        100
Profit before interest
and depreciation              (3)         99      161        205       253        303       362        420       436        456       477        477       477        477       477        477       477        477       477        477        477
Interest project loan                 73      i46        146       146        139       131        .22       U13       102         91        79         66        51         35         18        -          -         -          -          -
Depr-ctation 2J                       78       78         78        78         78        78        78         78         78        78         78        78        78         78         78        78         78        78         78         78
NET PROFITS (LOSSES)                     (52)      (63)      (19)       29         86       153        220       245       276        308        320       333        348       364        381       399        399       399        399        399
II. CASH FLOW PROJECTIONS
I-vestent costs           (4)      1,707       -          -         -          -          3         -         -          -         -          58        -          -         -          -          3         -         -          -
Debt service V/           (5)        -         -          -        281        281       281       281        281       281        281       281        281       281        281        281        -          -         -          -          -
CASH OUTFLOW                  (6)      1,717       67         70       354        358       366        369       373        378       381        439       381        381       381        381        384       381        381       381        381
Total of lines
(2), (4), (5)
Loin recved V             (7)      1,622       -          -         -          -         -         -          -         -          -         -          -               -               -          -         -         -          -          -
CASB INFLOW
Totalof lines             (8)      1,731      228        275       326        380       444        508       528        553       577       577        577        577       577        577       577        577        577       577        577
(I) and (7)
NET CASH FLOW
Line (8) less line (6)                14      16i        205       (28)        22        78        139       155       175        196       138        196        196       196        196       193        196         196      196        196
Interest on accumulated
surpls 9/                                         1      11        23         23        26         32        42         54        68         84        97        115       133        153       174        196        220       245        271
TOTAL CASH FLOW
-  Annuli                             14      162        216        (5)        45       1o4        171       197       229        264       222        293        311       329        349       367        392        416       441        467
_ Cumulative                          14       176       392       387        432       536        707       904      1,133     1,397      1,619     1,912      2,223     2,552      2,901     3,268      3,660     4,o76      4,517      4,984
1II.  FINANCIAL RATE OF RETURN
NET COST/BREEFIT STREAM L/
Line (3) less line (4)            (1,608)     161        205       253        303       359        420       436       456        477       419        477        477       477        477       474        477        477       477        682
Date of Seturn: 209
iJ  Collected on 30% of arrivals in Year I which percentage would increase by 10% pa.  up to 90% in Year 7.
Arrivals increase by 5% p.. in the first 10 years. Further increases would require new investments.
2/ Actual license fee 1970-71.
About 12% of investment In gcdowns and traders shops.
F   At 9% pa.
Straight lie,; for "econo.ic life"  f investment items see Appendices 10-1 and 10-2.
I Initial investment and replacements.  FPr de.atlo see Appendices 10-1 and 10-2.
/ 12 equal annuities iucluding repayment of principal and payment of interest at 9% pa.; three yearn grce- period.
Covering 95% of initial iReutment , ecciuding land.
2 At 6% p.m.
Including residual -mloe-.



INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL HAREETS PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
Projected Cahi Flov of Project Fund (in R1000)
Project Year                  1         2         3         4        5         6        7         8         9       10        11        12        13        14        15        16       1718                1 
I. CASH INFLOW
IDA funds                      -     18,4400   19,300    30,500   32,000       -         -        -         -         _        _         _         _         _         _         _        _         _         _
ARC funds /                    _      6,100    6,300    10,100    10,700       ,         -         -        _           _      _         _         _         _         _         .        _
ServIce of loans
by SRI                       -        -         -         _       3,504    7,165    12,971    19,077    19,077    19,077    19,077    19,077    19,077    19,077    19,077    19,077   15,573   11,912    6,106
Net Income on accoulated
gro.. surplus (6%)               -              -         -             -         -         -        -               40       85       134       185       241       301       365       433      494       550
TCTAL                        -     24,500   25,600    40,600   46,204      7,165    12,971    19,077    19,077   19,117    19,162    19,21U   19,262    19,318    19,378   19,442   16,006   12,406    6,656
II.  CASII OUFLOW
Disbursenents                  -     24,500   25,600    40,600   42,700        -         -         -        -         -
Service of loans
To GOT                       -        -         -         -       3,316    6,781    12,276    18,056    18,056   18,056    18,056    18,056    18,056    18,056    18,056    18,056   14,740   11,275     5,780
Adainistration conts 2/       160       200       250       360      360       360       360       300      300       300       300      300       270       270       250       250       250      200       200
Total                       160    24,700   25,850    40,960   46,376    7,141   12,636    18,356    18,356   18,356    18,356    18,356    18,326   18,326    18,306    18,306   14,990   11,475          5,980
III. NRET CASII INFLOW (oMiFLOW)
Annual                       (160)     (200)    (250)    (360)    (172)         24       335       721      721       761       806       855       936      992     1,072     1,136    1,016        931      676
Cu-ulative                   (160)     (360)    (610)    (970)  (1,142)  (1,218)    (783)          (62)     659    1,420    2,226       3,081     4,017    5,009    6,081      7,217    8,233    9,164       9,839
il  Consisting of about 20% of ARC's total project financing; borro.ed frm 001 at 5.75% per annum interest over 15 years.
2/ Spread over 15 years, 6.51 interest per annum.
3/ Interest earned on surpluses has been calculated conservatively at 6%.
2   Spread over 15 years, 5.757 interest per annum.
/ Including imputed direct and indi-ect costs.
Februay 2, 1972



11f112
BIHAR A>RICULTURAL 2ARKElTS PROJEC;
STATE BANA OF IIILDIA
Projected cash Atlom of 1ro3ect bu-dis kin Ksiwo)
ProJect Year                              1         2         3                   5         6         7         8        9        10        11        12        13        14         15       16        17        18         19
I.  CASH INFLOW
ARC funds                                 -      24,500   25,600    4o,6oo    42,700        -         -         -         -        -         -         -          -         -          -         _        _         _        _
SBI fund.                                 -       2,900     3,100     4,8oo     4,900       -         -         -         -        -         -         -         -          -          -        _        _         _
flervice of loans by RMC's to SBI         -        -         -        4,358    8,923    16,145    23,713    23,7r1   23,717    23,717    23.717    23,717    23,717    23,717      23,717   19,359    14,794     7,572     3,208
Net inco.e on accumulated
gross surplus 6r)  3/                  -        _         _         _          147       411       878     1,438     1,622    1,818      2,025    2,254     2,496      2,753      3,02'5   3,314     3,365     3,380     3,208
TOTAL                                  -      27,400    28,700   49,758    56,670   16,556   24,591   25,155    25,339    25,535    25,742    27,971    26,213    26,470        26,742   22,673    18,159    10,952      3,208
II.  CASII OUTFLOW
Disbursements                             -      27,400    28,700    45,400    47,600                -         -        -         -         -         -          -                   -        -          -        -         -
Service of loans
to ARC                                 -        -         -         -        3,504    7,165    12,971    19,077    19,077    19,077    19,077    19,077    14,32-9   19,077     19,077   19,077    15,573    11,912     6,106
Repayment of SBI's osn funds              -        -         -         -         416       861     1,550     2,253     2,253     2,253     2,253     2,253     2,253     2,253      2,253    2,253     1,837     1,392       703
Ads,inistrstion costs.                   200        350       600       750       750       750       750      750       750       750       600       600       600       600        600     500        500       500       500
TOTAL                                 200    27,750    29,300    46,150    52,270      8,776    15,271    22,080    22,080    22,080    21,930    21,930    21,930    21,930     21,930   P1,830    17,910    13,804    7,309
III.  NET CASH INFLOW (OUrFLOW)
Annual                                  (200)      (350)    (600)    3,608      4,400     7,780     9,320     3,075     3,259    3,455     3,812     4,041     4,283      4,54o      4,812     843       249    (2,852)   (4,101)
Cumulative                              (200)      (550)   (1,150)   2,458      6,858    14,638   23,958   27,033    30,292    33,747    37,559    41,500    45,883    50,423      55,235   56,078    56,327    53,475    49,374
For details on financing, see Para. 3.16.
P From Market CommIttees; average tems:  2 years grace pertid, 12 years repayment period, 9  interest per ansmu.
Intnreat earned on surpluses bas been calculsted conservatively at 6$.
Spread over 15 yearn, 6.5%interest.
Including sub-appraisal and supervision costs as well as overhead costs.
November 16, 1971



ANNEX 16
Page 1
INDIA
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL MARKETS PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
A. Benefits
1.        Three quantifiable benefits were considered in arriving at the
economic rate of return of the Project. They are: (a) quality improvement
due to cleaning; (b) reduction of losses from excessive handling and reduc-
tion of losses from damage by weather, insects, rodents and birds through
proper covered auction platforms and godowns; and (c) reduction in costs to
town budgets from traffic congestion. There are, furthermore several
unquantifiable benefits which are also enumerated below.
(a) Quality Improvement
2.        Grain cleaning is inherently grading, since foreign matter content
seriously reduces value, and, by cleaning, the quality of produce is improved.
Grain cleaning also results in less storage losses by removal of contaminating
foreign matter. Cleaned (and graded) grain brings significantly higher
prices than improperly cleaned grain, particularly during peak market
seasons. (Reliable studies in the Punjab found up to 30% price differentials,
which finding is also supported by studies of regulated markets in Tamil
Nadu and Maharashtra.) The Project would provide 100 mechanical cleaners
with a total capacity of 1,000 tons per hour. During the peak season at
least 50% of the cleaners' capacity would be utilized, resulting in about
300,000 tons cleaned grain. For another three months, only 30% of the
capacity would be utilized; that means another 180,000 tons. In the remaining
six months 10% of the cleaners' capacity would be used which would result
in another 120,000 tons cleaned grain. Based on the studies in the states
of Punjab, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra referred to above, it is conservatively
estimated that cleaned grain in Bihar would catch at least 5% higher prices,
on an average amounting to Rs 24 million at full Project development.
Mechanical cleaning probably would become much more popular than expressed
in the above figures. Individual Market Committees (RMCs), particularly
in the irrigated areas, would certainly purchase more cleaners after four
or five years. However, benefits from using these additional cleaners
could not be directly credited to the Project.
(b-1) Reduction of Handling Losses
3.        By concentrating the marketing in a market yard, rather than in
the scattered shops of the mandi towns, savings would accrue through
reduction in handling losses. Experience in states other than Bihar
(particularly Punjab) shows a considerable increase in the percentage of



ANNEX 16
Page 2
produce coming directly to the regulated markets from producers. The
producer gains confidence in, rather than fear of, the complexities of the
marketing process. Instead of selling his grain in a hat (village market)
or to an itinerant merchant he comes to the market. This reduces the
number of times the produce is physically handled and thereby prevents
physical losses. It has been conservatively estimated that the saving
in handling losses of grain would be equivalent to at least 10 kg per
ton or 1% of grain arrivals. This saving has been calculated on about half
of the grain arrivals, since now only 25% of all grain arrivals are trans-
ported directly from the farm to the mandi, which would increase under the
Project to at least 75%. The resulting total benefit at full development
would be about Rs 9 million. This calculation is tentative, because of a
lack of precise data (the Project Evaluation Study would examine this benefit
more closely), but is nevertheless considered conservative by experts.
(b-2)     Covered Platforms and Godowns
4.        During the monsoon, about 20% of the annual grain arrivals reach
the mandies. At present, one-quarter of these arrivals lie under the open
sky for one day and even longer because of the recent production and arrival
increases in the irrigated areas. In addition, without the Project, most of
the future incremental arrivals would be unprotected against the heavy rains.
Covered platforms, provided under the Project, would help prevent these
damages. Besides, because of less congestion the commodities could also be
a,ccommodated quicker under the covered facilities. Therefore, it can be
conservatively assumed that, without the Project, these unprotected arrivals
would be partly spoiled resulting in a 0.5% lower price (or 0.5% lower
nutritional value).
5.        Most estimates regarding the average storage losses per annum for
the country as a whole range between 7% and 12%. However, these estimates
relate to the average losses on all grain produced in the country and
include grain stored in both the best storage facilities and in the worst.
Obviously, the proposed Project would not substitute for the best or even
the average of existent facilities. The proposed facilities would be used
to store grain that, under current practice, is kept under the worst possible
conditions and experiences the greatest losses. Estimates of losses in-
curred in storage in holes and in the open range to 50% and higher. When
deterioration in nutritional value is considered, losses probably approach
or exceed the 50% estimate. Most of the grain in the producing areas is
stored in the open for at least short periods in peak harvest seasons.
1The susceptibility to extensive damage from early monsoons is very pronounced
urnder these conditions.
6.        Storage losses of grain stored in modern facilities like those
which would be provided under the Project would be no higher than about 5%
to 8% as shown by detailed surveys in East Pakistan (see Annex 18 of the
India Wheat Storage Project - Report No. PA-64a of June 15, 1971). Although
it can therefore be expected that the proposed Project godowns would result
in a substantial reduction of grain storage losses, it has been very con-
servatively estimated for the economic evaluation that losses would be
reduced by only about 3% per annum. Since only about 90% of total godown



ANNEX 16
Page 3
capacity of 109,000 tons would be used during the peak harvest season from
November to January (98,000 tons); about 75% in February, September and
October (81,750 tons); and about 50% during the rest of the year; about
70,000 tons would be stored annually. Therefore, the total reduction in
storage losses is conservatively estimated at 2,100 tons per year, represent-
ing at full development a benefit of Rs 4 million per annum.
(c) Reduction in Municipal Expenses
7.        Since all wholesale marketing would be concentrated in one market
yard, a number of costs would be avoided. Producers and itinerant merchants
would no longer move back and forth through the market town to find a good
price for their commodities. They would go straight to the market yard for
auctioning and the congestion in the market town would decrease considerably.
This would result in reduction of transportation wastage (bullock carts and
trucks), municipal road maintenance costs, and garbage disposal and municipal
administration costs. It is conservatively estimated that municipal budgets
would be relieved by saving road maintenance cost of Rs 1,000,000 per annum
(200 km at Rs 5,000), and by the reduction of sanitation and garbage disposal
expenses by at least Rs 5,000 per market. Therefore, an average market town
would save about Rs 25,000 per annum.
(d) Induced Agricultural Production
8.        Perhaps one of the most significant benefits is the value of the
agricultural production induced by the higher farmers' prices. Since the
extent of the possible price increase to farmers because of the Project is
difficult to estimate and supply elasticities are not known, it was not
possible to quantify this benefit. It may be mentioned, however, that if the
project would result in a 1% increase in agricultural production at full devel-
opment, the value of the additional output would be about Rs 27 million per
annum, and the benefit attributable to the Project (market value minus farmer
production costs and marketing costs) about Rs 13 million per annum.
(e) Rural Development Benefits
9.        Another possible benefit is the rural development impact resulting
from stimulating the organized and planned growth of market towns. India
and particularly Bihar are areas with little development of population
centers between the villages and the cities. The pressures of rural poverty
cause migration and there is no alternative to village life except the cities.
The Town and Country Planning Organization would take care that markets would
be so located that they would be nuclei for town development, drawing to
the town secondary businesses ranging from consumer shops to small cottage
industries. In addition, adult education, extension services, health and
other facilities would be provided within the markets.
(f) Possible Other Benefits
10.       The following is a list of possible further benefits which have
not been quantified. Some of these are probably not quantifiable at all.



ANNEX 16
Page 4
There are many interrelations between the benefits listed below and also
with those described above.
Transportation Savings.
(i)  Farmers and itinerant merchants would bring produce
to one place rather than to several traders' shops
scattered throughout the market town.
(ii)  Distance of transport for grain sold among traders
would be reduced.
(iii)  Movement of grain within the market would be 'facili-
tated by less congestion and paved streets.
Improved Competition
(i)  Communication among middlemen would be facilitared
by their closer proximity to each other.
(ii)  Price -- Having better market information through auc-
tion sales and price posting, traders would take less
risk of paying too high a price for various grades
and qualities; they therefore would offer more on the
average.
(iii) Dispute -- a Market Committee can quickly handle many
disputes that might otherwise go to court.
(iv)  Increased price competition due to auction.
(v)  Storage -- Farmers would have the opportunity for
short- and medium-term storage in the market and thus
the opportunity for earning the gains now enjoyed by
traders from storage.
(vi)  Reputable businessmen -- Only reputable traders of
sound financial standing would be licensed. This
would reduce the farmer's risk of a trader absconding
with his fund.
(vii) Market information -- Farmers would be well-informed
of local and nearby market prices, lessening the chance
that they would sell at unreasonably low prices.
(viii)  Weighing would be done by licensed weighmen
using tested scales. This would reduce the chance of
error and fraud.



ANNEX 16
Page 5
Secondary Benefits
(i)  Convenient access to agriculture inputs, while
not quantified, would result in increased use as
well as savings.
(ii) Increased extension education contacts, increased con-
venience of farm supplies. Farmers would become more
commercially and cash-crop minded due to stimulation
of marketing own grain and meeting other commercially-
minded farmers from other villages in market. Prices
would better reflect supply and demand and thus farm-
ers would have more incentive to produce what is
wanted.
(iii) Demonstration effect:
(a)  Farmers coming to market and seeing how other
half lives.
(b)  Townspeople being uplifted by clean modern
market and emulating the spirit of it in other
endeavors.
(iv) Income multiplier:
(a) From increased farm income.
(b) From income redistribution.
(v)  Tax Revenue:
Indian agriculturalists are notoriously difficult to
tax. Excess market fees would be spent on public
improvements of greater total utility than some pri-
vate expenditures.
B. Costs
11.       Land was costed at its next best opportunity price.  An average
land rent for 1 ha unirrigated cultivated land is Rs 160 per annum. Half
of the areas expected to be selected for the market yards are now used
as public grazing lands and yield no significant return. Therefore, the
average economic cost of the land would be Rs 80 per ha. Civil works and
initial equipment investment would come to Rs 126 million including a
physical contingency of 10%. Capital costs as well as estimates of operating
expenses are set out in Annex 10.



ANNEX 16
Page 6
C. Rate of Return
12.       For the economic rate of return calculation, only the benefits
mentioned in paragraphs 2 through 7 have been taken into account. At full
de.velopment they amount to about Rs 38 million per annum. Based on these
veury conservative assumptions, the rate of return to the economy would be
about 29%. If it is assumed that the project would also result in a 1%
increase in agricultural production, (para 8), the rate of return would
increase by about 10 percentage points.
November 16, 1971



INDIA
BIhAR AGHICULTURAL MARKIETS PROJECT
Econtni Rate of Retorn Calculations in 1000 Ra
1        2          3         4        *         6         7         8         9         10        11        12      13        14      15       16      17         18        19       20
1. COSTS
Civil wor~j & equipmenlt                       25,290   55,P90   37,935    37,935                   86       129       129        86                 995   1,.493    3. 49      9                86       129      2.29       86
land rent-                                     29 11         22        39       56        56        56        56        ,6       56 56                56       56       56       56       56      56       56        56       56
Operating cots -/
State Marketing Roard               300        304       30        312       316      320       324       328       332       337       342       347      352      357      362      367    373        379       385     391
Market   Coemmittees (incremnental)   _        _         700     1,428      2,520    3,686    3,752     3,8818    3,808    3,96)      4,p34     4,110    4,188        4,268    4,352    4,438   4,526  4,616    4,71P    4,806
2/
Training & Project Eval.ation          300        350       350       250       250      250       250       250       250      250
TOTAL                               600     25,955    26,670    39,964   1r1,077     4,312    4,468    4,581    4,655       4,689     4,432     5,5o8   6,089   6,174    5,765    4,861   5,041       5,180     5,280   5,339
II. BENEFITS
Red-ction nf handling losses            -         -       1,280     2,640     4.i6u    7,200    7,400    7,600       e,000     8,200     a 6o    9,000    9,0        -,0       ,0       ,0      ,0        ,0        ,0      9,0
Reduction of hzndllng losSes     _       4S28oo    ~~9 600   16, 80 O  4 ooo    oo 2   c            44 ooo     oo       4 ooo   24 ooo  24 ooo  24 0 9o 4oo2   o    4 o                 4oo 2   0    24ooo
Quality imuprovement                    -         -       4,0       960      16,800 2,022,o                4,o      2400      24000,00            2,00  24,00 2400    2,00    4,002400                  294,oo0   24,0    2,00
Covered platfor,, and godo.ns           -         -         592     1,224    2,226      3,300    3,420    3,520    3,680    3,840        4,000    4,160   4,160    4,160    4,160    4,160   4,160       4,160     4,160    4,160
Reduction of municipal expenses         -         -         250       500       875    1,250    1,250    1,250       1,250     1,250     1,250     1,250   1,250    1,250    1,250    1,25    1,250    1,250       1,250    1,250
TOTAL                                -          -      6,922    13,964   24,661   35,750    36,070    36,370    36,930   37,290    37,850    38,41o   38,410   38,410   38,410   38,410  38,410    38,410    38,410   38,410
Residual vsluey                                                                                                                                                                                                            29,908
III. NET BENEFIT STREAl:                    (600)   (25,955)  (19,748)  (26,000)   16,416   31,438   31,602    31,789   32,275   32,601       33,418    32,902   32,321   32,236   32,645   33,549  33,369    33,230    33,130  62,979
1/ As for phasing the inventent progra., see Annex 9.
See Annexes U and 10.
§/ At. BP.  per ha.n (opportUnity cost).
See Appendix 10-3.
5/ See Annex 13i
D/ epe.ndi.g on .conomic life of inve-t.ent item,, straight 1Gm d.preciatins.
Rate of R.t.rn: 29%
October 20, 195l






k,    ,   I.               5                                         N  D  I A                   as
BIHAR AGRICULTURAL MARKETS PROJECT
j EkttirJht  >,)   ,/~~~~~~~~~~~~~o    2_;    40   0   o00                           -
KILOMETERS
f                           SitomorhlCVJusn    a_e   /R  t2F
'5 \ > ? \ / Puprn  N                    / jv Xrjrbes qanj
u T T A R                                               r         a0sqn  >otr              u Supaul<  A m h she tzA KishangOnJi
P RA D ES H           tso       l vr                  <    atM.rhgaonj   somankhi                                      2 r   6--
D   mastiour~~~~~~~~~~~~Sas ondr
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A,,, Markt towntTR
Kohenic   D   ^         i                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mok omeh Xt :l c L13=1
-25'  5            \                 I       ShBrirhicttr  ftcn5r                 3hagalpur       _Shbo;            z
hs~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SFA /v       
(    Gor~~~Sot          au                   |egm \5 
Rx X -Roads 0
MA DH Y A(                                                 r                                            -Staite boundatry
PR AD E SH                                                       WE~\,_ST   BENGAL               A    Mcrkset town
-22^ t               0   R I S S A          6*_",                                      \
L                064'                    886                                                              \ -88
DECEMBER  1971                                                                                                         IBRD - 3555RI



