CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 294 IN
Bihar Agreement
(Bihar Agricultural Markets Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
THE STATE OF BIHAR
DATED MARCH 29, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 294 IN
Bihar Agreement
(Bihar Agricultural Markets Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
THE STATE OF BIHAR
DATED MARCH 29, 1972


﻿BIHAR AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 29, 1972, between THE STATE OF BIHAR,
acting by its Governor, (hereinafter called Bihar) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS by a development credit agreement of even date herewith between
India, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association
(hereinafter referred to as the Development Credit Agreement), the Association
has agreed to male available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to fourteen million dollars ($14,000,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition inter alia
that Bihar agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association as hereinafter
set forth; and
WHEREAS by an agreement of even date herewith between the Association,
of the one part, and the Agricultural Refinance Corporation and the State Bank
of India, of the other part, the Agricultural Refinance Corporation and the State
Bank of India, respectively, have agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect
of the carrying out of the Project; and
WHEREAS Bihar, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Particular Covenants
Section 2.01. Bihar shall carry out the Project, or cause the Project to be
carried out, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound


﻿4
financial, administrative, engineering and town planning practices, and shall provide,
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. The operating policies and procedures for the carrying out
of the Project shall be as set forth in Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, as
amended from time to time.
Section 2.03. Bihar shall cause market locations to be determined only after
detailed surveys and planning by TPO and SMB, made in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph I of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. Bihar shall acquire the ownership of all such lands, interests
in land and properties and all rights, as may be necessary or proper for the
construction of the market facilities under Part A of the Project and, unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, shall make such lands available to the appropriate
Market Committee in time to permit the completion of said Part of the Project
according to the following time-table: 10 markets during the second year after
the date of this Agreement; 10 markets during the third year; 15 markets during
the fourth year; and 15 markets during the fifth year.
Section 2.05. Bihar shall cause TPO and REO to provide a Market Committee
with such technical assistance as shall be required for the Market Committee to
prepare a complete plan for the development of its respective market.
Section 2.06. Bihar shall cause REO, once the loan application shall have
been approved by SBI, to prepare the necessary detailed plans, specifications and
tender documents for the construction of the respective market, and to carry out
the supervision of said construction, including approving all payments to
contractors.
Section 2.07. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, Bihar shall
ensure that the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
under Category I shall be procured in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions
set forth in Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.08. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, Bihar shall
set, maintain and enforce uniform market fees for all regulated markets within
the territories of Bihar of not less than 1% of the value of agricultural produce
marketed.


﻿5
Section 2.09. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree and subject
to the provisions of Section 29 of the Bihar Agricultural Produce Markets Act,
1960 (Bihar Act XVI of 1960), Bihar shall, until loans to a Market Committee
have been repaid, ensure that the surplus fund of the Market Committee shall
only be used for:
(a)   the following purposes, namely,
(i)         the Market Committee's contribution to SMB as prescribed under
the laws of Bihar,
(ii)        the building of feeder roads, and
(iii)       the expansion of marketing facilities; and
(b)   notwithstanding (a) above, only after the Market Committee's current
obligations to SBI under the Project have been met.
Section 2.10. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, Bihar shall
cause SMB to employ the following qualified specialists:
(a)   By the Effective Date (i) a civil servant chief executive not below
the rank of Collector who shall have primary responsibility for the carrying out
of Part A of the Project, (ii) a Director and an Assistant Director of Agricultural
Marketing and (iii) a Chief of Marketing Information; provided that the
qualifications and experience required of the said Director of Agricultural Marketing
shall be acceptable to the Association.
(b)   Within three months after the Effective Date (i) a Chief of Grading
and Standards, (ii) an agricultural expert who will, inter alia, make projections
of market arrivals, market committee revenues and market fees and (iii) three junior
marketing specialists.
Section 2.11. (a) Bihar undertakes to insure, or cause to be insured, or make,
or cause to be made, adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Bihar shall cause the Market Committee beneficiaries of loans to take
out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory
S


﻿6
to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with sound practice.
(c)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, Bihar shall cause all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the Project.
Section 2.12. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, Bihar shall,
during each of the first three years after the Effective Date:
(a)   cause not less than three staff members of SMB to attend the
appropriate training course at the institute operated by the Borrower's Directorate
of Marketing and Inspection;
(b)   cause not less than fifteen market secretaries of the Market Committees
to attend the appropriate training course for market secretaries provided by the
Borrower; and
(c)   cause not less than 20 grading inspectors to attend the appropriate
training course provided by the Borrower.
Section 2.13. Bihar shall, within six months of the date of this Agreement,
cause SMB to enter into a contract with an institution acceptable to the Association,
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, to assist Bihar in
carrying out Part C of the Project. Any such contract shall include, inter alia,
terms of reference substantially in accordance with the Terms of Reference set
forth in the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.14. Bihar shall furnish to the Association, or cause TPO and REO
to furnish to the Association, within three months of the Effective Date, a series
of model market lay-outs and model plans, specifications, and tender documents
which model documents shall after approval by the Association be the basis for
the documents to be used for each individual market to be constructed under
Part A of the Project; provided that if the model lay-outs, plans and specifications
and tender documents approved by the Association for a particular market facility
shall be modified or changed in any material respect, Bihar shall ensure that the
requirements of paragraph 3 of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement
are fully carried out by TPO and REO.
Section 2.15. Bihar: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress
of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in
0


﻿7
the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect the Project,
the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents:
and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.16. Bihar shall cause Market Committee beneficiaries of loans (i)
to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices their operations and financial condition, and (ii) to
furnish to the Association and SBI such information concerning such accounts and
financial statements as the Association and SBI, respectively, shall from  time to
time reasonably request.
Section 2.17. Bihar and the Association shall cooperate fully to assure that
the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, Bihar and the
Association shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purpose of
the Credit.
Section 2.18. Bihar and the Association shall promptly inform each othei
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the performance by either of them
of its obligations under this Agreement, the perfonnance by any party to the Project
Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, or the Refinance Agreement of their
respective obligations thereunder.
Section 2.19. Bihar shall take and shall cause all its agencies to take all
action which shall be necessary on their part to enable (i) ARC to perlorm all
of its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and (ii) ARC and SBI
to perforn all of their respective obligations under the Project Agreement and
the Refinance Agreement, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which might interfere with the performance of any such obligations of ARC or
SBI.
Section 2.20. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, Bihar shall
cause the Market Committees to lease the storage godowns and traders' shops as
set forth in Schedule I to the Project Agreement, provided, however, that as far
as practicable the leases for the proposed godowns and traders' shops shall be
executed before the markets have been constructed.


﻿8
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the
Effective Date. If the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate pursuant to
Section 10.04 of the General Conditions, the Association shall promptly notify
Bihar of this event and, upon the giving of such notice, this Agreement and all
obligations of the parties hereunder shall forthwith terminate.
Section 3.02. This Agreement shall terminate and all obligations of Bihar
and the Association hereunder shall cease and terminate on the date on which
the Project Agreement terminates in accordance with its terms.
Section 3.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any partial cancellation or suspension tinder the
Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 4.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For Bihar:
Agricultural Production Commissioner,
Sachaivalaya
Patna
Cable address:
Agricultural Production Commissioner,
Patna


﻿9
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
Section 4.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of Bihar, may be taken or executed by the Secretary to the Government of Bihar
or such other person or persons as Bihar shall designate in writing.
Section 4.03. Bihar shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of Bihar, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by Bihar pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 4.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts. each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN  WITNESS    WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through      their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
THE STATE OF BIHAR
By /s / L. K. Jha
Authorized Representatire
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿10
SCHEDULE
Terms of Reference for an Evaluation
of the Bihar Agricultural Markets
Purpose
1.    To examine the changing marketing pattern and to estimate the benefits
resulting from setting up of the Bihar agricultural markets.
Or,ganization
2.    SMB will contract with an appropriate research institution acceptable to the
Association to undertake the evaluation. The contract will specify, inter alia.
(a)   the senior research officer who will be in charge of the evaluation
and the personnel who will collect the data and perform the analysis,
(b)   the time period for data collection, analysis and reporting; and
(c)   the compensation to be paid to the institution by SMB and the time
of payment.
Specific Objectives (Guidelines)
3.    The behavior of the following factors will be specifically evaluated before
and after the setting up of the markets:
(a)   net prices (after market charges) received by farmers;
(b)   wholesale market prices;
(c)   margins between (b) and (a);
(d)   costs of marketing;
(e)   losses in transporting the grain from   farms to market yards;
(f)   handling losses in the market yards -- including those due to uncovered
platforms;
(g)   storage losses;


﻿*                                  11
(h)   storage costs;
(i)   quantities of grain marketed in the market yards;
(j)   market arrivals: seasonal pattern of marketings;
(k)   market intelligence   available to  cultivators on  prices, supplies,
production, etc.;
(1)   market intelligence available to market functionaries on prices, supplies,
etc.;
(m)   quantities and pattern of grain dispatches to major terminal markets;
(n)   difference between prices prevailing in the newly constructed regulated
markets and those in the major terminal markets;
(o)   number of market functionaries (i.e. traders, commission agents,
brokers and employees for weighing, cleaning, bagging, loading,
unloading, grading, etc.);
(p)   quantities of grain cleaned before selling in the yard, as proportion
of total market arrivals; and
(q)   differences between the prices received for cleaned and uncleaned grain.
Research Methodology (Guidelines)
4.    Five markets to be constructed in the first year of the Credit disbursement
and five additional markets to be constructed in the second year of the Credit
disbursement will be selected for evaluation. The selection of the markets will be
such as to allow as much variation in the volume and area of their operations
as possible. Data collection will commence not less than six months prior to start
oi construction, and will continue for two years subsequent to the completion
of the markets.
5.    One investigator will be assigned per market studied. If the investigator cannot
be located in the market center, he should be able to make frequent trips to the
market yard, e.g. two trips per week in the offseason and continuous stay in the
market place for two or three months after the major harvest.
6.    Data gathering will be a combination of statistical information and careful
direct observation.


﻿12
7.    In gathering information on the terms listed under specific objectives, the
following considerations will receive prime attention:
(a)   every effort will be made to collect prices of comparable varieties and
grades of a particular crop; and
(b)   if there is no system of open auction and if no machinery is in existence
for maintenance of price records, maximum, minimum and the most
common prices prevailing in the market will be collected. For the
purpose of this study daily, and if that is not feasible at least weekly,
wholesale prices will be maintained.
8.    The estimates of market arrivals will be as complete as possible from the
commencement of the study.
9.    If it is not possible to collect data from all the traders on their purchase
and sale operations, data from at least five major wholesalers and/or commission
agents will be collected.
10.   Direct observation will involve maintenance of a diary by each investigator
in which detailed information will be maintained on the following factors:
(a)   each year's production of principal crops in the tahsil and/or district
in which the market is located; distribution of farm sizes in the area;
if possible, information on whether marketings come from small or
large farmers;
(b)   population of the district;
(c)   major terminal markets to which supplies are usually shipped;
(d)   description of rail and road connections joining the markets with feeder
markets and with terminal markets;
(e)   description of availability of transport facilities generally and during
specific seasons; difficulties encountered by traders in acquiring
transport;
(f)   number and types of market functionaries;
(g)   description of existing storage facilities;


﻿13
(h)   data on storage losses by interviewing traders regarding length and type
of storage;
(i)   interviews of cultivators regarding their views on market facilities,
importance of cleaning, market charges, availability of credit, their
general bargaining position, interest rates, etc.; and
(j)   description of availability of market intelligence to traders and to
cultivators.
Analysis of the Data
11.   The data collected for each market will be made available to the Borrower
and Bihar for analysis. The data will also be made available to the Association
annually to enable it to conduct an evaluation of the Project. A report will be
prepared by the senior research officer annually. The report will include analysis
of the statistical information collected in the previous year and the direct
observations made by the research investigators to evaluate the effects of the
improvements on the marketing system.


