CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 294 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Bihar Agricultural Markets Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 29, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 294 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Bihar Agricultural Markets Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 29, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 29, 1972, between INDIA, acting by its
President  (hereinafter  called  the   Borrower)   and    INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   By an agreement of even date herewith between the State of Bihar,
acting by its Governor, and the Association, the State of Bihar has agreed to
undertake certain obligations in respect of the carrying out of the Project;
(C)   By an agreement of even date herewith between the Association,
Agricultural Refinance Corporation and State Bank of India, certain obligations
in respect of the carrying out of the Project have been undertaken by Agricultural
Refinance Corporation and State Bank of India; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   Section 5.01 is deleted;
(b)   Section 6.02 (h) is deleted and Section 6.02 (i) becomes 6.02 (h);


﻿4
(c)  in Section 2.01, the following paragraph is substituted for paragraph 5:
"5. The term 'Borrower' means India, acting by its President."
(d)  in Section 2.01, the following paragraph is added after paragraph 12:
"13. The terms 'Project Agreement' and 'Bihar Agreement' have the
meanings set forth in the Development Credit Agreement."
(e)   in Section 6.06, the words ", the Project Agreement and the Bihar
Agreement" are added after the words "the Development Credit Agreement".
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Bihar" means the State of Bihar, a state of India, or any successor
thereof.
(b)   "ARC"   means Agricultural Refinance Corporation, a statutory
corporation established and existing under the laws of the Borrower.
(c)   "SBl" means the State Bank of India, a scheduled bank organized
and existing under the State Bank of India Act, 1955, of the Borrower.
(d)   "SMB" means the Bihar State Agricultural Marketing Board provided
for in the Bihar Agricultural Produce Markets Act, 1960 (Bihar Act XVI of 1960),
as amended by the Bihar Agricultural Produce Markets (Amendment) Ordinance,
1972.
(e)   "Market Committee" means a Market Committee established pursuant
to the provisions of the Act referred to in (d) above.
(f)   "TPO" means the Town Planning Organization, an agency of Bihar.
(g)   "REO" means Rural Engineering Organization, an agency of Bihar.
(h)   "Bihar Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between Bihar and the Association, and the schedule thereto, as the same may
be amended from time to time.


﻿5
(i)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement of even date herewith
between the Association, ARC and SBI, and all schedules thereto as the same may
be amended from time to time.
(j)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and ARC pursuant to Section 3.01 (c) hereof, and all
schedules thereto, if any, as the same may be amended from time to time with
the approval of the Association.
(k)   "Refinance Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between ARC and SBI pursuant to Section 2.03 (b) of the Project Agreement,
and all schedules thereto, if any, as the same may be amended from time to time
with the approval of the Association.
(1)   "loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by SBI to a Market
Committee for purposes of carrying out Part A of the Project and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(m)   "Category" means a category of the allocation of the proceeds of the
Credit set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to fourteen million dollars ($14,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement, provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from. such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit under Category 1 shall


﻿6
be procured in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1978 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January 15
and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn from the Credit Account in semi-annual installments payable on each
January 15   and    July 15   commencing    July 15, 1982    and   ending
January 15, 2022, each installment to and including the installment payable on
January 15, 1992 to be one-half of une per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%)
of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project, or cause the
Project to be carried out, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with sound financial, administrative, engineering and town planning practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
(b)  In order to assist Bihar in carrying out Parts B and C of the Project,
the Borrower shall make available to Bihar the proceeds of the Credit under
Category 11.
(c)  The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit under Category
I to ARC under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the


﻿7
Borrower and ARC under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
including those set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its agencies to
take all action which shall be necessary on their part to enable (i) Bihar to perform
all of its obligations under the Bihar Agreement; (ii) ARC to perform all of its
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and (iii) ARC and SBI to perform
all of their respective obligations under the Project Agreement and the Refinance
Agreement; and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which might
interfere with the performance of any such obligations of Bihar, ARC or SBI.
Section 3.03. The operating policies and procedures for the carrying out
of the Project shall be as set forth in Schedule I to the Project Agreement, as
the same may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower,
Bihar, and the Association, and ARC and SBI or both to the extent such
amendments affect the participation of ARC and SBI in carrying out Part A of
the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall insure, or cause to be insured, or make,
or cause to be made, adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause ARC and SBI to maintain records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices their operations and financial condition.


﻿8
(b) The Borrower shall cause ARC and SBI to: (i) establish and maintain
separate accounts in respect of all funds disbursed and received on account of
the Project; (ii) have their accounts and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (iii) furnish to the Association
as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after the end
of each such year, (A) certified copies of their financial statements for such year
as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish
to the Association such other information concerning their accounts and financial
statements and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by Bihar of its obligations under the Bihar Agreement,
the performance by ARC of its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement,
the performance by ARC and SBI of their respcctive obligations under the Project
Agreement and the Refinance Agreement, the administration, operations and
financial condition of ARC and SBI and, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request


﻿*                                              9
concerning the operations and financial condition of ARC and SBI and, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement, the performance by Bihar of its obligations under the Bihar
Agreement, the performance by ARC of its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and the performance by ARC and SBI of their respective obligations
under the Project Agreement and the Refinance Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes relater to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement, the Bihar Agreement and
the Project Agreement shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the
execution, delivery or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance


﻿10
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   Bihar shall have failed to perform  any of its obligations under the
Bihar Agreement.
(b)   ARC shall have failed to perform  any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement, the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the Refinance Agreement.
(c)   SBI shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project
Agreement or the Refinance Agreement.
(d)   ARC or SBI shall have become unable to pay any of its debts as they
mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by ARC or SBI or by
others whereby any of the property of ARC or SBI shall or may be distributed
among its creditors.
(e)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of ARC, SBI or SMB or
for the suspension of its operations.
(f)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that (i) Bihar will be able to perform its obligations under the Bihar
Agreement, or (ii) ARC will be able to perfonn its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, or (iii) ARC or SBI will be able to perform their respective
obligatioys under the Project Agreement or the Refinance Agreement.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   Any event specified in paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of Section 7.02 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower and the
defaulting party.
(b)   Any event specified in paragraph (d) or (e) of Sectici 7.02 of this
Agreement shall occur.


﻿11
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional coiditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)  rhe Bihar Agreement has been duly executed and delivered on behalf
of Bihar and has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental
action.
(b)   The Project Agreement and the Refinance Agreement have been duly
execuk-.d and delivered on behalf of ARC and SBI and have been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
(c)   The Subsidiary Loan Agreement has bt-ee, July executed and delivered
on behalf of the Borrower and ARC and has been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
(d)   SMB has been established and the personnel referred to in Section
2.10 (a) of the Bihar Agreement have been employed by SMB.
(e)   The market fees referred to in Section 2.08 of the Bihar Agreement
have been brought into effect.
(f)   SBI has appointed the personnel referred to in Section 2.06 of the
Project Agreement.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   That the Bihar Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, Bihar, and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of Bihar in accordance with its terms.
(b)   That the Project Agreement and the Refinance Agreement have been
duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, ARC
and SBI, respectively, and constitute valid and binding obligations of ARC and
SBI in accordance ith their terms.


﻿12
(c)  That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and ARC,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
ARC in accordance with its terms.
Section 8.03. The date July 31, 1972 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. The obligations of the Borrower under paragraphs (b), (c) and
(d) of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and Article IV of this Agreement, and
the provisions of Sections 7.02 and 7.03 of this Agreement shall cease and
terminate on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on a date twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall
be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary or Joint Secretary to the
Government of India in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower or the
Director/Deputy Secretary of the Department of Economic Affairs in the Ministry
of Finance of the Borrower, acting singly, is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
Ecofairs
New Delhi


﻿13
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INDIA
By /s / L. K. Jha
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿14
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated             % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
I.    ARC's refinancing             12,850,000         75% of total ex-
inder Part A of                                  penditures
the Project (ex-
cluding land)
II.  Training and                     150,000          63% of total ex-
evaluation                                        penditures
III.  Unallocated                    1,000,000
TOTAL         14,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any member of the Bank (other than the Borrower) or of Switzerland;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.


﻿15
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph 1 above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph 1 above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under Category I or II shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under Category I or II shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph 1 above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association   shall have reasonably  determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph 1 above, if the estimate of total expenditures under Category II shall


﻿16
increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to such
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, which forms part of a program to develop regulated agricultural
markets throughout the territories of the Borrower, consists of the following:
Part A:     The provision of facilities (including inter alia land, equipment,
entrance roads, fencing, utilities and office space) for such regulated
markets, owned and controlled by the Market Committees, in about
50 towns in Bihar.
Part B:     The training of (i) senior personnel of SMB; (ii) market secretaries
of the Market Committees; and (iii) qualified grading inspectors.
Part C:     The evaluation of the marketing function in a sample of towns under
the Project, before and after the completion of the facilities under
Part A.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1978.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    TPO shall prepare a series of model market lay-outs and REO shall prepare
model plans, specifications and tender documents which shall be furnished to the
Association for its approval within 3 months after the Effective Date.
2.    With regard to any contract for the construction of market facilities under
the Project:
(a)   TPO shall prepare the lay-out for each individual market, and
(b)   REO shall prepare the detailed plans and specifications and tender
documents for each individual market.
3.    If any model lay-outs, plans and specifications and tender documents
approved by the Association for a particular market facility shall be changed or
modified in a material respect, said lay-outs, plans and specifications and tender
documents as so changed or modified shall be furnished to the Association before
any advertising for tenders for construction of such market facility is made. The
Association chall within 30 days after receipt of such changed or modified lay-outs,
plans, specifications and tender documents comment thereon or object thereto.
Such lay-outs, plans, specifications and tender documents shall be further modified
in such manner as the Association shall reasonably request, before any advertising
for tenders for the construction of such market facility shall be made. No such
tenders shall be advertized should the Association reasonably object to said lay-outs,
plans, specifications and tender documents within said period of 30 days.
4.    The bidding procedures shall be carried out according to the laws and
procedures applicable to civil works contracts of Bihar. Awards shall be made
subject to the final approval of SMB.
5.    REO shall be responsible for the supervision of the construction and the
approval of all payments to contractors.
6.    After final certification of completion by REO, a retention of 10% of the
amounts due to the contractor in respect of the contract shall be withheld until
final approval and acceptance by the Market Committee and SMB of the facility
or facilities constructed.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 4
Principal Terms of Relending Agreement
Lending Terms
To ARC from    the Borrower
(a)   Term: 15 years;
(b)   Repayment terms: annual with a grace period of up to 3 years (if
any);
(c)   Interest rate: 6% per annum, with 1/4% rebate for prompt repayment
of principal and interest; and
(d)   Exchange risk: for the account of the Borrower.


