CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 294 IN
Project Agreement
(Bihar Agricultural Markets Project)
BETWEEN
0
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
AND
STATE BANK OF INDIA
DATED MARCH 29, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 294 IN
Project Agreement
(Bihar Agricultural Markets Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
AND
STATE BANK OF INDIA
DATED MARCH 29, 1972


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 29, 1972, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION (hereinafter called ARC) and
STATE BANK OF INDIA (hereinafter called SBI).
WHEREAS by a development credit agreement of even date herewith between
India, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association
(hereinafter referred to as the Development Credit Agreement), the Association
has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to fourteen million dollars ($14,000,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition inter alia
that ARC and SBI agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association
as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by an agreement of even date herewith between the State of
Bihar, acting by its Governor, (hereinafter called Bihar) and the Association, Bihar
*       has agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect of the carrying out of the
Project;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and ARC, the proceeds of the Credit under Category I will be made
available to ARC, and ARC in turn will make the said proceeds available to SBI
by a refinance agreement to be entered into between ARC and SBI; and
WHEREAS ARC and SBI, in consideration of the Association's entering into
the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. ARC and SBI shall carry out that portion of Part A of the
Project for which they are respectively required to make funds available under
the Project, or cause said portion to be carried out, with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with sound financial, administrative, engineering and town
planning practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. The operating policies and procedures for the carrying out
of the Project shall be as set forth in Schedule 1 hereto as the same may be
amended by agreement between the Association, ARC and SBl.
Section 2.03. (a) ARC shall enter into a subsidiary loan agreement with the
Borrower under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Association, including those set forth in Schedule 4 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
(b)   ARC and SBI shall enter into a refinance agreement under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Association, including those set
forth in Schedule 2 hereto.
(c)   ARC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and ARC and SBI shall duly perform all their respective obligations
under the Refinance Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
ARC and SBI shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect
of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving said Agreements or any provision
thereof.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SBI shall, as
far as practicable, cause Market Committee beneficiaries of loans to lease the storage
godowns and the traders' shops to be constructed under the Project in accordance
with the requirements of paragraph 3 of Schedule I hereto.
Section 2.05. SBI shall designate an officer of appropriate rank in its Central
Office in Bombay to be responsible for overall loan operations of SBI.
Section 2.06. SBI shall appoint and maintain an agricultural marketing unit
in its regional office in Patna to appraise loan applications, which unit shall include
one marketing specialist, one financial analyst and one civil engineer, with


﻿5
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association. SBI shall provide these
personnel with expenses and transportation for field work in connection with
appraisals of proposed loans, monitoring of expenditures, and supervision of Market
Committees during the loan repayment period.
Section 2.07. SBI: (i) shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records
adequate to record the progress of Part A of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's
representatives, or cause them  to be enabled, to inspect the goods financed out
of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish
to the Association or cause the Association to be furnished all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
Section 2.08. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SBI shall
ensure that all goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
under Category I shall be procured in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions
set forth in Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ARC and SBI
Section 3.01. ARC and SBI shall: (a) at all times manage their affairs,
maintain their financial position, plan their future expansion and carry on their
operations, all in accordance with sound business and financial practices and under
the supervision of experienced and competent management assisted by experienced
and competent staff in adequate number; and (b) take all steps necessary to acquire,
maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary
or useful in the conduct of their business or in the carrying out of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. ARC and SBI shall, and SBI shall cause Market Committee
beneficiaries of loans to, maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices their operations and financial
condition.


﻿6
Section 4.02. ARC and SBI shall, and SBI shall cause Market Committee
beneficiaries of loans to: (i) establish and maintain separate accounts in respect
of all funds disbursed and received on account of the Project; (ii) have their accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (iii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
not later than four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested, including a certification that to the best of the auditors'
knowledge, all loans have been made for purposes of the Project; and (iv) furnish
to the Association such other information concerning their accounts and financial
statements and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Association, ARC and SBI shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association,
ARC and SBI shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange
views through their representatives with regard to the performance of their
respective obligations under this Agreement, the obligations of ARC under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the respective obligations of ARC and SBI under the
Refinance Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition of
ARC or SBI and other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit.
Section 5.02. The Association, ARC and SBI shall promptly inform each
other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by any of them
of their respective obligations under the Agreements referred to in Section 5.01
hereof.
Section 5.03. ARC and SBI shall enable the Association's representatives to
inspect all properties and their respective records and documents relevant to the
Project.


﻿7
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the
Effective Date.
Section 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of ARC and SBI thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two
dates:
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       a date when all principal amounts withdrawn by ARC under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and by SBI under the Refinance
Agreement, shall have been repaid.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify ARC and SBI of this event and, upon the giving
of such notice, this Agreement and all obligations of the parties thereunder shall
forthwith terminate.
Section 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any partial cancellation or suspension under the
Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 7.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿8
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
For ARC:
Managing Director
Agricultural Refinance Corporation
Shri Niketan
F Block
Shiv Sagar Estate
Dr. Annie Besant Road
Worli, Bombay, 18 W.B.
India
Cable address:
Agrofinans
Bombay
For SBI:
State Bank of India
Central Office
Bombay 1, B.R.
India
Cable address:
Apex
Bombay
Section 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf


﻿9
of (i) ARC may be taken or executed by its Managing Director or such other
person or persons as ARC shall designate in writing; and (ii) SBI may be taken
or executed by its Managing Director or such other person or persons as SBI shall
designate in writing.
Section 7.03. ARC and SBI shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of ARC and SBI, take any action or execute any documents
required or permitted to be taken or executed by ARC and SBI, respectively,
pursuant to any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / J. Burke Knapp
Vice President
AGRICULTURAL REFINANCE CORPORATION
By /s / L. K. Jha
Authorized Representative
STATE BANK OF INDIA
By /s / L. K. Jha
Authorized Representative


﻿10
SCHEDULE 1
Operating Policies and Procedures
1.    Plans for market development
All Market Committees wishing to participate in the Project shall, with the
assistance of TPO and REO, prepare plans for the development of market yards
and shall submit them to SMB for final approval.
Such plans shall include:
(a)   survey and land preparation to ensure adequate drainage and sanitary
facilities in an area sufficient to handle arrivals projected at least 10
years in the future;
(b)   lay-outs including entrance roads;
(c)   internal surfacing;
(d)   fencing;
(e)   utilities, including electricity and potable water for human and animal
consumption;
(f)   office complex;
(g)   platforms;
(h)   cleaning and grading equipment;
(i)   godowns to be operated as a public warehouse for use by the farmers
through the State Warehousing Corporation or other appropriate
agency or organization recognized in this behalf by Bihar and as an
overflow for the traders in the market area. This storage shall be in
addition to the private storage to be owned and operated by the
traders; and
(j)   traders' shops.
The plans for the market shall wherever necessary also provide for locations
for a bank, a post office, extension services, cooperative marketing and credit
associations and input shops.


﻿*                                   11
In designing said plans, the following shall inter alia be taken into account:
(a)   current and projected quantities of produce coming to the market;
(b)   the total land area needed, based on the projected quantities;
(c)   the availability of alternative sites within or near the market town;
(d)   the availability of utilities and access to roads and other modes of
transport, and traffic flows of the town in relation to the prospective
site;
(e)   a topographic survey of the prospective site for sanitary and drainage
purposes; and
(f)   the buildings, equipment, roadways and other facilities necessary for
proper development of the market yard.
2.    Appraisal of loan applications
The market development plans approved by SMB shall be submitted to SBI.
SBI shall prepare an appraisal report which shall include an evaluation of the
technical, financial and organizational aspects of the market for which finance is
sought.
SBI shall submit the loan application and all supporting documentation and
its appraisal report to ARC. ARC, after reviewing such documents and verifying
the date and conclusions therein to its satisfaction will advise SBI of its approval
or disapproval of the particular loan for purposes of refinancing.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, loans shall be made only
where the appraisal report shows that:
(a)   the area of the market yard shall be at least 6 hectares, and shall
be increased by 1 hectare for every 20 ton/day of average market
arrivals (calculated on an annual basis) in excess of 125 ton/day;
(b)   the main roads within the market yard         and the entrance road
connecting   the   market   yard  to   main   thoroughfare   shall be
hard-surfaced;
(c)   a fence shall be constructed;


﻿12
(d)   water and sewer supply system shall be constructed in accordance with
minimum standards of the Indian Standards Institute;
(e)   a minimum   of 20 traders' shops shall be built;
(f)   display platforms having a surfaced area of at least 1,000 m2 in the
aggregate shall be built; and
(g)   a storage godown of 1,000 ton capacity shall be built in each market
having an average arrival of more than 150 ton/day, or promptly after
the market reaches said rate of arrivals.
3.    Leases of market facilities
Market Committee beneficiaries of loans shall lease land within the market
yard financed thereunder for banks, post offices, cooperative marketing and credit
associations, and to private vendors for input shops. A Market Committee shall
also lease the storage godowns to the State Warehousing Corporation or any
organization or agency mentioned in paragraph 1 (i) of this Schedule and the
traders' shops to private wholesalers and traders. These leases shall have terms of
not less than one year, and shall carry a rental based on all operating costs to
the Market Committee concerned, including a proper portion of administrative
costs, interest expense, depreciation, maintenance costs and utility services. All
leases shall be conditioned upon proper use and maintenance of the facility. No
construction shall be permitted on such leases without approval of the specific
plans and specifications by SMB and TPO to ensure conformity with marketing
planning.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 2
Principal Terms of Relending Agreements
1.    To SBI from ARC
(a)   Amount: ARC shall refinance 85% of the total investment costs other
than land.
(b)   Repayment terms: set to coincide, more or less, with expected
collections of loans.
(c)   Interest rate: 6-1/2% per annum.
2.    To Market Committees from SBI
(a)   Amount: SBI shall finance 95% of the total investment costs other
than land.
(b)   Repayment terms: up to 15 years including 2, and exceptionally up
to 3, years of grace.
(c)   Interest rate: 9% per annum.
(d)   Interest to be paid on outstanding balance.


