Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24183
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-42080; SCL-42081; SCL-42090; SCL-42091; TF-29119)
ON TWO
LOANS
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$4 MILLION AND DEM 5.2 MILLION,
AND US$8 MILLION AND DEM 12 MILLION
TO
THE BANK FOR SOCIO-ECONOMIC INITIATIVES
AND POWSZECHNY BANK KREDYTOWY RESPECTIVELY
FOR THE POLAND
MUNICIPAL FINANCE PROJECT
June 12, 2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective May 9, 2002)
Currency Unit = Polish Zloty (PLN)
PLN 1 = US$ 0.247
US$ 1 = PLN 4.05
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BISE          Bank Inicjatyw Spoleczno-Ekonomicznych SA(Bank for Socio-Economic
Initiatives)
CEM           Country Economic Memorandum
ETP           Economic Transformation Program
EU            European Union
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
IDF           Institutional Development Fund
LSGA          Local Self Govermnent Act
MDA           Municipal Development Agency
MFP           Municipal Finance Project
MoF           Ministry of Finance
NBP           National Bank of Poland
NFOS          National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Resources
PBK           Powszechny Bank Kredytowy SA w Warszawie (General Credit Bank)
PFA           Public Finance Act
PHRD          Policy and Human Resources Development
PPL           Public Procurement Law
PPO           Public Procurement Office
QAG           Quality Assurance Group
RIO           Regional Audit Chambers
USAID         United States - Agency for Intemational Development
WFOS          Voivodship Funds for Environmental Protection
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager/Director:   Michael F. Carter
Sector Manager/Director:  Paul J. Siegelbaum
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Rochelle Hilton



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
POLAND
MUNICIPAL FINANCE PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               6
6. Sustainability                                                                   7
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                    8
8. Lessons Learned -                                                               10
9. Partner Comments                                                                11
10. Additional Information                                                         16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                               17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                               18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                               19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                               20
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components               21
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                  22
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                              23






Project ID: P03 5082                                     |Project Name: MUNICIPAL FINANCE
Team Leader: Rochelle Hilton                             TL Unit: ECSPF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: June 12, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: MUNICIPAL FINANCE                             L/C/TF Number: SCL42080;
SCL42081;
SCL42090;
SCL42091; TF-291 19
Country/Department: POLAND                                              Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: FY - Other Finance
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:   11/05/1994                             Effective:                    05/11/1997
Appraisal:  03/25/1996                               MTR:                       06/26/2000
Approval:  10/07/1997                              Closing:                    12/31/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency: Bank for Socio-Economic Initiatives (BISE) & Powszechny Bank Kredytowy SA
w Warszawie (PBK)
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Johannes F. Linn                          Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager:     Michael F. Carter                         Hans Apitz (acting)
Sector Manager:      Paul J. Siegelbaum                        Michel Noel
Team Leader at ICR:  Rochelle Hilton                           Daniel Oks
ICR Primary Author:  Michael Gascoyne
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The main goal of this project was to promote development of a commercial credit market for municipal
investment in Poland.
Assessment of objective:
The Project objective was sound, appropriate and closely aligned with the country's development needs, as
set forth in the 1994 Country Assistance Strategy. The Project incorporated many lessons from earlier
projects, including the need to maintain a tight focus on the core issues and the need to keep the project
design simple.
3.2 Revised Objective:
N/A
3.3 Original Components:
The project pursued two inter-related objectives. It sought: (a) to provide long-term financial resources to
commercial banks for municipal lending in the infrastructure sector; and (b) to assist banks to identify and
prepare a sustained pipeline of viable investment projects, backed by creditworthy municipalities or local
utilities. To this end, the project comprised a line of credit to BISE and a line of credit to PBK
3.4 Revised Components:
N/A
3.5 Quality at Entry:
A quality at entry review, performed subsequent to project appraisal, rated the project as margiall
satisfactory. The panel was impressed with the significant contributions already made by the Bank in the
sector and with many of the elements of the project design, particularly:
(i)    The project built on good economic and sector work which had already strorigly influenced the
evolution of the sector.
(ii)   The project had clear and modest objectives and the design was simple and focused.
(iii) The project team had worked in close collaboration with other donors active in the sector.
(iv) Many lessons learned elsewhere were incorporated during project preparation, especially the
promotion of a private sector led approach to developing a sustainable municipal finance market. The
Municipal Development Fund concept, initially supported by the government, was abandoned during
preparation because the commercial banking system had developed sufficiently to permit direct bank
borrowing/intermediation.
While acknowledging the many qualities of the Project, the panel also noted that:
(i)    The size of the banking component had been reduced to such an extent that the developmental
impact was likely to be limited.
(ii)   Credit lines in Poland had previously performed poorly and, despite having taken a number of
measures to guard against slow disbursement, a number of risks still remained. The panel was particularly
concerned that the transaction costs associated with the Bank's procurement arrangements and appraisal
- 2 -



criteria would stifle demand for the credit line.
(iii)  The panel noted that, although this project would be the Bank's first use of direct loans to
commercial banks for long term lending to the municipal sector and could therefore have considerable value
as a pilot or a demonstration effort, it lacked some of the basic elements of a pilot.
Based on the panel's comments, the Project team introduced some amendments to the project's design
during negotiations in order to reduce the transaction costs associated with the Bank's processes and hence
to make the product more attractive to end users.
The project was consistent with the CAS and in line with the Government's priority to devolve to the local
level responsibility for municipal infrastructure investment. It was based on solid and extensive sector
work, addressed a clearly identified constraint in the provision of financing for the local govemment
investment needs and carefully considered what would be the most effective and appropriate delivery
mechanism. In addition, substantial attention was paid to identifying a potential investment pipeline and in
the institutional development of the MDA in anticipation of the role it could play in the future in assisting
municipalities in the development of bankable investment projects.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The commercial credit market for municipal investment in Poland has experienced tremendous growth since
the mid 90's. In terms of volume of lending, the project had a positive, though very limited, impact on the
this development. The Project's greatest impact was felt through the institutional development of the
municipal development agency, the participating banks and the local municipalities. The transfer of
responsibility for local infrastructure to municipalities led to a substantial increase in demand for longer
term municipal credit. However, commercial banks, constrained by a lack of long-term deposits or other
sources of longer term funding, were unable to provide the credit needed by the municipalities. From the
early 1990's the Bank had been actively engaging the Govemment in discussions regarding the future
development of the municipal sector and the means by which local infrastructure projects could be
financed. Many of the ideas generated through these discussions and through studies of the sector were
reflected in the 1994 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) document, which earmarked funding for the
MFP. During the three years that it took to prepare the MFP, the Bank held extensive discussions with
central government, local governments and the commercial banks to deternine the most appropriate
funding structure for the sector (leading the Government, appropriately, to abandon its earlier decision to
establish a specialized municipal development fund) and developed a pipeline of investment projects that
could be funded from the credit line. As can be seen from the graph below, it was during the preparation
phase of the MFP that local governments began to bring debt on to their balance sheets. Local government
borrowing has grown exponentially since 1993 and the majority of this borrowing is from commercial
banks.
-3 -



Table 4.la
Municipal Financing
8
7
6 5 -                                  11    * Commercial
.25                                                Bank Borrow ing
o4                                                 (no data pre-
0                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1998)
3                                            W ,11S, | Total Borrowing
1
One of the key perfornance indicators of the Project was to achieve a real 5% annual growth rate in
commercial infrastructure funding; the actual real compounded growth rate since 1998 has been 30%. This
cannot be entirely attributed to the Project but, as the participating banks have indicated, the technical work
undertaken through the project contributed substantially to their expansion into this market. The Project
also aimed to encourage the participating banks to increase the use of their own funds to finance
municipalities; between 1998 and 2001, the Bank for Socio-Economic Initiatives (BISE) extended loans
totalling PLN 328 million to local municipalities including PLN 28 million from the MFP credit line. All
the MFP loans are current in respect of interest payments. Though the majority of loans are still within the
grace period (3 year maximum), the 3 loans which are in the amordzation period are also current with
respect to principal repayments.
Table 4.lb
BISE - Loan Portfolio
90- 
19B           99         0        20
=Aa3~~             ~   ~~~~~~~~~~  4 -
0 60
400 ~ ~ ~   ~   ~    ~   ~   4



From approximately 100 municipalities which expressed an interest in participating in the MFP, the
Municipal Development Agency (MDA) pre-screened 50 infrastructure projects (PHRD funded), of which
12 then underwent feasibility studies (EU Phare funded). Unfortunately, none of the projects identified
through this exercise was ultimately financed from the MFP credit line, though they may have been funded
by other banks (the municipalities were free to select any available source of credit). It was envisaged
during Project preparation that the MDA would act as a consultant to the municipalities, putting them in
contact with suitable commercial banks and helping them to prepare the technical and financial plans
needed by the banks. However, municipalities tended to sequence the preparation of projects differently;
first preparing a study, then contracting for the works and only when all this was in place would they seek a
source of financing. Further, the commercial banks generally preferred to work directly with the
municipalities, imposing their own, as opposed to the MDA's, documentation standards on the
municipalities. Thus the MDA did not develop the 'consultancy' role envisaged for it and, apart from the
initial batch of infrastructure projects, did not work directly with municipalities to maintain a pipeline of
projects. The MDA, with support from the Bank, did hold a large number of training and information
dissemination events throughout the country. It is likely that these events encouraged a number of
municipalities to seek commercial debt financing to fund their infrastructure development needs and hence,
indirectly, the MDA may have contributed to the maintenance of a pipeline of infrastructure projects. In
conclusion, while the publicity generated from the preparation/launch of the MFP and the training events
led by the MDA did have some positive impact, there is little firm evidence that the Project fulfilled the
objective of creating and maintaining a pipeline of bankable municipal infrastructure projects.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Commitment and disbursement of sub-loans in accordance with estimated schedule: Initially, the Project
considered disbursing up to US$70 million through several banks. During the appraisal stage, as it became
clear that only two commercial banks would administer the loan and that the absorptive capacity of the
local municipalities was limited, the loan size was reduced to US$22 million. The larger of the two
participating banks, Powszechny Bank Kredytowy SA w Warszawie (PBK), cancelled its Loan on
November 14, 2000, without making any disbursements. The second bank, Bank for Socio-Economic
Initiatives SA (BISE) entered into 21 sub-loan agreements, 6 of which were subsequently cancelled, and
disbursed US$3.7 million from the credit line. For reasons spelled out elsewhere in this document,
disbursements were much slower than anticipated and despite the efforts of the Bank and the intermediary
banks, disbursements fell well short of the benchmarks set down in the Staff Appraisal Report. The Bank
worked diligently to remove those implementation barriers within its control but other obstacles arose
(relating to the Public Finance Law and the Public Procurement Law), which were beyond the control of
the Bank. These obstacles had a major negative impact on the outcome of the Project.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A
4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The Project was developed in consultation with USAID and EU Phare, which, during the concept/appraisal
period, were both working in the municipal sector. The creation of the MDA came about as a result of
discussions, over a protracted period, between the various IFI's and the govermment. The MDA,
established as an autonomous govemment foundation, was envisaged to develop into a self-sustaining
consultancy, providing services to the municipalities and the commercial banks which wanted to operate in
that market. USAID was a major provider of technical assistance to the MDA, as was the Bank (through
- 5 -



the PHRD grant). As noted above, there was little demand for the MDA's services among the commercial
banks and, from the municipalities side, the sequencing of the infrastructure development process,
precluded the MDA's involvement. The MDA, funded jointly by central government and the Council of
Local Governments, continues to work with municipalities in anticipation of the availability of EU regional
and structural funds, in preparation for Poland's accession to the EU.
Both of the intenmediary banks stated that involvement in the MFP has considerably enhanced their ability
to develop business in the municipal sector. The banks continue to employ the technical and financial
appraisal methodologies developed during Project preparation, which they believe gives them a distinct
advantage over other banks seeking similar business. Municipal lending now accounts for 28 percent of
BISE's total lending, up from around 17 percent in 1997.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Recognizing that municipalities might prefer borrowing in Polish Zloty rather than US Dollars or Gernan
Marks (the currencies of the Loan), the Project made provision for on-lending in local currency. However,
at the time there were no instruments available to hedge long-term foreign currency positions and hence, to
minimize their foreign exchange risk, the participating banks preferred to lend either in foreign currency or
in Polish Zloty indexed to the currency of the Loan. During 1998, the Zloty/USD exchange rate remained
very stable (in fact the Zloty appreciated slightly) reducing the perceived risk associated in the
municipalities borrowing in US Dollars; the project pipeline began to accelerate and the participating banks
expressed confidence that the Loan would be fully disbursed by the closing date. However, during the first
quarter of 1999 Zloty interest rates began to decline substantially, the Zloty depreciated sharply against the
US Dollar and the rate of new loan commnitments slowed substantially.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
In January 1999, the new Public Finance Law (PFL) was passed which effectively restricted municipalities
to borrowing only in local currency (the amount of the principal had to be fixed in Zloty at the loan
inception date, preventing banks from issuing foreign currency indexed Zloty loans). BISE did establish a
mechanism to overcome this limitation. However, the mechanism, which involved a complex interest
pricing formula, was not widely accepted by the municipalities and the rate of new commnitments slowed.
In early 1999, the two participating commercial banks, with the support of the Bank, wrote to the MOF
requesting a waiver from the PFL for funds disbursed under the Project. In spite of numerous discussions
and cormunications with the Government, both from the Bank and the borrowers, it was not until August
2000 that the Council of Ministers finally ratified the waiver. As a result, for 18 months, the Public
Finance Law severely impeded the project (which the government, as the guarantor of the Loan, had
committed to support). The limitation on borrowing in foreign currency fundamentally changed the
premise on which the Project was based.
The Public Finance Law also mandated that local authorities apply the provisions of the Public
Procurement Law (PPL) when seeking bank financing; municipalities were therefore required to invite a
number of banks to bid to supply credit, specifying the loan requirements up front. Though a loan contains
many elements, e.g., size of principal, term, grace period, etc., many municipalities were convinced that,
under the Public Procurement Law, the only relevant criteria should be the interest rate. Neither
BISE/PBK nor the municipalities could therefore be certain that an investment project, even if eligible for
Bank financing, would be able to access the Bank's credit line as there could be no certainty that one of the
two banks would be "awarded the contract". This had two important consequences:
- 6 -



*   both the banks and the municipalities were reluctant to invest the time necessary to complete all the
procedures required in order to secure funding under the Project; and, more importantly,
*   in order to put the award of a loan contract "out to tender", the municipalities needed to know how
much they would be borrowing. Therefore, their first steps would be to determine the technical
specifications of the infrastructure project and to put the construction works out to tender. If the
municipality intended to use the MFP credit line, it was required to follow World Bank procurement
procedures (in accordance with the PPL provision permitting the use of other procurement rules for
projects funded from II funds). However, if following the completion of the "loan tendering", neither
BISE nor PBK were awarded the contract, the municipality risked being in violation of the PPL if it
had followed World Bank procurement procedures for the construction wvorks.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The Project was implemented by two commnercial banks, PBK and BISE. Both banks substantially
increased their lending to the municipal sector during the period of Project implementation. During 1998
alone, BISE doubled the amount of municipal lending to US$9 million. PBK has expanded rapidly in the
sector and now accounts for over 9 percent of all lending to municipalities. However, while BISE funded
part of its loan book growth from the Bank Loan, PBK, which was 'over-liquid' in Polish Zloty, funded its
expansion solely from its own resources. PBK cancelled its Loan in November 2000, without drawing
down any funds.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
According to the SAR, the total project cost was estimated at US$40 million, including US$22 million of
Bank funds. At the time of project completion, the total cost was US$7 million, including US$4.2 million
of Bank funds. A number of implementation problems, which came to light after the participating banks
submitted the first projects for the Bank's prior review, led to an approximately 8-month delay between
Loan effectiveness and the first disbursement. By the time of the mid-term review, actual disbursements
had reached only 12 percent of planned disbursements. In November 2000, 13 months prior to loan
closure, PBK cancelled its loan in full. At loan closure, BISE cancelled the unutilized balance on its loan,
approximately US$2.8 million.
BISE       PBK
Loan amount        USD 7.Om  USD 15.0m
Cancelled          USD 2.8m  USD 15.Om
Amount utilised    USD 4.2m   USD oo.Om
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The decentralization process initiated by the Govermment made it imperative that municipalities had access
to investment funds to meet their extensive infrastructure needs. As financial markets deepen and
municipalities develop new financial skills, it is likely that more and more municipal funding will be
sourced either from commercial banks or directly from the market. Table 4. la shows the rapid growth in
commercial lending to the municipal sector. The growing availability of instruments to hedge long-term
foreign exchange exposure (up to 7/8 years at 'reasonable' rates) will help serve to increase the volume of
funds available to finance infrastructure projects (one of the participating banks now lends floating rate
funds for 8-10 years).
In addition to discussing methodologies by which local govenmuents could access bank financing, the
economic and sector work undertaken by the Bank also discussed ways to open up access to the capital
markets. A number of local govemments have since issued bonds through private placements and one has
- 7 -



issued a publicly listed bond. However, for the vast majority of municipalities, commercial bank funds
remains the most appropriate source of financing for infrastructure development.
Both of the participating banks have stated that the skills and market access they gained from their
involvement in the Project are of continuing relevance to their ongoing business development plans. The
municipalities are also becoming more adept at preparing bankable projects supported by sound technical
and financial analysis.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
N/A
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Project was aligned with the Govenmment's development strategy, promoting private sector involvement
in infrastructure development and delegating more authority over resource management to the
municipalities. Project objectives were developed from the 1992 CEM, which focused on the need to
resource the development of municipal infrastructure, as well as from lessons learned from the 1994
municipal water and waste water study. Project preparation benefited from the extensive involvement of
technical specialists, particularly from the Bank's infrastructure department, and from municipal finance
experts who worked with the MDA and the municipalities to develop a pipeline of bankable projects. The
Bank also arranged grant funding to enable the MDA to screen up to 50 infrastructure projects, the first
step in developing a pipeline of bankable projects. The Bank cooperated closely with the USAID, which
provided technical assistance to the MDA, and the EU PHARE, which funded a number of infrastructure
feasibility studies.
Considerable attention was given to the choice of lending mechanism, the eligibility criteria for
infrastructure projects and the eligibility criteria for the participating banks. The project was designed to
minimize the World Bank's administrative involvement in project implementation while ensuring that
suitable fiduciary safeguards were maintained; hence, Bank funds were channeled directly to the
participating banks (no apex unit or specially created PIU), procurement procedures were streamlined (but
see  below)   and  infrastructure  project  eligibility  criteria  were  kept  to  a  minimum.
The Bank's procurement specialists were asked to advise on whether the use of the Polish Procurement Law
(PPL) would be acceptable for the procurement of works below the ICB threshold (US$5 million). The
review concluded that the Unlimited Tendering procedures laid down in the PPL could be used subject to
four provisos, including that standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank would be used Shortly
after Loan effectiveness, it became clear that, for a number of reasons, the standard bidding documents
prepared by the Polish Procurement Office (PPO) would not be acceptable to the Bank. To resolve this
issue, the Bank agreed that the first National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procurement (from each Loan)
would be subject to prior review by the Bank to identify the problem areas and to ensure that these
problems were specifically addressed and checked by the borrowing banks (using a straightforward
checklist) in subsequent (post-review) procurements. In addition, the maximum amount for small works
procurement was increased from $250,000 to $500,000 per contract. It took approximately six months for
the Bank to resolve this issue internally and to approve the first sub-loan. Although this effectively solved
the problem of the NCB procurement for BISE, most of the subsequent procurement was accomplished
- 8 -



using the small works procedures. A Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) was recently
undertaken in Poland, which had the background of the experience in the MFP. The CPAR is being
followed up with an IDF grant, which is primarily assisting the public procurement office to prepare
standard bidding documents.
In spite of the procurement issues and taking into account the extensive and thorough preparation effort
that took place, overall, the Bank's performance during lending was satisfactory.
7.2 Supervision:
The Banks performance during supervision was also satisfactory.  The Project received intensive
supervision during the early stages of implementation. Soon after Loan effectiveness, it became clear that
the procurement procedures and limits set forth in the Loan Agreement, as well as the criteria for
appraising infrastructure projects would cause bottlenecks.  The Bank team was responsive to the
Borrowers' concerns and invested considerable effort into resolving the procurement issues and further
streamlining the appraisal criteria for infrastructure projects. When it became clear that PBK was unlikely
to be able to use the Loan proceeds, the Bank flagged this to the Borrower and encouraged the bank to
make an early decision to cancel the Loan.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall, Bank performance is rated satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
During preparation, the performance of the borrowers and the Government (as either the potential borrower
or guarantor) was satisfactory. The Government was closely involved in decisions relating to the most
effective mechanism for channeling funds to the local government level and readily provided all information
needed on municipal investments and budgets. The two intermediary banks confirmed their intention to
participate in the Project in early 1996, almost two years before the loans became effective, and
collaborated with the MDA in the development of a pipeline. Both BISE and PBK presented the Bank with
all the documentation required to prove their eligibility to intermediate the credit line in a timely manner
and were active participants in the design and promotion of the Project. Both banks devoted adequate time
and resources to the Project.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's role in the project was, by design, limited to acting as a guarantor of the two Loans.
However, in early 1999, the Government introduced a new Public Finance Law which effectively prevented
municipalities borrowing in foreign currencies, and which had the potential to bring Project implementation
to a halt. The two intermediating banks lobbied the MOF to provide an exemption from the Law for the
Project. However, it was not until August 2000 that an exemption from the Public Finance Law, ratified
by the Council of Ministers, was issued. Although the Government's role as guarantor was marginal, this
hands-off position proved to be a major factor in the delay in resolving the PFL issue. As a result, the
Government's performance during implementation is considered unsatisfactory.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Performance of the intermediary banks during supervision was mixed. BISE was very pro-active in
resolving problems related to procurement and the PFL. Though it was not widely accepted by the
municipalities, BISE established a mechanism involving a complex interest pricing formula to overcome the
limitations imposed by the PFL. BISE's performance duxing implementation was satisfactory. PBK was
unable to overcome the implementation barriers erected as a result of the introduction of the PFL and also
found procurement issues to be a factor hampering its use of Bank funds throughout the life of the Project.
-9-



Though PBK did not utilize any Bank funds, it has developed a strong business line in the municipal sector.
In spite of PBK's efforts, up until the time of cancellation, to qualify relatively large investments, its overall
performance during implementation was unsatisfactory.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Based on the performance of the two participating banks and the Government during preparation and of the
banks during implementation, overall borrower performance is rated satisfactory.  The guarantor's
performance during implementation does not change this rating.
8. Lessons Learned
Operating in a dynamic environment, such as was experienced in Poland, is never easy; the state of the
economy changed, pertinent laws and regulations changed and the banking/municipal sectors changed.
Given this situation, it is not surprising that implementation differed from the benchmarks set out in the
Staff Appraisal Report. There was some discussion during implementation of transferring funds from PBK,
which was not disbursing to BISE, which was disbursing but there was no mechanism in the project design
or in the legal agreements to permit this, or to permnit a third bank to participate in the Project. The
availability of more flexible lending instruments and more flexibility to switch from one instrument to
another could have enabled the Bank and the Borrower to react more quickly to changing circumstances.
Credit decisions for local government investments financed from a commercial bank line of credit should be
based on good banking principles. Such a line of credit, especially in a country at Poland's advanced stage
of transformation, does not provide the leverage to bring about policy changes or to require commercial
banks to impose requirements that go beyond their normal scope of business or existing
legislative/regulatory requirements. For example, although desirable from a developmental point of view,
requiring the banks to enter into complex cost recovery computations or conditionality and require full cost
recovery was not workable in an environment where full cost recovery for waste water investments is
currently rarely achieved. Furthermore, such a line of credit was not an appropriate mechanism for
requiring procurement procedures that differed from those of the Public Procurement Law.
Early agreement on procurement details facilitates early project start-up and helps avoid subsequent
implementation issues and delays. During preparation, there was a lack of understanding between the
Bank's project team and its procurement staff on the extent to which the Public Procurement procedures
differed from the Bank's procurement policies and procedures. It became evident shortly after project
launch that procurement issues, especially lack of agreement on standard procurement documents to be
used for procurement of works, would represent a barrier to project implementation. Project
implementation may have been more efficient if the primary procurement methodologies and documentation
had been approved prior to Board approval. A Country Procurement Assessment Review was recently
carried out in Poland. In part with the benefit of the lessons leamed from this project, this Review is being
followed up with an Institutional Development Fund Grant. This is primarily assisting the Public
Procurement Officer prepare standard bidding documents and is being supervised by an accredited
procurement staff.
- 10-



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
BISE - EVALUATION REPORT
1.     The Goal of the Municipal Finance Project (MFP)
On September 5, 1997, Bank Inicjatyw Spoleczno Ekonomicznych S.A. was one of the two Polish banks to
sign a US$4M and DM 5.2M loan agreement.
The MFP goal was to co-fund World Bank-sponsored, agreed and negotiated municipal investment projects
set out in the loan agreement. It should be noted that, other than municipal housing and telephone network
build-out, the MFP framework has covered almost all sectors. BISE's experience indicates that, over the
past five years, areas most in need of financing included education, water and sewage system projects and
road upgrades.
2.     BISE Promotional Activities and Co-operation with ARK
By late 1997, BISE S.A. complied with all the formalities required to put the loan to work. Also, the first
briefing was organized in Lodz with municipal representatives to promote the Municipal Finance Project;
the World Bank credit line was arranged by that time. Continuous efforts were being made from early 1998
to promote the facility designed to support initiatives of local govemnents and those of other entities
working for the benefit of local communities. The Municipal Finance Project was assisted in its
implementation in Poland by the Municipal Development Agency (MDA - ARK).
In 1998, with MDA's collaboration, BISE organized a series of four seminars for municipalities in
Krak6w, Ostr6w Wielkopolski, Kudowa and Bielsko-Biala to outline issues related to municipal project
finance and terms and conditions of the World Bank credit line. Those meetings with municipal heads and
chief treasurers provided an opportunity to demonstrate a tool developed by MDA to prepare budget
forecasts for the lending period and the resulting credit risk evaluation from the banks' perspective. As a
result, in 1998, BISE signed 10 loan agreements that totalled US$2.8M and DM 4.8M, to finance 5
important capital expenditure projects. For reasons outside of BISE's control and listed in item 4 hereof,
only three of these were co-funded by the World Bank
3.     BISE Collaboration with Municipalities over the MFP Implementation Period
Set against the backdrop of other Polish banks, BISE stands out with its longest, 10-year history of
collaborating with local govermments. The table below illustrates BISE lending activity over 1998 - 2001,
with particular focus on municipalities as one of its key clients other than SMEs.
The table also features information on loans extended to municipalities (signed agreements) within the
World Bank facility.



Gross year-end total loan Number! value of loans granted (PLN M)
amount due (PLN M)
Year               Total       Including       Total      To municipalities (project
municipalities                        finance)
Total      From MFP
1998               199         73.3 / 37%    597/ 178.5     108/ 90.9    1O/ 19.3
1999              539.8        88.2/ 16%     N/a*I 424.4   N/a*I 24.0     4/  1.2
2000               670.9       117.2/ 17%   4.629/ 652.8     81/ 44.0      1/  1,1
2001                863       236.8/ 28%    4.201/ 697.8   225/ 168.8     6/ 6.6
N/a* - In the 1999 report, lending activity is presented in value and structural terms only
4.     Problems with Project Implementation
As aforementioned, by Late 1998, BISE signed 10 agreements with municipalities to fund 5 projects out of
World Bank funds for a total of US$2.8M and DM 4.8M. Unfortunately, one municipality backed out of
implementing their scheduled project and funds allocated under a signed agreement were not disbursed.
With the agreement already signed with BISE, and following a change of local govermnent, the
municipality's financial situation and investment priorities were revised. The prior decision taken by the
authorities was reversed and the agreement with BISE was cancelled.
In one instance, the loan amount under the World Bank facility exceeded US$2.5M; hence the whole
project, including its feasibility study, was subject to a detailed study by relevant World Bank services. As
a result of a lengthy process of substantiating the documentation submitted by the municipality, the project
was not approved by the World Bank.
There was also a case where a municipality, despite a prior BISE-notified requirement to use World Bank
bidding procedures, opted for an unlimited domestic tender with bidder pre-selection. Such a tender could
not have been accepted by the World Bank.
Municipal projects in Poland are implemented in stages depending on available fumding. In many cases, the
sources of funding are not 100 percent secured upon project initiation. Consequently, funding is sought for
completing projects that were initiated months, or even years before. Under World Bank procedures, this
entails problems with tenders for construction work contractors.
Given the circumstances, the World Bank's decision to raise the maximum amount of agreements with
contractors under the 'small works' scheme from US$300,000 to US$500,000 was very helpful. This
allowed for using World Bank monies to fund projects where contractors were selected under the unlimited
domestic bidding procedure, with preferences for domestic entities. As construed by the World Bank, in the
event of contracts up to US$500,000, presentation of at least 3 bids and selection of the least expensive one
made it possible to treat this as contractor selection under a simplified procedure.
The year 1999 saw a slow-down in MFP implementation that resulted from the then-effective Public
Finance Act, which prevented local governments from taking out foreign currency loans. BISE was very
pro-active in drafting a by-law which allowed for banks to extend foreign currency-denominated loans
funded by intemational financial institutions.
Given this situation, BISE offered the World Bank an opportunity to grant PLN denominated loans out of
- 12 -



the facility, with an interest rate based on the World Bank's US$ or DM rates. BISE's proposal was
accepted and, as agreed, BISE signed 5 PLN denominated agreements for a total of PLN 6.6M.
In 2001, BISE signed loan agreements for the remaining part of the DM portion. Unfortunately, two
projects were not put into place for reasons outside of BISE's control: in one case this was due to legal and
administrative problems; in the other, the municipality obtained preferential finance from another source.
The entry into force of the Public Finance Act has also incited the municipalities to opt for banks which
offered municipal project finance in a tender.
World Bank loans offered by BISE in bids were not competitive price-wise, with price being boosted by the
fee expense due on the guarantee that BISE obtained from the State to the effect of 2 percent of the loaned
amount.
5.     Educational Function of MFP
Four seminars hosted by BISE served to promote World Bank methods and rules used in project finance in
the local government conmmunity. Of particular importance were rules related to the financing plan and
utility service tariffs which would take stock of the cost of servicing liabilities taken out to build projects
that serve local communities.
Budget forecasts presented by the municipalities to BISE within the MFP framework imply that in water
and sewage management, over the period needed to pay debt taken out to implement World Bank-assisted
projects, municipalities increasingly predict that water and sewage tariffs will increase.
The instrument developed by the Municipal Development Agency to help in municipal budget forecasting
for the lending period in line with the investment strategy adopted by the municipality has certainly proven
to be very helpful. The Municipalities' financial analysis at BISE is based solely on the methodology
developed by MDA.
6.     Achieved Social Goals
All the municipalities-beneficiaries of the World Bank facility are among the small ones of less than 25,000
residents.
Throughout the World Bank-assisted MFP implementation period, some US$7M worth of projects were
financed. The first World Bank-approved project was a sewage treatment plant upgrade for a town of
25,300 residents.
MFP served to build or extend 5 primary and junior high schools that ultimately would school over 2,000
pupils. Over the past 2 years, schools have been the number one priority for all municipal projects funded
by BISE. This resulted from the educational system reform and the municipalities' new duty to adjust the
existing educational facilities to reform requirements.
In two municipalities, 3.4 km of roads were upgraded. These projects were combined with building rain
water drainage and street lighting system construction. One municipality used funds loaned for the same
purpose out of BISE's own pool.
Two municipalities built 24.5 kms of waterworks with connection points, in one case connected to a water
- 13-



treatment station.
7.     MFP at BISE: Success or Failure?
BISE reviewed 18 municipal loan applications to be funded under the World Bank facility. Ten of these
resulted in actual funding and municipal project finance out of World Bank monies. Almost all the projects
have been completed, with the exception of one school scheduled for construction in 2001-2004. The
financial situation of this particular municipality raises no objections and will allow for project completion
out of municipal coffers.
Two-thirds of the DM-denorninated portion has been disbursed to end beneficiaries, i.e. municipalities only.
The US$ portion has been used in 40 percent.
Given legislative changes put into effect while the MFP was underway, changes in local government, recent
downward economic trends in Poland and, last but not least, municipal authorities' mistrust of F/X risk
related to foreign currency denominated debt, the above mentioned project implementation may be
considered satisfactory. The same should go for overall educational effect and social goals referred to in
items 5 and 6 above.
With this report ending four years of collaboration between the World Bank and BISE, we wish to thank
the World Bank Team for fruitful cooperation in solving problems on an ongoing basis and conflict-free
work relations between our respective staff responsible for monitoring the MFP implementation. Our
special words of acknowledgement go to the Bank's Task Team Leader for her assistance, professionalism
and friendliness in acting on behalf of the local communities in Poland.
PBK - EVALUATION REPORT
1. Project Description
1.     The Loan Agreement between the World Bank and PBK SA was signed September 5, 1997. Under
the Agreement PBK SA gained access to a line of credit (guaranteed by State Treasury) in two tranches:
USD 8.000.000 and DM 12.000.000 (Loans No. 42090 and 42091). The line was to be repaid until May
15, 2014.
2.     The WB's funds were designated for long-term financing (up to 15 years with 3 years grace
period) of infrastructure investments carried on by local self-governments and municipal enterprises under
Municipal Finance Project (MFP). Eligible sectors for loans made from the WB line were:
-      water supply
-      waste water
-      solid waste
-      school buildings
-      street lighting
-      urban transport
-      road improvements
-      heating
-      gas industry
-      other areas agreed upon with the World Bank.
- 14 -



3.     Potential projects eligible for MFP financing had to meet certain criteria:
-      community support (reflected in local council decisions)
-      feasibility (feasibility studies)
-      readiness (financing plan, necessary permits etc.)
-      consistence with the World Bank guidelines in tenns of procuremenl.
4.     After signing the Agreement PBK SA started intensive promotion of the above mentioned line to
potential clients, but as projects presented to PBK did not meet the WB's criteria (minimum amount that
could be disbursed, lack of local preferences in course of procurement procedure, feasibility studies,
possibility to finance max 75% of total investment costs) the loans were actually disbursed out of PBK's
own resources.
5.     Unlike BISE (the second Polish bank with access to the WB' funds), PBK for a long time did not
receive from the Public Procurement Office (PPO) a confirmation that, for projects carried on under MFP,
the WB's procurement procedures were to be applied. In 1998 PBK again asked PPO for their opinion on
the possibility of using the WB's procedures in local public tendering. We received the final confirmation
from PPO in January 1999 when the new Public Finance Act (PFA) forbidding public sector entities to
draw foreign currencies loans was already in force.
6.     PBK also approached the Ministry of Finance asking for interpretation of the new Law provisions
and the answer was that public sector entities could not borrow in foreign currencies. Due to these
limitations, actual disbursements were prevented.
7.     In September 1999 Ordinance of the Council of Ministers regarding the cases, when the
limitations of PFA are not applied was issued but since it did not indicate clearly enough that the WB's
line was excluded from the above mentioned limitations, PBK again asked the Ministry of Finance for
explicit confirmation of the loans' exclusion. In February 2000 PBK was informed that the amendment
procedure of the Ordinance had been started. The right amended Ordinance was issued in July 2000 just a
couple of months before the deadline (31 December 2000) for presenting applications to the WB. Because
of this, PBK requested the WB for loans' cancellation as of November 14, 2000.
I.     Appraisal of the project objective, design and implementation
The project which carried on under the name of Municipal Finance Project had two objectives:
A/ development of possible sources of financing infrastructure project in Poland, especially by
establishing a Municipal Development Agency responsible, amongst other things, for giving
self-govenmment training, seminars and courses in order to broaden their knowledge on the credit
market in Poland
B/ extending funds for financing particular investment projects.
As the World Bank project and actions taken in 1997 were of an innovative nature, it indicated that
at least the first goal has been achieved.
The project has not been implemented due to the limitations and obstacles mentioned above, first
because of strict WB's requirements for potential projects, and second, due to limitations imposed
by Law.
- 15-



III.    Self-appraisal of the Borrower's performance during the evolution and implementation of the
project
PBK SA as one of the first two banks with access to the WB funds, actively promoted among
public sector clients new long-term sources of financing infrastructure investments. PBK
negotiated easing of the WB eligibility criteria, and after introducing the new Public Finance Act,
we corresponded with PPO and Ministry of Finance in order to confirm that the WB's procurement
procedures were applicable and that the line was excluded from the new Law limitations. Despite
the fact that no disbursements were made from the WB funds, maintaining the line has helped PBK
to be recognized as one of the most experienced institutions as far as cooperation with local
self-governments is concemed.
IV.    Appraisal of the Bank activities, co-financing institutions, or other partners in preparation and
implementation of the project
PBK's cooperation with the World Bank was sound and very productive. The projecco-coordinator
was very engaged in project implementation and, after introducing PFA, was very helpful in
clearing the above-mentioned doubts with PPO and the Ministry of Finance. Also the Municipal
Development Agency played an important role in promoting the WB's funds, mainly by training
local government representatives in the credit market in Poland and by helping to facilitate contacts
between public sector entities and financial institutions.
Warsaw, April 3, 2002
(b) Cofinanciers:
N/A
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N/A
10. Additional Information
N/A
- 16-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                  Projected In last PSR       L        Actual/Latest Estimate
(a) a measurable increase In long-term  Municipal finance is now a measurable  Municipal financing has been growing at an
financing of municipal infrastructure projects amount of both PBKs and BISE's lending  average annual real compounded rate of 30
on commercial terms (percent per year in real portfolio and continues to grow.  percent since 1998.
terms).
(b) measurable financing for MFP     For PBK, at least 1 percent of its portfolio is  Municipal lending accounts for approximately
sub-projects by the borrowing banks with  for municipal lending. BISE's portfolio has  28 percent of BISE's loan portfolio.
their own resources.                 also grown.
(c) good and bmely repayment record of  Loans are being serviced regularly. Principal All sub-loans are current as to interest
subloans.                            repayments began in November 2001.   payrnents. The three loans which have
entered the amortization phase are current as
to p,incipal repayments.
(d) number and value of new sub-projects  BISE: US$5.2 million            BISE: Value of projects funded is US$7.0
screened and assessed as eligible for project PBK: Zero                   million utlising US$3.7 million of Bank funds.
financing.                                                                PBK disbursed no Bank funds.
(e) number and value of sub-projects  Zero                                Zerc,
financed through MDA channel.
Output Indicators:
.- , ~;-Indicator/Matrix      .             Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
100 percent commitment of sub-loans within About 75 percent of BISE loan committed.  BISE committed 75 percent of the funds
3 years of loan effectiveness.       PBK loan cancelled.                  available under the credit line, however, one
project was cancelled as the municipality was
unable to move ahead with the investment.
P8K committed no funds
Funds fully disbursed at loan closing.  Disbursements US$3.5 million      BISE disbursed US$3.6 million. PBK
disbursed no funds. Around 16 percent of
the available funds were disbursed.
MDA to provide technical assistance to  Grant funding did not continue. Assistance  The MDA did not have an extensive role in
municipalites and to the intermediary banks. not provided.                the P3roject. However, it does continue to
wori; with municipalities in preparation for
Poland's EU accession.
End of project
- 17-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component            US$ million   US$ million
Sub loans for municipal infrastructure             22.00           3.70           16.8
Total Baseline Cost                                22.00           3.70
Total Project Costs            22.00           3.70
Total Financing Required             22.00           3.70
- 18-



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
N/A
- 19 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year     Count          Specialty                     Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
04/94                       2    Economists
06/94                       1    Economist
09/94                        1   Municipal Finance Spec.
12/94                       1    Economist
03/95                       3    2 Economists, Oper. Officer
06/95                       2    Economist, Operations Officer
11195                       2    Municipal Finance Spec.
Operations Officer
02/96                        1   Economist
Appraisal/Negotiation
04/96                        7   Economist, Oper. Officer,
Fin. Sector Spec., Water &
Sanitation Spec., Banking
Spec., Muni. Finance Spec.
Supervision
12/97                        2   Economist, Oper. Officer,         HS            HS
06/98                        3   Financial Analyst, Fin. Sector     U             S
Spec., Oper. Officer, Water &
Sanitation Spec.
11/98                        1   Operations Officer,                S             S
05/99                        1   Operations Officer,                S             S
11/99                        1   Operations Officer,                U             U
06/00                        2   Fin. Sector Spec., Oper. Officer   U             U
12/00                        1   Operations Officer                 S             S
06/01                        1   Operations Officer                 S             S
12/01                            (update)                           S             U
ICR
01/02                       2     Fin. Sector Spec., Oper.          S             U
Officer
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               N/A                          168
Appraisal/Negotiation                    N/A                         420
Supervision                              NIA                         280
ICR                                                                    25
Total                                                                893
- 20 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
L Macro policies                       OH   OSUOM      O N  * NA
Li Sector Policies                     O H  OSUOM      O N  O NA
O Physical                             O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
Oi Financial                           O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
Li Institutional Development           0 H  O SU O M   0 N  0 NA
Li Environmental                       O H  OSUOM      * N  O NA
Social
L Poverty Reduction              O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
O Gender                         O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
Li Other (Please specify)        O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
Li Private sector development          0 H  0 SU 0 M   0 N  0 NA
Li Public sector management            0 H  O SU 0 M   0 N  0 NA
Li Other (Please specify)              O H  OSUOM      O N  * NA
- 21 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
O Lending                                           OHS OS OU OHU
O Supervision                                       OHS OS       O U   O HU
a Overall                                           OHS OS       O U   O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
O Preparation                                       O HS * S     O U   O HU
O Government implementation performance             0 HS 0 S     0 U   0 HU
O Implementation agencyperformance                  0 HS O S     0 U   0 HU
r Overall                                           OHS OS       OU    O HU
- 22 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Quality at entry report (March 31, 1997)
2. Staff Appraisal Report (June 19, 1997)
3. Project Status Report (December 24, 1997)
4. Project Status Report (June 29, 1998)
5. Project Status Report (November 29, 1998)
6. Project Status Report (June 22, 1999)
7. Project Status Report (December 10, 1999)
8. Project Status Report (June 5, 2000)
9. Project Status Report (December 19, 2000)
10. Project Status Report (June 26, 2001)
11. Project Status Report (November 14, 2001)
- 23 -















IMAGING
Report No.         24183
'Type:    kc



