Report No. PID950
Project Name                     Municipal Finance Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Municipal Finance
Project ID                       PLPE35082
Borrower(s)                      Commercial Banks: BISE and PBK
Implementing Agencies            BISE
Ul Dubois 5a
00184 Warsaw, Poland
PBK
25a Towarowa St.
00-958 Warsaw, Poland
Environmental Category           B
Date this PID Prepared           January 3, 2000
Date Initial PID Prepared        September 12, 1994
Projected Appraisal Date         March 1996
Projected Board Date             July 10, 1997
Country and Sector Background
The Economic Transformation Program launched by Poland in 1990 has been
successful in restructuring the Polish economy, reducing inflation and
initiating from 1992 a path of economic recovery. Output growth averaged
6.19 in 1994-96.  However, despite the great need to modernize Poland's
infrastructure and public services, public investment declined from, on
average, 5.59 of GDP in 1986-88 to 2.9% in 1996.   The responsibility for many
key infrastructure networks was transferred to local governments under the
decentralization program launched in 1990. Mobilizing investment resources
and securing a more efficient allocation of infrastructure investment at the
local level is crucial to ensuring the sustainability of the recent economic
recovery.
Given the capital intensity of municipal infrastructure needs, which includes
water and sanitation, drainage, land development, urban streets, mass transit
and district heating, the investment needs of Poland's municipal sector are
probably between 2-3% of GDP-especially considering the backlog of deferred
maintenance accumulated from the 1980's and the legacy of past environmental
neglect. Polish municipalities have barely invested half of that amount in
recent years (1.5% in 1996), and there is a risk of future contraction as
more service mandates are devolved to municipalities without a commensurate
devolution of revenues.
One of the main reasons explaining currently low levels of infrastructure
investment by municipalities and their municipal enterprises is lack of
access to long-term credit. Investment outlays are financed almost entirely
out of current revenues--by far the main source of funds for local government



investment has been their current savings. Other sources include grants from
voivodships, central ministries, and grants or subsidized loans from the
environmental funds. The absence of long-term municipal credit from
commercial sources has been a hurdle to local investment, especially for
"lumpy" infrastructure projects with long asset life that cannot easily be
funded from current savings on a pay-as-you-go basis. It reflects weaknesses
both in the municipal sector, which has difficulty proving its
creditworthiness, and in the financial sector, which has been unable to
appraise municipal risk or generate term finance with maturities suitable for
infrastructure projects. Prudent use of borrowing would permit
municipalities to leverage their limited resources while improving
intergenerational equity and the efficiency of investment. The main
constraint for commercial lending to municipalities, however, continues to be
that, while municipal borrowers require long-term loans to match the life of
their infrastructure assets, bank liabilities are strongly skewed towards
short-dated instruments. Issuing longer-term loans would expose bank
treasuries to refinance risks which could become serious in a liquidity
crisis. Although the use of floating-rate loans reduces the interest rate
risk for the banks, shifting this risk to the borrower raises the risk of
credit defaults. Other constraints for long-term commercial loans to
municipalities are: poor collateral arrangements; lack of experience in
assessing municipal credit risk; and competition from subsidized sources of
municipal financing (primarily, environmental funds).
Objectives
The main goal of the MFP is to promote the development of a credit market for
municipal investment in Poland. To this end, the project pursues the
following two interrelated objectives. First, it will provide long-term
financial resources to commercial banks for municipal lending in the
infrastructure sector. Second, it will help the banks identify and prepare a
sustained pipeline of viable investment projects, backed by creditworthy
towns or local utilities.
Description
The project, a $22 million line of credit guaranteed by the Republic of
Poland, consists of a single-currency loan to each of the two selected
commercial banks. The loans will finance a program of long-term sub-loans
issued by these banks to municipalities and revenue-earning municipal service
enterprises. The project is designed as a pilot operation to demonstrate how
term-finance of municipal investments at market-rate commercial terms can
work. All sub-loans will finance works, goods and services for eligible
municipal infrastructure investment sub-projects. The average cost of a sub-
project is expected to be about US$4 million equivalent. The final loans
will be between US$250,000 and US$14 million and will finance up to 75% of
individual costs.
In parallel with the project and closely coordinated with it (though not
formally included in the IBRD project description), grant-financed technical
assistance (primarily from EU-Phare and USAID) would be provided to the
Municipal Development Agency (MDA), and through MDA to participating
municipalities, to support project preparation and implementation.
Financing
-2-



The total project cost is estimated to be about $40 million. The aggregate
amount of the Bank loan of US$30 million equivalent would cover the expected
foreign component of these investments. (The amount of the individual loans
to BISE and PBK are US$7 million and US$15 million equivalent respectively).
The balance would be financed from: (a) final borrower equity, in the form of
cash contributions by beneficiary gminy or utilities; (b) commercial banks
from their own resources. And (c) for projects that have environmental
benefits, matching grants or soft loans from the national or regional
environmental funds.
Implementation
The two selected commercial banks will use the proceeds of the World Bank
loans for issuing long-term sub-loans in foreign exchange or domestic
currency at market rates to local governments or municipal utilities for
viable infrastructure investments.
To be eligible for inclusion in the pipeline, municipal sub-projects would
have to meet appraisal criteria agreed between the borrowing commercial banks
and the Bank. These criteria require that the investments have adequate
community support, are at an appropriate stage of readiness and are supported
by feasibility studies of a depth that is appropriate for the sub-project's
size and complexity. The feasibility study should demonstrate that the sub-
project: (a) meets a prudently assessed demand in a least-cost way and is
economically viable; (b) complies with applicable technical and environmental
standards and regulations. It should also demonstrate that the sub-
borrower/beneficiary agency is financially viable (including a 1.5 debt
service coverage ratio) and has sufficient institutional capabilities in
place to ensure sustained operation and maintenance of project investments.
In addition, for revenue-earning utilities, the enterprise in charge of
operating and maintaining the project-financed facilities should be
incorporated as a joint-stock or limited-liability company, should have a
clear business plan and appropriate tariffs to service the debt and cover O&M
costs at a level appropriate for the specific sector. All sub-projects will
be appraised by the commercial banks. Sub-loans below US$2.5 million will be
approved by the participating banks and reviewed by the Bank ex-post on a
sample basis Sub-loans above US$2.5 million and the first sub-loan from each
commercial bank will require prior review by the Bank. Sub-loans to
municipal recipients could be for periods of 5-15 years, including a grace
period of up to 3 years, depending on the type of investment financed.
Implementation of the sub-projects will be the responsibility of the
beneficiary cities.
The MDA provided project-related technical assistance (primarily in the
preparation phase) to help develop the pipeline of sub-projects (taking into
consideration proposals by both municipalities and banks and an initial batch
of 6 sub-projects have been prescreened by the Bank and/or MDA as qualifying
for inclusion in the project.
Sustainability
The project will contribute to the development of the municipal loan/debt
market, enabling municipalities to finance their investments without
continuing Bank/Government support. Commercial lending to municipal
borrowers is expected to continue after the project is completed because the
- 3 -



project promotes commercial relations between banks and municipal borrowers.
A nascent bond market already exists but access to the market is limited to
the larger municipalities. The development over time of institutional
investors, such as insurance companies, pension funds, and mutual funds, as
well as improved access of banks and municipalities to foreign capital
markets, will further help to increase the availability of long-term sources
of funds.
Poverty Category
Not applicable.
Environmental Aspects
The project has been rated "B" for the purpose of OD 4.01. In accordance
with Bank procedures, line of credit operations involving financial
intermediaries require that each sub-project financed with these resources
comply with national environmental standards and regulations supported by an
appropriate institutional framework. In the case of Poland, this framework
is in place. Borrowing banks will have to check that sub-projects submitted
for approval comply with all Polish legal requirements, including
environmental ones. In addition, investments financed with the National
Environmental Fund would be thoroughly screened for environmental compliance
by the Fund, since this is a statutory requirement. Compliance would be the
responsibility of the Polish counterparts (municipal borrowers and the
commercial banks) and would be reviewed by the Bank during project
supervision.
Program Objective Categories
The proposed project relates to economic management, with a view to improving
public sector management. Through the implementation of water and sanitation
investments, it would also relate to environmentally sustainable development.
Contact Points:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Task Manager
Rochelle Hilton, ECSPF
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-2547
Fax:        (202) 522-0005
Note: This is information on an involving project. Certain components may not
be necessarily included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending January 28, 2000.
- 4 -



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it
is prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01,
Environmental Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public
Information Document (PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.



