Document of
The World 13ank
Report No. 16f076 POI,
STAFF APPRAISAI, RFPORT
Poland
Municipal Finance Project
June 19, 1997
Countrv Operations Division
Country Department 11
Europe and Central Asia



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of April 30, 1997)
Currency Unit=New Polish Zloty (Pl,N)
US$ = PLN 3.1 5
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
1992      1993       1994       1995       1996
US$ =PLN              1.36      1.81       2.27       2.42       2.70
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BBs           Borrowing Banks
BISE          Bank Inicjatyw Spoleczno-Ekonomicznych SA(Bank for Socio-
Economic Initiatives)
CEM           Country Economic Memorandum
ETP           Economic Transformation Program
EU            European Union
FSU           Former Soviet Union
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GFOS          Municipal Funds for Environmental Protection
IDF           Institutional Development Fund
JCLGC         Joint Central-Local Government Committee
LSGA          Local Self Government Act
MDA           Municipal Development Agency
MoF           Ministry of Finance
NBP           National Bank of Poland
NFOS          National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Resources
PBK           Powszechny Bank Kredytowy SA w Warszawie (General Credit Bank)
PHRD          Policy and Human Resources Development
PPL           Public Procurement Law
RIO           Regional Audit Chambers
USAID         United States - Agency for International Development
WFOS          Voivodship Funds for Environmental Protection
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President          Johannes F. Linn
Acting Director         Hans Apitz
Division Chief:         Michel Noel
Task Manager            Daniel Oks



Poland
Municipal Finance Project
Table of Contents
Loan  and  Project Sunmarx                          ........................ ..................... .                                                                                                        ...........
CHAPTER   I   T1HE   SECTOR                                     ................................              ..... . ...             .    ......................................... .................. I
A               l)ecentralization  of Public  Services ..........   .. .                                                                                                          . . .. .....        I
B               Agency  Rcsponsibilities  i  Central Govenument                                                                                                ........ .                  ......  2
C               Municipal Finance  and  Management.                                                                    ......        ........................               ......-2
J)              MMuicipa]  Inves tment                        ................ ... . ............ .                                                                        ...     .............  4
1.              Environmental Finance   .......4.................................... .                                                        ...........................                ........ 4
1;.             Status of the Financial Sector, Municipal Credit                                                                                                                                     5
G.              Issues of Municipal Creditworthiness - Government Strategy                                                                                   .                                      6
CHAPTER   Il:  TITE  PROJEC                           ..                                    ........ .             . .....                .  ........ .. ........   ......                               ..........  9
A.              Project O rig in                      .         ...........                                 .. .... .                                  ........ .                                    9
B.              CAS  and  Rationale  for Bank  Involvement .....9. .. .............. .... ........................................9
C'.   IProject Objectives ........   .. ............ .                                                                                                                                               9
D.              IProject Descriptioii                                                                                                                                                                9
T.              Project Costs and  Finianicing  Plan ....................... ....................................1.............   12
F               O(n-lending  Termis                                      .................... .. ........... ........  .. .....                                                              .      13
.               I'articipatioii                                                                                            . ........................        ...........................            14
If              Financial Analysis                                          .... ..                                        ..................... ....................... .......  14
1.              Economic  Analysis                   .1...........    ................................................... ....... ....   14
J               Sources of Risk  lor the  Project .1........ ..  . ...............                                                                 ...... . .. ......                               16
CHAPTER Im: PROJECT IMPLEMENTAlION                                                                                                                                                                                  19.. ...................  . ........  .. .  .  19
A.              Institutional Responsibilities ..... ..................... .1..........................................                                                           ............  19
B               Contractual Arrangements .................. ..1........ .... ....................... ........9 ...............................  19
C.              Implementation  Arrangements .....1. .........................................................-19
D.              Environmental Aspects  .....2..1... .... .. .. ....................................................  ... 21
F               Procurement Arrangemenits ..2. ...   .  .............1. ..............................................  21
F.              I)isbursements and  Special Account                                                                                 ...............................   22
G.              Reporting  and  Audits                        2..  .     ........  2. ....       ........ .......I........ ........   .......  22
11.             Project Supervision                     ..2....3. ....... -..... ..                                                    ... ................................... ..I......    23
CHAPTER    IV               A(GREM     I MENTS  RIFACIhED   DURING   NFGOTIATIONS                                                       ...........   ...............                                               25......... .    ........ ........  . 25
ANNEXES.
Annex I.                         Municipal Finance and Investment in Poland
Annex 2a                         Project Implementation Plan
Annex 2b                         Project Inplementation Plan - Key Performance Indicators
Annex 3:                         Sample Appraisal Report with Financial Analysis: Pulawy
Annex 4:                         Disbursement Schedule
Annex 5:                         Eligibility criteria for banks
Annex 6.                         Review of the borrowing banks
Annex 7                          List of Selected Documents in Project File
This report was prepared on the basis of an appraisal mission between March 25 and April 5, 1996, and a post-appraisal mission from May 21-29,
1996. The project was prepared by Daniel Oks (Task Manager, EC2CO), Rochelle Hilton (EC2CO); Vincent Gouarne (TWUWS); Jan Drozdz
(EMTIE); Oscar Alvarado (I.A3EU); Juliana Pigey (Consultant); Robert Weeks (Consultant). EC2 Country Operations is the responsible division
(Michel Noel, Division Chief, Wei Ding, Principal Economist), in the Central Europe Department (Hans Apitz, Acting Director). William Dillinger
(LAI PS) and Brian Smith (EC2AR) acted as Peer Reviewers.






POLAND
Municipal Finance Project
Loan and Project Summary
Borrowers:                 Bank for Socio-Economic Initiatives SA (BISE) and Powszechny Bank
Kredytowy SA w Warszawie (General Credit Bank - PBK)
Guarantor:                  Republic of Poland
Beneficiaries:              Municipalities and municipal enterprises
Poverty:                   Not applicable
Amount:                     US$4 million and DM 5.2 million to BISE, and US$8 million and DM 12
million to PBK. Aggregating about US$22.0 million equivalent
Terms:                      17 years, including 5 years of grace for level repayment, at the Bank's
standard interest rate for LIBOR-based DM and US$ single currency loans
Commitment Fee:            0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after
signing, less any waiver
Onlending Terms:           The commercial banks will on-lend the proceeds of the IBRD loans to
municipal sub-borrowers. The cost to the banks of IBRD loans will be
composed of: the IBRD interest rate and commitment fees; and the 2
percent sovereign guarantee fee collected by the MoF (paid upfront).
Loans to final beneficiaries will be made either in (a) foreign currency at a
rate reflecting the above costs, plus a spread to cover the commercial
bank's administrative costs and its risk premium; or (b) in local currency
on the same terms as (a) but also reflecting the foreign exchange risk
premium. Sub-loans will be made for terms of between 5-15 years,
including a grace period of up to 3 years, depending on the type of
investment financed
Financing Plan:             The proposed Bank loans, totaling US$22.0 million, could finance up to
75 percent of total investment cost of individual subloans. This amount
could vary depending on the availability of funds from other sources.
Sub-borrowers are expected to contribute about 20 percent of the total
cost. Support is expected from national and regional grant programs, and
possibly from commercial banks own sources
Net Present Value:         N/A
Project Identification No:    35082






POLAND
MUNICIPAL FINANCE PROJECT
CHAPTER I: THE SECTOR
A.    Decentralization of Public Services
1.    The Economic Transformation Program (ETP) launched by Poland in 1990 has been successful in
engaging the restructuring of the Polish economy, reducing inflation and initiating from 1992, a path of
economic recovery. Output growth averaged 6.1 percent in 1994-96. However, despite the great need to
modernize Poland's infrastructure and public services, public investment declined from, on average, 5.5
percent of GDP in 1986-88 to 3.9 percent in 1990 and 2.9 percent in 1996.
2.     Under the Local Self-Government Act (LSGA) of 1990, Poland transferred to over 2,400
municipalities (gminy) the provision of a broad range of local infrastructure and services including water
and sanitation, drainage, land development, urban streets, mass transit, and district heating. Further
decentralization reforms are underway or being considered, such as the creation of a second, county-level
tier of local government (the powiats), and the devolution of new functions in the social, educational and
cultural sectors. Decentralization is seen as a means to deepen democratic processes at the local level and
bring decisions on local services closer to the beneficiaries.
3.     By and large, Polish gminy have risen to the challenge of their expanded role under the LSGA and
taken charge for the services devolved. A number of cities and towns have engaged in restructuring their
municipal services bodies into corporate utilities, and have adopted responsible service pricing policies that
required politically painful increases in user charges. Gminy have also played a key role in small-scale
privatization by divesting property and commercial assets. Local budgets have generated sizeable current
savings, and the municipal sector now accounts for over one half of total public investment. Improving the
efficiency, coverage, management and pricing of municipal services is a long-term effort, however, and
progress varies sharply across gminy. Many towns have a long way to go in restructuring municipal
enterprises, adopting modem financial management and planning tools, spinning off non-core businesses
(such as construction and engineering departments), and bringing user charges to a level that makes local
utilities financially self-reliant. And the present level of municipal investment still falls short of the needs.
4.     Poland's decentralization is not complete, and further transfers of tasks are placing new burdens on
local resources. The devolution of primary schools, started in 1992 on a voluntary basis, was extended to
all gminy in 1996. Additional tasks in health care, secondary education, road maintenance, cultural
institutions were transferred to 47 large cities and towns in 2 metropolitan agglomerations in 1994, under a
pilot program. Since 1996, this change has been made permanent for 46 large cities and the local
authorities of the City of Warsaw, according to the provisions of the "Big City Law" of November 1995.
From 1995, gminy became responsible for the allocation of housing subsidies to low-income households, a
charge which absorbs up to 10 percent of local revenues. These new expenditure mandates have not
necessarily been matched with a commensurate devolution of revenues (particularly in the case of the Big
City Law), and they could be placing increased stress on municipal budgets.



2
B.    Agency Responsibilities in Central Government
5.     Poland does not have a ministry specifically in charge of municipal affairs, and gminy deal with
different departments or agencies of the central government depending on the activity concerned.  The
Ministry of Finance (MoF)--which created a separate Municipal Finance Department in 1996--calculates
and distributes the general subsidy, collects and transfers to gminy their proceeds of shared taxes (through
its regional tax offices), and monitors municipal budgets and compliance with debt limits. Seventeen
Regional Audit Chambers (RIO) are responsible for compliance auditing of municipal budgets. They also
issue opinions on municipal borrowings at the request of lenders, and have been a source of information and
training for municipalities, in particular for changes in administrative law.
6.     A number of sectoral ministries (e.g., Construction, Education, Environment) have separate
programs, with minimal coordination among them, to support municipal development in each of their
sectors. Likewise, responsibilities to formulate new policies on municipal affairs have been diffuse. During
1992-94 the Council of Ministers' Office of Public Administration Reform led decentralization efforts, such
as the powiat program, but its role has been more limited recently. In 1993, the Government created a Joint
Central-Local Government Committee composed in equal numbers of central government officials and
municipal representatives, as a forum for discussion of decentralization issues. The Committee promoted
the creation of a Municipal Development Agency (MDA), which was legally established as a foundation
and started operating in 1995. The MDA's objectives are to provide advice, information and technical
support to help grniny strengthen their management capacities, prepare viable projects, and mobilize
investment finance.
7.     At the regional level, the 49 voivodships (deconcentrated branches of the central government)
channel central support and guidance to their constituent gminy.  The voivodships have significant
discretion, within their resource limits, in allocating matching grants to municipal projects.  Each
voivodship has an assembly composed of gminy representatives, which provides feedback to the (centrally
appointed) voivod on municipal priorities and has an important consultative input on, inter alia, grant
allocation.
C.    Municipal Finance and Management
8.     Annex I gives details of recent trends in local revenues and expenditures. As of 1996, municipal
expenditures in Poland represented 8.3 percent of GDP, equivalent to 14 percent of total public
expenditures. Municipal investment was a much higher share (55 percent) of total government investment.
This ratio of municipal to total government capital expenditures is relatively high by middle-income
country standards, but reflects the low overall level of public investment in recent years and the capital-
intensive nature of the main services devolved to gminy.
9.     On average, own-source revenues account for about 40 percent of the municipal budgets. These
include local taxes (real estate, agriculture, transport, business license, etc.) and duties, income from the sale
and lease of municipal property, interest income, and transfers of profits from municipal enterprises. The
main source of own revenues is the property tax (11 percent of the municipal budgets in 1996). Gminy have
partial discretion in setting property tax rates, up to a national cap. The property tax is levied on a flat per
square meter rate regardless of location values, which limits its potential. Moving to an ad-valorem
property tax is a medium-term objective, requiring considerable work in preparing property cadasters and
valuation methods. Only a few cities, such as Krakow, have made significant progress towards this
objective, which also requires new legislation. The balance of municipal revenues consists of shared taxes
(municipalities accrue 15 percent of the personal and 5 percent of the corporate income tax), a block



3
equalization grant, transfers for delegated tasks such as education and cost-sharing (matching) grants for
investments in selected sectors, as well as an additional share of 6-8 percent of the personal income tax for
cities covered by the Big City Law.
10.    The financial position of Polish gminy varies across regions, by city size (with smaller and medium-
sized cities doing better overall than the largest cities or small towns--see Annex 1), and also according to
the capacities and reform orientation of local officials. It has also varied from year to year, mainly as the
result of changes in the inter-governmental allocation of revenues and expenditure. The important point is,
however, that in a period of considerable uncertainty, the sector as a whole has maintained a positive and
steady flow of current savings, equivalent to about 22-25 percent of revenues, and has been able to maintain
a significant pace of investment, largely on a self-financing basis. Gminy need to generate still higher
savings to support their large investment needs, take on new tasks, and replace the one-off revenue source
that they have been getting from asset sales. However, the change required is incremental rather than a
qualitative jump.  In this sense, Poland's municipal sector contrasts with those of many transition
economies, where local revenues cover only a small fraction of the needs (as in all FSU countries and
southern Central Europe), or have been subjected to sharp annual swings reflecting central fiscal constraints
(as in Hungary, for instance).
11.    Gminy have made considerable progress in a few years in budget preparation, presentation and
compliance. Financial analysis tools and skills are still insufficiently developed, however, and multi-year
financial planning, beyond the annual budget cycle, is performed in few cities. The budgetary classification
system elaborated by the Ministry of Finance until now has been geared to the needs of central monitoring
rather than local management, and disclosure standards have not been designed with the objective of
documenting creditworthiness. The Ministry is, however, aware of the need to revise this system and, as of
the last quarter of 1997, intends to incorporate municipal debt indicators in the budgetary indicators
requested from gminy.
12.    Even more than their municipal owners, local utilities and service enterprises vary considerably in
their organizational form and in the quality of their management. Few Polish towns so far have privatized
utility operations (Gdansk water), but private involvement is now being sought more actively, especially for
solid waste. Even without private involvement, many gminy have transformed their service enterprises into
business-like, corporate utilities (joint-stock or more frequently limited-liability companies), with clear
delineation of roles and accounts between the company and its municipal owner/regulator. Most utilities
are able to recover their recurrent costs from user charges, and in some sectors such as water supply, they
generate a sizeable cash flow which should enable sustained investment in service expansion and
improvement.
13.    Still, the in-depth restructuring needed to raise efficiency in service provision has barely started in
the municipal utilities sector.  Being sheltered from competitive pressures, many municipal enterprises
have raised their rates or deferred service improvements rather than cut recurrent costs and reduce their
generally oversized work-forces. A large number of medium-sized or small cities have missed, with no
apparent consequences, a succession of legal deadlines for defining the future status of their utilities, which
are still operated largely as departments of the municipal administration and without clear bottom lines.
And in the absence of long-term credit, utilities cannot become fully self-reliant financially--they still
depend largely on investment grants or equity contributions from the municipal budgets.



4
D.     Municipal Investment
14.    In 1996, aggregate gmina investment reached 1.5 percent of Poland's GDP. Given its wide sectoral
scope (which includes capital-intensive services), and in spite of the relatively high ratio of municipal to
total government capital expenditures, Poland's municipal sector needs to invest more--probably between 2-
3 percent of GDP--with water and wastewater alone accounting for about 1.5 percent.
15.    As do most transition countries of Central Europe, Poland has a high coverage of local
infrastructure in relation to its income level. Piped water and waste collection are almost universally
available in urban areas, with no widespread service disruptions, and street and transit networks are highly
developed. Nevertheless, major investments are needed, with potentially high economic returns, to: (a)
clear a backlog of deferred maintenance and overdue asset renewal; (b) address a legacy of past
environmental neglect, and to comply with stringent EU environmental standards, by expanding and
upgrading sewage treatment and solid waste disposal facilities, and retrofitting heat supply plants; (c)
undertake optimization investment, especially to conserve energy and water in utilities networks; (d) in the
urban transport sector, respond to the fast growth of car ownership and mitigate related congestion and
environmental risks; and (e) address bottlenecks in the provision of infrastructure for new housing.
16.    The sectoral distribution of municipal investment is not well documented, as national statistics
aggregate many sub-sectors into one big item called "municipal economy". Based on a survey of a small
sample of localities, the main sectors of investment in 1993 were sewage treatment (17 percent), water
supply (15 percent), sewage collection (8 percent), education (14 percent), and streets (8 percent). The high
share of environmental services (water and waste) reflects not only local priorities, but also a greater
availability of concessional finance for these sectors. By far the main source of funds for local government
investment has been their current savings--as reflected in an aggregate self-financing ratio of 102 percent in
1995. Other sources include grants from voivodships, central ministries, and grants or subsidized loans
from the environmental funds (see below). Other than soft loans for environmental projects, the use of
credit for municipal investment has been negligible. The absence of long-term municipal credit from
commercial sources has been a hurdle to local investment, especially for "lumpy" infrastructure projects
with long asset life that cannot easily be funded from current savings on a pay-as-you-go basis. It reflects
weaknesses both in the municipal sector, which has difficulty proving its creditworthiness, and in the
financial sector, which has been unable to appraise municipal risk or generate term finance with maturities
suitable for infrastructure projects.
E.     Environmental Finance
17.    Poland has a highly developed system of national, regional and municipal environmental funds
(NFOS, WFOS and GFOS), which has been established to accelerate the country's cleanup and protection
effort by putting a price--positive or negative--on environmental externalities. The system, led by the
Ministry of the Environment, is based on the collection of polluter charges and fees for the use of natural
resources such as water, and the recycling of these fees as matching grants or low-interest loan contributions
in support of environmental protection investments by industries, municipalities or utilities. The fees,
equivalent to almost 0.4 percent of GDP, are collected at the voivodship level. The local voivodship and
gmina (municipal) environmental funds retain, on aggregate, about 60 percent of the proceeds, which are
used to support projects that have mainly local benefits. The remaining 40 percent is transferred to NFOS,
which concentrates on larger investments, or projects that have an impact across voivodship boundaries.
NFOS also receives support from extemal donors including the EU. NFOS provides most of its
contributions in the form of subsidized-rate loans, with typical maturities of 4-5 years, a I to 2 year grace
period, and interest rates as low as 0.2 to 0.6 of the National Bank of Poland's refinance rate. In addition, up



5
to 50 percent of principal repayment can be forgiven by NFOS if a project meets agreed conditions (such as
timely project completion and debt service).
18.    Together, the environmental funds have been by far the largest source of national and regional
support to municipal investment, and almost the only source of term credit to the municipal sector. They
have provided a major boost--unique among transition countries--to the pace of expansion and improvement
of local services, especially for sewage treatment. The focus and effectiveness of this system could be
further improved, however. The management of NFOS has been strengthened in recent years, but the
WFOS are weaker institutionally. The use of more explicit lending criteria, defined up-front, would
improve transparency and help beneficiaries design their financing plans at an earlier stage of project
preparation. Overall, Poland's strong environmental finance system could leverage its resources further,
having the environmental funds operate more as co-financiers alongside commercial sources, with the
provision of soft loans limited, in a transparent fashion, to the environmental externality they finance.
F.     Status of the Financial Sector, Municipal Credit
19.    Since 1990, Poland has transformed its banking system from a virtual appendix of the Central
Planning Office into a free market-type banking system with an adequate regulatory framework and an
increasingly effective supervisory authority. The Treasury still owns over two-thirds of the banking sector
(total assets as of December 1996 amounted to US$57 billion), but there has been a surge in the number of
private and foreign participants. Of the nine regionally-based commercial banks that were initially spun off
from the Central Bank, four have been privatized, one more (PBK) is expected to be privatized in the next
3-6 months, and another is expected to be privatized in 1998. The sector also includes about 1,500 small
cooperative banks (representing about 3 percent of banking assets) servicing mostly rural areas and towns,
and four large specialized banks. One of these four, Bank Handlowy, has diversified itself beyond foreign
trade and become a profitable universal bank. Privatization of this bank is scheduled to take place during
1997. Another one, PKO SA, was, in 1996, consolidated with the remaining three state-owned commercial
banks and will be privatized in 1998. The other specialized banks, the housing and savings bank (PKO BP)
and the rural bank (BGZ), which inherited troubled loan portfolios in socially complicated sectors, have
been heavily re-capitalized over the last few years, and the future viability of BGZ is still uncertain.
20.    New lending by banks had been limited, until at least 1994, reflecting improved supervision and
awareness of credit risk, lack of appraisal experience, inadequate collateral arrangements, large government
borrowing needs, and the uncertain prospects of most candidate borrowers in the early contraction years of
the transformation program. During that period, banks invested the bulk of their resources in Treasury
Bills. However, with increased competition for deposits and falling yields on treasuries, the banks are now
facing reduced spreads, and are seeking more active and profitable types of lending. After falling for four
years in real terms, bank credit (excluding credit to central government) increased by 11 percent (in real
terms) in 1995 and by a further 29 percent in 1996.
21.    Over the past two years, Polish banks have started to take an active interest in the municipal sector,
which they see as a potential market for relatively safe lending with higher spreads than central government
financing. Municipal lending has increased considerably since 1994. Aggregate outstanding municipal
debt increased from PLN 83 million in the first quarter of 1994 to PLN 425 million in the first quarter of
1996. By end-August 1996, this had risen to PLN 514 million. With this increase, the sources of financing
have started to change and the maturity of loans has been lengthening. In early 1995, over 90 percent of
credits to gminy with maturities beyond one year were disbursed by the environmental funds. By end-
August 1996, this percentage had fallen to about 70 percent with 20 percent originating from the 9 regional
banks, and loans with maturities of more than one year exceeded shorter-term loans. The main constraint



6
for commercial lending to municipalities, however, continues to be that, while municipal borrowers require
long-term loans to match the life of their infrastructure assets, bank liabilities are strongly skewed towards
short-dated instruments. Issuing longer-term loans would expose bank treasuries to refinance risks which
could become serious in a liquidity crisis. And even though the use of floating-rate loans reduces the
interest rate risk for the banks, shifting this risk to the borrowers raises the risk of credit defaults. Other
constraints for long-term commercial loans to municipalities are: poor collateral arrangements; lack of
experience in assessing municipal credit risk; and competition from subsidized sources of municipal
financing (primarily, environmental funds).
22.    Non-bank sources of municipal credit are likely to acquire greater significance, as is increasingly
the case with non-bank financing of firms. Among the most significant developments in the fixed-income
market in Poland is the recent emergence of quasi-commercial paper of domestic firms, issued by
investment banks. This constitutes a growing (albeit still small) source of competition to commercial bank
loans. More recently, and in line with the passage of a new Bond Law (July 1995), some large cities have
taken steps towards the private placement of short-to-medium-term municipal bonds. Gdynia successfully
placed its first bonds in January 1996, followed by Krakow, Lodz and Gdansk later in the year. However,
the issuance of municipal bonds (particularly, in the case of more liquid public issues) entails significant
fixed costs associated with: information disclosure, obtaining a credit rating, costly marketing and complex
collateral arrangements. As a result, bond issues are likely to be attractive mainly for larger gminy and their
revenue-earning utilities, while bank lending may be more effective for smaller and medium-sized
borrowers.
23.    With continued economic growth, gradually falling inflation and increased competition among
intermediaries and financial services firms (partly as a result of recent OECD membership and prospective
EU accession and partly as a result of progressive--albeit slow--privatization of banks), Poland's financial
sector has a favorable outlook over the medium term, and should be able within the next few years to extend
access to credit, with gradually longer maturities, to well-managed borrowers--whether these are
municipalities or businesses. Development of institutional investors, such as mutual and pension funds,
could further boost the supply of long-term  savings in the economy. However, the development of
municipal credit will require specific developments in municipal management, municipal collateral, and
banking skills.
G.    Issues of Municipal Creditworthiness - Government Strategy
24.    The main hurdles to establishing municipal creditworthiness relate to the ability of gmniny to prepare
and document bankable projects; revenues with insufficient predictability to back multi-year debt
commitments; their lack of an established credit record; and their limited ability to provide viable security
packages to lenders or bondholders:
*      First, most gmniny and local utilities lack project experience, and they need technical
support in selecting and preparing projects supported by credible feasibility studies
(addressing not just technical choices, but also documenting the sustainability of the
arrangements proposed to operate project facilities and recover their costs).   A
strengthening of utilities and their local govemment supervisors is also needed, e.g.,
through adoption of corporate status, appointing non-political members to utility boards.
*      Second, in view of continuing uncertainties on inter-govemmental fiscal relationships,
credit backed by general municipal obligations should be approached prudently in the
coming years, with conservative financial assumptions and high debt coverage ratios.



7
Credit backed by utility revenues should be more attractive in the near future. Gminy can
help their own utilities become financially more predictable (and creditworthy), by giving
them a corporate status with substantial management autonomy, and by entering into
formal multi-year indexed price cap agreements with them, in order to reduce perceived
regulatory risk for lenders.'
And third, legal work and pilot experiments are needed to introduce the use of municipal
revenues as a secure form of loan or bond collateral -- experience from other countries
shows this to be a key driver in the emergence of municipal credit markets, and alternatives
such as the pledging of municipal property are less effective.
25.    Through the proposed municipal project and complementary programs financed by EU-Phare,
USAID, British Know-How Fund and other donors, the Government of Poland intends to act on the above
fronts. It has created the MDA and mobilized donor-funded technical assistance (EU, USAID) to help
municipalities prepare projects and develop their financial planning skills. Existing Polish legislation also
limits the municipality's ratio of unsecured debt service to revenues to 15 percent. On a highly selective
basis, it is providing guarantees for viable, well-prepared municipal investment projects that have a
demonstration effect. A team of lawyers contracted through the MDA is working on municipal collateral
issues. And the Government has requested Bank support to prepare and finance a time-bound, pilot-scale
credit program, with funds channeled through the banking sector, in order to establish an experience in term
finance for municipal investments.
I   The rates for municipal utilities are not generally indexed for inflation--any adjustment, even nominal, still
requires approval of the full City Council. The open-ended nature of this process is a deterrent for lenders. Multi-
year indexed rate cap agreements are being introduced for utilities who borrow directly from IBRD, such as Aqua,
the water company of Bielsko Biala.






CHAPTER II: THE PROJECT
A.    Project Origin
26.    Since 1991, the Government and the Bank have had a continuing dialogue on fiscal
decentralization, municipal development and local infrastructure. Bank inputs include a 1992 report on
Decentralization and Reform of the State, sector work on urban transport, heat supply and water and
sewerage, dedicated sections in the 1994 CEM, and support through an IDF grant for a survey of local
investment and studies of further decentralization steps. The Bank's 1992 Decentralization Report flagged
the need for an institution to coordinate training and technical assistance efforts in the municipal sector
(along the lines of the MDA), and suggested pilot-scale investment lending to initiate a market for long-
term municipal credit. The project was formally entered in the Bank's lending program in May 1994, after
the Govemment decided to create the MDA and assign to it the tasks of developing a pipeline of viable
municipal investment projects as well as supporting arrangements for financing these projects.
B.    CAS and Rationale for Bank Involvement
27.   The project supports two key, inter-related objectives of the country assistance strategy (CAS):
promoting private sector financing of municipal infrastructure; and helping municipalities to raise the
necessary finance to carry out their environmental responsibilities. The project will contribute to the
diversification and deepening of Poland's financial sector by facilitating private commercial bank entry in
the long-term municipal credit market. It directly supports Bank operations in the water sector by creating a
channel for "retailing" Bank funds, which is the logical next step to a series of single water and wastewater
loans. This channel will play an essential role in mobilizing donor support for a wider range of cities and
towns than could be served through direct lending, and in improving the consistency of extemally funded
programs in the sector.
28.   Through its dialogue with the Government, liaison with donors, and interaction with Polish banks
and cities, the Bank has played a significant role in supporting key steps of project development and
facilitating a consensus between the main participants. The Bank's experience, both in appraising individual
investment projects and in designing municipal sector lending instruments including innovative security
arrangements, is perceived as an important factor in enhancing the project's quality. Continued Bank
involvement is therefore essential for building confidence and maintaining the project's momentum.
C.    Project Objectives
29.   The main goal of the MFP is to promote the development of a credit market for municipal
investment in Poland. To this end, the project pursues the following two inter-related objectives. First, it
will provide long-term financial resources to commercial banks for municipal lending in the infrastructure
sector. And second, it will help the banks identify and prepare a sustained pipeline of viable investment
projects, backed by creditworthy towns or local utilities.
D.    Project Description
30.   The proposed project, a US$22 million line of credit guaranteed by the Republic of Poland, consists
of a single-currency loan to each of two selected commercial banks. The loans will finance a program of
long term subloans issued by these banks (the borrowing banks) to municipalities and revenue-earning
municipal service enterprises. The project is designed as a pilot operation to demonstrate how term-finance



10
of municipal investments at commercial terms can work. All subloans will be at market terms and will
finance works, goods and services for eligible municipal infrastructure investment sub-projects for water,
wastewater, solid waste, and urban transport (including street lighting and road improvement), as well as for
education infrastructure investments. Banks will be responsible for all aspects of the management and
implementation of the loan including sub-project appraisal. The minimum size of a subloan will be
US$250,000; the maximum subloan by PBK or by a consortium of the two borrowing banks will be US$14
million. The average cost of a sub-project is, however, expected to be about US$4 million equivalent and
subloans will finance up to 75 percent of individual sub-project costs. Subloans to single final borrower
will not exceed US$14 million in the aggregate. The project will also promote the channeling of donor-
provided technical assistance resources (through the Municipal Development Agency - MDA) to market
participants including: (a) municipalities, in the areas of project preparation and financial management; (b)
banks, for appraising municipal credit and structuring robust loan security arrangements; and (c) the MDA
to strengthen its continuing role as a facilitator of municipal investment.
31.    Eligibility of borrowing banks. Borrowing banks are required to be, and to continue to be, in full
compliance with NBP regulatory and supervision requirements including standard guidelines for capital
adequacy, asset concentration, foreign exchange risk and loan provisioning. The Bank's appraisal of the
banks also focused on overall managerial capacity, policies for assessing and managing credit risk,
asset/liability risk management, training practices, profitability benchmarks, capacity to administer the
project, and consistency of their business plan with the project objectives. Private ownership, or (if not)
clear determination to be privatized over the next year, was also one of the key eligibility criteria. A more
detailed description of the eligibility criteria for the borrowing banks is provided in Annex 5. The
borrowing banks, PBK (Powszechny Bank Kredytowy SA w Warszawie) and BISE (Bank for Socio-
Economic Initiatives SA) meet all the above eligibility criteria. Several other banks were also considered as
potential borrowers under the project but were finally excluded either because they did not satisfy the
criteria--particularly with regard to privatization status--or because they were not ready to enter into a
borrowing commitment at this time. A number of banks (which are likely to meet the above criteria) did,
however, express a strong desire to participate in any later operation.
32.    PBK Bank. PBK is one of the nine Treasury-owned commercial banks spun off from the central
bank; with assets of about US$3 billion, this is one of the largest commercial banks in Poland. PBK
received extensive training and advisory assistance under a twinning arrangement with San Paolo Bank
(Turin) financed from the Financial Institutions Development Loan (Loan 3341). Most of the current top
management was appointed in 1995 and the Head Office was extensively reorganized in February 1996.
The present management of the bank is seen as more progressive than its predecessors and is actively
seeking strategic investors to participate in its privatization. This process is at an advanced stage and PBK
is scheduled for privatization in the next three-six months, with the Government retaining only a 5 percent
share to cover restitution claims. The bank, which operated originally in the Warsaw and north-eastern
regions of Poland, has recently begun expansion into other regions both through the opening of new
branches and the purchase of existing banks or their branches (the bank had 47 branches at the end of 1996).
Its strategy is based on becoming a broadly based commercial bank providing a wide range of banking and
financial services to companies, institutions (including municipalities) and individuals. While the bank's
experience in municipal lending has so far been limited, staffing and organizational arrangements to handle
the Municipal Finance Project are adequate.
33.    PBK is well capitalized (at 14.2 percent, its risk-adjusted capital-adequacy ratio is much higher than
the NBP requirement) and has been highly profitable (over 27 percent return on average equity in 1996).
About 55 percent of PBK's loans are to state-owned enterprises. Although the share is decreasing, a
significant part of this lending remains in the problematic heavy industry and coal mining sectors, a legacy



11
of the 1989 NBP spin-off. However, as a result of effective work-out efforts and revised lending
procedures, "irregular" loans continued to decline from 31.6 percent in 1994 to 15.6 percent in 1996; and all
irregular loans are adequately provisioned according to NBP requirements. With regard to liquidity, the
bank has a substantial share of Treasury Bills in its balance sheet; this provides a substantial cushion to
compensate for a substantial asset-liability maturity mismatch. To the extent that most assets carry a
floating interest rate, the interest rate risk of the maturity mismatch is limited. The bank also has a balanced
overall foreign exchange position. A more detailed description of the bank and review of its activities is
provided in Annex 6.
34.    BISE Bank BISE is a relatively small (assets of about US$49 million in 1996) and over-capitalized
bank (equity was about 40 percent of liabilities in 1996); it has specialized in lending to small businesses
and, to a lesser degree, to municipalities. About 56 percent of BISE's equity is in private hands (Credit
Foncier, Credit Industriel d'Alsace et de Lorraine and Caisse Centrale de Credit Cooperatif of France are
the three largest private shareholders). BISE's original purpose was to provide financial support to the
development of small businesses and to stimulate development of small towns and rural communities.
About 77 percent of BISE's loans are to private sector companies and individuals, 22 percent are to
government entities (primarily municipal), and I percent to state-owned enterprises.  The French
shareholders have provided, and continue to provide, significant technical assistance in the areas of
municipal lending, housing finance and small business. BISE is located in Warsaw and has a well
qualified/well trained staff. Its management team has a clear view of the bank's defined mission, and is
committed to a policy of cautious growth, including the introduction of new products (such as factoring and
leasing). From an early stage, the bank has been seriously committed to participation in the MFP and has
taken organizational steps to prepare for implementation of the project (including approaching potential
municipal borrowers); this is consistent with the bank's explicit strategy of strengthening its presence in
Poland's municipal credit market.
35.    Net income (after all expenses except income taxes) more than trebled in 1995 and increased by a
further 10 percent in 1996. However, the return to equity remains low, at 1.4 percent in both 1995 in 1996,
in part reflecting its over-capitalized condition. "Irregular" loans have declined from 15.4 percent of the
portfolio in 1994 to about 8 percent in 1996, a substantial improvement but still relatively high given the
business nature of much of its portfolio. BISE's business strategy is characterized by greater commercial
orientation and, supported by its strong capital base, faster balance sheet growth in the future. Most of the
loan portfolio is on a floating rate basis so, despite an asset-liability maturity mismatch (as in the case of
PBK), interest rate risk is minimized. The bank has a balanced net foreign exchange position. A more
detailed description of the bank and review of its activities is provided in Annex 6.
36.    Eligible final borrowers will be creditworthy municipalities or enterprises operating municipal
services (either municipally owned enterprises or private firms operating municipal services in eligible
sectors under concessions awarded by local governments). Eligible sectors will be water, wastewater, solid
waste and urban transport (including street lighting and road improvement), as well as infrastructure for
education. Additional sectors may be added during implementation, in agreement with the Bank. Eligible
investments will include rehabilitation, replacement, improvement or expansion of service assets in eligible
sectors, supported by adequate studies documenting their financial, economic, environmental and technical
feasibility, with cost recovery and loan service based either on direct user charges (utilities and local
transport) or general municipal revenues (for services that are financed from local taxes, such as urban
traffic management) (see also Annex 2a, Box 2).
37.    Initial batch of projects. A first batch of sub-projects, identified jointly by the Bank and/or MDA,
includes the following: Sulejowek, Limanowa, Radom, Dabrowa-Gornicza (wastewater), Pulawy (solid



12
waste), and Krakow (urban transport).  The total loan size of these projects (at different stages of
preparation) is expected to be in the region of US$30 million. Even allowing for a 50 percent slippage or
droppage, this pipeline should be sufficient to ensure satisfactorv commitments and disbursements during
the first year of the project. Efforts by both the borrowing banks and the MDA are continuing to ensure the
development of a healthy pipeline.
38.    Project-related technical assistance. The project-related technical assistance is divided into two
separate elements, feasibility studies and institutional development, both of which are financed primarily
through grant resources provided by a variety of donors (e.g., principally EU-Phare, but also USAID), and
which is being administered by the MDA. The MDA, in consultation with the respective municipalities or
municipal enterprises, could assist in preparing TORs for feasibility studies of future investments.2  In
addition, a PHRD grant is being used primarily to complement institutional development assistance. This
focuses on two areas of support: (a) the institutional development and strengthening of the MDA, including
the carrying out of a collateral study; and (b) preparation of projects and financing requests for participating
municipalities (e.g., budgetary accounting, financial planning and project evaluation skills). In addition,
borrowing banks could request support from MDA to develop their skills in municipal finance (e.g., project
appraisal, collateral arrangements). MDA's continued involvement as a provider of project-related technical
assistance to municipalities is important and could contribute to the achievement of the project's objectives
but has not been incorporated as a project component for a number of reasons discussed in para 49.
E.     Project Costs and Financing Plan
39.    The total cost is estimated at about US$40 million equixalent, with an estimated 10 percent local
tax content. This is considered to be a reasonable size for a pilot operation of this type. Given the
programmatic nature of the project, price and physical contingencies do not apply; they will be embedded in
the individual sub-loans.
40.    Table I shows the financing plan. The proposed Bank loans totalling US$22 million equivalent
could finance up to 75 percent of individual sub-projects. This share may vary (depending on the
availability of funds from other sources) and is expected to finance about 55 percent of total project costs
overall. Funds for sub-projects will come from: (a) cash contributions by beneficiary gminy, utilities or user
associations (at least 20 percent); (b) proceeds of the Bank loan channeled by the borrowing banks; as well
as (c) possible matching grants or concessional loans from the NFOS for environmental projects; and/or (d)
financing by commercial banks from their own sources (either by the borrowing bank itself, or through
syndication arrangements).
Table I - Indicative Financing Plan
Source                                                   Financing                  % of cost
(lUSS million)
Sub-borrower equity                                             8.0                       20
National grant programs/commercial banks                       10.0                       25
IBRD through banks                                            22.0                        55
Total                                                          40.0                      100
2    Sample TORs have been prepared for each sector and are provided in the Project File, Annex 7).



13
41.    Cooperation with NFOS. For sub-projects that have environmental benefits, NFOS may provide
matching soft loans, in accordance with NFOS' lending guidelines, and as mentioned in the letter of
cooperation that it has signed with the Bank for this project.3 This will help municipal borrowers identify
upfront potential financing from both NFOS and commercial sources. NFOS will thus supplement, rather
than substitute for, commercial lending, de facto leveraging its scarce financial resources to achieve national
environmental objectives. NFOS will apply its own environmental criteria including approval from the
voivodship environmental authorities for sub-projects to be eligible for its soft-loan financing program.
F.     On-lending Terms
42.    The borrowing commercial banks (BBs) will on-lend the proceeds of the IBRD loans to local
government sub-borrowers. The cost to the banks of IBRD loans will be composed of: the IBRD interest
rate and commitment fees; and the sovereign guarantee fee collected by the Ministry of Finance (a one-time
payment of 2 percent of the principal amount of the loan). Borrowing banks will on-lend the funds to
eligible final borrowers (gminy or local utilities) for viable infrastructure projects. The banks will be
required to lend long-term, with maturities ranging from 5-15 years, including a grace period of up to 3
years, depending on the type of investment financed. The banks will not be required however to offer
maturities that are strictly "back-to-back" with the IBRD loans, as this might not match in all cases the
specific financing needs of the final borrower. These long-termn subloans to final beneficiaries will be made
either in: (a) foreign currency at a rate reflecting the above costs, plus a spread to cover the commercial
bank's administrative costs and risk premium; or (b) in local currency on the same terms as (a) but also
reflecting the foreign exchange risk premium. These onlending terms were agreed with the BBs during
negotiations and will be reflected in the lending agreements between them and the final beneficiaries.
43.    The BB's spread negotiated with each final borrower will depend on the borrower's risk profile and
collateral, on the bank's administrative and fee costs and, for zloty sub-loans, on the exchange rate premium
applied by the bank.4 To obtain the most competitive spread, municipal borrowers may wish to submit the
same loan application to both borrowing banks. The commercial banks have indicated that, depending on
the above factors, they are likely to apply spreads ranging from 1.5 to 4 percentage points on foreign
currency sub-loans.
44.    Risk allocation. The Government will be exposed to the risk of commercial bank failure. The
borrowing banks have therefore been required to meet strict qualification criteria. The credit risk of the
municipal borrowers will stay with the borrowing banks. These banks will remain liable to service the loan
regardless of their own performance in collecting the municipal sub-loans. To mitigate the municipal risk,
the banks will seek collateral arrangements and will carry out a financial appraisal of the sub-borrower.
45.    Collateral arrangements.  Loans to final borrowers are expected to include a variety of loan
existing security arrangements including: revenue-based collateral property (commercial property); banking
3   The letter of cooperation with NFOS, dated March 11, 1996, indicating the scope of cooperation with the
MFP and NFOS eligibility guidelines for projects will be included among the selected documents in the project file
(Annex 7).
4   The overall financing costs for each sub-project will depend on: (a) how much is financed from the
borrower's equity; (b) whether it qualifies for grant or other concessional financing, e.g., from NFOS; and (c)
whether the financing package offered by the bank includes only proceeds of the IBRD funding or also financing
(likely with shorter maturities) by the bank itself, or by other banks, from their own resources.



14
and financial instrument collateral (cession of debtor bank accounts, blocking of bank accounts). Work by a
legal task force to examine other options, including an escrow on local tax revenues and/or pledge of the
income stream of municipal enterprises, intercept of the general subsidy to gminy, is being financed with
resources from a Japanese PHRD grant and is expected to be concluded by July 1997.5
G.    Participation
46.    Participation of local communities in the various sub-projects is ensured as individual investments
are proposed by local government bodies who are elected representatives of the people who will be most
directly impacted. Furthermore, sub-projects will require City Council approval which provides for public
fora to discuss municipal investment plans. The ability of a municipality to borrow long-term funds under
the MFP will require (based on the Local Self Government Act of 1990) an express authorization from the
local City Council; Mayors and the Executive Boards can exercise discretion only for short- and medium-
term borrowing levels (subject to agreed ceilings). Evidence that this approval has been obtained is
incorporated in the appraisal criteria for sub-projects.
H.    Financial Analysis
47.    Two project features are aimed at enhancing the financial "integrity" of the project:
*      At the sub-project level, bank's own credit analysis and sub-project appraisal criteria,
including a 1.5 debt service coverage ratio.  In those sectors where cost recovery
mechanisms are feasible (water, wastewater, solid waste and urban transport), recovery of
operation and maintenance costs and of debt service, at a level appropriate for the specific
sector, are required.
-      Banks absorb the municipal credit risk (i.e., commercial spreads and collateral
arrangements cover for that risk); the risk to the budget, in turn, is minimized by the
application of strict eligibility criteria for banks.
L.     Economic Analysis
48.    Public/private sector issues. The project focuses on investments in the local infrastructure sector
for which little private sector interest has been demonstrated so far, beyond operational contracts which do
not include investment finance. Lending to private concessionaires or joint ventures is possible under the
project, assuming the municipalities are ready to promote such schemes (including the regulatory
framework). The creation of autonomous water utilities in cities of more than 50,000 inhabitants, one of the
appraisal criteria of the project, is a first step for the cities to increase private sector participation in the
future. Even if there is no private sector participation in concessions as such, the facilitation of municipal
investment plans by the MFP will create increasing opportunities for the private sector to participate in the
construction, or in management contracts, of new municipal investment projects.
49.    Project Design Alternatives. Several alternative project designs were considered, including the
establishment of a Municipal Credit Agency. The creation of such a specialized financial institution would,
however, have been costly (due to staffing and capitalization), time-consuming (due to training needs and
5   A preliminary review of the possible use of the different security instrunents and the output of this report
will be included in the project file (Annex 7).



15
development of regulatory/supervisory framework), and counter to the objective of stimulating a
competitive market for municipal finance. It would also have presented risks of politicized or unsustainable
lending as shown by Bank experience with similar agencies in other countries. As designed, the project
minimizes fiscal costs and potential liabilities for the national budget through the involvement of the
existing commercial banks, which will assume the full credit risk of the municipal borrowers, and through
MDA's access to external grant resources to fund technical assistance needed in the project. The main
technical assistance grant donors (EU Phare and USAID) support the final project design. Incorporating
technical assistance as a project component by giving the MDA a more central role would have implied
both an additional fiscal cost and monitoring effort for the Government. Furthermore, the Government was
not willing to borrow for technical assistance and the banks were unwilling to pay a technical assistance fee
to the MDA. The borrowing banks also feared that they would be penalized, by delays in both processing
and implementation of the project and through additional commitment fees, if MDA did not performn
satisfactorily. Taking these factors into account, the design of this pilot project has been kept simple and an
attempt made to minimize the above risks. While a more formal involvement of MDA could help the
project achieve its objectives (and could be even more important if there were to be a follow up operation),
this is not essential, particularly since a sufficient number of potential sub-projects have been identified and
the project can be effectively implemented under the proposed arrangements.
50.    Fiscal impact. At the local level, most of the sub-projects6 will be in revenue-earning utilities and
will have cost-recovery features which will make them self-financing, thus, having no net budgetary impact
over the medium and long term. Over the short term, larger gminalutility deficits will reflect new financing
opportunities, not reductions in saving. At the central level, budgetary savings may result from reduced
pressure from local governments to obtain grants/subsidies from the central government (as better access to
financial resources would provide a financing option virtually non-existent now). There is a contingent
fiscal impact if excessive borrowing by municipalities leads to episodes of default and, in response, the
central government ends up bailing out banks/municipal borrowers. The project is designed to minimize
this risk. The application of prudent technical and financial qualification criteria of the project and banks'
own financial criteria aim at avoiding these situations. In addition, the risk of default resulting from
uncontrolled municipal borrowing is addressed by existing Polish legislation which limits the ratio of
unsecured debt service to 15 percent of revenues.
51.    Benefits and costs. Benefits will accrue from: (a) strengthening of municipal management and
finances including improved access to financial markets; (b) diversification of commercial banks activities
into municipal lending through the lengthening of liability maturity, credit enhancement (collateral
arrangements), municipal lending with their own resources, and acquisition of knowledge in the area of
project appraisal; (c) improving of urban efficiency (e.g., reduced time of travel) and living standards (e.g.,
reduced health problems resulting from better quality water) in beneficiary cities; and, (d) a more rational
allocation of municipal resources resulting from improved project selection and appraisal criteria. Since the
project pursues high rates of cost-recovery in most of the sub-projects, most of the costs are expected to be
paid by the final beneficiaries of the municipal services. In general, improved service is expected to
facilitate willingness to pay (higher tariffs, when there is cost recovery, taxes otherwise).
52.    Economic analysis of sub-projects.  All investments will be supported by appropriate feasibility
studies, of a depth that is in line with the sub-project's size and complexity. These studies will demonstrate
6   Other investments, such as those to improve traffic management and drainage, would be covered through
general municipal revenues rather than user charges.



16
that each sub-project meets a prudently assessed demand in a least-cost way, and is economically viable
(appraisal criteria are described in Annex 2a, Box 2).
53.    Environmental benefits and costs of a typical sub-project. Environmental benefits quantified in
terms of improved quality of both surface and ground water resources, air quality, protection of natural
amenity, and improved management of the environmental resources will occur from: (a) wastewater and
effluent treatment; (b) improved resources utilization through metering and adjusted tariffs; (c) improved
collection and utilization of municipal solid waste; (d) improved efficiency of urban transport systems.
Environmental costs, namely costs of environmental pollution control, will be recovered through tariffs,
user charges and prices of goods paid by the users. Investment costs of addressing negative environmental
externalities might be, in part, covered by the National Environmental Fund. Environmental benefits of
investments undertaken by economic entities are generally not perceived by them as financial benefits. But
since they do represent social and economic benefits, it is in society's interest and well being to support
interventions by Environmental Funds to the level where costs of mitigation are equal to the value of
environmental externalities.
J.     Sources of Risk for the Project
54.    The main policy-related risks are: (a) further decentralization of public expenditures may be
inadequately matched by revenue allocations, reducing the ability of gminy to service long-term debt
obligations and creating risks of default; (b) excessive municipal borrowing could become a problem by
raising aggregate public sector expenditures and effecting the stabilization program; (c) municipalities may
be unwilling to borrow at commercial rates, particularly in view of the presence of subsidized funds from
the environmental funds/bank and other national/regional funds; (d) municipalities may lack the capacity to
prepare quality projects meeting commercial bank and IBRD criteria, and the incipient MDA may not
develop sufficient capacity to discharge its facilitation role; and (e) the city may not want to take the foreign
exchange rate risk.
55.    The project seeks to alleviate these risks in the following manner: (a) the uncertainty concerning
future inter-government revenue allocation emphasizes the importance of careful selection of municipalities
or municipal enterprises, prudent lending criteria, solid collateral arrangements, and focus of the project on
investments recouped from direct user charges and backed by financially self-reliant utilities; (b) the risk of
uncontrolled municipal borrowing is addressed by regulations which limit the ratio of unsecured debt
service to revenues to 15 percent, and the debt carrying capacity of municipalities will be an important
factor in sub-project selection; (c) with regard to the prospective competition from low-cost funds, the
cooperation agreement with the NFOS reduces the risk of potential displacement of commercial financing
of MFP sub-projects by soft loans by identifying up-front the amount of financing that will be available
through the NFOS and, thus, also the gap for commercial loans; (d) efforts are being made to design
adequate loan security arrangements and to strengthen local level capacity (one objective of the technical
assistance to be provided by the MDA); and (e) regarding the foreign exchange rate risk, the banks are
expected to pass this on to the municipal borrowers. The municipal borrower's ability to mitigate this risk
will depend on its overall debt service carrying capacity, its foreign exchange-earning capacity (or capacity
to link tariffs to the exchange rate) and other specific arrangements that it may be able to enter into (e.g.,
creating a liquidity reserve to absorb unexpected changes in the exchange rate and lengthening the
amortization of the loan if there is an unexpected devaluation). In addition, Poland's sound macroeconomic
situation does not suggest the presence of severe distortions in its exchange rate (although future volatility
cannot be ruled out).



17
56.    The project aims to mitigate the risk of slow  commitments and disbursements that have
characterized other lines of credit in Poland in several ways: (a) by considering the cities' commitments to
borrow as a key condition for sub-project appraisal; (b) by keeping this first demonstration project to scale
that is a small fraction of current sector investment volumes, and that is tested against effective market
interest; and (c) by simplifying and streamlining appraisal, procurement and disbursement procedures to
help reduce transaction costs associated with Bank loans. Furtherrnore, in addition to a first batch of sub-
projects for which evidence of borrower interest has been established, efforts have been made to expand the
pipeline by adding sub-projects at different stages of preparation, to allow for an unavoidable slippage and
droppage factor. Having the banks as direct borrowers and having them pay the commitment fees to the
World Bank will increase incentives for mobilizing the line of credit faster, plus the fact that supplemental
financing from the NFOS will help make the total financial package more attractive to the municipal
borrowers. In addition, if commitments by one of the banks is slower than anticipated, the Bank and the
Borrowers have agreed to consider the possibility of onlending the uncommitted funds to the other bank, or
to a third bank that meets the eligibility criteria for inclusion in the project.
57.    The risk that banks may be interested in long-term financing of the sub-projects with their own
resources, rather than with the long-term funds provided under the MFP, is considered moderate, and is
diminished by providing for their participation in sub-project financing. Interested banks are aware of the
risks (and possible future regulatory costs) of long-term financing with short-term liabilities (typically at
floating rates); this exposes excessively the final borrower (and indirectly the banks) to fluctuations in
liquidity through high interest rate volatility. The proposed loan provides the banks with an important
source of long-term financing and the SCL instrument offered under this project constitutes for them a
competitive source of funding at the margin (e.g., compared to what the banks will be able to obtain in
foreign capital markets). At present, there is a rapidly evolving competition for medium-term financing of
municipal projects (up to 5 years); the finance instruments most likely to be used in this segment of the
market are floating-rate loans (from banks with substantial liquidity and/or with large retail networks) and
municipal bonds (for the larger projects/cities).






CHAPTER III: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.    Institutional Responsibilities
58.    The borrowing banks (BBs) will be both the borrowers and the executing agencies of the proposed
loans. The Ministry of Finance (MoF), as the representative of the Republic of Poland, will be the
guarantor. The Municipal Development Agency (MDA) will be involved in development of the project
pipeline. These responsibilities are summarized below and described in more detail in Annex 2a.
59.    A single currency IBRD loan will be made to each of the borrowing banks, which will use the funds
for issuing long-term subloans in foreign exchange or domestic currency at market rates to local
governments or municipal utilities for viable infrastructure sub-projects. The BBs will be responsible for
assessing and bearing the credit risk of the borrowing entity, bearing the foreign exchange risk for local
currency loans and for managing all aspects of the subloans to final borrowers. The gminy or local utilities
will be responsible for implementing the approved sub-projects. The MDA will channel project-related,
grant-financed technical assistance to local governments, municipal utilities and borrowing banks. MDA
will screen applications from local governments and municipal utilities to select beneficiaries for grant-
financing of feasibility studies.
B.    Contractual Arrangements
60.    The above responsibilities will be formalized in a series of legal arrangements, as summarized in
the following table.
Table 2 - Contractual Arrangements
Parties to Agreement             Type of Agreement
With the Bank            Bank and MoF (Guarantor)          Guarantee Agreement for each Loan
Bank and each BB                 Loan Agreement
With the BBs             BB and Municipality/Utility, for each   Subloan Agreement
subloan
C.    Implementation Arrangements
61.   Project administration. Implementation arrangements, described in more detail in Annex 2a,
were discussed with the BBs during appraisal and confirmed during negotiations. Each BB will be
responsible for all tasks relating to the implementation and administration of the project and associated
loan. Each BB has appointed a project coordinator who will have overall responsibility for project
implementation in the BB.  Specific staff within the BB will be responsible for verifying that
procurement under subloans is carried out in accordance with the agreed procedures and for handling the
administration of subloans, including: (a) sub-project appraisal and financial management of subloans;
(b) preparation of documentation for withdrawals from the Bank loan; (c) supervision of sub-projects; (d)
sub-project information management (such as seeking approvals from the World Bank for financing
from the loan, providing implementation status reports, and sub-project auditing); and (e) liaison with the



20
World Bank. The Bank will organize seminars, including a project launch workshop, to train the
relevant staff in procurement and disbursement procedures.
62.    Pipeline Development.  The Bank and/or MDA has prescreened an initial batch of 6 sub-
projects, for which BB financing is now being sought. Future sub-projects will initially be screened by
MDA (if its technical assistance for feasibility studies is required) or will be directly assessed by the
BBs, in accordance with the criteria, described in Annex 2a. For those sub-projects entering the pipeline
througih MDA, MDA will also make a short pre-feasibility assessment of those projects to enable it to
allocate the limited grant resources available for feasibility studies to the most promising sub-projects.
63.    MDA will, as mentioned earlier (para. 38) be responsible for building up a project pipeline,
supporting both participating municipalities and banks. It has on staff three technical experts, a financial
specialist and a lawyer to fulfill these functions and will be strengthened with support from project
management/institutional development consultants, which MDA is in the process of appointing. The
consultant/s will assist MDA staff and municipalities in preparing bank loan applications and in
preparing terms of reference for feasibility studies, as well as in training MDA in pre-feasibility study
project evaluation. These experts will be financed from the ongoing PHRD Grant.
64.    Sub-project Appraisal.  In preparation for sub-project appraisal, the cities/utilities (with
assistance from the MDA if appropriate) will ensure that the TORs for the feasibility studies are
consistent with sub-project appraisal criteria, which are described in Annex 2a (Box 2) and have been
agreed with the BBs. All sub-projects will be appraised by the BBs. The appraisal of any sub-project
below US$2.5 million will be carried out in accordance with the guidelines of the concerned borrowing
bank. This appraisal will be based on a feasibility study of a scope commensurate with the complexity
and size of the sub-project under consideration, giving appropriate attention to technical, financial,
institutional and environmental considerations. The first subloan from each BB and all subloans of
US$2.5 million or more will require the prior review by the Bank. Subloans below US$2.5 million,
except the first subloan from each BB, will be reviewed expost.
65.    Onlending Arrangements. Each BB will:
*      be responsible for all financial aspects of sub-project implementation, including:
completing its own appraisal to assess the credit/commercial risk and financial viability
of sub-projects, in accordance with agreed criteria, including, for revenue-earning
investments, cost recovery of O&M and debt service at a level appropriate for the
specific sector;
*      ensure that its municipal borrowers carry out the investments and use the funds for the
purpose provided;
*      ensure that environmental and legal (including planning and construction permit)
requirements have been met;
*      verify that procurement of inputs and maintenance of project records are in accordance
with IBRD guidelines;
*      ensure that its project records and financial statements are audited at the end of each
fiscal year in accordance with international standards and provide copies of the audit
reports to the Bank;
e      make adequate arrangements to meet the World Bank administrative requirements
(procurement, disbursements, accounting and reporting).



21
66.    Implementation of the investment sub-projects will be the responsibility of the beneficiary cities
(gminy or local utility enterprise). The subloan agreements between the BBs and the final borrower, as
well as detailing the financial terms and conditions, will require that the final borrower: carries out
procurement in accordance with procurement procedures agreed between the Bank and the BB;
disburses funds to contractors and suppliers; provides counterpart funding and mobilizes domestic
financing where applicable; keeps accounts/records of sub-project expenditures; has these records
audited in accordance with Polish law; and reports to the BB on sub-project progress.
D.    Environmental Aspects
67.    The project has been rated "B" for the purpose of OD 4.01. Line of credit operations through
financial intermediaries require that each sub-project financed with these resources comply with national
environmental standards and regulations, supported by an appropriate institutional framework. In the
case of Poland, this framework is in place. In accordance with existing regulations, an Environmental
Impact Analysis (EIA) must be carried out for green field operations. Where necessary, this analysis will
also be completed as part of feasibility studies, financed from grant resources managed by the MDA.
68.    Investments including financing from the NFOS will be thoroughly screened by the Fund.' In
addition, verification that sub-projects comply with environmental regulations will be the responsibility
of the BB, which will have to check that sub-projects submitted for its approval comply with all Polish
legal requirements, including environmental ones.  The final beneficiary will have to submit the
appropriate environmental permit before subloan approval. In all cases, the BBs will ensure in their
subloan agreements that the final borrowers are in compliance with Polish environmental regulations and
agree to rehabilitate/build/operate the planned sub-projects according to these regulations. Commercial
banks need to develop procedures to screen projects and to manage them for environmental risk as well
as environmental liability. The BB's compliance with these responsibilities will be reviewed by the Bank
during project supervision.
E.    Procurement Arrangements
69.    The loans will finance sub-projects for municipalities or municipal enterprises for the
modernization, rehabilitation, construction or improvement of municipal infrastructure. To the extent
possible, it is expected that subloans will finance supply and installation contracts. If certain items cannot
be incorporated in such a contract, they will be procured separately, but efforts will be made to keep to such
procurement to a minimum. All project components financed from the proposed Bank loans will be
procured in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement (August 1996), including the
application of the Polish Public Procurement Law (PPL), as explained below. Given the nature of this
project, involving support to sub-projects, most of which have not been preappraised, detailed estimates for
the breakdown of the project expenditures by procurement method are not available. Details of the
procurement arrangements, including thresholds for the various methods and review requirements, are
included in the Project Implementation Plan (Annex 2a).
7   Details of the selection and evaluation criteria used by NFOS have been reviewed by the Bank and are
considered to be satisfactory.



22
70.    Procurement for each municipal investment sub-project will be carried out by the individual
beneficiary local government or municipal utility responsible for its implementation, under procurement
methods and procedures reviewed by and satisfactory to the Bank, including procurement through NCB,
where applicable. A Country Procurement Assessment for Poland was undertaken in May-June 1995,
during which time the PPL, approved in June 1994, was reviewed in detail. As a result of the discussion of
this assessment with the Government, it has been agreed, for contracts for works, and for supply and
installation contracts, estimated to cost less than US$5 million per package, that the unlimited tendering
procedure, as provided for in the PPL,' is acceptable to the Bank subject to certain conditions (Annex 2a).
This procedure is to be used in place of the National Competitive Bidding procedure described in the
Procurement Guidelines. Similarly, it has been agreed that the procurement method called "request for
proposals" in the PPL will be used in place of: (a) International Shopping for contracts for equipment and
materials estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$400,000 per package, based on a comparison of
price quotations from at least three suppliers in two different countries; and (b) National Shopping for
equipment and materials estimated to cost up to US$100,000 per package, and for small works of up to
US$300,000 per package.
F.    Disbursements and Special Account
71.    The loan will finance up to 100 percent of the amounts disbursed by borrowing banks to
municipal borrowers for eligible subloans. These disbursements are expected to cover: (a) up to 75
percent of the total cost of any sub-project financed; and (b) eligible expenditures, i.e., contracts for
works, equipment and services procured in accordance with arrangements agreed with the Bank.
Disbursements for subloans of less than US$2.5 million equivalent will be on the basis of statements of
expenditures. To facilitate disbursements, each BB will establish a Special Account with a qualified
commercial bank.
72.    The detailed disbursement schedule is provided in Annex 4 and is summarized below (Table 3).
It is anticipated that total loan proceeds will be committed against subloans within 3 years of loan
effectiveness and that disbursements will be spread over 4.5 years. Based on this schedule, the expected
completion date for the project is June 30, 2001 and the Closing Date is December 31, 2001.
Table 3: Disbursement Schedule
IBRD FY       FY98    FY99   FY2000   FY2001   FY2002
US$ million
Annual             3.5      8.0      7.5       2.2       0.8
Cumulative         3.5     11.5     19.0      21.2      22.0
Percentage        16%      52%      86%       96%       100%
G.    Reporting and Audits
73.    The project account, Special Account and Statements of Expenditure will be maintained by each
BB and will be audited at the end of each fiscal year in accordance with international standards, as part
of the annual audit of the BB. Assurance were obtained during negotiations that each borrower will



23
appoint independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and that it will present to the Bank, within six
months after the end of each fiscal year, audited financial statements. The financial statements of the
final beneficiaries will be audited in accordance with Polish law. The audit reports for the final
beneficiaries will be retained by the respective borrowing banks and made available to the Bank on
request.
74.    The borrowing banks will maintain financial records of the project and provide periodic progress
reports to the Bank on the status of sub-project financing. These reports will also comment on project
execution achievements and compare them with the key performance indicators listed in Annex 2b. The
format for these reports was confirmed during negotiations. Assurances were also obtained that each BB
will be responsible for preparing an implementation completion report and will submit this to the Bank
within six months after the closing date of the loan.
H.    Project Supervision
75.   It is anticipated that supervision of this project will require an above average effort, with a
heavier concentration in the first two years of implementation and at least three supervision missions
annually, because ofthe support required to appraise sub-projects. By end-1999, the BBs and the Bank
will jointly undertake a mid-term review of implementation progress and compliance with loan. In years
I and 2 of implementation, 18 staffweeks per fiscal year are anticipated, divided amongst the Task
Manager, a municipal finance specialist, a banking expert and technical specialists (using local experts to
the extent possible) in the various sectors. In addition, limited support (totaling less than 1 week/year)
from procurement and institutional development experts is envisaged. In later years the supervision
effort should be reduced to 12-15 staffweeks per year. Ongoing support for day-to-day activities is
anticipated from the Resident Mission (about 6 staffweeks) and is expected to increase over time as it
will assume the responsibility for sub-project review as its staff develops experience in this area.






CHAPTER IV: AGREEMENTS REACHED DURING NEGOTIATIONS
76.   The following agreements were reached during negotiations:
a) Borrowing banks to remain in full compliance with NBP regulatory and supervision
requirements (para 3 1)
b) Subloans not to exceed US$14 million (para 30)
c) Eligible final borrowers will be creditworthy municipalities or enterprises operating
municipal services, and eligible sectors will be water, wastewater, solid waste, urban
transport (including street lighting and road improvement) and education (para 36)
d) Terms and conditions of the onlending agreements between the BBs and municipal
borrowers, including the implementation responsibilities of the BBs (paras 42-43, 65)
e) Borrowing banks to assign a project coordinator with overall responsibility for all tasks
relating to project implementation and administration (para 61)
f) All investments to be supported by appropriate feasibility studies, which will inter alia
establish their economic viability (paras 52 and 64)
g) Criteria for appraisal of sub-loans (para 64 and Annex 2a, Box 2)
h) All subloans of US$2.5 million or more, and the first subloan from each BB, regardless of
size, to be subject to prior review by the Bank (para 64)
i) Borrowing banks to provide to the Bank, within six months after the end of each fiscal year,
audited financial statements from independent auditors (para 73)
j) Key performance indicators (para 74 and Annex 2b)
k) Mid-term review to be carried out by end-1999 (para 75).






27
ANNEX I
Page I of 9
MUNICIPAL FINANCE AND INVESTMENT IN POLAND
A.    Decentralization of Public Infrastructure and Services
1.     Under the Local Self-Government Act (LSGA) of 1990, Poland transferred to over 2,400
municipalities (gminy) the provision of a broad range of local infrastructure and services including water
and sanitation, drainage, land development, urban streets, mass transit, and district heating. Further
decentralization reforms are underway or being considered, such as the creation of a second tier of local
government (powiats), and the devolution of new functions in the social sectors. Given their new
ownership of public service assets, local governments have assumed the responsibility to mobilize resources
for operation, maintenance and expansion of these services. Decentralization is seen as a means to deepen
democratic processes at the local level, and bring the control of local services closer to the beneficiaries.
2.     By and large, Polish gminy have, within their means, risen to the challenge of their expanded role
under the LSGA and have taken charge for the services devolved. A number of large and medium-sized
cities have engaged in the restructuring of their municipal enterprises; this process can comprise the
creation of limited liability companies, joint-stock companies, sale to employees, full privatization or
liquidation. Six years into decentralization, enterprise restructuring has not been completed everywhere. In
some small and medium-sized cities, municipal enterprises have been re-consolidated into one municipal
company, partly to avoid payment of the corporate income tax and to reserve funds for investment. This
practice can lead to prolonging inefficient structures and cross-subsidizing services. Most cities have
adopted responsible service pricing policies that required politically painful increases in user charges.
Many gminy have also started work on strengthening their management and revenue administration
systems, and defining investment priorities responsive to the needs of their constituents. In addition, gminy
budgets generate sizeable current savings and account for a large part of total public investment.
3.     Decentralization of tasks (and the associated financing) to local authorities accelerated between
1994-96, with some of these tasks requiring important operating funds from municipal budgets. Effective
1995, gminy became responsible for the allocation of housing subsidies to low income households. Gminy
are now authorized to raise rents on municipal housing units, within a fixed ceiling (which varies by
voivodship), but housing allocations must be paid to low-income inhabitants of cooperative as well as
municipal housing. This new charge has been estimated at up to 10 percent of municipal budgets, and
depends on the mix of municipal and cooperative housing in each gmina. Primary education was finally
transferred to all municipalities in 1996 (up to the end of 1995, 700 gminy had accepted this responsibility).
Also in 1996, the "Big City Law" replaced the powiat pilot program which had been established in 1994.
Under this law, voivodship and national tasks, including secondary and vocational education, art schools,
social care and assistance centers, health care establishments, culture and art institutions, road maintenance
and protection, were transferred to 46 specific cities, as well as to the local authorities of Warsaw.
4.     The recent and continuing transfer of these partially unfunded mandates in education, housing
allocations and powiat tasks (for the largest cities) is placing increased stress on municipal budgets. This
evolution may limit municipal financial capacity for investments; indeed, investment expenditures
increased much less rapidly between 1994-96, compared to previous years. The level of investment may
taper off in the next 2-3 years, despite continued major backlogs of deferred maintenance and replacement
(such as urban transport) and the need to bring existing equipment in line with stricter environmental
standards (sewage treatment facilities, solid waste landfills). Such an evolution only highlights the need for



28
ANNEX I
Page 2 of 9
(sewage treatment facilities, solid waste landfills). Such an evolution only highlights the need for municipal
access to long-term capital, enabling municipalities to meet investment needs and to leverage their
municipal budget capacity through debt financing.
B.    Municipal Investment Trends
5.     Aggregate gmina investment reached PLN 5.6 billion in 1996, representing about 1.5 percent of
Poland's GDP. The ratio of municipal to total government capital expenditures at 55 percent (1996) is
relatively high by middle-income country standards, but this reflects mainly the low overall level of public
investment in recent years. Given its wide sectoral scope which includes capital-intcnsivc services,
Poland's municipal sector needs to invest more--between 2-3 percent of GDP--with water and wastewater
alone accounting for about half.
6.     The coverage of local infrastructure in Poland is satisfactory by middle-income country
comparisons. That is, water supply or garbage collection, for instance, have near universal coverage in
urban areas, and there are no widespread service disruptions. The street networks and transit services are
highly developed. Nevertheless, the infrastructure equipment and networks on which these services depend
are inadequate and there is need for considerable investment to address efficiency and environmental issues.
Specifically, investments are needed to: (a) clear a backlog of deferred maintenance and overdue asset
renewal which has built up from the 1980's--the pace of pipe replacement in water or heat networks, and
the renewal rates of bus fleets have been unsustainably low; (b) address a legacy of past environmental
neglect--only one-third of urban sewage undergoes secondary treatment, and many solid waste disposal
facilities are unsound; (c) undertake optimization investment, especially to conserve energy and water in
utilities' networks--the design standards and technologies used in the past paid little attention to resource
use; (d) in the urban transport sector, engineering and investment in public transit modes arc needed to
mitigate congestion and environmental risks associated with the fast growth of car ownership and increased
traffic; and (e) develop housing-related infrastructure--the limited availability of serviced land for new
housing in some fast-growing urban areas constrains the ability of labor to move and seek new employment
opportunities in a restructuring economy. Compliance with EU Environmental Standards will further
increase investment needs.
7.     The recent sectoral distribution of municipal investment is not well documented, as national
statistics aggregate many sub-sectors into one big item called "municipal economy". Based on a survey of
a small sample of localities, the main sectors in 1993 were sewage treatment (17 percent), water supply (15
percent), sewage collection (8 percent), education (14 percent), streets (8 percent), housing (6 percent),
land development (8 percent), heat supply (5 percent) and urban transit (4 percent). Growth sectors during
1991-93 included sewage treatment and transport. The share of heat supply, streets and water have
declined. Solid waste investment has been small but sample gminy expected it to pick up sharply from
1994. The high share of the environmental services (water and waste) may reflect local priorities, but also
a greater availability of concessional finance for these sectors (avoidance of polluter charges was an
additional incentive for investment in sewage treatment). Sample gminy also invested in sectors for which
they had not been devolved formal responsibility (hospitals, schools, telephone lines), but which they
perceived to be under-provided by the center.
8.     By far the main source of funds for local government investment has been their current savings
(current revenues minus current expenditures). Nationwide, current savings amounted to 81 percent of
capital expenditures in 1996. Other sources of investment financing include grants from the voivodships,



29
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 9
central ministries, the national and voivodship environmental protection funds (NFOS and WFOS), mainly
for wastewater and solid waste investments, national budget grants (mainly for streets, public transport and
housing), and the Kuratoria (for schools). In 1993, the known total of these grants represented no more
than 12-15 percent of municipal investments. The NFOS and WFOS also provide soft loans to gminy for
wastewater and sanitation investments.
9.     With the major exception of sewage treatment, the relative levels of national budget support (direct
or through voivodships) to different types of investment in the sample gminy do not suggest sharp sectoral
priorities. Central funds are thus unlikely to have a substantial effect on the allocation of municipal
expenditures. This would argue for streamlining some of the capital grant programs channeled through a
variety of national or regional agencies. If the objective is just to transfer resources across the board, it
could be achieved more simply by topping up the block grant or tax sharing formula.
10.   Investment grant funds from the central government and voivodships will remain limited and
municipal investment capacity may decline in the coming two or three years; thus, municipalities will need
to seek long-term credit financing for their investment projects. Given that the Polish commercial banking
sector does not dispose of long-term funds commensurate with the financing of infrastructure equipment,
the MFP can play a vital role in jump-starting long-term investment finance, with advantages to both gminy
and the financial sector.
C.    Municipal Finance
Trends in local revenues and expenditures
11.    Municipal revenues' increased by 16.2 percent in 1994, 5.6 percent in 1995 and 24.4 percent in
1996, net of inflation. The large increases in 1994 and 1996 are due to the implementation of the powiat
pilot program, which led to sharp increases in government transfers and shares of personal income tax
contributions.
12.    Of municipal current revenues, 41 percent originate from "own revenues." This category includes
fiscal revenue (real estate, agricultural, transportation, business license, market and other taxes and stamp
duties), income from the sale and lease of municipal property, interest income and transfers of profits from
municipal enterprises. The major element of own revenues, the real estate tax, remained stable as a share
of current income, at 12-14 percent, and is highest (16 percent) in gminy with populations of 10-30,000
(Table 1). Shares of central taxes (personal income tax--PIT; and corporate income tax--CIT) were 23
percent of current revenues of all Polish gminy in 1994 and 1995, and 26 percent in 1996; income growth
from the PIT (net of inflation) is higher than overall current revenue growth, while the rate of CIT revenues
declined in real terms in 1994 and 1996.
1      This analysis is based on data in the MoF quarterly budget reports for gminy, for the years 1991 to 1995.
All income for targeted and earmarked transfers are excluded from current revenues. Further information on
budget data and ratios are included in the note on budget tables/indicators at the end of this annex.



30
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 9
Table 1: Structure of Municipal Revenues in 1994 and 1995 (in percent)
POLAND      >300,000   50-300,000    10-50,000   5-10,000    <5,000    WARSAW
INHAB.       INHAB.      INHAB.   INHAB.   INHAB.            UNION
1995
Own Revenues*                    26.6        22.5          19.5        26.7       28.6       32.3          86.1
Property Tax                     14.2        13.5          15.9        16.3        11.5      12.7           0.0
SharesinPIT/CIT                  22.9        26.1         22.8         24.1       23.1       19.8          0.0
Primary Education Transfer       11.5        11.2          14.3        12.3        9.6        7.3           0.0
General Subsidy                   3.8         1.8          2.2          4.5        7.4        7.1           0.0
Powiat Pilot Transfer             4.4         9.7           9.5         0.1        0. 0       0.0           0.0
1994
OwnRevenues*                     27.1        23.5          19.3        27.9       28.7       32.4         61.5
Property Tax                     13.4        11.9          15.3        16.1        10.8      11.6          4.8
Shares in PIT/CIT                23.0        23.8         21.6         25.0       24.4       22.0          15.5
Primary Education Transfer       11.3        10.5          13.8        12.0         9.6       7.4           6.0
General Subsidy                   3.7         1.8           2.2         4.5        7.7        7.4           0.8
Powiat Pilot Transfer             6.0        12.5          13.2         0.1        0.0        0.0           0.0
Source: Calculated from Ministry of Finance quarterly budget reports, 1994-95.
Note    * Own revenues, excluding property tax.
13.    Current expenditures for all gminy increased from 4.6 percent of GDP in 1993 to 6.8 percent in
1996, due to the introduction of the powiat program and expansion of voluntary coverage of primary
education. Investment expenditures increased from 1.2 percent in 1991-92 to 1.5 percent of GDP in 1996.
Net savings and investment capacity. Role of term finance
14.    The level of Polish municipal investment effort--22 percent of total expenditures--is quite high,
compared say, to Hungary (18 percent of expenditures), but gminy may have difficulty in maintaining this
level of investment effort. Gminy appeared to have consolidated their finances in 1995-96, with most
population categories registering slight increases of savings and investment capacities. Nevertheless, the
change in distribution of the PIT and the transfer of primary education expenditures resulting from the
powiat reform reduced the ratio of municipal savings to investment capacity in 1996 (from 84 percent to 81
percent, and with lower investment). In order to continue necessary infrastructure investments, gminy will
require greater recourse to loan financing (this is reportedly beginning).
D.      Revenue Base and Term Finance
Predictability of revenue
15.    Improved access of municipalities to long-term finance will hinge on the predictability of revenues.
As can be forecast with the knowledge of five years of decentralization and of new tasks which may fall on



31
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 9
gminy, municipal revenues are generally predictable. That is to say, there has been little contesting of the
municipal share of central taxes (PIT/CIT) and the recent change in the distribution formula of the PIT has
been known to gminy for at least three years. The general subsidy, although revised in 1994, has been
generally stable. Transfers of new tasks in social areas are generally underfunded; those gminy which have
already taken on education or powiat pilot responsibilities have already made the adjustment in their
budget, often by lowering the amount of expenditures for investments. Those gminy which have taken
education only from 1996 are currently adapting to these adjustments. It should also be noted that the level
of discretionary revenues in municipal budgets has decreased between 1993 and 1995. Targeted transfers
were 28-30 percent of total revenues for municipalities of less than 50,000 in 1995, compared to 21-22
percent two years earlier. Due to the powiat pilot program and primary education, earmarked revenues are
38-40 percent of total revenues (1995) of cities with more than 50,000 residents, compared to 25-27
percent in 1993.
Own sources of revenue
16.    The predictability of revenue will increase with the strengthening of the own sources of revenue;
despite some recent improvements, Poland still has a long way to go in this direction.
17.    The discretionary nature of own revenues varies by type of income. Gminy collect the real estate
tax and the transportation tax, but a tax rate ceiling is in effect nationally. Gminy may choose but are not
obliged to impose the ceiling rate. Many gminy prefer to vote a lower tax rate, and they often define
specific exemptions. The agricultural tax, the business license tax and stamp duties are collected by
Regional Tax Offices and then transferred to gminy. Cminy may determine these tax rates and exemptions,
but are also limited by a rate ceiling. Sales and leases of municipal commercial property are more
dependent on market conditions. Although municipal housing stock income covers only a small proportion
of maintenance and rehabilitation needs, gminy may now increase rent on municipal housing units, within a
ceiling defined for each voivodship.
18.    The real estate tax in gminy is currently levied on the basis of property surface (tax per square
meter). Unless and until an ad-valorem property tax is adopted for Polish gminy, there is little potential for
growth in collections of this tax, as the value of the tax base will vary only marginally. A study of real
estate values and transactions in Krakow2 concluded that the introduction of an ad-valorem property tax in
Poland is feasible, and that revenues from such a tax could provide 35 to 40 percent of municipal budget
income.
19.    Unlike the real estate tax, the corporate and personal income taxes are responsive to local economic
conditions. The municipal share of 5 percent of CIT is transferred to the gmina where the tax is effectively
levied. The municipal share of 15 percent of PIT is distributed to municipalities within each voivodship, on
a per capita basis. This distribution system favors smaller rural gminy, which generally have fewer
residents working as salaried employees. The PIT distribution system was modified in 1996, with the tax
revenues transferred to the gmina where the tax is effectively levied. This change in distribution of the PIT
would destabilize the finances of small gminy in the initial transitional period, but will bring increased
revenues to large- and medium-sized cities where the PIT taxpayers effectively reside and demand public
services. As a result, the change in distribution is being phased in over five years, so that each municipality
2      Conducted for USAID by the International City/County Management Association.



32
ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 9
would not lose or gain a certain percentage of PIT (10 percent in 1996, 30 percent, 50 percent, 75 percent
and 100 percent implementation by 2000).
E.    Budgeting and Financial Management
20.   With the transfer of responsibilities, gminy were also required to develop and prepare their own
budgets and working documents, based on local municipal needs. Financial analytical tools were not
generally known to personnel of municipalities. In many municipalities, finance departments remained
unable to influence the preparation of budgets by their budgetary units (jednostke budzetowy), such as for
schools, creches or social centers. In addition, the budgetary classification system was elaborated by the
MoF and is more appropriate to state budget rather than to municipal budget needs. This situation often
requires local governments to develop their own formats, in addition to preparing traditionally presented
budgets for MoF and GUS statistical requirements.
21.   Despite these constraints, many local governments have made considerable and noticeable progress
in budget preparation and presentation since 1991. These improvements often result from exchanges with
other cities in Europe and the United States through twinning agreements, training or direct assistance in
budget preparation provided by bilateral donors (USAID, British Know-How Fund) or local training
providers (Foundation in Support of Local Democracy) and exchanges of experience among municipalities
themselves. The next stage of budget preparation needs will involve dissemination of financial and
analytical tools to those cities which have not had exposure to these methods. For example, budget
seminars organized by USAID and sponsored by the Municipal Development Agency have presented the
budget experiences of Krakow and Lublin. An issue which as of yet has rarely been the subject of
training, but for which there is great need, are methods of preparing medium- and long-term municipal
capital investment plans. Such training is especially needed for gminy to gain awareness of medium and
long-term financial implications of the investment projects they are undertaking today, such as new or
additional operating costs, scheduling of debt payments, and the means of financing these new charges.
Ability to prioritize and plan capital projects will also assist gmina officials in management and evolution
of their regular budgets.



33                                                   ANNEXI
Page 7 of 9
7,000 T                  Figure 1  Evolution of Municipal Net Savings. 1992-1995                            0.26
_                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
6,000              Li\                                                                                        0.25-
4,000I
0.24~
4 ,000
2,000                                                                                                     {0.22 I
1,000 10.21
0 t   --- _                4                        .                         l0.2
1992                     1993                     1994                     1995
LnCurrent revenues-D        Current expend.-D  U   Savings capacity-D



34
ANNEX I
Page 8 of 9
NOTES ON THE BUDGET TABLES AND FINANCIAL INDICATORS
MUNICIPAL BUDGET ELEMENTS
Current revenues: Includes general and targeted transfers from the central govemment and own revenues.
General transfers from the central government: These transfers include Shared Taxes [gmina share of the Personal
Income Tax and the Corporate Income Tax] and the General Subsidy.
Own revenues: Real Estate Tax, Agricultural Taxes, Transport Tax, Stamp Duties, Business License, Other Revenues
[market fees, local taxes, inheritance taxes, dog taxes, local fines and penalties, income from rental, lease and sale of
municipal property, transfers from budgetary units, interest income...].
Targeted transfers: Revenue provided from the central govemment to finance specific tasks which have been delegated
or transferred to municipalities. Some transfers must be used for the specific tasks for which they are destined and the
unused portion retumed to the sectoral Ministry which distributes the funds. Others may be transferred from the Ministry
of Finance (primary education in 1992-1993 and from 1996), but are used to finance major tasks which have been recently
declared gmina own tasks. Targeted transfers include: Primary education transfer, Powiat pilot transfer (Big-city transfer
of PITfrom 1996), Grant for housing allocations, Grants for delegated tasks (social and welfare assistance, administrative
tasks such as the census, outpatient health care for some cities...); Grants for own tasks (when these grants are determined
to be for operating rather than investment purposes).
Capital expenditures: Most investment is listed under 72 to 77 of the budgetary classification. This is the amount listed
as investment in the Ministry of Finance fourth quarter budget reports. However, expenditures for rehabilitation and
renovation of municipal assets are budgeted under 36 of Current Expenditures, and may only be obtained in detailed
budget documents, if the local govemment chooses to indicate these expenditures separately.
Capital revenues: Grants for own tasks (if they are transfers for municipal own investments), and other capital income
(often listed off-budget), such as funds from Gmina Environmental Protection Funds (GFOS3), loans and grants from the
National and Voivodship Environmental Protection Funds (NFOS, WFOS). Banks loans are listed off-budget, in the
"Financing of shortfall" section.
To Finance Investment: The difference between capital expenditures and capital revenues, and indicates the amount of
funds which are needed to finance investment and may be obtained through self-financing (net savings), surplus carried
over from previous years, borrowing, issuance of securities or other funds.
Gmina funds for Environmental Protection are financed by tree and underbrush fees (100%), 50% of solid waste disposal fees and
10% of all other fees and fines levied on the territory of the gmina to which the funds are remanded. Gminy may use these funds for
environmental projects.



35
ANNEX I
Page9 of 9
RATIQS
Financial Independence   (General transfers from Central Government + Own Revenues)/Current Revenues
This ratio indicates the extent to which municipal revenues are earmarked for transferred and
delegated tasks. This ratio is naturally lower for powiat cities and gminy which have taken
over primary education.
Net Savings             Current Revenues - Current Expenditures
Savings Capacity        Net Savings / Current Revenues
This ratio indicates the extent to which municipalities can finance investment from current
revenues. Due to the classification of municipal budgets (and the structure of the MoF's fourth
quarter budget reports), this indicator incorporates some capital revenues, such as sales of
municipal property.
Debt Burden             Debt Service/Current Revenues
NOTE: Interest payments are indicated in the budget. Principal repayments are off-budget
expenditures and are not always indicated in the budget documents. Interest payments may
not always be indicated separately, but buried in a mass of other expenditures.
Debt Coverage Ratio     Net Savings/Debt Service
If this ratio falls below 1.5, a municipality is likely to have difficulty servicing its debt and
financing capital expenditures. This is one of the main criteria for the choice of MFP loans.
Investment Effort       Investment Expenditures/Current Revenues
This ratio includes expenditures for rehabilitation and renovation for those gminy which
provided this information for 1994 and 1995.
Budget Balance          Surplus (Deficit)/Current Revenues
(before Investment Loans)
Budget Balance          Surplus (Deficit)/Current Revenues
(after Investment Loans)  This ratio adjusts the initial deficit by accounting for long term investment loans and issuance
of securities (if any); if the deficit is financed by previous year surplus or short-term loans, the
final result will still be negative.






37                                  ANNEX 2a
Page I of 9
POLAND - MUNICIPAL FINANCE PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN (PIP)
A.    Introduction
Project Objectives
I.    The main goal of the MFP is to promote the development of a credit market for municipal
investment in Poland. To this end, the project pursues the following two inter-related objectives. First,
provide long-term financial resources to commercial banks for municipal lending in the infrastructure
sector. Second, help the banks identify and prepare a sustained pipeline of viable investment projects,
backed by creditworthy towns or local utilities.
Project Description
2.     The proposed project, a US$22.0 million equivalent line of credit guaranteed by the Republic of
Poland, will consist of single-currency loans to two selected commercial banks (Bank for Socio-Economic
Initiatives SA - BISE - and Powszechny Bank Kredytowy SA w Warszawie - PBK), to be relent to
municipalities and local utilities. The loan to BISE will be in two tranches: one of US$4 million and one of
DM 5.2 million. The loan to PBK will be in one tranche of US$8 million and one tranche of DM 12
million. The project is designed as a pilot operation to demonstrate how term-finance of municipal
investments at commercial terms can work. All subloans will be long-term, at market rates (to be agreed
with each borrowing bank--BB) and will finance works, goods and services for eligible municipal
infrastructure investment sub-projects. Final loans will be a minimum of US$250,000 and, for PBK or a
consortium of PBK and BISE, a maximum of US$14 million equivalent, to finance up to 75 percent of
individual sub-project costs. The average cost of a sub-project is, however, expected to be about US$4
million equivalent. Subloans for any individual sub-project will not exceed US$14 million in the aggregate.
The project will also promote the channeling of TA resources (through the Municipal Development Agency
- MDA) to market participants including (i) municipalities, in the areas of project preparation and financial
management; (ii) banks, for appraising municipal credit and structuring robust loan security arrangements;
and (iii) the MDA to strengthen its continuing role as a facilitator of municipal investment.
3.    Borrowing banks. The borrowing banks, PBK and BISE, which are in good standing with NBP,
have been appraised to ascertain that they meet all the eligibility criteria. A description of these criteria is
provided in Annex 5; a description of the banks and review of their activities is provided in Annex 6.
Several other banks were also considered as potential borrowers under the project but were finally excluded
either because they did not satisfy the criteria--particularly with regard to privatization status--or because
they were not ready to enter into a borrowing commitment at this time. A number of banks (which are
likely to meet the above criteria) did, however, express a strong desire to participate in any later operation.
4.     Eligible final borrowers will be creditworthy municipalities or enterprises operating municipal
services (either municipally-owned enterprises or private firms operating municipal services in eligible
sectors under concessions awarded by local governments). Eligible sectors are water, wastewater, solid
waste, urban transport (including street lighting and road improvement) and infrastructure for education.
Other sectors may also be included with the prior agreement of the Bank. Eligible investments will include
rehabilitation, replacement, improvement or expansion of service assets in eligible sectors, supported by
adequate studies documenting their financial, economic, environmental and technical feasibility, with cost



38                                   ANNEX 2a
Page 2 of 9
recovery and loan service based either on direct user charges (utilities) or general municipal revenues (for
services that are financed from local taxes, such as urban traffic management, streets) (see also Box 2).
Onlending Arrangements
5.     The following onlending arrangements will be reflected in the subloan agreements between the BB
and the final beneficiary. The bank subloans for municipal investments will be made to eligible final
borrowers for viable infrastructure projects. The subloans will be long-term, for periods ranging from 5-
15 years depending on the assets financed, and including grace periods of up to 3 years. Subloans will be
at market rates and could be in foreign currency, or in zloty-denominated loans, in which case the banks
rather than the final borrower will assume (and charge for) the foreign exchange risk. To lower the overall
financing cost for a specific investment, the municipality may also wish to seek grants or low cost loans,
such as from the NFOS, to cover the environmental components of its investments.
6.     The credit risk of the municipal borrowers will stay with the borrowing banks, who will remain
liable to service the loan regardless of their own performance in collecting payments for municipal
subloans. Banks will seek collateral/security from municipal borrowers to protect against this risk.
B.    Implementation Arrangements and Responsibilities
Organizational Responsibilities
7.     The borrowing municipalities/utilities will implement the sub-projects and the BBs will be
responsible for the overall implementation and administration of the project. MDA will manage and
channel technical assistance resources and will assist in the selection and preparation of sub-projects. The
responsibilities of the various entities involved in project implementation were confirmed with the
borrowers during negotiations and are summarized in the following table (Table 1).
Table 1: Organizations Involved in Project Implementation
Banki:  Mui ipte MA   NBP~  Worl.d akk
Overall project administration            X
Project supervision                       X                                       X
Selection of sub-projects                 X                     x
Preparation of sub-projects                           x         x
Appraisal of sub-projects                 X                                       X
Sub-project review and subloan approval   X                                       X
Procurement                               X           X                           X
Disbursements                             X                                       X
Submission of semi-annual reports         X
Annual audits (project/banks)             X
Audits of sub-projects                                X
Supervision of BB banking activities                                   X
Management of TA to municipalities and banks                    X



39                                       ANNEX 2a
Page 3 of 9
Sub-prqJect Selection and Pr=paratiol
8.      Sub-project Selection.  Loans for eligible    B  1. Pre-ies%flity Sareniftg by WA-
sub-projects will be for amounts of between
US$250,000  and  US$14  million.   All final    MDA will-play an-,impo   rol-e Mndeopig the sub.
. . . - ~~~~~~~~~project pipeline, iucding' -ondlucting -a iapidi -!re
borrowers and sub-projects will meet appraisal          ecpipein  incluing coses- theg a  rapid        -
lesbtWscreening, in cases wheire ehicltiac
criteria (see Box 2 below), which were agreed    assisance is requested for prepu%dion. in prescreering sub.
with the banks during  appraisal and will be    projects, MDA will ap,ply te followiD g criteria.  ,Mre
published by both the BBs and MDA  to ensure    details of the procedures to be followed by MDA in
that they are transparent and known to candidate             ard  prepaing subprojects are provide  in th
sub-borrowers  and  banks.    The  scope  of    P             .
feasibility studies will be commensurate with the      * communiysuprt fortsubroje.g.,city counci
complexity  and  size of the sub-project under           decsion)
consideration.                                         *cariy of sub-project objctives
the gmniva's expressed wilngness 'to seek long-term
-finance at commercial rates
9.      From  earlier involvement, 6 sub-projects      . an early indication thai the .isub-prOject scale is
have been identified and assessed directly by the       -Conierisrate wh fte financial  means dfthe gmina or
World Bank and/or MDA  as candidates for the             service entese,cncrne-
* finacing plnfr  ohsb-projectad
MFP and will provide a sufficient initial pipeline
ensuring timely first-year disbursements.   For   - w        .
subsequent sub-projects, candidate  gminy  will -          ansformaion of  r-    water:uility it    o
self-select on  a  first-come, first-served  basis       fom, - orplanh to: d-- SO
within the program's lending ceiling, based on the
agreed criteria. These future sub-projects will
enter the pipeline either by direct application to the BBs or through the MDA. Efforts are continuing by
both the banks and the MDA to ensure the buiid-up of a healthy pipeline. In cases where application is
made directly to a BB, the BB may request assistance from MDA in assessing the eligibility of the
investment for financing from the MFP or it may carry out its own assessment.
10.    Sub-project Preparation. Sub-project preparation is the responsibility of the final borrower, it
may apply to MDA for financial and technical assistance for carrying out feasibility studies. MDA is
managing grant resources for EU-Phare for this purpose (see Box 1 for an outline of MDA's pre-
feasibility screening process). To benefit from this assistance, municipal borrowers will have to comply
with MDA procedures, which could include entering into a technical agreement with MDA. Alternatively,
some towns who have direct access to technical assistance from other donor resources, or are willing to
finance the project preparation effort from their own funds, can proceed directly to contracting consultants
for preparing feasibility studies.
11.    Generic or outline terns of reference2 (TORs) for feasibility studies for each sector have been
prepared and will be disseminated to interested cities by the MDA and borrowing banks. These TORs are
designed to ensure that the feasibility studies, to be carried out by suitably qualified experts, provide
sufficient information to assess whether appraisal criteria are met. Economic analysis requirements will
be incorporated as part of the feasibility study.
Details of MDA's project preparation procedures are provided in the Project File (Annex 7).
21   Details of generic terms of reference are provided in the Project File (Annex 7).



40                                        ANNEX 2a
Page 4 of 9
Sub-proJect Appraisal
Box 2: Appraisl Criiafor, Sub-projects
Investmentsiwill meet the fbllowingcriteria:
communit su pport: n  sub-projects should reflect a priority of ft com  ,  as eideced by local c    il
decisions, and possiby results of Opublc  hearigsorbleneficiary surveys
:*   ifeasibility: iinvestments should be supportd by apprtfeasibility stukdies,of . a de t is int lile wtith.
':':the .sub-prjct's size a ind oplxtdonraight
:-: t:he  3uprject: (a) :meets a prden t y assesse  demand inm a lea*ost w:ay, an is econo mIcaly
viable; and (b) complies with applicablew tehnica anid eironmtl stanards ad r     t :and
the bor/weneficre  agen, ()sfnancially iable,   iudin a   5debt scecovear
(ini a prudent finial prtid o);  and   (dbas suffint insti      lcaiesiplc  tiensure.:tc
sustaine oprtion revndmaintenano (O&M      f poet inovetet.
*  for subprojects in-the revenUe earning utility storsthe above fici and Isitutioacrtria will be
reflected in (a) incorporation (as adjoint-stock- or lUimitid liabiliy com y oetated under commercial 1a w
0 :of the enterprise in chYarge operating andmaintaining the acilitibuilt or improved  nder the prject, ;~
(b) availabi0itypof a clear usiess pla 0n                     OMs                             theg-
utij;:   ulity, -ands agreed lbetween the utility's  hanagenen d the gia() tariffs -sfien, t to.. recove fr
user ch-arg: es the O&M costs with projet a  t'od Mservice* the debt; an:dA. pocd an  te e       to
in flat;ion trough ia miulti-yea ta iff indexng  e       tween   th:eut iwi  the gin'in,    ved by the
CtCouncil.
*    readiness: projects should start iwith a clear and complete financig' plan, includin b evidene th any;  -
:::t:financing proposed l: has or will be secured on. time; ]as well as all necssaryvpermitts (evim ,
planning, construction);-clear title on land required: fr  ttheprot; anier ed  ofrpret redtness-
s  :::uch -as proges of Cdes0igsand- biddinigdocumr}ent.-i     :  : :::  : ::::-f :  :- : ::    :; : -    : t0;: 
I/a:  DZebt'Service Coverage. Ratio::
.Municipalities:       (Current Revenuesm- Current:Expendixturnres tExpense +  Debt Repaym) 
MuncipaltVUtility:-        (Net Income + Interest E*xpense+ Foreign: Echange  Losss/GaisonLT De:t +
Depreciationnexst pense +- Debt Reayment)
/b:. The incorporation requirement will be waived for solid: waste and public transit companies and 0for cities of less than
: 50,00 people, where the small scale of operations Ia not always justify a self-sianding corporate utity structure fbr
each service but where other organization forms (such as a 1municipal budgetaty terptiser aklad btidzetowe-ot a:
uinicip:a: department) may: :be appropriate. Even in small cities, each service: should have clear responsibility lines fbr
itsmanaNgement, and separate accounts for both its revenues and expenditures.
12.    The BBs will appraise all sub-projects they finance. In addition, selected sub-projects from the
initial batch, and the first subloan from  each BB, will be reviewed by the Bank, prior to approval for
financing from the loan, to test the criteria and their capacity to carry out the required appraisal, which
will include checking that appraisal criteria (see Box 2 above) are met. The Bank will subsequently carry
out such prior reviews only for subloans of US$2.5 million and above. Subloans below US$2.5 million
will be appraised in accordance with the guidelines of the concerned borrowing bank and will reviewed ex
post. These subloans will be based on feasibility studies which give appropriate attention to technical,
financial, institutional and environmental considerations.



41                                 ANNEX 2a
Page 5 of 9
Approval and Financing of Sub-proiects
13.   Borrowing Banks. The banks will work with the borrowing municipalities in putting together an
acceptable financing package for the individual sub-projects. Before or in parallel with the feasibility
study, the gmina will enter into preliminary contact with one or both BBs to ascertain their potential
interest in the operation in question.
14.    The BBs will extend subloans to municipalities in the same single currency (or currencies) as the
World Bank loan, or in local currency, at commercial rates. For foreign exchange subloans, the BB will
add its spread, including its premium for the perceived riskiness of the project and the borrower. The
term will depend on the nature of the investment financed but will be between 5-15 years, including a
grace period of up to 3 years. For subloans in domestic currency, the BB will also add a premium to
cover the foreign exchange risk over the life of the subloan.
15.   For sub-projects that are subject to prior review by the Bank, the initial approval is given
following this review and withdrawals can then be made for such subloans. The BBs will report to the
Bank regularly on other subloans it has approved. Once the financing of a sub-project is in place, the BB
will supervise its implementation in line with its usual commercial practices and fiduciary responsibilities.
16.   To implement and administer the project, each BB has appointed a project coordinator, who will
have overall responsibility for project implementation and supervision and for liaising with World Bank
staff and municipal beneficiaries on project implementation issues. The project coordinator will identify
staff assigned to handle the various tasks associated with loan implementation, administration and
monitoring. This team will be responsible for the following activities.
* Ensuring that loans are made to eligible beneficiaries in accordance with agreed criteria and
that these criteria are met before submission to the World Bank for review/approval of
applications (where necessary);
* Management and maintenance of records of the flow of resources, including loan accounts,
the special account, timely payments to suppliers and withdrawal of funds from the loan
account, and arrangements for audits in a timely manner;
* Administering the use of World Bank resources and ensuring that procurement, disbursement
and environmental procedures are followed;
* Preparing and submitting to the World Bank information on new subloans approved and short
semi-annual reports on the progress of the BB's subloan programn supported by the IBRD
loan.
C.    Procurement and Disbursements
procurement
17.   The loan will finance sub-projects for the modernization, rehabilitation, construction or
improvement of infrastructure for the municipalities or municipal enterprises. Because of the nature of
this project, it is not possible to estimate the total proportion of the goods and works to be procured
through ICB and therefore a detailed procurement table has not been prepared. However, to the extent
possible, it is expected that supply and installation contracts will be used. Items which cannot be



42                                 ANNEX 2a
Page 6 of 9
incorporated into a such a contract will be procured separately, but efforts will be made to keep to a
minimum the procurement of separate items. A general procurement notice was published in the
Development Business in May 1997.
18.   ICB would be used for goods contracts in excess of US$400,000 and for contracts for works or
supply and installation estimated to cost more than US$5 million equivalent. In the ICB procurement of
goods, it is expected that bids would also include domestically manufactured goods. Therefore, in the
evaluation and comparison of these bids, Polish manufacturers will be granted a margin of preference of
15 percent or the relevant duty-whichever is lower--in accordance with the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines of August 1996. In accordance with these guidelines, the exceptions to ICB procurement will
be as follows:
*  Limited International Bidding (LIB). For goods and materials such as specialized equipment for
traffic management, water and wastewater treatment plants, which the Bank agrees are supplied
through a limited number of suppliers, and for the procurement of related parts and supplies,
procurement will be done following LIB procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines, which is
also in accordance with the Polish Public Procurement Law (PPL).
In addition to the above, a Country Procurement Assessment for Poland was undertaken in May-June
1995, during which time the Public Procurement Law, approved in June 1994, was reviewed in detail.
As a result of this review, it has been agreed that other procurement will be carried out in accordance with
the provisions of the PPL, subject to certain conditions as indicated below.
*  The Unlimited Tendering procedure provided for in the PPL will be used as National Competitive
Bidding (NCB) for contracts for works, or for supply and installation contracts, estimated to cost
less than US$5 million per package, subject to the following conditions: (a) interested foreign
bidders would not be excluded; (b) domestic preference would not be applied; (c) the Bank's
standard prequalification documents (or alternatively a prequalification document agreed with the
Bank) would be used, if necessary; and (d) bidding documents for Unlimited Tendering
satisfactory to the Bank would be used.
* The Request for Quotations provided for in the PPL will be used as: (a) International Shopping
(IS) for small amounts of equipment and materials readily available off the shelf. Contracts for
equipment and for materials estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$400,000 per package
would be awarded under this procedure, based on comparing price quotations obtained from at
least three suppliers in two different countries, and (b) National Shopping (NS) for equipment and
materials estimated to cost up to US$100,000 per package that are readily available locally from
several suppliers at competitive prices, or for small works contracts up to $300,000 per contract.
19.   Procurement for consultant services and training. In general, engineering designs are expected to
be prepared as part of the works' contracts. However, a limited amount of consultants' services may also
be required by the final borrowers to prepare the final designs of proposed project investments. Such
contracts are not expected to exceed US$150,000 each, up to a total amount of about US$1 million.
Consultants' services required under the project will be procured in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines on the Use of Consultants (August 1981). As a well-developed engineering industry exists in
Poland, substantial involvement of Polish consultants is expected in carrying out the engineering design
work. In most cases, qualified short-listed firms (or individuals) will be invited to submit proposals and
will be selected on a competitive basis. In some cases, direct contracting may be justified because of the
advantage of requesting consultants (domestic as well as foreign) who prepare the feasibility studies to
provide help in drawing up detailed engineering designs. Additional consultants' services and training are



43                                  ANNEX 2a
Page 7 of 9
to be financed from grants provided from other donors, including EU-Phare and USAID, in accordance
with their respective guidelines.
20.    Procurement review. For procurement by ICB and LIB, Bank's standard (pre-printed) bidding
documents will be used. Prior Bank review and approval will be required for all ICB and LIB
procurement. In addition, the first procurement package for each bank to be procured by NCB
(Unlimnited Tendering) will require prior review by the Bank. All other procurement will be reviewed ex
post on a selective basis. For procurement of consultants services, prior Bank review will be required for
all terms of reference and for consultant contracts above US$100,000 for frms and US$50,000 for
individuals. Consultants' contracts below these amounts would be reviewed ex post on a selective basis.
In addition, all documents for any direct contracting of consultants will be subject to the Bank's prior
review. Each beneficiary municipality will retain all procurement documentation for investrnents and
consultants financed from subloans under the project. The documents will be available for review by
Bank missions. Table 2 summarizes the proposed review limits.
21.    Procurement Responsibility.  The BBs will ensure that procurement under the investments
financed is in accordance with the agreed procedures. The subloan agreements will also reflect this
provision. The capacity of the BBs to carry out this review is currently limited but staff are well qualified
and initial training has already been provided. Additional training in Bank procurement and disbursement
procedures will be arranged, including at a project launch workshop tentatively scheduled for October
1997.
Table 2. Procurment Limits
World Bank
Prior Review    Post Review
ICB Packages for works and supply and installation  X
contracts above $5 million
Unlimited Tendering (NCB) Packages for works:
-   First package for each BB                    X
-   All other contracts                                         X*
ICB Packages for goods above $400,000            X
LIB                                              X
Requests for Proposals (IS/NS)                                  X*
Consultants services contracts for $100,000 and above    X
for firms, and $50,000 and above for individuals
Consultants services contracts below for $100,000 for           X
firms, and $50,000 for individuals
* Post Review on a sample basis. Documents to be retained by the municipalities and made
available to Bank staff for review upon request.



44                                  ANNEX 2a
Page 8 of 9
Disbursements and Special Account
22.   The loan will finance up to 100 percent of the amounts disbursed by the BBs for eligible
subloans. These disbursements will be limited in turn to: (a) 75 percent of the cost of any sub-project
financed; (b) eligible expenditures, i.e., contracts for works, equipment and services procured in
accordance with procurement arrangements agreed with the Bank; and (c) expenditures made up to 180
days prior to the date of receipt by the Bank of a request to finance from the Loan subloans for US$2.5
million or more, or prior to the date of signature of the subloan agreement for subloans below US$2.5
million.
23.   Disbursements for subloans of less than US$2.5 million equivalent will be on the basis of
statements of expenditures, which detail the individual transactions by the borrowing banks. The
documentation to support these expenditures will be retained by BBs.  Municipalities will retain
detailed documentation for each individual transaction. All documentation will be made available to the
Bank on request. Applications for withdrawals against subloans above US$2.5 million will be fully
documented. To facilitate disbursements, a Special Account may be established by each BB, with a
total authorized allocation of up to US$2.5 million equivalent for PBK and US$1.3 million equivalent
for BISE. The initial authorized allocation for PBK will be US$1.3 million equivalent, until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from its special account exceeds US$3.8 million equivalent. The
initial authorized allocation for BISE will be US$0.6 million equivalent, until the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from its special accounts exceeds US$2.9 million equivalent.
24.   Disbursements against individual subloans will be managed by the lending BB, which will be
responsible for ensuring that claims for payments are made against approved contracts and that
adequate supporting documentation is provided.
25.   The detailed disbursement schedule is provided in Annex 4. Given the pilot nature of this
operation and the state of preparation of the initial sub-projects, disbursements are expected to be
spread over 4.5 years, somewhat faster than the Bank-wide profile. It is anticipated that total loan
proceeds will be committed against subloans within 3 years of loan effectiveness. Based on this
schedule, the expected completion date for the project is June 30, 2001, and the Closing Date is
December 31, 2001.
D.    Reporting and Audits
26.   The project account, Special Account and Statements of Expenditure will be maintained by
each BB for each loan and will be audited at the end of each fiscal year in accordance with international
standards. Assurances were obtained from each Borrower during negotiations that it will appoint
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and that it will present to the Bank, within six months after
the end of each fiscal year, audited financial statements, with an opinion on the project records and,
showing the financial performance and position of the bank. The financial statement of the final
beneficiaries will be audited in accordance with Polish law. The audit reports for the final beneficiaries
will be retained by the respective BB and made available to the Bank on request.
27.   The borrowing banks will maintain financial records of the project.  For subloans below
US$2.5 million, which do not require prior review by the Bank, and for which disbursements are made
-from the Special Account, the BBs will provide the Bank with a summary report on each subloan
approved before corresponding replenishments to the Special Account are requested. The BBs will also
provide semi-annual progress reports to the Bank on sub-project performance, including information on
financing applications received, processed and status, records of subloans granted to municipalities and



45                                    ANNEX 2a
Page 9 of 9
summaries of implementation progress, including repayment information. In addition, this report will
be supplemented annually by a short assessment by the BB of project implementation progress. The
format of these reports was agreed with the borrowers during negotiations. In addition, assurances
were also obtained during negotiations, that the each BB will prepare an implementation completion
report and submit this to the Bank within six months after the closing date of the loan.
E.    Project Supervision
28.    The focus of Bank supervision will be to: (a) review development of the project pipeline,
including progress in contracting and completing feasibility studies; (b) verify that onlending
arrangements are satisfactory and that commitments of municipal loans are proceeding; (c) verify that
the BBs are familiar with Bank procurement guidelines and disbursement procedures; (d) verify that
repayments of subloans are satisfactory; (e) ascertain whether project-related technical assistance is
being provided through MDA or other sources; and (f) review development of the municipal credit
market. As part of regular monitoring of project progress, supervision missions will also: (a) carry out
an ex-post review of a sampling of sub-projects, including contract bids and awards, disbursement
procedures and record keeping. In addition, by end-1999, BBs and the Bank will jointly undertake a
mid-term review of implementation progress and compliance with loan covenants.
29.   It is anticipated that project supervision will require an above average effort, with a heavier
concentration in the first two years of implementation, because of the support required to appraise sub-
projects. Over the life of the project, the supervision effort is expected to average about 16 staff weeks
per year. Ongoing support for day-to-day activities is also anticipated from the Resident Mission
(about 6 staffweeks) and is expected to increase over time as its staff develops experience and assumes
responsibility for sub-project review.






47                                         ANNEX 2b
Page I of I
POLAND - MUNICIPAL FINANCE PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN (PIP)
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
Narrative Summary                Key Performance Indicators             Risks and Assumptions
Project Development Objectives
Promote the development of a     * Measurable increase in long-term     Municipalities are unwilling to
credit market for municipal        financing of municipal infrastructure  borrow at commercial terms
investment                         projects on commercial terms (5%
increase per year in real terms)
* Measurable increase in the share of  Increased volume of subsidized funds
commercial financing of municipal   (e.g., EU Structural Funds or NFOS)
infrastructure projects in the total of  prevents growth of this market
such financing
* Measurable financing from BBs with   BBs prefer to use their own resources
their own resources for MFP sub-    to finance sub-projects
projects (number and value)
* Good and timely repayment record of  Further decentralization of public
subloans                             expenditures may be inadequately
matched by revenue allocation, thus
reducing the ability of municipalities
to service long-term debt obligations
Development of a pipeline of       Number and value of new sub-projects
bankablev promects ofappem   fscreened and assessed (by BBs or
bankable projects                  MDA) as eligible for project financing
* Number and value of sub-projects     MDA fails to develop sufficient
financed through MDA channel        capacity to carry out its facilitation
Project Outputs
On-lending of WB funds to        * Commitment of subloans to final      Application of required procurement
municipalities and municipal       beneficiaries (30% with 1 year, 60%  procedures present an unacceptable
enterprises                        within 2 years and 100% within 3 years  burden for both municipal borrowers
of loan effectiveness)               and BBs
Implementation of municipal      * Disbursements from WB loan in
infrastructure investments financed  accordance with estimated schedule
by BBs
Provision of technical assistance by   * Feasibility studies providing economic,   Availability of grant funds to finance
MDA to municipalities and BBs      financial, technical and environmental   feasibility studies does not continue.
justification of sub-projects






49
ANNEX3
Page 1 of 14
SAMPLE APPRAISAL REPORT WITH SUPPORTING FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
PULAWY SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLIANCE WITH ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA
(APPRAISAL REPORT)1
Background
1.    Pulawy is an industrial city located on the right bank of the Vistula River, about 120 km southeast
of Warsaw, in the Lublin Voivodship. The present population of Pulawy is 54,600, and over the next
twenty years, the annual growth rate of the population is expected to be 0.4 percent. The main industry in
Pulawy is the nitrogen chemical complex. Approximately 11,000 tonnes of municipal solid waste are
produced per year; an average of 0.6 kg of waste are produced by each inhabitant per day. Solid waste
production is growing at a per capita rate of 1.5 percent.
2.     The current solid waste collection services are provided by (i) MZUK, a municipal department
(zaklad budzetowy) employing 60 people and providing services to about 75 percent of the waste
collection market; and (ii) "Komunalnik", a private collection operator covering about 20 percent of the
clients. The existing solid waste containers are in bad condition, and about 45 percent of them require
urgent replacement. Approximately 30 tonnes of solid waste are collected daily by the both companies.
Fees are collected directly from clients, either single family homeowners, apartment owners associations,
or municipal housing complexes. The fee for household waste collection is about US$0.3/capita/month,
equivalent to US$12/tonne. MZUK currently has a fleet of 6 seven-year old collection vehicles, of which
only one is a 16 m3 compactor vehicle.
3.    The present municipal dump is located 10 km to the southwest of the city at Trzcianki. Its useful
life was extended by the recent purchase of a compactor and by other works and it can be utilized for a
maximum of two more years. The dump is only partially fenced, and there is neither leachate and gas
management nor weight control of solid waste. The waste is not covered with earth. The soil is
permeable and the impact on groundwater and soil is estimated to be significant. The current tipping fee
is about US$8/tonne.
Proposed Project
4.    Within the proposed solid waste management project, solid waste storage will be handled by 250
containers of 1,100 liter unit capacity and 400 containers of 260 liter unit capacity. To introduce solid
waste recycling, 250 paper/glass/can separation containers and a hydraulic lift vehicle will be bought.
5.    To complete MZUK service coverage, three 16m3 compactor vehicles and a sidewalk sweeping
vehicle will also be purchased under the proposed project.
6.    The present dump at Trzcianki will be closed and rehabilitated, and a new sanitary landfill at
Wolka Profecka will be built. The new landfill located 7 km to the northeast of the city, will be equipped
with a geomembrane liner, leachate and gas management system, fence, weigh bridge and adequate
vehicles and equipment. The construction of the new sanitary landfill will occur in zones, over the life of
the site (about 20 years).
Based on information available at the time of project appraisal (mid-1996).



50
ANNEX3
Page 2 of 14
7.     At the same Wolka Profecka site, a new composting plant including an in-vessel system, and a
sorting plan equipped with trommel, crusher and baling system, will also be constructed.
Appraisal Criteria
8.     Commuuity Suort. Several preparatory studies were ordered by the City, including the Pre-
feasibility Study (Zalozenia Techniczno-Economiczne) by Bipro-Bumar in 1994, MZUK Restructuring
Study by Bain & Company in 1994, and Feasibility Study by Ekolog in 1995. The proposed project was
ratified by the Environmental Department of the Voivodship of Lublin, and localization of the new
facilities was approved by the City Council and the City Board.
9.     Eeasibility. The feasibility study carried out in August 1995 by Ekolog, defined and justified in
technical, economic, financial and environmental terms the investment prograrn. Three alternatives were
considered, i.e., (i) development of a new sanitary landfill only; (ii) construction of a sanitary landfill with
composting and recycling facilities; and (iii) transfer of Pulawy waste to Lublin landfill 50 km away. The
proposed project was retained as the most viable and least-cost solution. The additional financial analysis
showed that debt service as a percentage of City's current revenues varies from 1.2 to 6.3 percent over
the life of the loan (10-year maturity and 3-year grace period), and that the debt coverage ratio drops to its
lowest point (3.3) in the Year 2000.
10.   Environmental Nsse. While the proposed project is expected to have a positive environmental
impact by eliminating the uncontrolled dump and improving solid waste management in Pulawy, the
possibility that some of its components could have negative impacts if mismanaged caused it to be subject
to an environmental assessment consistent with both Polish and World Bank environmental procedures.
The environmental assessment for the localization and sizing of the sanitary landfill, and recycling and
composting facilities have been prepared by local consultants, and an environmental permit was issued by
the Voivodship Environmental Department. The City has not received and does not expect to receive any
adverse public reaction to the proposed investments, and no involuntary resettlement is anticipated.
11.   Commercialiagtion. In 1994 Pulawy received advice from the management consultants Bain &
Company in evaluating and managing the options for restructuring MZUK. Despite the unsuccessful
attempt of the privatization of solid waste services in 1995, Pulawy is still determined to (i) restructure its
MZUK; (ii) involve the private sector in financing and operating of solid waste management facilities; and
(iii) limit the City's role to the enforcement and monitoring of contracts and performance control.
12.   Cost Recovery. In order to recover from user charges the operation and maintenance costs with
project and to service the debt, the new tipping fee was estimated at about US$15/tonne. This represents
a substantial increase in the present fees level. However, similar or higher tipping fees are already
applied in several other cities (e.g., Gorzow Wielkopolski, Jastrzebie Zdroj, Poznan) and have proved to
be affordable.
13.    Readinss. The detailed design (Projekt Techniczny) of the first zone of the new sanitary landfill
is under preparation and the construction works are scheduled to shortly. The City is also ready to call
for tenders for the detailed design of recycling and composting facilities.



51
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 14
PULAWY SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
DETAILED PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A.    Solid Waste Collection and Separation
1.    Supply of about 250 containers of 1,100 liter capacity and 400 containers of 260 liter
capacity.
2.    Supply of three 16 m3 compactor vehicles.
3.    Supply of about 250 paper/glass/can separation containers and a hydraulic lift vehicle.
4.    Supply of a sidewalk sweeping vehicle.
B.    Development of the New Sanitary Landfill at Wolka Profecka
1.    Construction of a 20 m long access road from the public road and a 30 m long inside
road from the entrance to the landfill.
2.    Site excavation and land clearing.
3.    Construction of a small building to be used as an office and adjacent to it an area for
washing vehicles and equipment.
4.    Construction of the first zone of about 4 ha, including the geomembrane liner, leachate
collection and pre-treatment system, gas flaring system, fencing, and leachate
monitoring system.
5.    Supply and installation of a weighbridge.
6.    Supply of a compactor of more than 20 tonnes, a dumper, a backhoe, a tractor and
pumps.
C.    Construction of the Composting Plant at Wolka Profecka
1.    Construction of composting plant of about 50 tonnes per day capacity including in-
vessel composting system, building, screening and storage facilities of 2 ha surface.
D.    Construction of Recycling Facilities at Wolka Profecka
1.    Construction of a sorting plant equipped with a trommel, a conveyer belt, a waste
paper baling system, a plastic crusher and a fork-car.



52
ANNEX3
Page 4 of 14
E.    Closure and Rehabilitation of the Existing Sanitary Landfill at Trzcianki
1.     Regrading and sloping 2.2 ha of the existing sanitary landfill in order to minimize
contact surface runoff and percolating rainwater with waste.
2.     Covering with a 0.3 m layer of semi-impermeable soil and a 0.3 m of fertile soil,
putting land under grass and planting in order to establish a vegetative mass capable to
sustain evapo-transpiration of the leachate volume.
3.     Digging a drainage ditch around the perimeter of the site in order to collect runoff
water from the restored landfill and discharge it in a soaking pond.
4.     Drilling boreholes and installing perforated pipes within gravel packing in order to vent
landfill gases.
F.     Technical Assistance in Project Implementation
1.     Detailed design and construction supervision of the solid waste management works.
2.     Geotechnical investigation needed to design the cells at the new landfill site.
G.    Technical Assistance in Institutional Development and Public Information
1.     Assistance MZUK in institutional reorganization, accounting, billing and collecting,
financial management, information management, and maintenance management.
2.     Assistance to the Municipality in the preparation of bidding documents, bid evaluation
and contract negotiations for private operation of solid waste management and street
sweeping in order to enhance competition, efficiency, accountability and commercial
practices.
3.     Assistance to the Municipality in public awareness campaigns related to separation and
recycling activities (including TV/radio commercials, publications, and school
sensitization activities).



53
Annex 3
Page 5 of 14
PULAWY SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
COST ESTIMATES
Total Base Cost    Procur.   % Finan.   Amount Finan.
PLN Million    USS Million   + All Conting.    Method    by Bank  by Bank
USS Million                          USS Million
CIVIL WORKS
Existing Site Rehabilitation              1.70           0.68         0.78         NCB        50%      0.39
New Sanitary Landfill                    0.70            0.28         0.32         NCB        50%      0.16
Access Road                               0.20           0.08         0.09          NS        50%       0.05
Composting Plant                         2.50            1.00         1.15         NCB        50%       0.58
Recycling facilities                     0.20            0.08         0.09          NS        50%      0.05
Total Civil Works                       5.30            2.12         2.44                    50%       1.22
EQUIPMENT
Containers                                0.90           0.36         0.41         ICB        50%      0.21
Compactor and Sweeping Vehicles          0.80            0.32         0.37          IS        50%      0.18
New Sanitary Landfill (incl. weighbridge)  2.00          0.80         0.92         ICB        50%      0.46
Composting System                        6.00            2.40         2.76         ICB        50%       1.38
Recycling Facilities                     0.40            0.16         0.18          NS        50%      0.09
Total Equipment                        10.10            4.04         4.65                    50%      2.32
Total Civil Works and Equipment        15.40            6.16         7.08                    50%      3.54
CONSULTANT SERVICES
TA Project Implementation
Detail Design and Supervision           0.30            0.12         0.14        Guidel.    100%      0.14
Geotechnical Investigation              0.20            0.08         0.09        Guidel.    100%      0.09
TA Instit. Develop. & Public information
MZUK Reorganization                     0.30            0.12         0.14        Guidel.    100%      0.14
Bidding Process                         0.30            0.12         0.14        Guidel.    100%      0.14
Public Awareness Campolans              0.20            0.08         0.09        Guidel.    100%      0.09
Total Consultant Services                1.30           0.52         0.60                    100%     0.60
TOTAL BASE COST (May 96)                   16.70            6.68
CONTINGENCIES
Physical                                1.67            0.67
Prices                                  0.84            0.33
Total Contingencies                      2.51           1.00
GRAND TOTAL (incl. TA Consultants)        19.21           7.68          7.68                    54%      4.14
TOTAL (excluding TA Consultants)                                                                        3.54
Note: Supply and installation contmacts may be considered as follows:
New Landfill:                   Works and Equipment             2.11          NCB       50%    1.06
Composting Plant/Recycling      Works and Equipment             4.9s          NCB       50%    2.48
Total                                                               7.08                            3.64
Depending on other financing availablle, percentage financed by the Bank loan could be Increased to up to 75% ($5.76 millon, Including TA)
Totals may not add, due to rounding.



54
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 14
PROJECT INFORMATION - PULAWY
Priority Pdrject          Solid waste management - Construciion of new landfill, which
will include a composting plant and recycling facilities,
rehabilitation of the existing landfill and improvement of solid
waste collection and separation.
Investor / Borrower       City of Pulawy.
Estimated Costs     :     PLN 19.2 million or US$7.68 million, for civil works,
equipment and technical assistance, including contingencies.
Estimated Loan Amnt:       US$4,140,000 (50 percent of project costs).
Status of PMie            The detailed design (Projekt Techniczny) of the first zone of
the new landfill has been completed and bids invited for the
civil works. Works could start shortly. The city is preparing
to call for tenders for the detailed design of the recycling and
composting facilities.
Borrowing Capacity        Initial estimates indicate that repayment of a US$4,140,000
MFP loan entirely from the city budget is possible and within
the financial capacity of Pulawy, though overall investment
spending may be restricted by debt service requirements.
Basis for Loan Paym        Although Pulawy could repay a loan from general municipal
revenues, an investment component should be incorporated in
the solid waste tariff/tipping fee, to repay part of the loan.
Recommnendation     :     This preparation of this project appears to be well advanced
and it should be considered for inclusion in the first batch of
MFP loans.



55
ANNEX3
Page 7 of 14
INDICATORS
FINANCIAL INDICATORS - 1994-95
1. Debt Burden (debt service/current revenues)    0.0 % (1994, 1995)
2. Debt Coverage Ratio                       No debt service for 1994, 1995
3. Existing Cost Recovery Ratio (Rev/Expend.)
4. Experience with loans                     No loans yet contracted.
5. Existing debt                             None.
LOAN INDICATORS (FORECAST)
Hypothesis:
US$4,140,000 loan, disbursed in 1997 and 1998, 10-year maturity, 3-year grace period
(principal).
6. Debt Burden                               1.22% (1998); 6.6% (2000)
7. Debt Coverage Ratio                       18.2 (1998); 3.3 (2000)
CITY INDICATORS - 1994-95
8. Pulawy/National Current Revenues (per capita)    1.14 (1995)
9. Pulawy/Population Current Revenues (per capita)  1.02 (1995)
10. Net Savings/Revenues                       17.5% (1994); 124.0 (1995)
11. Budget Balance (after Investment Loans)    -2.0% (1994); 7% (1995)
CORPORATE INDICATORS
12. Type of company                            Multi-branch zaklad budzetowe
13. Employees/thousand population              1.1
14. Operating expenses/m3 of waste disposed    ?
15. Labor, % of total operating expenditures   ?
16. Energy & materials, % of total operating expenditures    ?
CITY INFORMATION
Population (1995)                              54,350
Location                                       120 km southeast of Warsaw, in the
Lublin voivodship
Primary Education                              Yes, since 1994.
Powiat Pilot City                              No, does not meet population criteria.



56
ANNEX3
Page 8 of 14
PULAWY
1. 
In 1994 and 1995, Pulawy participated in a program financed by the Restructuring and
Privatization of Municipal Enterprises Program of the Cooperation Fund. Aided by Bain &
Company consultants, municipal and municipal enterprise officials created a pilot task force to
elaborate management tools, define strategic and operational objectives and develop performance
and financial control indicators for street cleaning and waste management services. The Polish
firm Ekolog prepared detailed activity and investment plans for the sector, which became the basis
of a feasibility study completed by Ekolog in early 1995.
The most urgent needs in this sector are the preparation of a new landfill site, including the
construction of a composing plant and recycling facilities, closure and rehabilitation of the existing
landfill site and the acquisition of containers and vehicles to improve solid waste services. The
current landfill at Trzcianki, whose useful life was extended by the purchase of a compactor and
by other works, can be utilized only until 1997-98. The site of a new landfill at Wolka Profecka
has been approved by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and a permit was issued by the
Voivodship Environmental Department. The city was planning to issue a call for tenders for the
detailed design of the recycling and composting facilities.
The question of restructuring MZUK, the municipal solid waste and services company has not yet
been resolved, as the City Council decided it wished to retain a majority stake in the company.
Nevertheless, Pulawy is still determined to restructure MZUK, involve the private sector in
fmancing and operating solid waste management facilities and thereby, limit the city's role to
enforcement and monitoring of contracts and performance control.
2.     PRQOJIFCTCOSTS
Estimated project costs for Pulawy's solid waste management strategy include:
PLNQ'O        US$000
Solid waste collection and separation            1,700           680
Development of new landfill - Wolka Profecka     2,900         1,160
Composting Plant at Wolka Profecka               8,500         3,400
Recycling Facilities at Wolka Profecka           600             240
Closure & Rehabilitation of existing landfill    1,700           680
TOTAL (Civil Works and Equipment)                15,400        6,160
Total costs, including contingencies (physical and prices), and excluding consultant services,
would bring the estimated project costs to PLN 17.7 million or JS$7.08 million.
3.     STATUS OF MZUK
MZUK (Miejskie Zarzad Uslug Komunalna) is a municipal services company structured as a
zaklad budzetowe. This company is responsible for six different activities: waste collection, solid
waste landfill management, street cleaning, greenery, cemetery management and funeral services.



57
ANNEX 3
Page 9 of 14
For waste collection and street cleaning, Bain suggested the creation of a joint venture with an
external investor. For waste collection services, the role of the city would include enforcement
and monitoring of contracts and performance control of the waste collecting company.
For landfill operations, MZUK should continue to operate the current landfill, until its closure and
recultivation around 1997. For the moment, the municipality is proceeding directly with the
preparation of the new landfill, including the composting and recycling plants. The question of
the restructuring of MZUK is likely to be debated again in 1996. Pulawy has not abandoned its
interest in restructuring MZUK and involving the private sector in financing and operation of
solid waste management facilities.
4.  FINANCIAX CONDMON OF MZUK
MZUK operates the current landfill, and will continue to do so until this site is closed within the
next two years. The budget of MZUK was not provided during the consultant's visit. According
to Pulawy's draft 1995 budget, no direct subsidy was paid to MZUK in 1994 nor was planned in
1995. It is difficult to determiine from the budget documents the cost to the city of street cleaning
and greenery maintenance. MZUK employs about 60 people and provides services to about 75
percent of the waste collection market.
Current fees for household waste collection are about US$0.3 per capita per month, equivalent to
US$12/ton. The tipping fee for the present landfill is US$8/ton. It has been estimated that in
order to recover the costs of operation and maintenance of the new landfill and to service the debt
from user charges, a new tipping fee would have to be set at US$15/ton, an increase of over 80
percent over current charges.
5.  FINANCIAL CNDMN OPULAY
Comparison of Pulawy's current revenues with 1994 national and population category (50-
300,000) averages indicates that the city's per capita current revenues are about 14 percent higher
than the national average and 2 percent higher than the population category average.
Own revenues account for 45 percent of current revenues in 1994 and 41 percent in 1995 (Table
2), which is slightly higher than comparable population ratios and similar to the national average.
The level of property tax revenues is particularly high, at 29-42 percent of current revenues,
compared to 18 and 13 percent for the national and population averages, respectively. The share
of PIT represents 16 percent of current revenues. Pulawy's savings capacity2, at 24 percent in
1995, is at the average nationally and higher than the population category, as is the investment
effort of 17-19 percent of expenditures3.
The 1995 actual budget resulted in a surplus equal to almost 7 percent of current revenues,
compared to a 2 percent deficit the previous year. Total 1995 current revenues were PLN 32.1
million, which is a 19 percent real increase, given 30 percent inflation. The big change in
revenues was a considerable jump in corporate income tax (CMT) income, from PLN 3.9 million
to 1994 to PLN 8.4 million in 1995. It would be necessary to determine the source of this
2/     net savings = current revenues - current expenditures
current + capital



58
ANNEX 3
Page 10 of 14
increased income from corporate income tax, in particular to determine whether this level of
revenue from this tax will be sustained in future years, or whether this constituted a one-off
payment of delinquent taxes by the city's largest companies. Current expenditures registered a
real increase of only half this level (9 percent).
Education is the sector of greatest spending, at 40 percent of the total, followed by municipal
economy (17 percent) and municipal housing and communal services (13 percent) (See Table 3).
Planned investments for 1995 are PLN 4.4 million, and actual investment, PLN 5.5 million. Over
50 percent of investment was targeted for municipal housing and property and 45 percent for
municipal economy. The largest individual investment projects in 1995 were PLN 970,000 for
rainwater drainage, PLN 400,000 for one road rehabilitation project and PLN 300,000 for
renovation of a municipal building.
6.     BORROWING CAPACITY
An estimate of Pulawy's loan payment capacity was calculated on the basis of a US$4.1 million
loan (50 percent of current estimates for equipment, civil works and technical assistance on the
solid waste management project).
The estimated conditions of the MFP loan forecast for Pulawy are:
1996  1997   1998   1999  2000  2001 and ff.
Inflation (%)      18.2  14.7   11.2  9.0    7.0    5.0
Devaluation (%)    12.7  10.2    7.8  6.3    4.9    3.5
1996   1997   1998   1999  2000  2001   2002  2003  2004  2005
Forex rate  2.85   2.94   3.08   3.28   3.44   3.56   3.69   3.82   3.96   4.10
Current revenues increase at 3 points less than inflation;
Current expenditures increase at the rate of inflation in 1996 and at 3 points less than inflation
for the rest of the period;
Net savings as a percentage of current revenue are estimated at 22.1 percent over the period;
Capital expenditures (financed from net savings) vary from 16.0 to 22 percent of total
expenditures;
Loan disbursements are calculated in US$, with US$2.1 million disbursed annually in 1997 and
1998;
Loan payments (principal + interest) are calculated in PLN, at the estimated US$JPLN
exchange rate for the year of payment. Pulawy bears the foreign exchange risk;
Terms of credit are 10 year maturity, 3 year grace period for principal payments;
Interest is variable, and includes:
- expanded US$ LIBOR cost: estimated LIBOR + World Bank spread (not counting
eventual waivers), and;
- the commercial bank spread of 2.5 points (the commercial bank spread also covers the
cost of the guarantee fee and commitment fee).
Based on these estimates, the debt coverage ratio falls to its lowest point at 3.3 in 2000. Debt
service as a percent of current revenues does not exceed 6.6 percent at any time during loan
repayments. Table 1 below indicates the budget impact for Pulawy of this estimate. Given these



59
ANNEX 3
Page 11 of 14
assumptions, and assuming that the city can maintain as high a savings rate as in 1995, the
municipal budget could bear a loan of US$4,140,000.
Nevertheless, cost recovery should be an important element of this project and an increase of solid
waste tariffs and/or tipping fees to finance all or a portion of projected debt payments should be
considered.
TABLE 1: BUDGET IMPACT OF $4,140,000 LOAN
.. -                 moo18  199. 0  3001  2
Debt Service (PLN'000)      543      1,157      3,250     3,186      3,112
Debt Coverage Ratio        18.15      9.04      3.34      3.48       3.63
Debt Burden                1.22%     2.44%     6.60%     6.34%      6.07%
(% of current revenues)
Debt Service asa % of      5.5%      11.1%     29.9%     28.7%      27.5%
Capital Expenditures4
7.    CONCLUDING REMARKS
Based on information of 1994 and 1995 budgets, the municipal finances of Pulawy appear to be in
an acceptable situation. The loan forecast does indicate that Pulawy has the financial capacity to
repay a loan, but it is advised that solid waste fees also be dedicated to loan payment. A feasibility
study has been prepared and it is recommended that Pulawy be included in the first batch of
projects for financing under the MFP loan.
4/    This estimate does not account for any other possible sources of financing of capital expenditures, such as
grants or loans and covers only capital expenditures which could be financed by the estimated level of net savings.



6 0                                            ANNEX 3
6(                          ~~~~~~Pag;e 12 of 14
Table 2:                 PULAWY: BUDGET PERFONIAANCE RATIOS (1993 - 2001)
PULAWY
Evolution of actual budget      1993     1994    1995       1998     1999     2000      2001
(actual)  (actual)  (actual) (forecast) (forecast) (forecast) (forecast)
Budget evolution * (% change from n-i)
1                       - current revenues   18.4%    15.3%    18.8%
2                    - current expenditures    4.9%    53.5%  9.3% _
Financial Independence
3    - discretionary revenues as % of total  92.9%    66.4%    68.6%
Savings capacity
4       - net savings (% of current revenues)   38.0%    17.5%    24.0%    22.1%    22.1%    22.1%    22.1%
Debt Burden
5 - debt service as percent of current revenues              0.0%     1.2%      2.4%     6.8%      6.3%
Debt Coverage Ratio
6               - net savings / debt service                           18.15     9.04      3.34     3.48
Structure of current revenues (%J
7                         - own revenues   69.0%    44.9%    40.5%
8                 of which: real estate tax   29.9%    28.8%    24.3%
9                of which: other revenues   26.9%    6.7%     8.7%
10                          - shares in PIT   17.9%    17.3%    15.4%
11                          - shares in CIT    3.6%   1.9%    10.8%
12              - primary education transfer  0.0%    23.9%    19.4%
13                        - general subsidy  2.4%     2.3%     1.9%                   1
Investment effort
14                      Savings/Investment  105.4%    89.8%   140.0%   105.8%   112.4%   142.7%   140.3%
15     Capital spending (% of current revenue)   38.1%    19.5%    17.2%    20.9%    19.6%    15.5%    15.7%
16   Capital spending (% of current + capital)   36.8%    19.1%    18.4%    20.9%    19.6%  15.5%    15.7%
Budget balance before Invest. Loans
17  - surplus (deficit) as % of current revenues    1.9%    -2.0%  6.9%
Budget balance after Invest. Loans
18  - surplus (deficit) as % of current revenues    1.9%1   -2.0%  6.9%  -       -
* corrected for inflation
* Discretionary revenues exclude all targeted transfers



61                                                        ANNEX 3
Table 3:                             PULAWY - BUDGET PERFORMANCE (1993 - 1995)                            Page  1 3 of  14
PULAWY
1993        1994        1995   l Evolution*   Evolution'   Evolution^I
actual      actual      actual          93192       94t93        95194
thousand PLN                  (actual)    (actual)     (actual)
7 Currantrevenues12 + 8+14)                    13,652      20,781       32,086          18.4%       15.3%        18.8%
of which:
2 Transfers from centra/govt                    3,270        4,461       8,995          28.5%         3.3%       55.1%
3 Shared taxes                                  2,937        3,980       8,400          18.8%         2.7%       62.4%
4 of whch: CIT- 5%                                491         395        3,469          11.5%       -39.1 %     576.2%
5 of which: PIT- 15%                            2,446       3,585        4,931          20.4%        11.0%        5.8%
6 PIT for Big City Law
7 General subsidy                                 333         481          595         362.8%        9.3%        -4.8%
8 Targeted Transfers                              965        6,991      t0,088           -9.0%     448.6%        11.0%
9 Primary education transfer                                 4,968        6,235                                  -3.5%
10 Powiat Pilot Project transfer                                  0           0
17 Grant for housing subsidy
12 Grants for delegated tasks                      965        1,221        1,634         -9.0%       -4.2%         3.0%
13 Grants for own tasks (operating)                             803       2,219
14 Own revenues                                  9,416        9,329      13,003          18.8%      -24.9%         7.2%
15 Real estate tax                               4,076        5,989       7,794         -15.1%        11.3%        0.1%
16 Agricultural tax                                 43           40          32         125.9%      -28.3%       -38.9%
17 Transportation tax                              530          724         973          30.7%         3.6%        3.3%
18 Stamp duties                                    752          799         942           6.0%      -19.6%        -9.3%
19 Business license                                342          310         363           0.5%       -31.2%       -9.9%
20 Other taxes and fees                                          66          120                                  40.1%
21 Other revenues                                 3,675       1,401        2,779        122.3%       -71.1%       52.6%
22 Cufrent expenditures                           8,463      17,149       24,370           4.9%       53.5%        9.3%
of which:
23 Debt Service
24 Other current expenditures                     8,463      17,149       24,370          4.9%        53.5%        9.3%
25 Net savings (1-22i                   1         5,189       3,6321       7,7161
261% of current revenues                   L    38.07%      17.48%       24.05%
27 Capital expenditures                           4,923       4,047        5,512         21.0%       -37.7%        4.8%
of which:
28 New Investment                                 4,923       4,047        5,512
29 Shares in companies                                            0            0
30 Capital Improvements *_*
31 Capital revenue                     1              0           0            0
of which: 
32 Sales of municipal property / shares
33 Grants for own tasks (investment)    |             0           0            0
34 To Finance Invest. (27-30)           ](        4,923       4,047        5,512
35 Surplus or Deficit                               266        -415        2,2041
361% of currant revenues                l        1.95%       -2.00%       6.87%
37 Financing of shortfall                             0         415            0
of which:
38 Bank Credits                                       0           0            0
39 Loans                                                          0            0
40 Securities issued by city                                      O            0
41 Surplus n-1                                        0         415            0
42 Other sources                                      0           0            O
43 Surplus (Deficit) after Invest. Loans            266        -415        2,204|
44 %of current revenues                 I F      1.95%       -2.00%       6.87%
lInflation index                                                                        1.35         1.32        1.30
' Adjusted for inflation
I Capital improvements are included in current expenditures.



TABLE 4                         PULAWY - Financing of Solid Waste Landfill ($4,140,000 I Spread - 2.5%  1 No Solid Waste Fees to Loan Payment)
PULAWY
1994      1995      1996      1997      1998      1999      2000       2001      2002      2003      2004      2005       2006
1 Current revenues                       20,781    32,086    36,964    41,288    44,674    47,354    49,249    50,234    51,238    52,263    53.308    54,374    55,462
2 Current expenditures                    17,149    24,370    28,806    32,176    34,815    36.903    38,380    39,147    39,930    40,729    41,543    42,374    43,222
3 NetSavings                               3,632     7.716     8,158     9,112      9.859    10,451    10,869    11,086    11,308    11,534    11,765    12,000    12,240
4 Net savings as % of current revenue    17.48%    24.05%    22.07%    22.07%    22.07%    22.07%    22.07%    22.07%    22.07%    22.07%    22.07%    22.07%    22.07%
Cepital budget
S Transfer of solid waste fees for debt payment
6 Total debt service = 71                                                            543      1,157     3,250     3,186      3,112     3,030     2,938     2,836      2,722
7 Annual debt service - MCP                                                          543      1,157     3,250     3,186      3,112     3,030     2,938     2,836      2,722
8 Debt service financed by Pulawy budget                                             543      1,157     3,250     3,186      3,112     3,030     2,938     2,836      2,722
9 Other investment (min. available)        4,047     5,512     8,158      9,112     9,316     9,295     7,619      7,901     8,196     8,504     8,827     9,165      9,518
(% of current revenues)                 19.5%      17.2%     22.1%     22.1%     20.9%     19.6%      15.5%     15.7%     16.0%     16.3%      16.6%     16.9%     17.2%
f% of expendituresJ                    19.09%    18.45%    22.07%    22.07%    20.85%    19.63%    15.47%    15.73%    16.00%    16.27%    16.56%    16.85%    17.76%
10 Total expenditures (= 2 +8+91           21,196    29,883    36,964    41,288    44,674    47,354    49,249    50,234    51,238    52,263    53,308    54,374    55.462
RATIOS
11 Debt coverage ratio I= 3/61                                                       18.15      9.04      3.34       3.48      3.63      3.81      4.00       4.23      4.50
12 Debt service as % of current revenues                                            1 22%      2.44%     6.60%     6.34%     6.07%      5.80%     5.51%     5.21%     4.91%
13 Transfer of solid waste fees as % of debt service                                 0.0%       0.0%      0.0%      0.0%      0.0%       0.0%      0.0%      0.0%      0.0%           )
14 Debt service as % of total capital expenditures                                   5.5%      11.1%     29.9%     28.7%     27.5%      26.3%     25.0%     23.6%     22.2%
(debt service + investment financed by city budget)
15 estimated inflation                    30.00%    26.00%    18.20%    14.70%    11.20%       9.00%     7.00%     5.00%     5 00%      5.00%     5.00%     5.00%     5.00%
16 estimated devaluation                  1880%    15.00%    12.68%    10.24%       7.80%      6.27%     4.88%     3.48%     3.48%      3.48%     348%      348%      348%
PULAWY LOAN 1
Terms of credit                                     TH. PLN      1995       1996      1997      1998      1999      2000       2001      2002      2003      2004       2005      2006
MFP Loan - USD $4,140,000
Spread =2.5%
Beginning balance                                       0          0     2,070     4,140      4,140     3,549     2,957     2,366      1,774     1,183       591
Disbursements (USDI                                            2,070     2,070
Principal      4,140    Principal Payments 1USD)                                 0         0         0          0       591       591       591        591       591       591       591
Initial Interest    8.52%    Interest Payments (USDI                             0         0       176        353       353       302       252        202       151       101        50
Maturity       10       TOTAL DEBT SERVICE (USD)                                 0         0       176        353       944       894       843        793       743       692       642
Grace period   3        Ending balance                                           0      2,070     4,140     4.140     3,549      2,957     2,366     1,774     1,183       591          0
Year contracted   1997
Principal Payments (PLN)                                0         0          0         0      2,036     2,108     2,183     2,260     2,340      2,423     2,509
Interest Payments (PLN)                                 0          0       543     1,157      1,214     1,078       930       770       598       413        214
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE IPLN)                                0          0       543      1,157     3,250     3,186     3,112     3,030      2,938     2,836     2,722       X
INTEREST COMPONENTS                                                                                                                                                    (0
TOTAL INTEREST RATE                                 8.52%     8.52%     8.52%      8.52%     8.52%     8.52%     8.52%     8.52%      8.52%     8.52%     8.52%
Expanded LIBOR (USD)                                6.02%     6.02%     6.02%      6.02%     6.02%     6.02%     6.02%      6.02%     6.02%     6.02%     6.02%        4, >
Commercial Bank Spread                              2.50%     2.50%     2.50%      2.50%     2.50%     2.50%     2.50%      2.50%     2.50%     2.50%     2.50%            Z
O z
FX RATE                                    2.52       2.85      2.94      3.08      3.28       3.44      3.56      3.69      3.82      3.96       4.10      4.24
Dec-95    Dec-96    Dec-97    Dec-98    Dec-99    Dec-00    Dec-01    Dec-02    Dec-03    Dec-04    Dec-05    Dec-06   W



63
ANNEXA
Page I of 1
POLAND - MUNICIPAL FINANCE PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(US$ million)
IBRD Fiscal    Semester Ending                   Withdrawals                  Disbursement
Year                               Amount   Cumulative   Cumul. %           Profile (%)
1998       July 1-December 31,       1.6          1.6           7               0
1997
January 1-June 30,        1.9          3.5           16              6
1998
1999       July 1-December 31,       3.5          7.0           32              10
1998
January 1-June 30,       4.5          11 5           52             14
1999
2000       July 1-December 31,       4.5          16.0          73             22
1999
January 1-June 30,       3.0          19.0           86             26
2000
2001       July 1-December 31,       1.2          20.2          92              34
2000
January 1-June 30,        1.0         21.2           96             46
2001
2002       July I -December 31,      0.8          22.0          100            58
2001
January 1-June 30,                                                  66
2002
2003       July 1 -December 31,                                                 78
2002
January 1-June 30,                                                  86
2003
2004       July 1-December 31,                                                 90
2003
January 1-June 30,                                                  98
2004
2005       July 1 -December 31,                                                100
2004






65                                     ANNEX5
Page 1 of 1
POLAND - MUNICIPAL FINANCE PROJECT
ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA FOR PARTICIPATING BANKS
A.      Compliance with NBP regulations.
Included in these regulations are the following:
i)     an 8 percent risk-weighted capital-adequacy ratio
ii)    asset concentration:
- no single credit risk > 15 percent of net worth
- no group of related borrowers > 25 percent of net worth
iii)    foreign exchange risk:
- net position (long or short) in a single currency not to exceed 15 percent of capital
- aggregate position (long or short) not to exceed 30 percent of capital
- maximum position (long or short) in all foreign currencies not to exceed 40 percent of
capital
iv)    loan provisioning
- 20 percent provision for assets classified as "substandard"
- 50 percent provision for assets classified as "doubtful"
- 100 percent provision for assets classified as "loss"
- Assets to be classified quarterly, taking into account debt service history and debtor
financial situation
B.     Managerial capacity
i)     a clearly identified business strategy including analysis of main risks
ii)    effective internal controls and independent auditing
iii)    professional standards
iv)    clear plan to privatize in the near term
v)     positive cash flow
C.    Credit analysis and credit policies
A sound and balanced credit risk management program including:
i)     credit risk identification and management policies
ii)    credit extension, documentation and collection processes
iii)    credit portfolio monitoring and control procedures
iv)    collateral arrangements
D.    Potential to strengthen/develop municipal lending.
i)     capacity to appraise infrastructure projects (project finance)
ii)    capacity to administer and supervise IBRD loan
iii)    previous experience with municipal lending and collateral arrangements
iv)    role of municipal lending in the business plan






67                                   ANNEXB6
Page I of 6
POLAND - MUNICIPAL FINANCE PROJECT
REVIEW OF THE PARTICIPATING BANKS
1.    Descriptions of each of the two Participating Banks are given below.
A. BANK INICJATYW SPOLECZNO-EKONOMICZNYCH SA (BISE)
2.     Background. BISE was established in 1990 as a joint venture among, primarily, the Polish
Government Labor Fund (LF), the Polish Industrial Development Agency (IDA), and France's small
business financing agency, the Caisse Centrale de Credit Cooperatif (CC). BISE's purpose was to provide
financial support to the development of privately owned small businesses and to stimulate development of
small towns and rural communities, especially in regions of structural unemployment. BISE's ownership
presently is 44 percent State (primarily LF and IDA) and 56 percent private (primarily Credit Foncier de
France, CC and, more recently, Credit Industriel d'Alsace et de Lorraine). The original French
shareholders have provided, and are expected to continue to provide, significant technical assistance in the
areas of municipal lending and housing finance, including some residential mortgage refinancing facilities
(Credit Foncier), and in small business lending (CC).
3.     Present Status. BISE is a comparatively small, over capitalized bank with only two branches. Its
over-capitalized position produces a low return on equity (ROE), but provides room for growth and
protection for the significant portion of its loan portfolio which is in the relatively high risk small business
sector. BISE's management seems competent, has a clear view of the bank's defined mission, and is
committed to a policy of cautious growth, including the introduction of new products (e.g., factoring and
lease financing). It intends to increase selectively its branch network in order to expand further BISE's
loan and deposit base, thus conservatively increasing leverage and ROE over time. It also plans to
improve its operating efficiency through the upgrading of its information technology and data processing
systems. The bank is about to move its Head Office into its newly constructed building. About 77
percent of BISE's loans are to private sector companies and individuals, 22 percent are to governmental
entities (primarily municipal), and 1 percent are to large state enterprises.
4.     Financial Condition and Operating Results. At the end of 1996, BISE's total assets were PLN
155.6 million (liquid assets PLN 9.3 million, net loans PLN 64.5 million, and net fixed assets PLN 25.7
million); total liabilities were PLN 111.6 million (deposits PLN 63.7 million); and total capital was PLN
44.0 million. BISE's 12 months' gross income before expenses increased from PLN 11.5 million in 1995
to PLN 14.6 million in 1996. This increase of 27 percent, although substantial, is somewhat lower than
the 66 percent increase in 1995, indicating that BISE's rate of growth is decelerating. Net income after all
expenses, but before income tax, which increased from PLN 376 thousand in 1994 to PLN 1.3 million in
1995, increased by only 9 percent in 1996 to PLN 1.4 million, largely as a result of a 34 percent increase
in operating expenses. On an after tax basis, because of a changes in the income tax law, net income in
1995 increased only from PLN 318 thousand to PLN 398 thousand (27 percent). After tax net income
increased by 30 percent in 1996, to PLN 515 thousand. Net pre-tax income as a percent of gross income
was 5.6 percent in 1994 and 10.5 percent in 1996, an indication of improving operational efficiency as
well as a reflection of increased volume. BISE's "problem" is an unacceptably low return on equity
(ROE was 1.4 percent on average capital employed in 1995 and 1996), a function of its overcapitalized
condition and relatively low profitability (its overall return, e.g., on assets, is more satisfactory). This low
return was further compounded in 1996 by the increase in the bank's share capital from PLN 30.5 million
to PLN 40.9 million resulting from the purchase of new shares of the Polish Industrial Development



68                                    ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 6
Agency and of the Credit Industriel d'Alsace et de Lorraine. Management recognizes the ROE problem
and is continuing its efforts to increase profitability and "grow" the balance sheet.
5.     Asset Quality. BISE's gross loan portfolio increased from PLN 49 million at December 31,
1995, to PLN 68.9 million at December 31, 1996, an increase of 41 percent. Commercial loans
constituted 59 percent of the portfolio in 1995 and 63 percent in 1996, while housing loans were 17
percent and 9 percent respectively.  "Irregular" loans have been reduced from  15.4 percent of the
portfolio in 1994 to 10 percent in 1995 and 8 percent in 1996, a substantial improvement, but still rather
high, given the small business nature of much of BISE's loan portfolio. The improvement came about as
a result of a reduction in problem loans and an increase in the total portfolio. Management believes
BISE's asset quality compares favorably with other Polish banks; however, it continues to institute steps to
reduce problem loans still further and is satisfied that the quality of new loans is improving.
6.     Capital Adequacy. BISE continues to be overcapitalized. Total equity at December 31, 1996
was PLN 44 million (40 percent of total liabilities and 37 percent of non-weighted risk assets), marginally
less conservative than the comparable ratios for the previous year (48 percent and 40 percent,
respectively). The auditor (Price Waterhouse) did not calculate BISE's risk-weighted capital adequacy
ratio, but had it done so, the ratio would very substantially exceed the NBP's 8 percent minimum.
7.     Liquidity. There were some changes in the maturity profile of BISE's loan portfolio in 1996,
with 42 percent of its loans maturing in up to one year, 31 percent in 1-5 years, and 27 percent in over 5
years, compared to 40 percent, 43 percent and 17 percent, respectively, in 1995.  This moderate
lengthening of risk asset maturities was more than offset by a significant lengthening of maturities in
funding provided by financial institutions--over 62 percent of funding resources matured in over 5 years
and only 5 percent in less than one year. In addition, about 91 percent of the bank's deposits matured in
less than one year. Thus, in contrast to what is more common with other Polish banks, BISE is not
"borrowing short and lending long." The above relationships, together with the bank's strong capital
position, obviate any need for concern for BISE's liquidity condition.
8.     Conclusions. BISE has:
*      a clear strategy for cautious growth including more active involvement in
municipal financing;
*      a strong capital position and attendant capacity for growth;
*      a modest and declining amount of irregular (i.e., problem) loans;
*      a conservative, committed, and competent management;
*      strong and supportive foreign shareholders; and
*      experience in municipal finance.



69
Page 3 of 6
B. POWSZECHNY BANK KREDYTOWY SA w WARSZAWIE (PBK)
9.    Background. PBK is one of nine regional banks spun off from the National Bank of Poland
(NBP) in 1989. It is currently 100 percent state-owned and is scheduled to be privatized in the next three-
six months, with about 65 percent being sold through private placement, 15 percent distributed to
employees, 15 percent sold through the stock exchange and 5 percent retained by the Government to settle
restitution claims. At the end of 1996, PBK owned 21.5 percent of Kredyt Bank (KB), an important
private Polish bank. KB intends to acquire a small stake in PBK when the latter is privatized. In June
1995 PBK acquired a 50 percent interest in Gornoslaski Bank Gospodarczy (GBG) as a means of
expanding into the Silesia region. At a cost of $5.7 million, GBG was one of the largest bank acquisitions
in Poland. A 33 percent interest in the Polish Development Bank was acquired in October 1996 through a
PLN 8 million increase in the bank's share capital. After a period of management instability, the present
Chief Executive Officer was appointed in October 1995. The present management is seen as more
progressive than its predecessors. The bank extensively restructured its Head Office organization early
1996.
10.   Present Status. PBK inherited 37 branches from NBP, and its present network of 47 branches
represents a strong presence in Warsaw, as well as in the northeast and south. PBK has been relatively
slow to open new branches, but is seeking to expand its branch network further in the country's higher
growth areas. PBK's ability to provide full service to its nationwide customers has been restricted because
its branch system is not connected on-line. Management expects to remedy this deficiency within two
years (an integrated information technology system is being implemented). PBK's goal is to become a
broadly based commercial bank providing a wide range of banking and financial services to companies
and individuals. However, 55 percent of PBK's loans continue to be to state enterprises, with a significant
portion in the heavy industry and coal mining sectors, a legacy of the 1989 NBP spin-off. The bank's
municipal lending has been modest, presently constituting less than 2 percent of loan assets. PBK
received extensive training and advisory assistance under the Financial Institutions Development Loan
(Loan 3341) through a twinning agreement with San Paolo Bank (Turin), which expired at end-1994.
11.   Financial Condition. PBK's performance and strength have continued to improve since 1994.
PBK's total assets increased by 25 percent by end 1996, to PLN 9,244 million (cash/due from banks,
including NBP: PLN 2,173 million; net loans PLN 3,284 million; bonds and treasury bills PLN 3,023
million), compared to an increase of 29 percent by the end of 1995. Total liabilities were PLN 8,224
million (deposits PLN 4,770 million); and total capital was PLN 988 million. Over the same period, total
equity increased by 49 percent, primarily as a result of net earnings retained from 1996 operating results
and from the in-kind capital contribution by the State Treasury of Polish Development Bank shares. For
the year ending December 31, 1996, PBK's net profit was PLN 223.8 million, a return on equity of 27.1
percent, compared to 19.5 percent for 1995 (inflation was 18.5 percent).
12.   Loan Portfolio. PBK's loan portfolio increased by 52 percent (to PLN 3,283 million) over the
year, with the ratio of loans to deposits increasing from 48 percent in 1995 to 54 percent in 1996.
Although 55 percent of the bank's lending continues to be to the state-owned sector, the number of
borrowers has increased by 30 percent, with 42 borrowers constituting 58 percent of total loans, with
good implications for risk diversification. All irregular loans are fully provisioned according to NBP
requirements. The "irregular" portion of the bank's loan portfolio continues its improving trend, from 32
percent in 1994, to 26 percent in 1995 and 16 percent in 1996, confirming the bank's reputation for
diligence in problem loan workouts.



70
70                          ~~~~~~ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 6
13.    Capital Adequacy. Although the auditors do not provide a calculation of PBK's capital adequacy
ratio on a risk-weighted basis, a simplified calculation shows that total equity and non-equity reserves
constituted 14 percent of total liabilities at end-1996. This represents a continued strengthening over
previous years and a calculation on a risk-weighted basis should result in a significantly higher percentage,
well above NBP's 8 percent minimum requirement. In 1993 the bank's capital position was strengthened
through receipt of US$91 million in Restructuring Bonds from the Polish government.
14.    Liquidity. Although PBK still has an asset/liability mismatch (a common characteristic of banks
in Poland) it did improve its liquidity in 1996 by shortening the maturity profile of both its loans and
deposits. At end-1996, about 98 percent of deposits had maturities of up to one year. In contrast, 47
percent of the loan portfolio matured within one year, 27 percent matured within 5 years and 26 percent
had maturities of over 5 years (down from 41 percent in 1995). The continued evolution toward a full
market economy and the demands for capital associated with this evolution produce strong pressures to
provide term financing. The money market is currently, however, unwilling, or unable, to invest long
term and, by "borrowing short" and "lending long," Polish banks are intermediating between the need of
capital users for long-term finance and the desire of capital providers to invest only short term. Such a
policy is potentially problematic for all banks. To some extent, PBK partially mitigates these concerns by
its strong capital adequacy.  Participation in the MFP will also help in diversifying its risk asset
concentration and extending the maturity of its liabilities.
15.    Operating Results.  PBK's operating income mix changed in 1996, and its after tax profit
improved substantially from PLN 121 million in 1995 to PLN 224 million in 1996.1 However, gross
interest income increased only from PLN 1,174 million in 1995 to PLN 1,218 million (3.7 percent) in
1996. At the same time, interest expense declined by 10.5 percent. This, together with a 38 percent
increase in fee and conmmission income, produced a 29 percent increase in net banking income (PLN 669
million) in 1996. PBK's operating expenses, which increased substantially in 1995, increased by a further
25 percent in 1996, mostly because of a 27 percent increase in personnel expenses. Management is aware
that its excessive staff and attendant payroll expenses are a drag on the bank's profitability and recently
has recently completed (by major management consultant firm) a thorough analysis of the bank's
operations. In spite of the rise in the above expenses, the bank's operating efficiency improved slightly in
1996, with expenses being 34.7 percent of banking income, compared to 35.9 percent in 1995.
16.    Conclusions. PBK appears to have overcome its earlier period of management instability and
organizational change. A large proportion of its risk assets continue to be invested in the state-owned,
heavy industry sector. Although its internal electronic information systems are presently underdeveloped,
they are in the process of being brought up to international standards. It has only modest experience in
municipal lending, but plans to staff up to handle the MFP project. The bank has the following additional
strengths:
*      present management is considered progressive and committed to change;
*      the bank's capital position is more than adequate;
*      problem loans are fully provisioned, workouts are actively pursued and the share of bad
loans is declining;
*      privatization is scheduled to occur in the coming three-six months; and
*      geographic representation is wide through an expanding branch network.
*      The 1995 results reflected new statutory provisions for deferred income tax, with PLN 114 million of the 1995
income tax of PLN 133 million being for deferred taxes.)



71
Page 5 of 6
BISE SA
BALANCE SHEET (at December 31)
(PLN in thousands)
196      1995    1994                                 1996      1995      1994
Assets                                                      Liabilities
Cash & due from banks       25,752    10,848   5,117     Deposit -current         33,964     22,270    11,572
Due from NBP                 7,098    9,091   2,328            -term              29,751     22,904    13,628
Securities                  19,825    12,197  19,283     Total deposits           63,714     45,174    25,200
Loans (gross)               68,871    48,967  30,002     Due to banks             32,738     11,940    6,551
Other liabilities**      15,125     13,057    8,481
Total liabilities       111,578    70,171    40,232
Shareholdings                6,549     1,332   1,045     Equity
Fixed assets (net of deprec)    25,756    17,376   3,114   -Share capital         40,855     30,491    21,874
Other assets*                1,145    3,209   3,780        -Retained earnings       515        398       318
Intangibles                   597       546      76        -Reserves               2,644      2,506    2,321
Total equity            44,014     33,395    24,513
Total Assets                 5,               L,         Total Liab. & Equity    164,74
* Accrued interest income, other debtors, etc.
** Deferred interest income, accrued interest on deposits, etc.
PROFIT & LOSS ACCOUNT for the year ending December 31
(PLN in thousands)
1996            1995              1994
Gross interest income                           14,611           11,492             6,677
Less - (Interest expense)                      (6,144)          (3865)            (1921)
Net Interest Income                              8,467            7,627             4,756
Fee & commission income                          3,674            2,557             1,440
Net foreign exchange gains                         982              865              480
Other banking income                                89            (201)
Profit on banking activity                      13,212           10,849             6,676
Other income                                   21901               377               395
Total Income                                    16,113           11,226             7,071
Less      - (Personnel expenses)                (5,299)          (4,106)          (2,235)
- (General expenses)                 (6,834)          (4,940)          (3,380)
- (Depreciation & amortization)      (1,397)           (879)             (406)
Net provisions                                 (1.233)             (77)             (674)
Net Income from Operations                       1,350            1,224              655
Other income & expenses (net)                       34              42
Net Income before Income Tax                     1,384            1,266              376
Less - (Income tax)                              (869)            A86(58
Net Income                                                                            X



72                                              ANNEX6
Page 6 of 6
PBK
BALANCE SHEET (at December 31)
(PLN in thousands)
1996       1995        1994                           1996      1995      1994
Assets                                                          Liabilities
Cash & due from banks    1,123,190    757,024   1,289,318   Deposits -current    2,034,036  1,591,728   1,774,906
Due from NBP             1,034,116   1,025,781   478,707           -term       2,735,820  2,411,981   1,834,028
Loans (gross)           3,573,563   2,504,356   2,072,279   Total deposits     4,769,856  4,003,709   3,608,934
Less: (loss provision)   (289,835)   (337,918)   (363,511)   Due to banks       537,769    292,698     270,874
Loans - net             3,283,728   2,166,438   1,708,769   Due to NBP          430,731    451,105     404,740
Securities               3,042,689   2,821,103   1,662,443    Due to State Budget  1,261,840    698,291
Shareholdings              16,165       9,287      10,546   Other liabilities**    1,255,717  1,251.423  842,534
Subsidiaries & affiliates  162,697     23,896               Total liabilities  8,224,048  6,697,228   5,127,083
Fixed assets (net)        242,086     215,056     180,695   Equity
Intangibles                12,700      10,600      5,275    -Share capital       265,468    139,445    396,2718
Other assets*             326.169     336.610    364.337    -Retained earnings    223,783    121,071   153,383
-Reserves         498.377    408.052      23.353
Total equity        987,628    668,567     573,007
Total Liabilities
Total Assets             _29L                                  & Equity        9.24-3-54   7-365-    5.2002089
* Accrued interest income, other debtors, etc.
** Special funds, accruals and deferred income, income tax reserves
PROFIT & LOSS ACCOUNT for the year ending December 31
(PLN in thousands)
1996            1995              1994
Gross interest income                        1,218,281       1,174,330          838,843
Less - (Interest expense)                    (665,383)        (757,146)        (463,545)
Net Interest Income                           552,898          417,184          375,298
Net Fee & commission income                    87,446           63,373           61,819
Other income, include. foreign exchange*       28.668           41,670           47.239
Total Banking Income                          669,012          521,227          484,356
Less - (Other operating expense)             (100,195)         (89,495)         (73,893)
- (Personnel expenses)                   (144,073)       (112,597)          (75,211)
- (Depreciation & amortization)           (35,710)        (27,520)          (14,726)
Net provisions                                (2Q.700          (37.169)         (84.200)
Net Income from Operations                    368,334          254,446          236,326
Extraordinary gain                                 2                2               106
Net Income before Income Tax                  368,360          254,448          236,432
Less - (Income tax)                          (144,577)        (133,378)         (83,049)
Net Income                                     2               12L071             3383
* Includes income from shares/securities, profit/loss from sale of securities, tax refunds, etc.



73
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 1
POLAND - MUNICIPAL FINANCE PROJECT
LIST OF SELECTED DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
1.        Report on Initial Selection of Municipal Projects for Feasibility Studies (J. Pigey)
Part 1 (April 1995):  including Krakow (Urban Transport); Kutno (Solid Waste); Opole
(Water/Wastewater); Pulawy (Solid Waste)
Part 2 (August 1995): including Limanowa (Water/Wastewater); Sulejowek (Water/
Wastewater); Raciechowice
Part 3 (February 1996):Dabrowa Gornicza (Water/Wastewater); Michalowice
(Wastewater); Radom (WatertWastewater)
2.        Generic Terms of Reference for Feasibility Studies for Municipal Infrastructure Projects
-     Water and Wastewater
Solid Waste
Urban Transport/Transport Management
3.        Eligibility Guidelines from NFOS for financing of Projects and NFOS letter of intent to
participate in MDP financing.
4.        Report on possible collateral arrangements (under preparation)
5.        List of MDA Tasks.
6.        Questionnaires filled out by banks as part of project appraisal.
7.        Annual Reports for 1994, 1995 and 1996 for BISE
8.        Auditors Report of 1995 and 1996 Statements for BISE
9.        Annual Reports for 1994, 1995 and 1996 for PBK
10.       Auditors Report for 1995 and 1996 for PBK
11.       Sample semi-annual reporting format















IMAGING
Report No.-       1607B  POL
Type.     SAR



