Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4209-0 POL 
            4209-1 POL
Loan Agreement
(Municipal Finance Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
POWSZECHNY BANK KREDYTOWY SA W WARSZAWIE
Dated September 5, 1997
LOAN NUMBER 4209-0 POL 
            4209-1 POL
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 5, 1997, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and POWSZECHNY BANK KREDYTOWY SA W WARSZAWIE 
(the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) REPUBLIC OF POLAND (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having been 
satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of the Loan; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loan” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, (the General 
Conditions), with the modifications set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Deutsche Mark Tranche” means the amount of the Loan denominated in 
Deutsche Mark according to Section 2.01 (b) of the Agreement;
(b)
“Deutsche Mark” and “DEM” each means the lawful currency of the Federal 
Republic of Germany;
(c)
“Dollar Tranche” means the amount of the Loan denominated in United 
States Dollars according to Section 2.01 (a) of this Agreement;
(d)
“Free-limit Subloan” means a Subloan, as so defined, which qualifies as a 
free-limit Subloan pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 4 (b) of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement;
(e)
“Investment Project” means a specific development project to be carried 
out by a Sub-borrower utilizing the proceeds of a Subloan;
(f)
“Project Coordinator” means the official designated by the Borrower to 
assume the responsibilities set forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement towards the 
implementation of the Project;
(g)
“Special Accounts” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (c) of 
this Agreement and “Dollar Special Account” and “DEM Special Account” mean the Special 
Account in Dollar and the Special Account in DEM, respectively, referred to in said 
section;
(h)
“Statutes” means the Statutes of the Borrower as amended to the date of 
this Agreement;
(i)
“Subloan” means a loan made or proposed to be made by the Borrower out of 
the proceeds of the Loan to a Sub-borrower for an Investment Project; and
(j)
“Sub-borrower” means a municipality or an entity or a person operating a 
municipal service to which the Borrower proposes to make or has made a Subloan.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement:  (a) an amount equal to 
eight million Dollars ($8,000,000) (the Dollar Tranche), and (b) an amount equal to 
twelve million Deutsche Mark (DEM 12,000,000) (the Deutsche Mark Tranche).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
for amounts paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on 
account of withdrawals made by a Sub-borrower under a Subloan to meet the cost of 
goods and services required for the Investment Project in respect of which the 
withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested.
(b)
No withdrawals shall be made in respect of a Subloan unless the Subloan 
has been made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain on 
its books, under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate 
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment two special deposit accounts: (i) 
the first in Dollars (the Dollar Special Account) in respect of amounts withdrawn from 
Page  3
the Dollar Tranche of the Loan; and (ii) the second in Deutsche Mark (the DEM Special 
Account) in respect of amounts withdrawn from the Deutsche Mark Tranche of the Loan.  
Deposits into, and payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(d)
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditures for expenditures for goods, works, and services 
under Subloans costing not more than $2,500,000 equivalent, under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and 
including the date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the 
first Interest Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after 
the 
initial period, each period from and including an 
Interest Payment 
Date to, but excluding the next following 
Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.06 of this Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
Dollars or DEM for value the first day of such Interest 
Period (or, 
in the case of the initial Interest Period, for 
value the Interest 
Payment Date occurring on or next 
preceding the first day of 
such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, 
below (or above) the 
London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect 
of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof 
allocated by the Bank to fund single currency loans 
or 
portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Guarantor and Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and 
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable May 15 and November 15 
in each year.
Page  4
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project; 
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project and conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with sound 
financial standards and practices, with qualified management and personnel, and in 
accordance with the Statutes.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 7 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, Subloans will be made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights in relation to each Investment 
Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower; 
(ii) comply with its obligations under this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the purposes 
of the Project.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the carrying out of the Investment 
Projects and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and the Borrower, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain procedures and records adequate to 
monitor and record the progress of the Project and of each Investment Project 
(including its cost and a projection of the benefits to be derived from it) and to 
reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices the 
operations and financial condition of the Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records referred to in Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, its accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) 
and records and accounts for the Special 
Account for each 
fiscal year audited in accordance with 
sound auditing principles 
consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank, as soon as available but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such 
year, 
(A) certified copies of said financial statements for 
such year as 
Page  5
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements and the audit 
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(b) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain, in accordance with Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all records 
(contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate 
opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure its 
continued compliance with the requirements of the National Bank of Poland with respect 
to capital adequacy, loan provisioning and exchange risk management.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the Statutes shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and 
adversely the operations or the financial condition of the Borrower or its ability to 
carry out the Project or to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The President of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
Page  6
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Borrower:
Powszechny Bank Kredytowy SA w Warszawie
ul. Nowy Swiat 6/12
00-400 Warszawa
Republic of Poland
Facsimile:
661 71 75
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Warsaw, Republic of Poland, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Basil G. Kavalsky 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Europe and Central Asia
POWSZECHNY BANK KREDYTOWY SA W WARSZAWIE
By /s/ Andrzej Podsiadlo 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to promote the development of a credit market 
for municipal investments through providing long-term financial resources to 
commercial banks for municipal lending and assisting such banks in establishing 
procedures for the identification and appraisal of municipal investment projects.
The Project consists of the provision of Subloans to eligible Sub-borrowers for 
financing Investment Projects in the areas of water supply, waste water, solid waste, 
school buildings, street lighting, urban transport, road improvements and such other 
areas of municipal services as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2001.
Page  7
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Deutsche
Mark     
Date Payment Due
Dollars Tranche*
Tranche*
November 15, 2002
335,000
500,000 
May 15, 2003
335,000
500,000 
November 15, 2003
335,000
500,000 
May 15, 2004
335,000
500,000 
November 15, 2004
335,000
500,000 
May 15, 2005
335,000
500,000 
November 15, 2005
335,000
500,000 
May 15, 2006
335,000
500,000 
November 15, 2006
335,000
500,000 
May 15, 2007
335,000
500,000 
November 15, 2007
335,000
500,000 
May 15, 2008
335,000
500,000 
November 15, 2008
335,000
500,000 
May 15, 2009
335,000
500,000 
November 15, 2009
335,000
500,000 
May 15, 2010
335,000
500,000 
November 15, 2010
335,000
500,000 
May 15, 2011
335,000
500,000 
November 15, 2011
335,000
500,000 
May 15, 2012
335,000
500,000 
November 15, 2012
335,000
500,000 
May 15, 2013
335,000
500,000 
November 15, 2013
335,000
500,000 
May 15, 2014
295,000
500,000
______________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in each currency to be 
repaid, except as provided in section 4.04 (d) of the General 
Conditions.
SCHEDULE 3
Modifications of General Conditions
For the purposes of this Agreement, Section 6.03 of the General Conditions is 
modified to read as follows:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right of 
the 
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been 
suspended 
with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period 
of thirty days, or 
(b) at any time, the Bank determines, after 
consultation with the Borrower, 
that an amount of the Loan will not be 
required to finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank 
determines, with 
respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan,  that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives 
of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement 
or the execution of 
such contract, without the Borrower having taken 
timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been eligible for 
financing out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the 
Bank determines that the procurement of any contract to be financed out 
of the 
proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the procedures set 
forth or referred to 
in the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of such 
contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (e) after the 
Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall 
remain unwithdrawn from the 
Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have received 
notice from the 
Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to an amount 
of the 
Loan, or (g) by the date specified in paragraph 8 (c) of Schedule 4 to 
the Loan Agreement, the Bank shall, in respect of any portion of the 
Loan: (i) 
Page  8
have received no applications or requests under subparagraphs 
(a) or (b) of said 
paragraph 3; or (ii) have denied any such 
applications or requests, the 
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and 
the Guarantor, terminate the right of 
the Borrower to submit such 
applications or requests or to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account, 
as the case may be, with respect to such 
amount or portion of the Loan. 
Upon the giving of such notice, such amount or 
portion of the Loan shall 
be cancelled.”
SCHEDULE 4
Procedures for and Terms and Conditions of Subloans
1.
To qualify a municipality or a municipally or privately owned entity or a person 
as a Sub-borrower eligible for the receipt of a Subloan under the project, the 
Borrower shall require that such municipality or entity or a person: (a) be 
creditworthy based on an analysis, undertaken in accordance with principles 
satisfactory to the Bank, of its financial situation; (b) utilize the proceeds of the 
Subloan in the carrying out of an Investment Project determined by the Borrower (in 
accordance with appraisal principles satisfactory to the Bank) to be technically, 
financially and environmentally feasible; and (c) carry out such Investment Project in 
any of the areas referred to in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
2.
Subloans shall each: (a) be denominated at the option of the Sub-borrower in 
foreign or local currency; (b) mature over a period of between 5 and 15 years, 
including a suitable period of grace not exceeding 3 years; and (c) carry interest at 
a rate ensuring: (i) an appropriate margin for the Borrower over the interest rate 
payable by it on the Loan in accordance with Section 2.05 of this Agreement; and (ii) 
with respect to Subloans denominated in local currency, a premium to cover the foreign 
exchange risk assumed by the Borrower in connection therewith.
3.
Unless the Bank and the Borrower  may otherwise agree: 
(a)
a Subloan or Subloans provided for the carrying out of a single 
Investment Project shall not exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of: (i) 
$14,000,000; or (ii) 75% of the investment cost of the Investment Project; whichever 
is less; and
(b)
no Subloan shall be provided in an amount of less than the equivalent of 
$250,000.
4.
No expenditures for goods or services required for an Investment Project shall 
be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless:
(a)
the Subloan for such Investment Project shall have been approved by the 
Bank and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier than one hundred eighty 
days (180) prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received the application and 
information required under paragraph 5 (a) of this Schedule in respect of such 
Subloan; or
(b)
the Subloan for such Investment Project shall have been a free-limit 
Subloan for which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan Account and such 
expenditures shall have been made not earlier than one hundred and eighty (180) days 
prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received the request and information 
required under paragraph 5 (b) of this Schedule in respect of such free-limit Subloan. 
For the purposes of this Agreement, a free-limit Subloan shall be a Subloan (other 
than the first Subloan approved under the Project) for an Investment Project in an 
amount to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan which shall not exceed the sum 
of $2,500,000 equivalent, when added to any other outstanding amounts utilized out of 
the proceeds of the Loan for financing goods and services directly and materially 
related to such Investment Project.
5.
(a)
When presenting a Subloan (other than a free-limit Subloan) to the Bank 
for approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form 
satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) a description of the Sub-borrower and an 
appraisal of the Investment Project, including a description of the expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; (ii) the proposed terms and 
conditions of the Subloan, including the schedule of amortization of the Subloan; and 
Page  9
(iii) such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(b)
Each request by the Borrower for authorization to make withdrawals from 
the Loan Account in respect of a free-limit Subloan shall contain: (i) a summary 
description of the Sub-borrower and the Investment Project, including a description of 
the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; and (ii) the 
terms and conditions of the Subloan, including the schedule of amortization therefor.
(c)
Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, applications and requests made 
pursuant to the provisions of subparagraphs (a) and (b) of this paragraph shall be 
presented to the Bank on or before December 31, 2000.
6.
Subloans shall be made on terms whereby the Borrower shall obtain, by written 
contract with the Sub-borrower or by other appropriate legal means, rights adequate to 
protect the interests of the Bank and the Borrower, including the right to:
(a)
require the Sub-borrower to carry out and operate the Investment Project 
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial, 
managerial and environmental standards and practices, and to maintain adequate 
records;
(b)
require that: (i) the goods, works and consultants’ services to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured, in accordance with the 
procedures set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods and services 
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Investment Project;
(c)
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Bank if the 
Bank shall so request, such goods and the sites, works, plants and construction 
included in the Investment Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records 
and documents;
(d)
require that: (i) the Sub-borrower shall take out and maintain with 
insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be 
consistent with Polish regulations; and (ii) without any limitation upon the 
foregoing, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the 
place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to be made payable in a 
currency freely usable by the Sub-borrower to replace or repair such goods;
(e)
obtain all such information as the Bank or the Borrower shall reasonably 
request relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial 
condition of the Sub-borrower and to the benefits to be derived from the Investment 
Project; and
(f)
suspend or terminate the right of the Sub-borrower to the use of the 
proceeds of the Loan upon failure by such Sub-borrower to perform its obligations 
under its contract with the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 5
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Items of works estimated to cost per contract the equivalent of $5,000,000 or 
more, and item of goods estimated to cost per contract the equivalent of $400,000 or 
more shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Section II to the Guidelines for procurement under IBRD Loan and IDA Credit published 
Page  10
by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines).
2.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Guarantor.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Goods, which the Bank agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of 
suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
Items of works estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 equivalent per contract, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
3.
International or National Shopping
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $400,000 equivalent per contract, may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000 per contact 
may be procured under contract awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of the Guidelines referred to in the above paragraph 
(a).
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent or less per contract, may be 
procured under lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation.  The invitation shall include a detailed description of the work, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has 
the experience and resources to successfully complete the contract.
Part D:  Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract to be procured in accordance with the 
procedures referred to in Part B and Part C.1 of this Section; and (b) the first 
contract for works to be awarded according to the provisions of paragraph C 2 of this 
Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
2.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 above, the procedures 
set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the “Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency” published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
Page  11
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the carrying out of Investment 
Projects and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; provided, however, that 
notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 5 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, 
payments for expenditures to be financed out of the proceeds of free-limit Subloans 
may be made out of the Special Account before the Bank shall have authorized 
withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect thereof. Such expenditures, however, 
shall qualify as eligible expenditures only if the Bank shall subsequently authorize 
such withdrawals; and
(b)
the term “Authorized Allocations” means: (i) the amount of $1,200,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Dollar Tranche in Loan Account and deposited into the Dollar 
Special Account; and (ii) the amount of DEM 2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the 
Deutsche Mark Tranche in the Loan Account and deposited into the DEM Special Account, 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount 
$600,000 and the amount of DEM 1,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals 
from the Dollar Tranche and the Deutsche Mark Tranche, respectively, plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of 
$1,800,000 with respect to the Dollar Tranche and DEM 3,000,000 with respect to the 
Deutsche Mark Tranche.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that a Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocations, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Dollar or the DEM Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation for said Special Account. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the relevant Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Dollar or the DEM Special Account, 
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for 
deposits into such Special Account at such intervals as the 
Bank 
shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the 
payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
Page  12
withdraw from the Loan 
Account and deposit into the Dollar or the DEM 
Special 
Account, as the case may be, such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
relevant 
Special Account for eligible expenditures. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Dollar or the DEM Special 
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was 
made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into Special Accounts:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.02 (a) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of 
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 
of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocations. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Accounts as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Dollar or the DEM Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit 
into the relevant Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Bank into the Special Accounts shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Dollar or the DEM Special Account will not be required to cover further 
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 7
Implementation Program
Page  13
1.
The Borrower shall assign to the Project Coordinator the general responsibility 
for: (i) appraisal of Investment Projects; (ii) financial management of the Subloans; 
(iii) maintenance of Project accounts and arranging for the audit thereof; (iv) 
preparation and presentation to the Bank of documentation required for withdrawal of 
the proceeds of the Loan; (v) supervision of implementation of the Investment 
Projects; and (vi) preparation and furnishing to the Bank of semiannual reports on the 
status of such implementation.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare and furnish to the Bank, on or about July 31, 1999, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant 
to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by November 30, 1999, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank views on the matter.
