Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22220 UA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$24.25 MILLION
TO
UKRAINE
FOR A
LVIV WATER AND WASTEWATER PROJECT
MAY 9, 2001
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Ukraine and Belarus Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 2001)
Currency Unit = Grivna (UAH)
UAH 1.00 = US$0.184
US$1.00 = UAH 5.43
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIS           =      Commonwealth of Independent States
CSE           =      Construction Supervision Engineer
DEPA          =      Danish Environmental Protection Agency
EMP                  Environmental Management Plan
GoU                  Government of Ukraine
IAS                  International Accounting Standards
LCG                  Lviv City Government
LVK           =      Lviv Vodokanal (Lviv Water and Wastewater Company)
MOF           =      Ministry of Finance
MOIA          =      Management and Operations Improvement Advisor
OED           =      Operations Evaluation Department (of the World Bank)
PA            =      Performance Agreement (between LCG and LVK)
PFA           =      Project Fund Account
PIU           =      Project Implementation Unit
PSF           =      Project Security Fund
PSP                  Private Sector Participation
QAG           =      Quality Assurance Group (of the World Bank)
RSA           =      Rapid Social Assessment
SA            =      Special Account
SCCHA        =       State Committee for Construction, Housing and Architecture
SIDA         =       Swedish International Development Agency
SLA          =       Subsidiary Loan Agreement (between LCG and LVK)
SOE          =       Statement of Expenditure
TA            =      Technical Assistance
TOR           =      Terms of Reference
UAH           =      Ukraine currency (Grivna)
USAID         =      United States Agency for International Development
VAT           =      Value Added Tax
WWTP          =      Wastewater Treatment Plant
Vice President:   Johannes Linn, ECA
Country Director:    Luca Barbone, ECC I I
Sector Director:    Ricardo Halperin, ECSIN
Task Team Leader:    Kishore Nadkami, ECSIN



UKRAINE
LVIV WATER AND WASTEWATER PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Key performance indicators                                                         2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                         3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 5
C. Project Description Summnary
1. Project components                                                                 6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      8
3. Benefits and target population                                                     8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      9
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                         11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies        13
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                          14
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                  14
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       15
E. Surnmary Project Analysis
I. Economic                                                                          16
2. Financial                                                                         17
3. Technical                                                                         22
4. Institutional                                                                     23
5. Environmental                                                                     24
6. Social                                                                            26
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                29
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                    29
2. Critical risks                                                                    30
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                    33



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             33
2. Other(Dated Covenants)                                                              33
H. Readiness for Implementation
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                          35
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           36
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                     41
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          52
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                    54
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities                           66
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                        74
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      87
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    88
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                   89
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             91
Annex 11: Financial Management Arrangements                                               93
Annex 12: Environmental Management Plan                                                   97
Annex 13: Social Assessment                                                              106
MAP(S)
IBRD No. 31000



UKRAINE
LVIV WATER AND WASTEWATER PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSIN
Date: May 9, 2001                                  Team Leader: Kishore Nadkami
Country Manager/Director: Luca Barbone             Sector Director: Ricardo A. Halperin
Project ID: P035786                                Sector(s): VP - Pollution Control / Waste Management,
WS - Sewerage, WU - Urban Water Supply
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
ProgramFinancing Dat
[X] Loan     [ Credit      [ I Grant    [ Guarantee       J] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 24.25 million
Proposed Terms {IBRD): Variable Spread & Rate Single Currency Loan (VSCL)
Grace period (years): 5                            Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75% of undisbursed balance,      Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
beginning 60 days after signing, less any waiver
'Financing Plan-    Source                             .... .-..Foreigne
BORROWER                                                        10.55           0.00          10.55
IBRD                                                             0.00          24.25          24.25
SWEDISH INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT                                0.00           6.00           6.00
COOPERATION AGENCY (SIDA)
Total:                                                          10.55          30.25          40.80
Borrower: UKRAINE
Responsible agency: LVIV VODOKANAL (LVIV WATER AND WASTEWATER COMPANY)
Contact Person. Mr. Lev Hipp, Deputy Director, Reconstruction and Development
Tel: 380 322 756 291                Fax: 380 322 783 179                Email: hippgorg.lviv.net
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$M):
, .7..,  m2002      2003   E  200        200    *-200
Annual    2.35        6.51        7.89       5.35      2.15
Cumulative    2.35        8.86      16.75      22.10      24.25
Project implementation period: 11/01/2001 to 06/30/2006
Expected effectiveness date: 10/31/2001  Expected closing date:  12/31/2006
C PAD re,. Re, M...l 20



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex l)
The prime objective of the project is to improve accessibility and quality of the water supply and
wastewater services at an affordable level in Lviv, and restore public confidence in the sector. T( enable
the achievement of this objective, it is necessary for the Lviv Vodokanal (LVK or the Lviv W:-ter and
Wastewater Company) to become a more independent, better managed and financially viable utii.ity that
can provide cost-effective services at affordable prices. The project aims to (i) improve the effici :ncy of
LVK's technical, commercial and financial operations through a management and operations improvement
advisory services contract; and (ii) enhance LVK's financial capacity through reducing operatingY costs,
better justified investment selection, progressive full-cost recovery policies, and effective consumer-o)riented
commercial practices.
If the project is successful, it could have an important demonstration effect on providing ! model
for reforms in other Ukrainian cities which would help to stem the continued deterioration of the water and
wastewater services in these cities.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Amnex 1)
Achievement of the project's objectives will be monitored by the use of performance in.:.icators
covering efficiency - institutional, operational, and financial - and social impact aspects. These indicators
will be inclhded in a Performance Agreement (PA) between L VK and the Lviv City Government ' CG/.
The draft PA prepared by Lviv City and L VK was reviewed at negotiations and understanding-v were
reached in regard to changes to be made in the final version. Signing of the PA, acceptable to the Bank,
is a condition of Effectiveness of the Bank loan. Because the baseline information on LVK's operalions is
not entirely reliable, the indicators may need to be adjusted after the first year of project implemer tation,
with the advice of the Management and Operations Improvement Advisor (MOIA) to be engaged by _VK.
B. Strategic Context
i. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Anne, I)
Document number: 20723-UA             Date of latest CAS discussion: September 12, 2000
The project is included under the CAS in the Bank' s Base Lending program for Ukraine. The
sector-related goal in the CAS for infrastructure (including the water and wastewater sector) is, on a
selective basis, to support areas where technical assistance and/or investment can help achieie the
provision of better, more efficient and financially viable services. Although the current CAS marks a
change in emphasis in the Bank's assistance strategy for Ukraine to operations which more directly s Jpport
(a) civil society's demand for better government and (b) institutions that foster sustainable developrrnent, it
provides for completion of infrastructure operations at an advanced stage of preparation, including the Lviv
project which has benefited substantially during project preparation from technical assistance provined by
bilateral donors, including USAID, SIDA and DEPA. Key objectives under the predecessor CAS that
remain relevant are (i) promotion of private sector activity; (ii) restructuring the public sector; (iii) en 3uring
the social sustainability of the transition; and (iv) ensuring enviromnental sustainability. The aim of iublic
sector restructuring is to develop local institutions and encourage efficient decentralization of activitios that
are best performed at the local level. The proposed project supports this aim as it stresses local level
responsibility for the water and wastewater sector, and the transformation of a LVK into an autono nous,
commercially oriented, and financially self-reliant utility. The project promotes private sector activ ity as
the proposed contract with the MOIA may be the first step of a deeper private sector engagement in the
- 2 -



sector in the future. The proposed wastewatcr treatment component will contribute to protecting and
improving the water quality in the Bug River, a tributary to the Baltic Sea. The project will contribute to
the social sustainability of the transition by helping to provide better services, and by introducing
consumers and relevant NGOs as important stakeholders. Project design has been reinforced to include
explicitly elements of emphasis under the current CAS - these include increased public participation
through transparent processes, improved financial management and accountability, removal of implicit
subsidies through stricter enforcement of collections, and increasing the efficacy of subsidies through
improved targeting to the poorer segments of Lviv's population.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The water and wastewater sector study, prepared in May 1995 by the Bank in collaboration with the
Ukrainian authorities, provides a still valid assessment of the sector and recommendations for a program
of sector reform. The assessment pointed out that the political and economic transition had a profound
effect on municipal water and wastewater services in Ukraine. Under the administrative pricing regimes
prevalent in the communist era, Vodokanals (municipal water and wastewater companies) relied heavily on
budgetary subsidies and transfers for their operations. Fiscal constraints have severely curtailed the
Government's ability to provide the subsidies which formerly kept these services in operation and in a
reasonably well maintained condition. Constraints on tariff levels, multiple and complex taxes, and a
politically restrained inability to enforce collection of revenues are depriving the Vodokanals of essential
resources needed to continue operation and maintenance of the systems. Consequently, there is a danger
of physical collapse of many water and wastewater systems throughout Ukraine. As inadequate water
treatment has brought an increase in water-related diseases, Ukrainians are increasingly dissatisfied with
the quality of services and worried about the safety of the water supply. If Ukraine's water and
wastewater infrastructure is allowed to continue to deteriorate, public health concerns will rise and the
quality of life within a large segment of the population will fuirther decline.
The sector study points to structural deficiencies in the sector's institutional and policy environment as the
root cause for the present situation, and to the obstacles they pose for improving Vodokanal capacity and
performance. The legacy of the past system of central command and control, along with the then
govemment's subsidy policies, are responsible for introduction of disincentives and distortions, which have
led to inefficient sector management and development. These policies have manifested themselves in:
3           weakly managed Vodokanals, lacking the incentives and tools to turn themselves into more efficient
institutions
*          poorly constructed and maintained water and wastewater systems, many of them now on the brink
of collapse and hampered by serious inefficiencies, including poor plant performance, excessive water
consumption, large network losses and high energy consumption
*           inappropriate and unjustified investment selection policies, emphasizing new capacities at the
expense of potentially more cost-effective investments in system rehabilitation and in efficiency
enhancements
*           low and distorted tariffs, and poor revenue collections, which cannot make up for the loss of the
traditional budget subsidies
*           a tax structure which penalizes the efficient use of financial resources.
- 3 -



The financial problems and inability to raise resources are exacerbated by the erosion of household
incomes which limits the capacity of a large segment of the population to pay significantly higher water and
wastewater tariffs. The sector study proposed the initiation of a comprehensive program of sector reforms,
consisting of four main elements:
*          the transformation of present Vodokanals into independent corporatized utilities regulated by local
governments
*          gradually turning Vodokanals into financially self-sufficient institutions through tariff ref)rm and
better revenue collection
*          adoption of viability-based investment policies by introducing least-cost strategies giving
preference to plant and network rehabilitation, and to operating efficiency enhancements
*          bringing in consumers as principal stakeholders in Vodokanal decision making.
The response by the Government to the Bank's proposals in the sector study has been slow in
evolving. The Governnent has endorsed some of the reform principles, but so far not enough has h:-ppened
to encourage the adoption of new policies and approaches on the local level. The Government sti.l has to
come fully to grips with the need for reforms as an essential element for enabling better VoJokanal
management and operation, and the generation of resources necessary to stop the downward soiral of
worsening services. Most Vodokanals continue to be weakly managed institutions strapped for cash,
neglecting maintenance and unable to undertake urgently needed rehabilitation of plants and networks. In
parallel with the discussion on sector reform in the mid-1990s, the Bank began the preparation of i series
of municipal water and wastewater projects: Lviv and Odessa originally conceived as one loan package;
Mariupol under the Donetzk Environmental Project; and Sevastopol and Yalta, under the Crimea
Environmental Project. Later, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) started
preparing projects as well. In spite of extraordinarily intensive and long project preparation supporl by the
Bank and the intemational donor community, only two cities - Zaphori7ha in the case of the EBRtD and
Lviv in the case of the Bank, have been able to demonstrate readiness for a Bank loan. Lviv, benefiting
from several years of intensive extemal assistance in the municipal area, has presented a reasonable
business and financial plan. The plan demonstrates how LVK could reach a minimum acceptable ] zvel of
financial viability i.e., the generation of financial resources sufficient to meet minimum operati-ig and
maintenance costs, provide counterpart funding for the project, and the debt service of the Bank loan
The approval of the Ukrainian Parliament will be required for the project to proceed.
Parliamentary approval has bcen a stumbling block in the past for several Bank projects, arising from
resistance to some of the proposed conditionalities under the projects. These past cases included a failure
to approve proposed municipal development and transport loans, Recently, however, there hav. been
welcome changes in the treatment of Bank projects by the Government and the Parliament, by wvhich
agreement has been reached to utilize, where possible, more expeditious processes for internal scruti iy and
discussion. These have resulted in striking improvements in the timely approval of recent Bank projects,
including the Kiev Energy Efficiency Improvement project and the Sevastopol Heat Supply Improvement
Project. During visits to Ukraine by the Bank's top and senior management, high-ranking Government
officials as well as Parliamentary representatives provided assurances of their support in faster processing
and approval of Bank projects. While the risk remains in regard to timely and favorable approval of the
Lviv project in Parliament, the recent expericnce with Bank projects marks a substantial improvement in
prospects for a favorable outcome. The Bank's strategy remains to make the Lviv project a test ca.se for
- 4 -



any future involvement in the water and wastewater sector in Ukraine. Only if negotiations of the Lviv
project can be completed successfully, and the Parliament's approval obtained in a timely and satisfactory
fashion, may the Bank consider any further involvement in the country's water and wastewater sector.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Institutional Setup: One of the main project objectives is to turn LVK into a more autonomous and better
managed water utility. Throughout project preparation, institutional issues received much attention. One
option was to transform LVK into a joint stock company, but legal obstacles such as the restriction that
municipal governments cannot own stocks, prevent it at present. Eventually it was agreed that the current
institutional structure of LVK as a unitary municipal enterprise would be maintained. LVK's autonomy
under this setup would be enhanced by a binding Performance Agreement (PA) between LCG as owner and
LVK as operator of the water and wastewater assets. The PA defines their respective rights and
obligations for the duration of the project and contains explicit performance targets. As indicated earlier,
the draft PA prepared by Lviv City and L VK was reviewed at negotiations and understandings were
reached in regard to changes to be included in the final version. Signing of the PA, satisfactory to the
Bank, will be a condition of Effectiveness of the Bank loan.
Institutional Strengthening: Initially during project preparation the LCG and LVK were
agreeable to entering into a management contract with an external, internationally reputed utility operator,
which clearly would have been the best solution for securing fast improvements in LVK's management,
operations and services. This possibility was eventually dropped as it became clear that, in spite of earlier
approval by the municipal government, political and legal obstacles, and opposition within the national
government, would seriously limit the efficacy of a management contract. Instead, there was agreement on
entering into a management and operations improvement advisory services contract with an experienced
international utility operator. The role of the Management and Operations Improvement Advisor (MOIA)
would be to help strengthen LVK's technical, commercial and financial operation by helping LVK to
design and implement (i) a comprehensive program of demand management, leak reduction, network and
plant optimization, and energy conservation; (ii) least-cost and priority investments for the prograns
mentioned; (iii) computer-based operations and financial management system capable of meeting
international standards of accounting and reporting as well as local regulations and requirements; (iv)
implement an improved customer management and commercial operations system including customer
records, billing and collection; (v) a new tariff setting policy; and (vi) a public awareness and participation
campaign, including setting up of advisory groups incorporating NGOs and customer representatives.
The MOIA would provide support to the LVK's Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in project
implementation, including procurement and financial management related aspects. This support will
include the supervision of the independent engineering services to be contracted for preparation of final
designs, procurement documents for the defined investments, and supervision of construction. The
MOIA's endorsement would be required for the Bank to consider approval of any investment proposed to
be made by LVK from the Operating Fund (OF) component of the project. Initially, the Government
questioned the need for any extemal assistance at all, but has now accepted that the present local capacity
will need such support to undertake the efforts needed to meet the project objectives and to make
implementation successful. Signing of the contract between LVK and the MOIA is a condition of
Effectiveness of the Bank loan.
Structure of Investment Program: The loan amount that can be afforded by LVK is far from that
required to finance all its investment needs. Thus, at the outset, all proposed investments have been
allocated exclusively for the execution of programs of system rehabilitation and efficiency improvement,
- 5 -



and of institutional strengthening and capacity building. The investment program includes ar. Initial
Defined Investments (IDI) component comprised of high-priority sub-projects selected by LVK wvith the
help of bilaterally funded (US, Denmark) foreign consultants. It also includes an Operating Fund (OF)
earmarked for future investments and expenditures that will be selected jointly by LVK and the \4OLA.
This investrnent selection strategy is designed to keep the risk of poor investment selection to the mi irimum
possible, and to foster cooperation and transfer of know-how between the MOIA and LVK.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . .     . . .. . .   .  . . 
1. Water Supply - Initial Defined  Urban Water         13.20       32.4       9.50      39.2
Investments                         Supply
2. Wastewater                       Pollution Control    11.10     27.2       2.30       9.5
/ Waste
Management
3. Operating Fund                   Other Water         10.60      26.0       8.00      33.0
Supply &
Sanitation
4. Institutional Strengthening     Institutional        2.90        7.1       2.60       10.7
Development
5. Engineering and Construction     Other Water         2.45        6.0       1.35       5.6
Supervision Services                Supply &
Sanitation
6. Auditors' Fees                   Other Finance       0.31        0.8       0,26        1.1
Total Project Costs                   40.56      99.4      24.01       99.0
Front-end fee                     0.24        0.6      0.24        1.0
Total Financing Required                     40.80     100.0      24.25      100.0
Note: The indicated costs in the above table include taxes and duties (US$8.20 million), estimated at 25
percent of the base cost plus contingencies for the project components.
- 6 -



Component 1: Water Supply - Initial Defined Investments (US$13.20 million)
This component includes four sub-components (i) rehabilitation of pumping stations (US$1.65 million); (ii)
establishment of pressure zones (US$7.45 million); (iii) replacement of pipelines (US$3.45 million); and
(iv) purchase of repair and construction equipment (US$0.65 million). These Initial Defined Investments
(IDI) are needed to make immediate improvements in LVK's operations, resulting in operational cost
savings through reductions in power consumption and in water losses through leakages. The investments
were identified, described, justified, costed and designed by LVK with the help of international consultants.
They will be imnplemented in the first two years of project implementation. This sub-component will be
financed from the Bank loan.
Component 2: Wastewater (US$11.10 million)
This component consists of two sub-components:
*   rehabilitation of pumps at WWTP2 (US$2.80 million) including the replacement of pumping units at
the main pumping station of the wastewater treatment facility. It will be financed from the Bank loan.
*   rehabilitation of WWTP1 and WWTP2 (US$8.30 million) including the rehabilitation of aeration
systems, clarifiers and sludge disposal facilities at WWTP I and WWTP2. It will be financed from the
SIDA grant.
Component3: OperatingFund (OF) (11S10.60million)
This component will finance investments as well as institutional strengthening and other expenditures
identified as necessary to achieve the objectives of the project by LVK with the help of the MOIA. The
latter will help to identify, prepare and justify the items concerned, and endorse them for financing under
the Bank loan. The component consists of two sub-components (i) additional investments in upgrading and
improving the efficiency of LVK's water supply plants and networks (US$8.60 million); and (ii) other
expenditures (US$2.00 million) required for improving LVK's performance including:  hardware and
software for improving LVK's commercial and financial management systems; establishment and operation
of a project monitoring and evaluation system; design and execution of a public relations and information
campaign; establishment of public participation arrangements and monitoring of social impact outcomes;
external training for selected LVK management and staff; and office equipment. This component will be
financed from the Bank loan.
Component 4: Institutional Strengthening (US$2.90 million)
This component will finance the following two sub-components: (i) management and advisory operations
improvement advisory services (US$2.80 million) covering the costs of engagement of the MOIA over a
five-year period; costs for the first three years under the contract will be financed under the Bank loan, and
for the last two years from LVK's internal sources; in case of a shortfall in LVK's internal sources, funds
will be used from the unallocated category under the Bank loan to make up for the shortfall; and (ii)
incremental expenses of the PIU set up for the project (US$0.10 million); this part will be financed by LVK
from internal sources.
Component 5: Engineering and Construction Supervision Services (US$2.45 million)
This component will finance the following three sub-components (i) engineering services including
- 7 -



preparation of designs, bidding documents and procurement assistance needed for the investments under the
OF (US$0.85 million); (ii) construction supervision services needed for the investments under the I DI and
the OF (US$0.70 million); and (iii) engineering and construction supervision services required for the
wastewater component investments (US$0.90 million). The first two sub-components will be f nanced
from the Bank loan and the third under the SIDA grant.
Component 6: Auditors' Fees (US$0.31 million)
This component will cover the costs of engagement of external auditors by LVK during the pe iod of
project implementation. It will be financed by LVK from internal resources.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project would assist LVK to (i) improve, through the MOIA contract, the efficiency of its
technical, commercial and financial operations; (ii) gain more autonomy from the LCG through a
Performance Agreement; (iii) strengthen its financial capacity and performance through signif`cantly
reducing operating costs and progressive full-cost recovery policies; (iv) introduce consumption-based
billing to enable better water demand management and to signal the cost of water to the consunm-:r; (v)
enhance its standing with its consumers by increased information dissemination and public participation,
and through the introduction of more effective and consumer-friendly commercial practices; arid (vi)
increase its capacity to address urgent repairs for system and plant rehabilitation, efficiency improvements,
and to make cost-effective investment choices.
3. Benefits and target population:
Benefits from  Investments in Institutional Strengthening: The institutional strengthening
programs to be undertaken by LVK would be directed at helping it achieve: more efficient tec]mical,
commercial and financial operations; increased autonomy; greater operating and cost efficiency; improved
cash collection; improved financial management and control; and improved public relations and infornation
management, leading to a new and better relationship with its consumers. A significant improverment in
LVK consumers' perceptions in regard to the safety, reliability and availability of its services would be of
vital importance in enabling a sustained improvement in LVK's collection performance. This would be one
of the key areas to be addressed by LVK with the help of the MOIA and the support of LCG. The
progressive introduction of full-cost recovery principles will help turn LVK into a financially more viable
institution, capable of generating the funding necessary for improving maintenance and to begin to address
urgent investment needs. All these improvements are necessary to enable LVK to confront the challenging
task of rehabilitating existing water and wastewater facilities; operating them more efficiently; improving
resource mobilization; making better investrnent decisions; and developing a stronger relationship with its
consumers.
Benefits from Physical Investments: Improvements to be implemented under the project woi:ld be
a relatively modest but pivotal step in a longer term effort to raise the quality of water supply and
wastewater services in Lviv, and to contribute thereby to protecting public health and promoting consumer
satisfaction. They would help LVK to build on the significant progress that has been made in improving
operations through the assistance provided by USAID and other bilateral agencies. These initial gains have
been noteworthy but a lack of capital prevents further improvements from being undertaken. Investments
in rehabilitating and improving the effectiveness of wastewater treatment plants will prevent potentially
disastrous spills and reduce the discharge of pollutants into the Bug River. Many of the investments are
expected to increase system efficiencies, particularly with respect to water conservation (demnand
management, leak detection and repair) and operating cost, particularly in regard to electric power
-8-



consumption. The amount of investment funding available under the project is small compared to the
amounts that would be needed to fuly rehabilitate and modemnize the entire water and wastewater systems
in Lviv. The modest interventions under the project would address some of the most urgent priorities, and
together with the assistance provided by the MOIA, help LVK to reverse the trend of system and service
deterioration, realize early efficiency gains and service improvements, and determine appropriate directions
for future follow-up investments.
Jienef'ckaries: More than 95% of the population in Lviv is already connected to the water and
wastewater system, but service quality and reliability are poor.  An estimated 63% of the population
receives water for six or less hours a day.  Although project investments in network rehabilitation and
efficiency improvements will aim at improving services in those areas where the quality of service is worst,
most of the benefits from improved safety and reliability of services will accrue to all customer groups.
The poorer segments of the population, who have to spend a disproportionate amount of their income to
cope with present service deficiencies, will benefit both in terms of improved quality and availability of
water, and better targeting of subsidies to help defray the higher tariffs required to effect the improvements.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period: Novemnber 1, 2001 to June 30, 2006.
Executing Agency: Lviv Vodokanal (LVK - Lviv Water and Wastewater Company)
Project Coordination and Oversight: The proposed lending structure is as follows:
*the Bank lends to UTkraine pursuant to a Loan Agreement;
*    Ukraine, represented by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) onlends the Bank loan proceeds to
LVK under a Subsidiary Loan Agreemenit (SLA) between MOE and LVK; the MOF will
concurrently enter into a Guarantee Agreement (GA) withi the LCG as owner of LVK; and
*the Bank will enter into a Project Agreement with LVK and LCG as joint signatories.
In this set of agreements, the authority and responsibility for project implementation is clearly
assigned to LVK. One of the prime institutional objectives, enhancement of Vodokanal autonomy, would
be safeguarded through the PA to be entered into between LCG and LVK which would definle the mutual
rights and obligations for the duration of the project. Execuition of the SLA, GA and the PA will be
conditions of Effectiveness.
LVK has established a Project Implemnentation Unit (PIU) to manage the project. The Head of the
PRU has been appointed (the Deputy Director of LVK). In addition, other key staff include (i) a
procurement officer; and (ii) a project accountant/financial management officer. The PIU, with the
assistance of the MOIA, will assume responsibility for monitoring and supervising of project
implementation, including procurement and financial management tasks associated with the project.
Engineering services in regard to preparation of designs and bidding documents for the investments and
construction supervision services will be provided by consulting firms to be selected for the purpose.
Engineering designs and bidding documents for the IDI are being prepared with the help of bilateral
donor-financed consultants. Construction supervision services for the [DI will be provided by consultants
(referred to as the Construction S-upervision Engineer or CSE) who will be engaged by January 31, 2002.
The PIU will be responsible for organizing timely implementation, monitoring and evaluation of project
- 9-



activities, including preparation of feasibility reports in connection with the investments to be financed
under the Operating Fund, local clearance of such reports, and their transmission to the Bank for review
and clearance, prior to implementation. Signing of the contract between L VK and the MOIA is a condition
of Effectiveness.
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing Arrangements:   The Bank's financial
management specialist (FMS) assigned to the project has carried out an assessment of LVK's financial
management capacity. A summary of the proposed financial management arrangements is provided in
Annex 11. An Action Plan in regard to the establishment of financial management arrangements
satisfactory to the Bank has been discussed with L VK and was confirmed at Negotiations. One of the key
tasks of the MOIA would be to help LVK to design and implement a new and improved financial
management system that would generate accounting and reporting information required to meet both
intemational accounting standards (IAS) and the requirements under Ukrainian regulations. This system
will likely be quite different from that which is customary under current Ukrainian regulations. Thus, in
the interim, it is quite conceivable that LVK may need to keep books under two sets of accounting
principles. Until such time as the MODA is able to design and help implement the new system, an interim
system for recording and monitoring of project sources and uses of funds will be implemented by LVK.
The FMS has reviewed the interim system and confirmed that it meets the Bank's requirements.
Production of full Project Management Reports (PMRs) by the PIU will depend upon the timing of the
establishment of the new financial management system by the MOIA, but the target under the Action Plan
is to have this possible by July 31, 2002. LVK will maintain a Special Account, and project accounts
and financial records, including statements of expenditure (SOE).  Supporting documents will be
maintained by the PIU, and made available to the Bank's visiting missions and LVK's auditors as required.
The PIU will also prepare and provide to the Bank semi-annual reports on implementation progress along
with PMRs in formats acceptable to the Bank. Project and entity accounts will be audited on an annual
basis in accordance with international auditing standards by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank.
The auditor's report will be made available to the Bank within six months of the close of the fiscal year.
The audits will include a separate opinion on the SOE and the Special Account. The first audit (for the
financial year 2001) would include a review and commentary on the adequacy of LVK's internal controls
and internal audit, and a post-review of LVK's 2000 financial statements. A qualified, independent,
external auditor, acceptable to the Bank, would be appointed by November 15, 2001 The costs of annual
audits will be met by LVK from internal resources.
Project Procurement Arrangements: Goods and services to be purchased for the Bank-financed
components of the project would be procured in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines.
Procurement in respect of project components not financed by the Bank would be carried out in accordance
with Ukrainian national regulations or with the procurement guidelines of the co-financing institutions
(e.g., SIDA).  The project elements, their estimated costs and procurement methods are summarized in
Table A of Annex 6. A procurement plan detailing the packaging and estimated schedule of the major
procurement actions is presented in Table B2 of Annex 6. A Country Procurement Assessment was carried
out in November 2000 and relevant findings of the Assessment have been incorporated in the procurement
arrangements for the project. This includes additional procedures to be followed in regard to National
Competitive Bidding (NCB). Other relevant procurement information including: an assessment of the
procurement capacity of the PIU, estimated dates for publication of the General Procurement Notice
(GPN) and the Bank's review process is presented in Table B I of Annex 6. The PIU will be responsible for
procurement and other project implementation activities.  It will initially be assisted by consultants
financed under bilateral donor funds until the MOIA starts its work. The MOIA will thereafter assist the
PIU in project implementation activities, including procurement.
- 10-



Disbursement Arrangements: These arrangements are discussed in Annex 6 and are summarized
here.  The Borrower will open and maintain a Special Account (SA) at a foreign commercial bank
acceptable to the Bank. The bank selected for the purpose should be capable of providing efficient
payment and clearing facilities. The SA will be maintained by the PIU. In addition, LVK will open a
Local Project Account (LPA) in a bank, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank and the
Borrower, for depositing its counterpart financing contributions for the project. These amounts would be
used only for the purposes of the project, and at any time would cover the projected expenditures for the
following three months of project implementation. Disbursements under the loan will be made on a
traditional basis. The Project Management Reports (PMRs) will be used for monitoring purposes. Further
details in regard to documentation needs are given in Annex 6.
Monitoring and Evaluation Arrangements: The monitoring instrument will be the PA between
LVK and LCG. The monitoring plan would include performance indicators that will be used to track
progress made towards achievement of project objectives. The monitoring and evaluation system would be
established with the help of the MOIA. Costs of the establishment and operation of the system would be
financed from the OF. The PIU would ensure that all reporting requirements under the project are met in
accordance with the appropriate formats and with the agreed submission schedules. The Director of LVK
will be responsible for ensuring that the monitoring is conducted and reported to the PIU and the Bank.
Semi-annual project implementation reports will be submitted to the Bank by July 31 and January 31 each
year, and draft annual action programs for the upcoming year will be included with the January reports for
the Bank's review and comment. The Goveniment and the Bank will conduct joint reviews annually during
supervision missions. A Mid-Term Review would be undertaken by June 30, 2003. An Implementation
Completion Report would be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the Closing Date.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Proceeding without Changes in National Sector Regulations: A number of national regulations
related to tariff setting, taxation, revenue allocation, and collection of bills continue to be impediments to
improving the financial position of the country's water and other public utilities. Realizing that the GoU
was not ready to undertake reforms early in these areas of concern, it was decided to go ahead with the
project since success is judged to be possible at the local level even within the context of current
regulations. The institutional, technical and financial targets built into the Perfonnance Agreement between
LVK and the LCG will provide the regulatory control for the duration of the project. The development
objectives of the project - institutional strengthening, financial improvements even within the context of
present regulations,  introduction of  more efficient operational practices, and more cost-effective
investment selection - will help LVK to become a better managed and more efficient utility, and to be able
to improve its services to the people of Lviv. Successful project execution by LVK would also provide a
demonstration to other utilities in Ukraine. Achieving this effect is deemed to be more important at this
time than the delay and uncertainty inherent in linking it to the reform of sector regulations. These reforms,
however, would be a condition for any future Bank support for the municipal water and wastewater sector
in Ukraine.
Private Sector Participation: As discussed earlier, agreement by the LCG and LVK to the
engagement of a private sector operator with substantial operational responsibility under a lease or
management contract was pursued during project preparation but did not prove to be feasible in the current
situation in Lviv (and Ukraine in general). At this time, there continues to be significant opposition both
within the LCG and the Lviv legislative assembly as well as within GoU agencies and the national
- 11 -



Parliament to the engagement of this type of Private Sector Participation (PSP). Insistence cn such
arrangements at this time would have probably meant for the Bank a withdrawal from the projoct and
progressive disengagement from the sector, losing thereby the opportunity to make a much-needed ;rnpact.
As compared to a lease or management contract, a technical assistance arrangement, as in the case of the
MOIA, has greater risks - the Borrower may not accept the MOIA's advice or the MOIA woul d have
limited financial incentive since its fee is not conditional to LVK in fact realizing improvements in
operations. Although in this sense the engagement of an MOIA (rather than a lease or management
contract) is a second-best solution, it is considered to be justified in the context in Lviv since there are
reasonable prospects of a successful outcome. LVK is one of Ukraine's better managed and more receptive
water and wastewater companies. It has had substantial experience over a period of four years in working
with USAID and other bilateral agencies to start making operational improvements through interventions
needing little capital expenditure. As a result, LVK has been able to successfully internalize and adopt
changes in management operating practices that have led to significant improvements. The long and
successful cooperation with USAID has created a management environment that is prepared to accept
external advice. The MOIA, with the support of the investment funds under the project, would be -,ble to
carry this process further. Successful performance by the MOIA could also ease a possible later transition
into a lease or concession type of arrangement when the environment becomes more conducive to
acceptance of this type of PSP.
Investment Choices: LCG and LVK initially expressed preference for large capital investrments in
new facilities rather than the more economic course of rehabilitating existing systems, coupled with water
conservation and efficiency improvements. However, the principle of pursuing a strategy of eco-aomic
efficiency was understood and accepted, as was the need to adopt technologies based on the use of higher
quality materials and modem construction practices.
,Pre-Idendfwed Investments versus Operating Fund: The project contains a sizable OF i(about
25% of the total investment) to finance investments in improving network and plant operation, and
expenditures needed for LVK's institutional strengthening. While general direction is provided as :o the
objectives that are to be accomplished, the specific investments and expenditures funded by the OF uill be
jointly determined during project implementation by LVK and the MOIA. This is a departure from the
traditional strategy which specifies most or all of the investments up-front and leaves little rooin for
adjustment during implementation. The choice of an OF is considered appropriate given the special
circumstances of the project: unreliable information, and a client that as yet has limited awareness of
modemr utility management and operations. Regarding the water supply network and plant efficiency
program, a set of Initial Defined Investments (IDI) has been defined based on a careful analysis of the
existing situation. However, it will resolve only a part of the problem. Follow-up actions and investments,
to be financed under the OF, will benefit from the better knowledge on network and plant performance
following the initial investments. It will give LVK the opportunity to continue working with the MOJA on
improving efficiency taking into account knowledge and information that is not available today. Likewise,
the general direction for management and commercial improvements is provided, but it would be left to
LVK and the MOIA to decide together on the specific course of action and investments that would be inade
in hardware, software, and in training of LVK management and staff. Rather than defining definitive
solutions and investments up-front, such a strategy will provide LVK and the MOIA the responsibility and
the opportunity, as well as the time and resources needed, to work closely together through all aspects of
decision-making from conceptualization, planning, design, training, implementation and commissioning.
This is expected to foster close interaction between LVK and the MOIA with shared knowledge and
technology transfer. The Bank will have to be prepared to provide guidance and oversight, and to be a
facilitator. The process established for selecting and implementing investments under the OF will provide
- 12 -



for Bank involvement throughout the decision-making process.
Financial Conditionalily: Given the inability of government - national and local - to provide
much of the needed financial resources, LVK's ability to halt the deterioration of the system and services
will depend almost entirely on its ability to raise finds on its own. Specifically, LVK's internal cash
generation will be the only reliable source of financing to meet the counterpart funding and debt service
requirements related to the proposed project. Thus, the insistence on progressive cost-recovering tariffs
and rigorous collection enforcement is not only a matter of sector development policy, but also the only
reliable way for LVK to be able to implement the project. The present project cost and loan amount are
based on the ability and willingness of LVK and the LCG to raise tariffs and improve collections and not
on investment needs alone.
2. Major related projects fmanced by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (00)
None in the water and
wastewater sector
Rehabilitation and improvements in the Kiev District Heating Project  S            S
district heating systems in the Kiev    (ongoing)
metropolitan area
Improvement in energy efficiency in    Kiev Energy Efficiency Project  S          S
institutional, residential and commercial (ongoing)
buildings in the Kiev metropolitan area
Improving the efficiency, reliability and Sevastopol Heat Supply    S              S
service levels in the heat supply system Inprovement Project (ongoing)
in Sevastopol
Other development agencies
EBRD                              Zaporizha Water and
Wastewater System
Enhancement Project (ongoing)
Municipal Utilities
Development Project (planned)
IPIDO Ratings HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
For the Bank, the Lviv project would represent its first operation in the water supply and
wastewater sector in Ukraine. Consequently, there is at this time no related Bank-financed project either
completed or under implementation. An EBRD-financed project is under implementation in the city of
Zaporizha. EBRD is also currently preparing another operation that would finance investments in water
and wastewater in a number of secondary cities and towns in Ukraine. This is at an early stage of
preparation.
- 13-



3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
There are at this time no completed Bank-supported municipal water and wastewater pro ects in
any of the CIS countries, although projects have been started in Russia, the Baltic States, Armenia,
Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan. Other projects are in preparation throughout the Region In all
of these projects, issues related to sector policy, -- institutional, financial, technical -- are generally s;imilar,
and need to be resolved. The experience and information gained by the Bank from its sectoral involvement
in Ukraine and other countries in the Region provides valuable guidance for this project.
The 1995 OED Water Sector Report and subsequent QAG evaluations are critical of the 13ank's
past performance in the sector. Although projects have generally achieved their physical construction
objectives, they were not able to meet institutional, financial and operational improvement objectives;. The
reasons identified are: unrealistic expectations and over-optimistic projections; reliance on co- enants
instead of up-front actions; lack of commitment to project financial and institutional objectives by the
project executing entities; failure to address disabling sector policies and practices; insufficient atten Lion to
the expressed needs of the project population in the original project design; undue complexity in project
design and executing arrangements; and insufficient preparation of the executing agency in procurement
processes, leading to delays in disbursements. Project supervision has also been criticized for nol; being
sufficiently frequent and intensive.
The deficiencies listed above and the ones related to the unique situation in the Regior have
received due attention during preparation of the proposed project. These aspects of project preparation are
of particular importance in view of the need for reform and the unfamiliarity of the clients with Bank
procedures. In particular, special attention has been given during project preparation to the following (i)
commitment by LVK and LCG to the project's institutional and financial reform objectives; (ii) Froject
scope and cost are based on realistic assessment and projection of LVK's financial and implemertation
capability; (iii) creation of a competent PIU with the assistance of qualified consultants; (iv) appoinrtment
of consultants prior to project effectiveness to conduct studies and designs for the first pbase of the project,
thus reducing delays in procurement and disbursements; and (v) appointment of a MOIA for the entire
duration of project implementation to assist LVK in implementing institutional and financial reforms, in
addition to the adoption of modem forms of management, procurement, and the technical design and
construction supervision of project sub-components. Particular attention will be paid during project
supervision to monitoring and evaluation of performance indicators endorsed by LVK and the LCG ander
the PA and pursued with the assistance of the MOIA.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
LVK and the LCG have expressed strong support for the proposed project and the pre-identified
reforms reflected in the PA. LVK has already demonstrated its capacity to work effectively with technical
assistance providers as evidenced by its very successful partnership with USAID funded consultants. LVK
supports the idea of recruiting a reputed, experienced MOIA to assist it with the design and implementation
of other reforms and systems improvement measures over the life of the project. LVK and the LCG have
reiterated their willingness to support the politically difficult measures for adjustment of tariffs and
improvement in the collection of revenues. An indication of the commitrnent at both the local and national
levels to the project is given by the number of up-front actions, which include steps taken to improve L.VK's
financial situation in readiness for the project:
- 14 -



Actions by LVK/LCG:
*        a major tariff increase in the year 2000, raising residential and average water and wastewater
tariff levels by 120% and 27% respectively
*        preparation of a draft PA between the LCG and LVK, sent to the Bank for review and
approval, that explicitly recognizes the following key principles (i) operational and
management autonomy for LVK; (ii) adequacy of tariffs to provide financial self-sufficiency
for LVK, including providing for maintenance and repair expenditures at a level adequate to
enable LVK to meet its specified performance targets under the PA; (iii) authority to LVK
to enforce collections by disconnections in case of failure of consumers to pay their dues; and
(iv) an undertaking by the LCG in future to make payments to LVK in respect of dues from
LCG institutions and agencies in arrears for more than 30 days.
a Business- Plan, prepared by LVK with the help of bilaterally funded (French) consultants,
and submitted to the Cabinet Committee for Economic Development (CCED) that confirmed
GoU support for the project
the establishment in LVK of a PIU; staffing is in progress
Establishment by the LCG of a special fund from taxes and other compulsory contributions
made by LVK that would be used as a back-stop for counterpart local currency financing for
the project in case LVK is unable to meet at any time its expected contributions in a timely
manner.
Actions by National Government Authorities:
approval of the negotiated documents by the Cabinet of Ministers
the establishment of an inter-agency Steering Conmnittee (SC) headed by the State
Committee for Construction, Housing and Architecture (SCCHA), to provide high-level
support for project processing and problem-solving
(i) an Action Plan agreed between MOF, LCG and LVK, that LVK's arrears of receivables
from, and payables to, GoU and local govenirnment agencies and institutions would be settled
over a four-year period with 67% of the amounts to be settled in the first two years of the
Plan; and (ii) the Guarantee Agreement between MOF and LCG would include a provision
that MOF would make arrangements to cover LVK future overdues from GoU agencies and
institutions more than 30 days in arrears.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank was instrumental in the preparation of the first systematic sector study of the water and
wastewater sector in Ukraine in May 1995. The Lviv project was identified soon thereafter and the Bank
has been involved in its preparation since that time. Ongoing Bank involvement provided encouragement to
other bilateral donor agencies (USAID, DEPA and SIDA) to continue to provide technical assistance to
LVK during project preparation. LVK has benefited very substantially in this respect. Furthermore, the
substantial SIDA grant of US$6 million for the project is predicated on project approval and financing by
- 15-



the Bank. The Bank's willingness to support the project increases the credibility of a successful outcome of
the investments in the perception of important stakeholders, and reinforces the ability of LVK and th.e LCG
to gain public and political support to take the necessary steps to provide local financing for the )roject
through tariff increases and stricter enforcement of collections.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit     NPV=US$19.6 million; ERR = 23 % (see Annex 4)
0 Cost effectiveness
0 Other (specify)
Ix] Cost-Benefit Analysis: Water and wastewater systems in Lviv are in an advanced sl ige of
physical deterioration. LVK's physical assets suffer from a heritage of poor designs, the tise of
sub-standard equipment, materials, construction practices, and under-investment in maintenance, rep;..ir and
rehabilitation. Water and wastewater systems suffer from serious inefficiencies, including excessive water
consumption/wastage by consumers not accustomed to water conservation, high leakage rates from the pipe
network (exceeding 40% of production), hydraulic inefficiencies due to poor pressure zoning, occl.usions,
bottlenecks, and inefficient operation of plants. Of great concem is the excessive energy consumpticri that
is estimated to be twice as high compared to efficiently functioning systems in Western Europe or North
America.  A vicious cycle has set in which prevents LVK from being able to achieve any sign ficant
improvements in the situation. The state of LVK's systems has led to low service levels in terms of afety,
reliability and availability. More than 60% of Lviv's population get water for only six or less hours i day.
Quality of the water is seen as unsatisfactory with consumers having to utilize coping practices such as
boiling, settling of sediment, and filtering where they can afford it. To improve service quality, LVK needs
to undertake essential investments in its systems. It is unable to do so since it lacks the financial res:urces
- at present, consumers are resistant to tariff increases and to making payments when due for services that
they perceive as unsatisfactory. Yet, without adequate funds, LVK cannot undertake even the more
pressing expenditures.
LVK has made a promising beginning in improving the situation with the help of the considtrable
technical assistance that it has received from USAID. Further progress is being severely constrained by
lack of resources - for further technical assistance and for priority investments. The project compcnents
are designed to help LVK to break the vicious cycle by making a beginning in securing further tigent
improvements that would lead to substantial operating cost savings and to increased safety, reliability and
availability of water supply to its inhabitants. Early achievements through these interventions should oster
consumer confidence conceming LVK's willingness and ability to improve its services, and increase the
level of social and political support for higher tariffs and timely payment of dues.   The concurrent
undertaking by LVK of an effective, well-designed public relations campaign, with the assistance of the
MOIA, would be an essential part of the strategy. The priority investments under the IDI have been
identified and justified by LVK with the help of USAID and other bilaterally funded consultants. Hov ever,
the estimated economic return for each physical investment has a larger confidence interval than would be
common for utilities with better information systems. For example, when water supply systems havt not
been metered, calculation of water losses can be estimated only by comparing the physical charactei istics
of the system - age, pipe and pipe joint type -- to similar systems with known histories, and using the latter
histories to estimate performance. However, engineers can call on broad international experience with
water systems to make such estimates, and have been the key actors in helping LVK identify interventions.
USAID-funded consultants have carried out a number of studies of this nature. The project will help e quip
LVK management with the tools to document performance of their systems, allowing improved targeting of
- 16-



future interventions.
Quantifiable estimates of project benefits have been made for (i) the IDI; and (ii) for the project as
a whole, taking into account the combined incremental impact (on a with and without project basis) for the
IDI, the OF and the institutional strengthening component. For the individual investments under the IDI, in
the absence of adequate detailed up-front inforrnation, estimates of economic rates of return (ERR) have
been made mainly on the basis of the electric power consumption savings expected to be realized under
studies prepared by USAID consultants. On this basis, the ERR for the pumping stations sub-component
is estimated at about 34% with an NPV of US$2.8 million at a discount rate of 10 percent (which is the
Bank's generally accepted hurdle rate for water supply projects) and that for the pressure zones
sub-component is about 14% with an NPV of US$1.4 million.
LVK would also benefit from the assistance of the MOIA to help it achieve its performance targets
specified under the PA. These include reductions in UFW and in energy consumption, and improved
billings and collection ratios. For the project as a whole, i.e. the combined effect of the IDI, the MOIA
assistance and the use of the OF, the base case ERR on an incremental net benefits basis is estimated at
23% with an NPV of US$19.6 million (at a discount rate of 10%). The difference between the values of
the economic and financial flows is due to (i) differences in energy pricing to reflect border (economic)
prices; and (ii) removal of the effects of tariff increases for the economic analysis. Details of the
cost-benefit analysis, including sensitivity tests, are given in Annex 4.
Apart from these quantifiable benefits, the project would also yield qualitative benefits that are
difficult to quantify. These include (i) environmental benefits; (ii) public health benefits; and (iii) positive
impact on the poor and vulnerable sections through improved services and better targeting of subsidies.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV==US$ 40.6 million; FRR = 35 % (see Annex 4)
Project Financing Plan- The total cost of the project is estimated at US$40.80 million ( including
taxes and duties of US$8.20 million). The Bank loan of US$24.25 million equivalent (including the
capitalized front-end fee of US$0.24 million) would account for about 59% of the project cost. The
Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA) would finance US$6 million equivalent (15%) on a
grant basis. LVK is expected to finance the remaining US$10.55 million (26%) of the estimated project
cost including taxes and duties. (The Danish Environmental Protection Agency (DEPA) has indicated that
it may contribute US$0.35 million equivalent in grant funds which would then reduce LVK's contribution
to US$10.20 million.) To ensure uninterrupted implementation and timely payments to contractors, L VK
would be asked to deposit its quarterly contributions to a Project Fund Account (PFA) in accordance
with a schedule reflecting the projected investment requirements. In parallel, LCG would be asked to
establish a Project Security Fund (PSF) account to cover cash shortfalls in L VK's Project Fund Account.
The PFA and the PSF will be established by December 31, 2001. These agreements are reflected in the
Project Agreement between the Bank and LVK-LCG.
SIDA has confinned to the Government its willingness to contribute parallel financing in an
amount of at least US$6 million equivalent to fund selected wastewater investments under the project. A
draft Grant Agreement between SIDA and MOF has been prepared. No equity contribution from the
national and local governments has been assumed in the financing plan. The signing of the SIDA grant
agreement would be a condition of Effectiveness
- 17 -



Financial System and Tariffs: Water companies in Ukraine follow financial regulations, and
accounting and tax rules, issued by the central government.  These rules and regulations ,:leviate
substantially at present from international accounting standards (IAS) for similar revenue-earning entities.
This affects the presentation of financial information by Vodokanals. For instance, Vodokanals in IJkraine
do not use accrual accounting; profit taxes are only paid on reported cash receipts; financial statements are
not subject to external audits; and bad debts are not written off, albeit that they are significantly reduced by
inflation as debts are not indexed.  In the past, the system has also allowed barter transactions and
offsetting of mutual receivables and payables due, although the rules for valuation of transactions,
bookkeeping, and inventory control are not clear by international standards. In this regard, one of the key
tasks of the MOIA would be to assess the financial management situation of LVK, and to help LVK to
design and implement a new and improved financial management system which will adhere more closely to
the lAS while enabling LVK to comply fully with local accounting and reporting regulations.
Tariff setting authority rests with* the local government, except for residential tariffs, which need to
be approved by the Oblast (Regional) governments. Tariff calculations and justifications were in the past
based on complicated formulas issued by the national government in the form  of Supreme Council
Resolutions and Presidential Decrees. However, actual practice varied widely being subject to the
interpretation of the Oblast administrations. Although there have been periodic modifications in v mrious
goveming regulations aimed at improving the situation, substantial further progress remains to be made in
this area. At present, the Government is not expected to bring about an early change in the e),isting
national accounting rules and tariff policies, as these are applicable not only for water companies but also
for all other public utilities. However, to safeguard LVK's ability to be able to meet its cash pa:rment
obligations in terms of operating expenses and contributions to project financing, the PA between LCG and
LVK is expected to provide explicit assurances in this regard. This includes the establishment by LCG of a
Project Security Fund for the project. Sources of financing the PSF will include (i) compulsory taxes and
payments that LVK is required to make to the LCG; and (ii) other sources to be identified by LCG.
Past and Present Financial Position: Historical financial statements for LVK are included In the
Project Files. Based on conservative assessments of the quantitative information and the (unaudited)
financial statements, it is clear that the financial position of LVK remains weak although there has been
some improvement after the very substantial tariff increase of April 2000. LVK's weak financial situation
has been the result of (i) low tariff levels constrained by administrative regulations; (ii) low collec Lions,
particularly from institutional consumers who have run up large arrears in payments; and (iii) multiple and
complex taxes levied at the local and Oblast levels. Prior to this year, tariffs had not been able to keep
pace with production cost increases.  This was due to a large extent to the local administration's
conservative interpretation of the tariff formula and absence of automatic indexation for key input prices
such as that for electricity. The substantial tariff increase of April 2000 marked a major departure from
past practice in terms of the extent of adjustment. Understandings were reached that the under(ving
principles for tariff-setting at adeqtuate levels will be included in the PA, and will be fully consisteni with
the tariff and reventue collection requirements specified in the Project Agreement between the BanA- and
Lviv Citv-LVK.
Revenue collection rates have been low as a result of which there has been a progressive build-up
of overdue receivables (and consequently, of payables). At the end of 1999, receivables from consuners
amounted to US$12.6 million representing about 11 months of sales revenues, an unsustainably high
figure. While all classes of consumers contributed to the arrears, institutional consumers - both at the local
and national levels - represented the worst offenders.  Collections from  residential consumers have
improved significantly starting with 1997 when LVK instituted the practice of collecting payments directly
from residential consumers instead of through an intermediary public collection agency that also covered
- 18 -



other utilities such as heating. Prior to 1997, the system of allowing payments through barter transactions
and payments in kind restricted the amount of cash that was actually collected. National regulations that
banned barter transactions in the matter of settlement of dues have now led to higher collections in cash.
Overall revenue collections had increased to an average of about 85% of billings in the six-month period
November 1999 to March 2000. However, with the major April 2000 tariff increase, collections dropped
sharply in the first quarter after the increase but have since improved steadily to around 85% in November
2000.
LVK continues to be liable to pay high amounts as compulsory contributions and taxes to local and
Oblast agencies. LVK is liable to pay these levies regardless of whether it makes a financial profit or a
loss in a given year. In 1999, annual liabilities for such payments accounted for about 10% of LVK's net
billings (and a higher proportion of its collected revenues). Due to its revenue collection difficulties, LVK
has not been able to make these payments in full and has run up considerable arrears in payments in this
regard. LVK has also built up arrears to suppliers, particularly the electric power company.
Recent Actions Taken by LVK, LCG and the MOF: During project preparation, the Bank had
suggested that LVK, LCG and the GoU arrive at tripartite plan to resolve the issue of LVK's arrears of
receivables and payables. The following arrangements have been confirmed by the Borrower:
i   MOF, Lviv City and LVK have agreed on a front-loaded Action Plan for settlement of LVK's arrears
of receivables from, and payables to, GoU and local government agencies and institutions; under the
Plan, 67% of the arrears would be settled within the first two years.
*   MOF will undertake, under the Guarantee Agreement with LCG, that the MOF will arrange to
compensate LVK for overdues in future from state institutions and agencies that are in arrears for more
than 30 days.
*   LCG, under the Performance Agreement, will undertake to compensate LVK for overdues in future
from local government institutions and agencies that are in arrears for more than 30 days.
Future Finances: Projections of LVK's financial performance  are summarized in Annex 5.
The projections are based on conservative assumptions as to the growth of sales and the achievable
improvements in operating costs, including power consumption. Overall water sales for LVK are projected
to steadily decline by about 1.5% per year between 2001 and 2010, and to level off thereafter. This trend
is expected as the net result of reduced residential consumption due to gradual introduction of metering,
increased industrial usage due to projected economic growth in the region, and reduced institutional
consumption due to conservation measures. With the assistance of the MOIA, and with the benefit of the
urgent investments under the IDI and the subsequent ones under the OF, LVK should be able to achieve the
key operating efficiency indicators included under the PA - reduction of UFW, reduced specific power
consumption per unit of water produced, and improvements in its operating ratio and revenue collection
ratio.
Forecasts on this basis indicate that, to cover its operating expenses, meet payment obligations to
supptiers, provide its part of the project's counterpart financing, and service the Bank loan, LVK will need
to raise its revenue collections by about 63 % over its year 2000 level (in current USD terms). To meet its
financial obligations, LVK will need to undertake a combination of tariff increases and collection
improvements, mainly from LVK's residential and institutional customers. Collection rates and tariff levels
for industry have been high historically, so there is limited room for further increases. The overall average
combined water and wastewater tariff (net of VAT) is projected to increase from the current level of US
- 19-



cents 15 per m3 to about US cents 23.5 per m3 by 2006, i.e., an increase of about 57% over a fi e year
period. In conjunction, LVK's overall revenue collection ratio will need to be increased from the murrent
level of about 85% (in November 2000) to 94% by 2005. Key indicators of LVK's projected financial
performance are given in the following table.
Summary of Projected Financial Indicators for LVK (2000 to 2006)
Indicator           2000               2001               2003              2006
Net sales revenues       10.81              13.04              16.21             14.62
(US$ mn.)
Net income (US$          -2.85              -0.20              3.44              3.36
mn.)
Net collections (US$     8.10               8.44              14.92              13.75
mn.)
Average combined         14 95              17.95             23.42              22.81
tariff (net of VAT)
(Usc/m3)
Collection ratio (%)      75                 85                 88                94 _
Operating ratio (%)       1 26              1 .10             0.79               0.77
Working ratio (%)        1.09               0.87               0.64              0.58
Current ratio            1.12               1.32               1.55               1.52
Debt ratio (%)            0.0               2.5                29.3               33.9
Financial Risk Analysis: Principal risks in relation to the financial feasibility and viability of the
project are discussed in Annex 5, Appendix 6. The main sources of financial risk are (i) inadequacy of
tariff levels; (ii) collection ratios lower than anticipated; (iii) lower water consumption than projected; (iv)
slower progress than anticipated in reduction of energy consumption; and (v) higher than antic;pated
project costs. As seen from Annex 5, Appendix 6, the project benefits in terms of NPV and FR R are
robust in the face of the risks described above, and the FRR remains above 20% for shortfalls of up tc 20%
individually in each of the variables. For the FRR to fall to levels below 10%, water consumption, tariff
levels or collection rates will individually have to be about 40% lower than projected. If shortfalls in two
or more of these variables occur together, the impact on the financial indicators would be much greate .
Affordability:   Analyses carried out during project preparation, including under the Social
Assessment, confirm that the projected tariffs will remain at affordable levels. It is estimated that average
household monthly expenditures in Lviv are around UAH 490 (US$90 equivalent). At the lower end, about
26% of the households have monthly expenditures below US$45 and another 28%, between US$45 t0 90.
Together, about 54% of the population have monthly expenditures below US$90. At currently prevailing
levels of water and wastewater tariffs, the combined water and wastewater monthly bill accounts for about
3.65% of the monthly expenditures of the lowest monthly expenditure group (i.e. below US$45). For all
households as a whole, the combined bill on average accounts for about 2.4% of monthly expendi -ures.
With the projected increases in tariffs, the share of the water and wastewater bill in monthly household
expenditures will increase to about 5.5% for the lowest expenditure group. Within this group this
percentage will be higher for the lowest income households.
While the projected share of water and wastewater expenditures is around the conventionally
accepted limit (5% of household expenditures), it would exceed this for the lowest income families within
- 20 -



the lowest quartile households. However, an estimated 35 to 50% of households in Lviv are receiving
subsidies and exemptions in regard to their payments for utilities. Pursuant to the applicable Ukrainian
legislation, no household is required to pay more than 20% of its total income for utilities (water and
wastewater, electricity, heating, etc.) When the total billing exceeds this threshold, the Government
compensates for the excess. Average amounts of subsidies received by eligible families is estimated at
around UAH 36 (US$6.5) per month. This would adequately compensate the lowest income families if it
were properly targeted. In this regard, the current system of subsidies and exemptions suffers from a
number of shortcomings: (i) eligibility criteria are not clear enough with the result that households that
may not need the assistance are as eligible to receive it as those that should properly be targeted; and (ii)
the procedures for obtaining the assistance are cumbersome, unclear, and impact inequitably on the poorer
segments. The LCG is aware of the need for improving the current system of assistance, and expects to
undertake a reform in this area. Developments in this regard will be closely followed during project
supervision. Progress in this regard would also be ascertained at the periodic stakeholder consultative
meetings to be arranged as part of the LCG-LVK public relations campaign that will be monitored during
project supervision.
Financial Conditionality: To progressively achieve, and thereafter maintain, a satisfactory
financial position, L VK will be expected to take measures, including but not limited to tariff adjustments,
to ensure that:
e        beginning in 2002, collected revenues would be slifficient to meet the aggregate of its: (i)
cash operating and maintenance expenses; (ii) compulsory contributions and taxes; (iii)
required increases in working capital, (iv) counterpart funding requirements for the
project; and (v) debt service obligations.
X         ,LVK will maintain operating ratios not higher than, and revenue collection ratios not
lesser than, levels agreed in the PA
LVK's debt service coverage is projected to remain satisfactory. However, this would need to be
closely monitored. To prevent LVK from jeopardizing its financial position by incurring additional debt,
LVK will be required to seek prior Bank approval for any additional debt unless revenue and expenditure
forecasts satisfactory to the Bank demonstrate that LVK's internal cash generation (net income in cash
before interest and depreciation) during the next years would at least cover 1.3 times its debt service
requirements (interest charges and amortization of principal).
Progressively upgrading, and then maintaining, the financial capacity of LVK to meet its operating
expenses, working capital needs, and counterpart funding and debt service obligations, is the most crucial
project financial issue. Meeting the stipulated financial requirements is essential for assuring the financial
viability of LVK. The Performance Agreement between LVK and the LCG will contain a detailed
financial performance plan with targets and plans of actions for tariff increases and revenue collection.
To check compliance with the financial performance plan, L VK will be requlired to fiurnish to the Bank,
by October 31 of each year commencing October 31, 2001 financial forecasts containing income
statements, funds flow statements, and balance sheets for the current year and the next five years. With
the aid of such a plan, LVK will be better equipped to initiate and nionitor the measures necessary to
maintain financial viability.
- 21 -



Fiscal Impact:
Counterpart financing for the project will largely come from user charges from consumers c f water
and wastewater services. No equity contributions are expected from the national or local governments
other than the setting aside of LVK's compulsory contributions and taxes (payable to the LCG) iuider a
Project Security Fund to the extent that is required for LVK to meet its counterpart funding requiri-ments
for the project. Other minor contributions or a security guarantee may be provided by the LCG as and
when required as a back-stopping arrangement.
3. Technical:
The investments under the project are allocated exclusively for the initiation of a prog am of
system rehabilitation and efficiency improvements. The small amount of funding available makes it very
difficult to chooge among the many potential immediate investment needs. Therefore, the enginieering
challenge has been to find low cost ways to improve selected portions of the system while ensuring :hat all
investrnents fit into a future comprehensive rehabilitation concept, which will be determined with tl-e help
of the MOIA. Likewise, reducing leakage and improving the hydraulic efficiency of the water netwcwks in
Lviv will require a long term sustained effort with resource needs exceeding available resources. The
challenge in selecting investments to be supported under the project is to ensure that the limited resources
available are used such that they bring the highest benefits in termns of both improving service qualit) to the
consumer and operational efficiencies in the face of insufficient and often unreliable information on the
system.
The investment strategy adopted for the project reflects this. The proposed investment program is
composed of two parts: (i) specific investments (under the IDI), selected and confirmed by LVK with the
help of USAID and other bilaterally funded consultants, which are believed to meet the criteria of high
priority and fast pay-back; and (ii) as yet unidentified program investments (under the OF) which would
build on the IDI and benefit from the additional experience and knowledge gained during implementation.
These latter investments will be selected within the context of a comprehensive, systematic lon,g; term
program of system rehabilitation and efficiency improvements which LVK will undertake wi :i the
assistance of the MOIA. This program will begin with a thorough analysis of the existing systernts and
plants, including, for example, mapping, metering to establish system flows, leak detection of the water
network, and an in-depth analysis of all plants and pumping stations. Based on better informaticn, the
MOIA, together with the LVK staff, will propose how the OF investments can be undertaken most
cost-effectively in termns of improving service and operating efficiency. The OF investments would lind a
wide array of interventions determined to have priority such as:  metering in support of demand
management, leak analysis, replacement or rehabilitation of leaking pipes and house conneetions,
replacement of inefficient equipment in plants and pumping stations, etc.  To ensure that the OF
investments are carried out cost-effectively in accordance with preset selection criteria, LYVK will
periodically submit proposals, with the endorsement of the MOIA, describing and justifying inve:. tment
choice and their expected outcomes, to the Bankfor approval
Equipment, materials and construction work to be financed under the project will be required to
meet applicable standards of international quality and best practice.   Supervision of construction to
westemn standards will be required to ensure that equipment is properly installed and pipes are laid in
accordance with adequate technical standards.  These requirements are essential to ensure th-.t the
investments supported under the project meet cost-effective standards of useful life and effic ency.
Insistence on international standards of quality for equipment, materials and construction, new  c, the
- 22 -



Ukrainian sector community, would be an important contribution of the project and help to break the
traditional vicious cycle of poor equipment and short life. These requirements will necessitate the provision
of international qualified technical assistance and engineering input to an extent greater than customarily
required for projects in the western world. Provisions have been made accordingly in the project cost
estimates and the financing plan.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies'
LVK will be the executing agency for the project. LVK, as a municipal enterprise, is a legally
independent institution responsible for maintaining and operating the water and wastewater system in Lviv.
The fixed assets are owned by the LCG. Traditionally, LVK was mainly concerned with water production
rather than the quality of service provided to its customers and the efficiency of its operations. To develop
into a well-managed, efficient water and wastewater utility, modem utility management techniques and
systems need to be introduced, accompanied by increasingly commercial attitudes and greater consumer
orientation. Compared to well-run western utilities, the management autonomy of LVK has been restricted
by a number of regulations and restrictions that do not allow management control over many vital aspects
of the utility business. In spite of its independent legal status, LVK has clearly been subordinated to the
asset owner (LCG). To achieve one of the main objectives of the project, i.e., turning LVK into a
well-managed and efficient utility, the project proposes to (i) help LVK to introduce modern management
principles, practices and systems; and (ii) increase the autonomy of LVK vis a vis its owner, the LCG.
The first goal would be achieved with the help of the MOIA. It will be critical that the MOIA
who is selected is able to work effectively with LVK and to clearly demonstrate the value that LVK would
get from its services. The terns of reference (TOR) for the MOIA were agreed with LVK and are attached
in Annex 2, Appendix 1. To ensure that LVK and the MOIA work in a participative and collaborative
mode, the MOIA will be required, under its TOR, to follow a sequence of steps in each major area of its
assignment (i) assessment of the existing situation; (ii) elaboration of a prioritized strategic plan with
specific targets, costs, and inputs; (iii) preparation of detailed annual investment plans; (iv) implementation
assistance; and (v) preparation of maintenance and operation plan. At each step, LVK and the MOIA
would be required to arrive at a jointly agreed, detailed plan of action, including cost estimates and time
schedules for the completion of the next step. The Bank will need to closely follow the progress of the
MOIA engagement through proactive and diligent supervision. The hiring of the MOIA is a condition of
Effectiveness. L VK and the LCG would be required to submit to the Bank for its review and comment,
within six months after the signing of the contract with the MOIA, a comprehensive plan of action for
institutional strengthening of L VK
The second goal, i.e., providing LVK with adequate autonomy, will require a better definition of
the rights and obligations of both LVK and the LCG. This is being provided under the PA between L VK
and LCG. The PA will set out the respective rights and obligations of the parties. Specifically, it will
contain annual performance targets, which will oblige LVK to undertake (i) institutional restructuring; (ii)
financial improvements; (iii) operational efficiency gains and cost reductions; and (iv) related investments.
The LCG will be required to commit to (i) assuring autonomy for LVK in all aspects of enterprise
management, including planning, financing and execution of investments; (ii) allowing LVK to operate
without interference from the City Administration and the City Council; and (iii) a long-term enabling tariff
policy and other actions, which would enable LVK to reach the financial position needed to flil its
counterpart funding obligations under the project and to improve its financial performance as agreed under
the PA. The draft PA prepared by Lviv City and LVK includes all the above features, but some further
changes are necessary which were discussed and agreed at Negotiations. Signing of the PA, acceptable
- 23 -



to the Bank, is a condition of Effectiveness
4.2 Project management:
LVK will maintain during project implementation a PIU with well defined responsibili ies for
project implementation, monitoring and reporting. LVK has established a PIU and appointed its k(:y staff
for the first year's activities. In addition to the Head of the PIU, the key personnel include (i) a
procurement officer; and (ii) a project accountant/financial management officer. The PIU will be supported
by bilaterally funded technical consultants during the first phase of implementation, includ ng the
procurement and contractor selection activities for the IDI. These contracts are expected to be placed soon
after Effectiveness.  Supervision of construction of the IDI will be performed by a Construction
Supervision Engineer (CSE) who will be engaged by January 31, 2002 Once the MOIA comes on board at
Effectiveness, it will provide procurement and project financial management assistance to LVK. Th-tis will
include supervision of the construction supervision and other technical consultants to be engaged to provide
engineering and construction supervision services for the project investments. With the extensive techinical
assistance input outlined above, LVK and the PIU should have the necessary capacity successfully to
implement the proposed project.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Ukraine is judged to be a high-risk country from the point of view of procurement activities. A
Country Procurement Assessment was carried out in November 2000. Relevant findings from the
Assessment have been incorporated in the procurement arrangements for the project. This includes
agreement on additional procedures to be followed in cases of National Competitive Bidding (NCB).
International consultants, funded initially through donor funds, and later the MOIA, will help the PIR. to
ensure compliance with the Bank procurement rules. In addition, supervision consultants to be selectid
through international competitive selection procedures will assist the PIU in selection of contractors and in
supervision of construction. Further details of the proposed procurement arrangements are presented in
Annex 6.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Accounting and financial reporting standards and practices in Ukraine differ significantly from
IAS. Reforms at the national level in this area are at an early stage of development and it will be sorme time
before major changes are made in applicable regulations and procedures that would enable Ukrainian
standards to be consistent with IAS. LVK is receptive to the need to improve its financial management
systems to bring them closer to IAS but at the same time would need to be able to meet the requirements of
the local and national level regulations. One of the key tasks of the MOIA would be to help LVK to design
and implement an improved financial management system that would enable LVK to meet both objectives.
As part of the financial management assessment carried out by the Bank's financial management specialist
(FMS) assigned to the project, an Action Plan (Annex 11) was discussed with LVK and confirmled at
Negotiations. Until such time as the MOIA is able to design and help implement the new system, an
interim system for recording and monitoring of project sources and uses of funds will be used by LVK.
The FMS has reviewed the interim system set up by LVK and confirmed that it meets the 3ank's
requirements.The target under the Action Plan is to have production of full Project Management R eports
(PMRs) by July 31, 2002 but this would depend upon the establishment of the new system with the } elp of
the MOIA.
5. Environmental:                   Environmental Category. B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summlarize the steps undertaken for environmiental assessment and EMP preparation (including
- 24 -



consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Physical activities under the project aim to improve water supply service levels in Lviv; reduce
leakage and energy costs; and upgrade WWTP equipment so that by-pass flows and sludge discharges will
be eliminated. The project is not designed to carry out a complete overhaul of the water supply or
wastewater treatment systems, but it aims to prevent further collapse of the services and to reduce
discharges into the Poltva river. The project is focused entirely on rehabilitating and improving the
efficiency of existing water and wastewater systems. No additions of new capacity are contemplated. The
proposed investments in water supply would result in modest improvements in the quality of the water
distributed to consumers with accompanying public health benefits. Investments in wastewater collection
and treatment will reduce the pollution load on the aquatic environment. The restoration of the main
sewage pumping station at the wastewater treatment plant would remove the risk of spillage of sewage into
residential areas, thereby providing potential health benefits. In addition, SIDA is committed to support
the rehabilitation of the wastewater treatment plant to prevent the collapse of the facilities and to improve
the quality of the treatment.
OP 7.50 on "International Waterways" applies to the project because it is located on an
international waterway as defined by paragraphs (ay and (b) of the policy. Given the nature of the planned
interventions to be supported by the project and the fact that they will not impact adversely on downstream
riparian countries, the exception to the international notification requirements of OP 7.50, as set forth in
paragraph 7(a) of the policy has been confirmed by the Bank's Legal Department.
A review of the potential environmental impacts and appropriate mitigation measures has been
carried out during project preparation. The review is contained in the Environmnental Management Plan
(EMP) (Annex 12). Undertakings will be obtained from the Borrower, and Lviv City and LVK, that the
EMP would be implemented.
The project, through the implementation of the EMP, is not expected to have significant negative
environmental effects and will pose no risk to human health. The project will not entail any resettlement,
expansion of existing facilities or construction of new structures of significant size. Construction works
will predominantly entail pipe replacement, which includes pavement demolition, trench excavation, pipe
laying, trench filling and pavement application. Other construction works will be mainly rehabilitation of
existing structures such as pumping stations and specific parts of treatment plants. All works under the
project are expected to be of a rehabilitation nature in properties owned by LVK, the LCG or where
rights-of-way have been assigned for municipal infrastructure.
Potential issues relate to (i) disposal of water treatment sludge; (ii) temporary by-pass of untreated
or partially treated wastewater during the installation of new equipment at the WWTP; (iii) disturbance
during construction including dust, noise, vibration, access restriction, closure of roads and increased
traffic; (iv) construction run-offs; (v) disposal of demolition debris; (vi) safety hazards from construction
activities; (vii) spillage of fuel and oil from construction equipment; and (viii) damage to trees and
vegetative cover. All adverse environmental effects will be minimized through appropriate mitigation
measures which, for this project, are normal construction and utility operation practices. Requirements for
the works to be performed following specific provisions in the EMP and good construction practices will be
included in the contracts for rehabilitation and minor works.
Both wastewater treatment plant sites are located north of the town, and the distance from the
WWTPs to the nearest inhabited areas is about 1 km. With the improved sludge treatment, there should be
no significant odor-related nuisance to the population. However, LVK and the LCG would need to work
- 25 -



out a medium to long term strategy to address the issue of the current sludge disposal sites. For this
purpose, a study is included in the SIDA-financed component of the project and will be carried out v,ith the
help of consultants financed under the SIDA grant. The study will also include an assessment of the
environmental impacts on the Poltva river and further downstream, and the preparation of a strate:!gy for
further actions to increase treatment levels to meet HELCOM recommendations.
The project, including its environmental aspects, has been subject to a public hearing and
consultation process in November 2000. The process and results have been reviewed by the Bank and
found to be satisfactory.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The EMP includes a description of the baseline conditions, identification of main impacts, sp cific
mitigation measures with implementation and monitoring responsibilities, and the estimated budget. The
provisions of the EMP are adequate to minimize potential negative environrmental impacts associated with
the project activities. The EMP will be implemented by LVK with the assistance of the MOIA.
5.3 For Categoiy A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: November 24, 2000
The draft and final EMP will be made available in English and in Ukrainian in Lviv, the Bankl's
Resident Mission in Kiev, and the Bank's Infoshop on an ongoing basis during project implementation.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environrmental screening and (b) draft E:A
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted'?
The process of preparation of the EMP included public consultations. Notification of the pul-lic
hearing was published in the main local newspaper. A number of local organizations, including
universities, environmental funds, NGOs, and mass media as well as individual citizens participated it the
discussions. Minutes of the discussions and actions agreed are included in the EMP (Annex 12).
5 5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the F.MP?
Responsibilities for daily monitoring will be part of construction supervision activities.
Compliance with the EMP and monitoring of the impact during construction will be undertaken by the PIU.
The key monitoring indicators are included in the Performance Agreement and will be monitored during
project supervision. Per the recommendations of the EMP public consultation meeting, a separate working
group with multi-stakeholder representation will be established to advise and monitor the envirom-nental
issues during project implementation.
6. Social:
6.1 Summnarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
A Rapid Social Assessment (RSA), carried out in September 2000, confirmed the major findings
of the 1996 Beneficiary Assessment carried out as a part of the project's feasibility analysis, and identified
some new social issues. The water supply situation in Lviv has slightly improved since 1996, but only
15% of the inhabitants have a 24-hour water supply. About 63% of Lviv households have a scheduled
water supply of not more than six hours per day.  The improvement since 1996 has mainly been in
increased stability and the more regular manner in which the water is supplied now. Although the' RSA
survey respondents claim that the water distribution is not equitable, limited variations conceming the
- 26 -



access to water in some parts of the city are due to technical constraints (e.g. network limitations and
capacity of pumping stations).  Citizens are dissatisfied with the quality of water supply services for
several reasons (i) they are often forced to employ costly coping strategies to deal with poor water quality
and intermittent service, i.e. boiling water and storing of water; (ii) they are not adequately informed of the
problems facing the water and wastewater systems; (iii) they are generally skeptical about the municipal
authorities and LVK; and (iv) they see tariffs as being too high, especially after the substantial increase on
April 1, 2000, and feel that at present they do not get value for their payments.
To address these social issues, the project is designed to achieve the following social development
outcomes (i) improve consumer satisfaction through better water supply, improved quality of water, at
affordable prices; (ii) increase of mutual trust and consumer participation through regular information
flow, consultations, and the creation of consultative bodies between LVK and consumers; and (iii)
improvement of LCG's capacity to serve the poor and vulnerable groups through better targeting and
re-design of the support system.
The project will also address the issue of consumers' willingness to pay for services by providing
for better information exchange with consumers and other stakeholders, and mobilizing their support for
securing improvements in the quality of service provided. The April 2000 tariff increase has demonstrated
this correlation (i) the number of individual household meters more then doubled in less than six months;
(ii) visible water savings followed the installation of individual meters (induced also by a reduced need to
store water because of its increased reliability); and (iii) consumers expressed their readiness to pay more if
better services are provided. LVK's response has been to create an Information and Social Research Unit
whose task will be to provide a regular information flow, prepare and disseminate periodic project progress
reports, and conduct regular consumer opinion surveys, among other activities.
The LCG intends to undertake a review of its subsidy and social assistance systems in 2001. The
current subsidy program, which provides housing and utility allowances, supports between 30% and 50%
of households, but is not well targeted and provides support to the non-poor as well. The social assistance
program is limited and covers a small number of households. The review of the subsidy program should
also focus on revising cumbersome procedures that humiliate citizens and unnecessarily burden LVK and
other municipal services. The LCG is considering ways to help poor households to install individual meters
in their apartments. The current cost of UAH 179 (US$33) to install one individual meter is prohibitively
expensive for poor households. The LCG also intends to encourage the creation and development of
condominium associations. This would be important for better payment discipline within apartment blocks
as well as improved maintenance of apartment block internals of plunbing and water distribution piping.
These project objectives and activities would be supported and complemented by several related
activities that are being financed by the Bank and/or other international donors. The People's Voice
Project, financed by the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), is being implemented by the
Bank. Its main focus is to put together local governments, NGOs, and private businesses in order to
improve key municipal services. It creates joint working groups to address and resolve specific municipal
issues. The Social Safety Net and Poverty Project is focused on a revision of the subsidy and social
welfare benefit programs at the national level. USAID's Roll-Out Project operates in four smaller cities in
Western Ukraine and provides technical assistance to water supply and wastewater agencies. Its main
focus is on the participatory approach, in which service providers, expert groups, and NGOs work together
through workshops and training sessions.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project'?
Since 1998 LVK has organized a number of public relations events better to inforn and attract
- 27 -



consumers and other major stakeholders to participate in this project. Besides LVK, other major
stakeholders are the LCG, local mass media, NGOs and a variety of professionals working in different
public agencies. The NGO community in Lviv is limited with about 30 active organizations which mainly
focus on environment, research, and training. The key institutional stakeholder is the LCG which thapes
policy issues including the approval of water and wastewater tariffs. The LCG, from its budget, pr-ovides
subsidies and support to the poor and vulnerable households in Lviv. The LCG intends to establish a
special Project Advisory Board which would be attached to the Mayor's Office. This Advisory Board
would consist of prominent public officials, LVK staff, business representatives and NGO representatives.
Its main tasks would be to follow project implementation; provide advice and assistance as needed; and
mobilize general public support in addressing and resolving project related issues. LVK periodically
organizes press conferences and round-table meetings with local media. LVK has also been publishing
advertisements in the local press in regard to its activities.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations'?
During the preparation of the project, LVK organized many public events with the assistance of
local NGOs. The most important events have been the Water Week open houses, and public hearings in
regard to the project. Local NGOs have been major consultants or implementers of these activities. B3ased
on their experience, NGO focus groups have expressed their willingness to participate in  roject
implementation where they see their role in two main areas (i) they can help integrate citizens airound
important project objectives such as a 'water-saving strategy' or a 'meter installation campaign'; and (ii)
they can act as intermediaries in better production and dissemination of information. This may include
some training and monitoling activities. LVK and the LCG intend to involve local NGOs in orga..nizing
town-hall-type meetings, periodical round-tables, and workshops to discuss project implemeiitation
progress and related issues to be dealt with.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes'?
Customer Satisfaction. LVK has started developing a public relations strategy which will i iclude
regular dissemination of information in relation to progress of project implementation; public availab ility of
the Lviv sanitary authority's reports in regard to improvements in the quality of water; and disclosures
about LVK's revenues and expenditures, including the importance and role of water and wastewater
revenue collection rates in ensuring progress. However, LVK will need technical assistance in developing
this strategy further. This would be provided by the MOIA.
Mutual Trust and Participation: LVK is taking steps to create a small NGO Advisory Group
whose task will be to encourage better information flow, to serve as a mediator between LVK and citizens,
and to advise LVK's Information and Social Research Unit in carrying out public relations actions,
organizing surveys, and preparing special events with citizens' participation. The PIU will prepare a
special plan to work with mass media (round-tables, open house, workshops, regular press briefings, and
such).
Improvement of LCG Support to the Poor: The LCG is in the process of creating an
inter-department group to review the existing housing and utility subsidy program. This would have two
main tasks (i) to revise the eligibility criteria to enable better targeting, and to simplify procedural issues;
and (ii) to integrate this program with the local social welfare program.
The Bank will monitor progress in regard to the satisfactory establishment of these arrange:ments
during project supervision.
- 28 -



6 5 How will the project monitor performance in tenns of social development outcomes?
During project supervision, the Bank will monitor performnance in terms of (i) satisfactory
establishment of arrangements; and (ii) social outcomes on the basis of indicators agreed under the
Performance Agreement. These indicators will be reviewed and revised, if necessary, during project
implementation on the basis of experience. Social Assessment findings will be shared and discussed with
LCG officials, NGOs, consumer representative groups and the mass media. A workshop will be organized
each year by LVK and the LCG to evaluate performance in termns of social development outcomes. A
special review will be carried out at the time of the Mid-Term review of the project (expected by June 30,
2003).
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safegiard policies apply to the proJect?
=  ~    ~    ~    ~  ~ Ok __                               _  _  __   _  _  __  _  _  _
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)             * Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                     0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                      0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                        0 Ycs * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                    0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                     0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                               0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)     0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)           0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Environmental mitigation and monitoring provisions are included in the EMP (Annex 12).
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of the project depends primarily on the ability of LVK to become self-sufficient
in terns of generating internally the resources needed to: carry out its operations, maintenance and service
delivery efficiently; provide the required counterpart funding contributions for the project; and service its
debts. This requires LVK to successfully internalize the management and operations improvement
assistance that it would get from the MOIA in regard to its technical, commercial and financial operations.
It will also need a firm commitment from LVK, with the full support of the LCG, to make financial
self-sufficiency possible by achieving the perfornance targets set under the PA, which includes pursuing a
strategy of progressively full-cost recovering tariffs and strict enforcement of revenue collection.  As
discussed further in the following risk section, the chances for sustainability of the project will depend on
strict entry conditionality and rigorous project supervision. Entry conditionality includes(i) commitment
by LVK and LCG to a five-year Perfornance Agreement; (ii) compliance with financial conditions with
respect to tariff levels and collections; and (iii) engagement of a reputed, experienced MOIA.  For the
Bank, it would be essential to commit itself to: providing fully the resources needed for intensive, proactive
and diligent supervision; willingness to adjust the project for unforeseen circumstances, and resoluteness in
applying appropriate remedies as and when justified.
- 29 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex
Risk Rating  F                       Risk Mitig~~~ation Measurlk
From Outputs to Objective
Tariffs are increased as required by LCG    S         *Up-front condition to increase tarifls to
and LVK                                               demonstrate commitment to financial principles
of the project
*LCG-LVK Performance Agreemeni explicitly
recognizes principle of enabling finawicial
self-sufficiency for LVK
*Intensive monitoring of compliance with
financial covenants and prompt actio n in case of
non-compliance
*Physical investments designed to have a rapid
and visible impact on improving sen ices
*Concurrent intensive public relations campaign
by LVK to disseminate information ;nd solicit
public support
*Participative arrangements for cons iner
representatives, NGOs and other staleholders to
regularly give voice during project
implementation
2. Macroeconomic and fiscal situation       S          *Intensive monitoring of financial p-rformance
does not deteriorate affecting adversely              and prompt support to LVK to find altemative
payment of water and wastewater bills by              ways of compensating shortfalls
domestic consumers, local and national
budget institutions, and large industries
3. LCG gives the necessary support to       S         *LCG-LVK Performance Agreement explicitly
LVK to enforce collections by                         recognizes LVK's right to enforce collections by
disconnections for consumers in arrears               disconnection in case of consumers in arrears or
default
*Intensive monitoring to identify pott:ntial
problem situations developing, and tc urge
preparation of remedial action plans
4. GoU compensates LVK timely and           S         *MOF-LCG Guarantee Agreement to explicitly
adequately for state institutions and                 provide for compensation to LVK in such cases
agencies more than 30 days behind in                  *Regular monitoring during supervis:on and
payment of their dues                                 seeking remedial action as necessary
5. LCG compensates LVK timely and          S         *LCG-LVK Performance Agreement explicitly
adequately for local government                       recognizes LCG's obligation to compensate
institutions and agencies more than 30                LVK in such cases
days behind in payment of their dues                  *Regular monitoring during supervision and
seeking remedial action as necessary
- 30 -



6. Tariff regime is changed to maintain     M         *LCG-LVK Performance Agreement explicitly
LVK revenues in co-ordination with                    recognizes principle of financial self-sufficiency
consumption-based billing                            for LVK
*Regular monitoring during supervision and
seeking remedial action as necessary
7. No new national level regulations are   M         *Continuous monitoring of new regulations and
introduced that prevent tariff increases at           prompt dialogue with GoU agencies to resolve
the local government level                            problems for the project
8. A major devaluation of the UAH           M         *Prompt consultation with the MOF and LVK
makes the Bank loan unaffordable for                  to reduce the size of the project and the loan by
LVK on account of the increase in debt                down-sizing of the Operational Fund
service obligations in UAH terms
From Components to Outputs
1. Consultants (MOIA and CSE) are          M          *Well-prepared, clear terms of reference
effective in designing and implementing               *Careful evaluation of proposals and consultant
their TA activities                                   selection
*Use of consultants with practical experience in
operation of water and wastewater systems and
in management of utilities
*Close monitoring of the consultants' work
*Monitoring of the effectiveness of local and
foreign consultants working together
2. Existence of adequate managerial,       M         *Substantial training effort, including on the job
financial and technical capacity in LVK               training during implementation of the IDI and
the OF
3. Tools and methodologies are adequate    M         *Close supervision of the progress of the
for managerial, financial and technical               consultants' work, particularly at the early
capacity in LVK                                       stages of design and implementation to ensure
appropriateness of approach and actions
4. LVK and the MOIA are able to work        M         *Plan of action to be signed by both LVK and
collaboratively and agree on specific                the MOIA
actions to be taken                                   *Specific criteria to be agreed up-front for
investments under the OF
*Bank supervision missions to arbitrate/mediate
to resolve any differences
- 31 -



Overall Risk Rating                              S          If the objectives and outputs of the p.roposed
project are to materialize, the Bank will have to
demonstrate firmness about the proj,ct
conditions, and be prepared to pull cut if
objectives and outputs are jeopardiz2zd. It
should be prepared, if necessary, to restructure
the project and reduce scope or loan size, but
not retreat from three essential principles:
priority for institutional strengthening; financial
viability; and cost-effectiveness of ilivestments.
Retreating on any of these conditions would not
only jeopardize successful implemer tation of the
project but also deprive LVK of the benefits
that could otherwise be obtained.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
Overall Project Risk Rating:   The project risk is rated as substantial for the following reasons:
Turning LVK into an efficient modem utility will require increased autonomy, progressive fuill-cost
recovery based tariffs, strict enforcement of revenue collection, and cost-benefit justified investment
practices, concentrating scarce resources on system rehabilitation and efficiency improvements. Th se are
notions that are relatively new for both LVK and the LCG. Although LVK and the LC(CT have
demonstrated their commitment to the project, including through several significant up-front actions, and
LVK has benefited substantially from its association with USAID, successful implementatic,n and
achievement of project objectives will require a continuing steadfastness of purpose and resolve to do what
is necessary, including the fulfillment of the Performance Agreement. It is not inconceivable that in future
changing political pressures within the LCG and the Lviv legislative assembly, may at times, cause LVK
and the LCG to reexamine their commitment to pursue the course agreed. The Bank will have so stay
closely involved in monitoring and evaluating project progress, proactively seeking resolution of enrerging
issues and problems, and firmly applying remedies when necessary.
- 32 -



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
There continues to be resistance in some political circles, both at national and local levels, to
utilization of highly-paid (by Ukrainian standards) foreign consultants to provide technical assistance to
Ukrainian entities. This is reflected in the clear preference expressed by LVK, the LCG and the GoU
agencies concerned for the use of donor funds for financing the engagement of the MOIA. There is
apprehension, in particular, that Parliamentary approval may be jeopardized if the technical assistance is to
be financed under the loan and not from donor financing. The Bank was prepared to accept, and helped
LVK to pursue, donor financing for the MOIA on the understanding that (i) such financing would be
secured timely and adequately, and would not affect the project implementation schedule envisaged; and (ii)
there was clear assurance that the requisite quality of technical assistance will not be compromised, i.e., in
case donor funds are tied to sourcing from the donor country, there are acceptable experienced, qualified
utility operators who are willing to participate.  Since the Borrower was unable to obtain the required
donor financing, it was agreed at Negotiations that the services of the MOIA would be funded under the
Bank loan. A second possible controversial area could be the extent and use of local suppliers and
services. The procurement plan as discussed and agreed with LVK and the LCG is acceptable in this
regard, but it is possible that pressures may arise later. Finally, financial viability for LVK will critically
depend upon its success in improving its revenue collection, including through strict enforcement of
disconnections and through legal actions. The political will to support this would depend upon the state of
the overall economy, and specifically on economic conditions in Lviv. A worsening in economic
conditions, and in the ability of consumers to pay, would erode the political support needed to improve
collections.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions
(i)  Execution of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between MOF and LVK; (page 9)
(ii)  Execution of the Guarantee Agreement between MOF and Lviv City; (page 9)
(iii) Execution of the Performance Agreement between LCG and LVK; (page 9)
(iv)  Signing of the Grant Agreement between SIDA and the MOF; (page 17)
(v)  Signing of contract between LVK and the MOIA (pages 10, 23)
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Government Approvals and Guarantees
(i)   Agreement by LCG to cover possible counterpart fund shortfalls, including the setting up of
a Project Security Fund by December 31, 2001; (page17)
Accounts and Audit
(i)   Maintenance of accounts, and project financial management arrangements, satisfactory to
the Bank; and
(ii)  Annual audited financial statements; (page 10)
- 33 -



Financial Performance and Revenue Generation from Beneficiaries
(i)  Achievement of revenue collection ratios not lower than the levels specified in the
Performance Agreement; (page 21)
(ii)  Achievement of operating ratios not higher than the levels specified in the Performance
Agreement; (page 21)
(iii) MOF agreement promptly to compensate LVK for overdues from state institutions anc
agencies over 30 days in arrears of payments; (page 19)
(iv) LCG agreement promptly to compensate LVK for overdues from LCG institutions anc
agencies more than 30 days in arrears of payments; (page 19)
(v)  Debt limitation by LVK, subject to prior Bank approval; (page 21)
(vi)  Submission of annual forecasts of revenues and expenses to demonstrate adequacy of
projected tariffs to meet the project objectives; (page 22) and
(vi)  Submission of annual investment plans, with the endorsement of the MOIA. (page 22
Flow and Utilization of Project Funds
(i)  Establishment of a separate Project Fund Account by December 31, 2001 for the PIU.
(page 17)
Counterpart Funding
(i)  Agreement on project financing plan, LVK Project Account, and LCG Security Fund
Account; (page 17) and
(ii)   Agreement on SIDA grant financing; (page 17)
Project Management
(i)    Establishment and maintenance of a Project Implementation Unit, acceptable to the Bank;
(page 24)
Environmental Management
(i)    The Borrower to enable, and LVK and Lviv City to carry out, the Environmental
Management Plan; (page 25)
Project Monitoring, Review and Reporting
(i)  Submit to the Bank for review and approval a comprehensive plan of action for institu:ional
strengthening within six months after contract signing between LVK and the MOIA; (p-age
23)
(ii)  Submit periodically to the Bank for review and approval detailed investment plans, duly
endorsed by the MOIA, for expenditures to be identified and funded under the Operating
Fund under Component I (Water Supply) and for equipment/supplies and training uncler
Component 3 (Institutional Strengthening); (page 22)
(iii) Semi-annual reporting on project implementation progress; (page I1)
(iv)  Semi-annual reporting of project financial management; (page I 1)
(v)  Mid Term Review by June 30, 2003; (page 1 1) and
(vi)  Implementation Completion Report; (page 1 1)
- 34 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
0 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
0 1. b) Not applicable.
El 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
El 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
The first year's activities are an integral part of the Initial Defined Investments component which accounts
for about 32% of the project cost. Engineering designs for the IDI are being prepared with the help of
foreign consultants and are expected to be ready by September 30, 2001. These designs will include those
for the first year's activities. The first contracts are expected to be placed in January 2002.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
El 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Lilia Burunciuc, Acting Country
_____________________________                       ~M anager
Kishore Nadkarni                   Ricakdo A.    erirn                Luca Barbone
Team Leader                        Sectbr Directog/                   Country Manager
- 35 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
UKRAINE: LVIV WATER AND WASTEWATER PROJECT
H~rdrchy  dfOetvsIi'atr                             M  lt 4i~   &I                 MOt~   Ciia A~~
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
On a selective basis, to   Quality of water services  LVK's periodic progress    Favorable macrc,conomic
support areas where technical improved in Lviv        reports prepared with the help conditions in Ukraine
assistance and/or investment                          of the MOIA
can help achieve the provision
of a better, more efficient and                       LVK's Performance
financially viable service                            Agreement with LCG.
Project Development        Outcome I Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
To improve accessibility and  1. 24-hour supply of water for - LVK's periodic progress  Favorable macrc,zconomic
quality of the water supply at  at least 50% of LVK   reports                    conditions in Ukraine
an affordable level in Lviv,   consumers with no customers
and to restore public      with less than 10 hours supply  - LVK's Performance
confidence in the sector   by 12/05.                  Agreement with LMG.
2. Average tariffs levels  - Reviews by stakeholder
during project implementation Project Advisory Group
do not result in the share of   created by LCG
water and wastewater
expendituTes in an average    - Supervision mission reports
income-level household's
expenditures being higher  - Mid Term Review and
than internationally accepted  Implementation Completion
norms of affordability     Report (ICR)
Improve the efficiency of  1. Starting with 2001, LVK    - Regular progress reports
LVK's technical, commercial  to collect sufficient cash from  (PMRs)
and financial operations   its operations to cover its cash
through a management and   operating expenses,         - Annual audited financial
advisory services contract    counterpart funding     statements
obligations for the project,
Enhance IVK's financial    and debt service on its debts   - Supervision mission reports
capacity through reducing
operating costs, better    2. LVK to reach full-cost   - Mid Term Review and
justified investment selection, recovery tariffs by 2004  Implementation Completion
progressive cost-recovery                             Report (ICR)
policies, and effective    3. IVK to produce financial
consumer-oriented          statements compatible with
commercial practices       IAS by 2003
4. LVK to reduce consumer
complaints by 20% by 2003
and 50% by 2005.
- 36 -



Output from each           Output Indicators:          Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Priority and cost-effective  1. Rehabilitation of at least 3  - LVK's periodic progress    1. Tariffs are increased as
physical investments selected, pumping stations by 12/03    reports prepared with the  required by LCG and LVK
facilities built, replaced or    and 5 by 12/05        assistance of the MOIA
rehabilitated, and made                                                            2. Macroeconomic and
operational                 2. Establishment of at least  - MOIA reports of its   fiscal situation does not
7 pressure zones by 12/03 and activities               deteriorate affecting payment
I I by 12/05                                          of water and wastewater bills
- Bidding documents for the  by domestic consumers, local
3. Replacement of at least   procurement of the goods,    and national budget
10 km of leaking pipes by  equipment, works and        institutions, and large
12/03 and 20 km by 12/05    services necessary to complete industries
the investments program
4. UFW to be reduced to                                3. LCG gives the necessary
levels not exceeding 35% by   - Supervision mission reports support to LVK to enforce
12/03 and 30% by 12/05                                 collections by disconnections
- Mid Term Review and ICR  for consumers in arrears
5. Specific energy
consumption to be reduced by                            4. GoU compensates LVK
at least 5% by 12/03 and 10%                          timely and adequately for
by 12/05                                               state institutions and agencies
more than 30 days behind in
6. Pipe breakage rates to be                          payment of their dues
reduced by at least 10% by
12/03 and 20% by 12/05                                 5. LCG compensates LVK
timely and adequately for
local government institutions
and agencies more than 30
days behind in payment of
their dues
6. Tariff regime is changed
to maintain LVK revenues in
co-ordination with
consumption-based billing
7. No new national level
regulations are introduced
that prevent tariff increases at
the local government level
- 37 -



The engineering, financial    1. Key staff of LVK have  - Progress reports submitted
and management personnel of been trained on the job by the by the MOIA
LVK have been trained and   MOIA
LVK has adopted modem                                - LVK progress
water utility management   2 All detailed,          implementation reports
methods                   economically justified
investment proposals prepared - Audited annual financial
by LVK with the help of the  statements
MOIA are submitted for the
Bank's approval in year 2 of   - Supervision mission reports
project implementation
- Mid Term Review and ICR
3 A modern, appropriate
computer-based customer
management, billing and
collection system is in place
by 12/03
4. A modern, appropriate
computer-based accounting
and financial reporting system
is in place by 12/03
5. Consumption-based
billing is progressively
increased by LVK
6. Collected revenues cover
cash operating expenses,
counterpart funding
requirements and debt service
- 38 -



Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:       (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                          Outputs)
1. Water Supply - Initial  Component 1- US$13 20    - Bidding documents,      1. Consultants (interim
Defined Investments (IDI)    million               including detailed designs,   technical assistance and the
that meet international   MOIA) are effective in
standards                 designing and implementing
1.1 Rehabilitation of    Sub-Component 1.1:                                   their TA activities
pumping stations          US$1.65 million           - Contracts for the
procurement of goods,     2. Existence of adequate
1 2 Establishment of pressure Sub-Component 1.2:    equipment and works       managerial, financial and
zones                     US$7.45 million                                     technical capacity in LVK
- LVK's periodic progress
1.3 Replacement of pipes    Sub-Component 3: US$3.45  reports (PMRs)          3. Tools and methodologies
million                                             are adequate for managerial,
- Supervision mission reports financial and technical
1.4 Repair and construction   Sub-Component 4: US$0.65                        capacity in LVK
equipment                 million                   - Mid-Term Review and ICR
4. LVK and the MOIA are
able to work collaboratively
and agree on specific actions
to be taken
2. Wastewater             Component 2: US$11.10
million
2.1 Rehabilitation of Pumps  Sub-Component 2.1      - As above
at WWTP2 (Bank-financed)  US$2.80 million
2.2 Rebabilitation at WWTPI Sub-Component 2.2.      - As above
and WWTP2 (SIDA-financed) US$8.30 million
- SIDA progress and
evaluation reports
3. Operating Fund (OF)    Component 3: US$10.60     - Bidding documents,
million                  including detailed designs,
that meet international
standards
- Contracts for the
procurement of goods,
equipment and works
- LVK's periodic progress
reports (PMRs)
- Supervision mission reports
- Mid-Term Review and ICR
4. Institutional Strengthening Component 4: US$2.90
million
- 39 -



4.1 Management and        Sub-Component 4.1.
Operations Improvement    US$2 80 million
Advisory Services
4.2 PIU Incremental       Sub-Component 4.2:
Expenses                  US$0 10 million
5. Engineering and        Component 5: US$2.45       - Proposals received from
Construction Supervision  million                    consultants for provision of
Services                                             the services
5.1 Engineering Services for                          - Activity reports of the
OF (Bank-financed)        Sub-Component 5.1:         consultants
US$0.85 million
5.2 Engineering and                                   - LVK progress reports
Construction Services for IDI Sub-Component 5.2.     (PMRs)
and OF (Bank-financed)    US$0.70 million
- Contracts for the
5 3 Engineering and                                  procurement of goods,
Construction Services for  Sub-Component 5.3:        equipment and services
Wastewater (SIDA-financed)  US$0.90 million
- Supervision mission reports
- Mid Term Review and ICR
-40 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
UKRAINE: LVIV WATER AND WASTEWATER PROJECT
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$13.20 million
Water Supply - Initial Defined Investments (IDI)
This component will finance a set of urgent investments needed to make immediate improvements in LVK's
operations, resulting in operational cost savings through reductions in electric power consumption and in
water losses through leakages. The investments were identified, described, justified, costed and designed
by LVK with the help of donor-funded (USAID, DEPA) international consultants, and based on
considerable knowledge and technical evaluation. The implementation of this program is expected to take
about two years. Final designs and bidding documents for the investments to be undertaken in the first year
of project implementation are expected to be ready by June 30, 2001, and the balance to be completed by
loan effectiveness. Construction supervision sources will be provided by a consulting firm to be engaged
for the purpose. Other assistance in regard to implementation will be given by the Management and
Operations Improvement Advisor (MOIA) to be engaged by the time the Bank loan becomes effective. The
investments in this component include:
L.I Rehabilitation of Pumping Stations: (US$1.65 million)
This sub-component will cover the rehabilitation of a number of five pumping stations by improving
pumping characteristics through changes in pumps, motors and related piping improvements at the stations.
The intervention is expected to reduce energy used in pumping, reduce wear and tear on valves and other
components used to control flow, and make operations at the pumps easier.
1.2 Establishment of Pressure Zones: (US$ 7.45 million)
This sub-component will cover the establishment of eleven pressure zones to enable LVK better to extend
or control service hours in different parts of the city through more predictable system operation and
performance.  Definition of the pressure zones was based on hydraulic modelling performed by
international consultants.  Investments will include modifications to pumping stations, including
replacement of pumps, motors and motor controllers, pressure reducing valves, and replacement and
installation of pipes and valves. The intervention is expected to lead to reduction in electric power
consumption and in water losses through leakages caused by high pressures and failures in pipes; reduction
in pressure fluctuations in the different zones; improvement in accountability of water entering and leaving
the pressure system; and better control of operations and maintenance.
1.3 Replacement of Distribution Pipelines: (USS 3.45 million)
This sub-component will cover the replacement of some of the sections of pipes with a high rate of
leakages. The selection of pipes to be replaced is based on an assessment of failure rate, age and other
relevant characteristics. The intervention is expected to increase the amount of water available for
productive use, reduce electric power consumption by reducing water leakages, and reduce the cost of
repairs.
- 41 -



1.4 Repair and Construction Equipment: (US$ 0.65 million)
This sub-component will cover the acquisition of new repair and construction equipment to improve LVK's
capacity to respond more rapidly and efficiently to repair situations. It will include the purchase of
compressors, generators, excavators, welders, and other relevant equipment. The intervention is expected
to enable LVK to improve its response time to make timely and more efficient system repairs.
Project Component 2 - US$11.10 million
Wastewater Treatment
2.1 Rehabilitation of Inlet Pumps at WWTP2 (US$2.80 million)
This sub-component will cover the replacement of pumping units at the main pumping station of the
wastewater treatment facility. It is expected to result in more stable and reliable operations, and in
reduction in the currently high electric power consumption.
2.2 Rehabilitation of WWTPI and WWTP2 (US$8.30 million)
The sub-component will cover rehabilitation of the aeration, clarifier and sludge disposal facilities at
WWTP1 and WWTP2. The investments will help reduce the pollution load on the aquatic environment.
They would also reduce the risk of spillage into living areas. The sub-component would be financed under
the SIDA grant.
Project Component 3 - USs 10.60 million
Operating Fund (OF)
The OF will provide LVK, guided by the MOIA, with the financial resources for additional investments
and other expenditures required to meet the objectives of the project. The OF will provide the flexibility
needed to accommodate changes in priorities and new needs that may emerge during project
implementation. The OF would consist of the following two sub-components.
3.1    Additional investments (US$ 8.60 million)
This sub-component would include additional investments in upgrading and improving the efficiency of
LVK's water supply plants and networks, and in water demand management, including metering.
3.2    Other Expenditures (US$ 2.00 million)
This sub-component would include expenditures required for improvement of LVK's commercial and
financial management systems; establishment of a project monitoring and evaluation system; training;
carrying out of public information and opinion survey activities; and office equipment.
The MOIA will assist LVK in developing an annual plan for use of the OF, to be approved by LVK
management and the Bank. The first annual plan will be due 90 days after the start of work by the MIOIA.
Subsequent plans will be due 90 days before the end of the first, second and third contract years. Any
amount not expended in a particular year will be carried over to the next year. The proposed plan will
- 42 -



include (i) a description of the proposed investments; (ii) estimated costs and expenses; (iii) implementation
plan; (iv) procurement schedule; (v) priority analysis; and (vi) assessment of any environmental, social, or
other issues of relevance.
Project Component 4 - US$2.90 million
Institutional Strengthening
4.1 Management and Operations Improvement Advisory Services (US$2.80 million)
This sub-component will pay for the fees and expenses of the MOIA's core group of advisory staff with
international experience in the water supply and wastewater sector who will assist LVK to improve its
management and operations. Staff to be provided by the MOIA will include expertise in (i) general
management of water supply utilities; (ii) financial accounting, cost accounting, budgeting and financial
planning; (iii) water supply mechanical, electrical and environmental engineering; (iv) computer-based
management information systems; (v) customer management, public information and community relations;
and (vi) human resources development and training.
Terms of reference for the MOLA are summarized in Appendix 1 to this Annex.
4.2 Project Implementation Unit Incremental Expenses (US$0.10 million)
This sub-component covers the incremental expenses of the PIU set up for the project. It will be financed
by LVK from internal sources.
Project Component 5 - US$2.45 million
Engineering and Construction Supervision Services
5.1 Engineering Services (for the OF) (US$0.85 million)
This sub-component covers the engineering services required for the preparation of the investments under the OF.
The services will include preparation of preliminary and detailed designs, cost estimates, specifications and bidding
documents.
5.2 Construction Supervision Services (for the IDI and the OF) (US$0.70 million)
This sub-component covers the construction supervision services required for the investments under the IDI and the
OF.
5.3 Engineering and Construction Supervision Services (for the Wastewater Component) (US$0.90 million)
This sub-component will cover both engineering and construction supervision services required for the Wastewater
component. It will be financed under the SIDA grant.
Project Component 6 - US$0.31 million
Auditors' Services
This component will finance the engagement of auditor's services for carrying out the annual audits of project and
entity accounts and financial statements. It will be financed by LVK from internal resources.
- 43 -



Annex 2, Appendix 1
Outline Terms of Reference for LVK Management and Operations Improvement Program
I. Background/Objectives
1.    The Lviv Vodokanal (LVK - Lviv Water and Wastewater Company) is undertaking a program of
investments to increase the administrative, commercial, financial and technical perfonnance of its
management and operations. These efforts are supported by a World Bank financed Lviv Water and
Wastewater Project. A description of the project, its costs and financing arrangements are provided in
Attachment 1.
2.    LVK wishes to retain an experienced, reputed international water and wastewater utility operator -
in the following referred to as Management and Operations Improvement Advisor (MOIA) - to assist LVK
in the planning, design and implementation of a comprehensive program of institutional strengthening and
capacity building in its technical, commercial, and financial management and operations. To this end, the
Bank loan includes funding for consulting services, purchase of equipment, and external training for LVK
management and staff.
3.    In the preparation of the project, an in-depth assessment of LVK's institutional and operational
performnance have been completed  (Attachment 2).  They also led to the formulation of specific
recommendations which have been endorsed in principle by LVK and should serve as the starting point for
the work of the MOIA. Moreover, LVK, in a Performance Agreement with the Lviv city goverrnment, has
set institutional, financial and operational performance targets which are to reached with the assistance of
the MOIA (Attachment 3).
4.    The MOIA will be working directly with LVK managers and thus be integrated into the relevant
organizational units whose perfonnance is to improved. The work of the MOIA will be coordinated by a
Project Implementation Unit which reports directly to LVK's general manager.
5.    To ensure the success of the institutional strengthening program, the MOIA is expected to work
closely together with LVK management and staff. The MOIA needs to have exceptional experience,
expertise and commitment to define and implement programs that are appropriate for the Lviv/llkraine
environment, resources and capacity and are developed in true partnership with LVK management and
staff.
11. Scope of Work
6.    The MOIA will develop, together with LVK, programs and specific projects to:
A.    improve the safety and reliability of water supply services to LVK customers, and increase the
operating efficiency of LVK's water supply system; and
B.    strengthen institutional development and capacity building to increase the efficiency of lVK's
management and administration, with particular attention given to modernizing and improving LVKs.
i.    organizational setup and corporate management/administration
ii.    commercial systems and practices including demand management
-44 -



iii.   financial management systems and practices
7.     Many of these tasks are inter-related and therefore will need to be approached in a coordinated
manner. In addition to the fee for the MOIA, the loan provides about US$ 10 million services in an
Operating Fund (OP) that is earmarked for investmnents -- equipment, works, hardware/software, training,
consulting services not covered under the MOIA contract -- in support of the programs and specific
projects which MOIA and LVK will develop jointly relative to the tasks outlined above. About US$8
million are for allocated for Task A and about US$2 million for Task B.
Task A: Water SUppIy Network and Plant Rehabilitation and Efficiency Improvements
Background/Objective
8.     Consultants have prepared an initial investment program of about US$--million which is to be
completed during the first two years of project execution. It consist of three components (i) establishment of
pressure zones; (ii) rehabilitation of five pumping stations; (iii) replacement for about 20 km of pipes that
need urgent replacement; and (iv) purchase of operating equipment. I)esigns and bidding documents for
these investments are being completed, and execution will start as soon as the Bank loan becomes effective.
9.     While these initial investments are expected to bring significant improvements in LVK's operating
efficiency, they will not be sufficient to address all of the shortcomings in LVK's water supply system.
Building on the initial investment program, the MOIA is expected to assist LVK in continuing its efforts in
improving the efficiency of its water supply. The MOIA will, together with LVK, identify additional
cost-effective, high priority investments to further improve the performance of LVK's water system. The
Bank loan provides an Operating Fund (OP) of US$10 million to support investments to be identified
jointly by the MOIA and LVK.
10.   In defining the investment package, MOIA and LVK are encouraged to consider a wide array of
alternatives that improve the efficiency and performance of LVK's water supply system, including further
reducing leaks and energy consumption, and improving the hydraulic efficiency of the
pipe/storage/pumping system. The investments chosen should together maximize resource utilization in
terms of two objectives: (i) improve the reliability and safety of water supply services to LVK's
customers; and (ii) reduce the cost of operation of the water supply system.
Tasks
11.   The MOIA, based on its independent assessment of the work done by LVK and other consultants
so far, and of the information already available, should develop a good understanding of the existing
performance of the water supply system and assist LVK in identifying programs and projects related to:
Task A (i) Information Development
*    improving LVK's system mapping records, and a check for their completeness and accuracy
*   carrying out an in-depth physical inspection of the well fields, transmission mains, reservoirs,
and pipe system to obtain reliable information on its condition and need for repair
*    performing a detailed leak assessment and identification (flow balance, metering, night flow
analysis, physical detection)
*   preparing and calibrating a mathematical simulation model which can accurately represent flows
-45 -



and pressures throughout the water system
*   monitoring the effect of the immediate investment program  on system efficiency, energy
consumption and operating costs.
Task A (ii) Identification least-cost priority investments to further improve the efficiency of L VK's
water supply system, including:
*    carrying out all necessary analyses and planning work to identif,v and justify le:ist-cost
investment proposals
*   preparation of detailed cost estimates on the basis of preliminary designs
*   preparation of procurement and implementation plan
*    coordinating implementation of the investments (the preparation of bidding doctiments,
procurement assistance and supervision of construction, will be carried out by s.parate
engineering consultants hired by LVK and financed from the Loan).
Task A (iii) Identificadon and implementation of a Maintenance and Operation Plan, including:
*   determination of maintenance needs and costs
identification of assistance in the acquisition of maintenance and operating equipment
*   preparation and implementation of appropriate computer-based maintenance and operation
systems and procedures
*   training and capacity building of LVK management and staff in all aspects of maintenanze and
operations, and in the use of systems and procedures.
Approach, Deliverables and Timetable
12.   To ensure that the program is fully supported by LVK management, staff, and other rnlevant
stakeholders, and is appropriate and affordable to the Lviv situation, the work should proceed in the
following manner and phases:
Phase 1: Inception Report (to be submitted to the Bank for review within two months of start of work by
the MOIA)
13.   After careful review and assessment of work already performed by previous consultants and after
intensive joint discussions, MOIA/LVK will present an inception report which will provide a Strategy
Proposal providing (i) a definition of the approach to completing tasks; and (ii) describing how the MvOIA
and LVK will work jointly to achieve the objectives of the program.
Phase 2: Plan of Action
14.   LVK/ MOIA will present within six months after execution of the MOIA contract, a detailed
time-bound plan of action (the Action Plan hereafter) which describes, for each task, how objective s and
performnance targets will be met, including:
*    specific objectives and time-bound performnance targets to be reached, including justification for
choices
*    description of tasks proposed to reach the objectives and perfornance targets
*    interim targets; milestones and schedule of deliveries of outputs
- 46 -



*   definition of responsibilities between MOIA and LVK management
*   definition of inputs to be provided by MOIA and staff resources to be provided by LVK
*    detailed cost estimate for each task to achieve the objectives, including purchase of equipment,
materials, software, MOIA input, and training of LVK management and staff.
Following approval by the Bank, the Strategy/Action Plan should be presented to, and discussed with, civil
society and stakeholders at a public workshop.
Phase 3: Implementation (to be completed within three years of execution of the MOIA contract)
15.   The MOIA/ LVK will implement the Action Plan as agreed. The MOIA will assist LVK in all
aspects of executing the Plan, including:
*   providing or arranging for training of LVK management and staff
*   presenting quarterly reports to LVK, the Bank and other relevant stakeholders, that assess
progress in meeting actions, timetables and interim targets set out in the Action Plan.
During the implementation phase, adjustments to the Strategy and Action Plan may be introduced as
warranted by increased knowledge. Any major changes should be submitted to the Bank for review and
no-objection.
Phase 4: Completion Report ( to be submitted within three years of execution of the MOIA contract).
16.   For the program as a whole, and for each of the tasks, the MOIA/LVK will submit:
*    a statement of achievement that summarizes the actions that have been taken
*    comparison between original performance targets and those actually achieved with explanation of
why targets were not met or the Action Plan was not followed
+   recommendations and a plan of action needed to ensure that improved performance will be
sustained without the project.
Task B: Institutional Development and Capacity Buildin2! to Modernize and Improve LVK's
Management and Administrative Policies and Practices
Task B (i): Modernizing and Improving the Efficiency of L VK's Organizational Setup and Corporate
Management/Administration;
17.   The MOIA and LVK will together develop and implement programs and specific projects to:
*    streamline  and  improve  LVK's present organizational structure  and  assigmnent of
responsibilities and accountabilities within the company
*   strengthen the communication processes between the two parties with a view to increasing LVK
autonomy with proper accountability, based on the Performance Agreement between LVK and
the Lviv City govemrnent
*    ensure Public Participation in LVK affairs by introducing appropriate mechanisms for civil
-47 -



society and consumer input into decision-making
*   modernize and improve LVK's human resources management, job profiles and descriptions, staff
numbers and efficiency; recruitment, training and compensation
*    design and implement a management information system, appropriate for LVK conditions that
would allow the timely availability of information for management decision-maki.lAg and
corporate planning
+    introduce an asset management system appropriate for LVK, that includes titling, regis':ration,
valuation, maps/plans, and insurance
+   strengthen LVK's budgeting and planning capacity and systems.
Task B (i) Strengthening L VK's Commercial Systems and Operations and Financial Performance:
18.    The MOIA and LVK will together design, develop and implement programs/specific proj ,cts to
execute:
*    an integrated commercial strategy with appropriate systems and human resource capacity which
will allow LVK to (i) move to full consumption-based billing; and (ii) improve its record-keeping
and data management with respect to billing and collections.
*    execute an affordable and cost-effective metering strategy for all types of water consumers;
decisions and choices to be made must address key policies and practical issues, includ ng (i)
setting metering priorities - geographically and among customer groups; (ii) apartment vs. block
metering - cost/benefits, practicality; (iii) consumer acceptance; (iv) installation and payment
responsibilities; and (v) meter reading and maintenance.
+   an equitable tariff and a financial policy that will lead progressively to full cost-recovely and
satisfactory financial performance as required by the Loan Agreement.
*    collection of overdue bills from all customer groups through (i) shut-off of water supply for
non-paying customers; and (ii) improving customer relations.
*    more effective safety net/subsidies for the poor segments of LVK's customers including (i)
review of present subsidy arrangements for poor customers; and (ii) developmen;. and
implementation of more appropriate and viable arrangements to provide relief and assistanice to
the poorest segments of Lviv's population.
*    a comprehensive program of water demand management to reduce water consumptioi and
wastage by consumers; this will require a comprehensive approach involving a multituJe of
mutually reinforcing actions, including (i) tariff setting and rigorous collection; (ii) metering., (iii)
customer service, (iv) mobilization of consumer understanding and support; antl (v)
arrangements for fixing leaking in-house sanitary fixtures.
- 48 -



Task B(iii) Modernizing and Improving Financial Management
19. Accounting and auditing standards differ substantially at present from international standards
(lAS and IFAC).   LVK  carries out its accounting and financial reporting activities in
accordance with prevailing Ukrainian regulations. One of the objectives under the Bank loan is
to enable LVK to develop accounting and financial reporting information that meets international
standards. This would provide both LVK management and staff as well as external stakeholders
such as the Lviv City governnent and creditors with timely, relevant and reliable financial
information. At the same time, LVK would continue to meet the accounting and reporting
requirements under the applicable local and national government regulations. The envisaged
improvements in LVK's accounting and financial reporting systems will therefore need to have
the dual capability of meeting both sets of requirements. To enable LVK to meet the
requirements in tenns of accounting and reporting of project related sources and uses of funds in
accordance with IAS, an interim project financial management system will be set up. This is
expected to be in place in March 2001.
20.  The MOIA will assist PIU and LVK to design and implement a computer-based financial
management system that will allow proper:
+   Corporate Financial Management with the following characteristics:
*    General Accounts: The system should enable LVK to maintain its general accounts and records
as required to generate accounting and financial information required to meet both international
standards as well Ukrainian regulations;
*    Cost Accounting: The system should also enable LVK to generate timely, accurate and relevant
infQrmation required for decision-making at management and unit levels. This should enable
tracking of perfornance by units, activities, and for control of actual cost as compared to
budgeted performance;
e    Financial Reporting: The systern should enable LVK to report its financial position both under
IFAC and Ukrainian standards.
*   Project Financial Management with the following key characteristics:
*    Flow of Funds: Procedures and arrangements for receipt of funds from various sources (Bank
loan, LVK, the LCG and SIDA) should enable (i) a smooth flow, and (ii) adequate internal
control arrangements to check for proper utilization, management and accounting;
*    Accounting System: The system should cover all sources and uses of funds for the entire project,
i.e. that financed under the Bank loan as well as from other sources; its design should include:
*    Chart of Accounts that conforms closely to the project cost and project financing tables to enable
comparison of actual project costs and financing during implementation with those estimated
during project preparation; (ii) Formats of Books and Records (e.g. cash books, journals,
ledgers, trail balance, voucher formats, etc.) should be designed; (iii) Identification and Linkages
between Project Expenditures and Physical Activities should be clearly established; (iv)
Development of Internal Controls over data integrity, standard EDP controls, etc. (a sample
checklist of major internal control aspects prepared by the Bank will be provided to the MOIA);
*    Financial Reporting: Formats of the various periodic computer-based financial reports that will
be generated should be developed. There should be clear linkages between these reports and the
Chart of Accounts. The financial reports should include those prescribed under the Project
- 49 -



Management Reports (PMRs) under LVK's agreement with the Bank.
Approach, Deliverables and Time Table
21.   To ensure that the institutional development and capacity building programs are fully supported by
LVK management, staff and other relevant stakeholders, and appropriate and affordable to the Lviv
situation, the work should proceed in the following manner and phases:
Phase 1: Inception Reportf (to be submitted to the Bank for review within two months of execution of the
MOIA contract)
22.   After careful joint assessment of LVKs and review of proposals for strengthening made by
previous consultants and intensive discussions, the MOIA/LVK will present an inception report which will
provide a strategy proposal providing: a definition of the approach to completing tasks and describe how
MOIK and LVK will work jointly to achieve the objectives of the program
Phase 2: Plan of Action:
23.   LVK/ MOIA will present within six months after initiation of the MOIA contract a detailed time
bound Action Plan which describes, for each task, how objectives and perfornance targets will be met,
including:
i   specific objectives and time bound performance targets to be reached, and justification for
choices
+   description of tasks proposed to reach the objectives and perfornance targets
interim targets; milestones and schedule of deliveries of outputs
*   definition of responsibilities between MOIA and LVK management
*   definition of estimates of inputs by MOIA and LVK staff resources reached
*   detailed cost estimate for each task to achieve the objectives, including purchase of equipment,
materials, software, MOIA input, training of LVK management and staff
procurement arrangements.
Following approval by the Bank, the Strategy/Action Plan should be presented to, and discussed with civil
society and stakeholders at a public workshop.
Phase 3: Implementation (to be completed within three years of execution of MOIA contract)
25.   LVK/MOIA will implement the Action Plan as agreed. The MOIA will assist LVK in all aspects
of executing the plan, including:
*   procurement of goods and services
*   providing or arranging for training of LVK management and staff
*   presenting quarterly reports to Management, Bank and other relevant stakeholders, that assess
progress in meeting actions, timetables and interim targets set out in Action Plan.
During the implementation phase, adjustments to the Strategy and Action Plan may be introduo.d as
warranted by increased knowledge. Any major changes should be submitted to the Bank for review.
- 50 -



Phase 4: Completion Report ( to be submitted within three years of execution of the MOIA contract)
For the program as a whole and for each of the tasks, the MOIA/LVK will submit:
*    statement of achievement that summarizes the actions that have been taken
+   comparison between original performance targets and those actually achieved with explanation
why targets were not met or the Action Plan was not followed
*   recommendations and a plan of action needed to ensure that the improved perfornance will be
sustained after completion of the project.
- 51 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
UKRAINE: LVIV WATER AND WASTEWATER PROJECT
ANI1EX&N PROJECTCOSTESTIMATES
(In UISS mMbon)
BASE COST    CONnNGENIES Total iludng TAXES & Total Inckdh
COMPONENTS                      Local Foaeign  Total Physic    Prik Connendis DUTES  Taxes & Df
1. WATER SWUPLY INITIAL DEINED INVESIMENTS
11 RehaAt1aodlofpumpingstatbrn                       024   096   120   005    007             132    033          1
12 Esabbshmentofpurezones                            108   433   541   021    032             594    151          74
13 Repbmentofpipel)es                                050   200  250   010    015              275    070          3
14 Repirandc onequmeru e                             009   037   047   002    003             052    013          0
TotalforWaterSupply-IntiaiaDe4irrdInestnwns         1.92   7B7   9.8   0.38    0.57         10.53    2.67       132
2 WASTEWATERTREATMENT
21 RAatlataonofpumpsatWV)P2                          041    163  203   008    012             223    057          2
22 RelebrataWnat WANTP1aIndWWTP2                     123   492  615   019    028              662    168           53
TotalforWasbwar                                     1.64   6.55  &19   027    OAO           3.86    224         11.1
3 OPERATING FUND
31 AddnailrrealWnrts                                 138   547  685   000    000              686    174           3
32 Ow Experndtius                                    032   128   160   000    000             160    040            0
TotalforOpeuArig Funcd                              170   675  845   0.00    0.00           8A6    Z14          14.6
4. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
41 M ,g tan           smp         Ar                 020   183  203   008    012              223    057           8t
4.2 MU I   rnn,et  Expes                             007   000  007   001    000              008    002          ol1
Totad for& stjiuoqni Shngtnlng                      027   1.83  2.10   0.09    0.12          231    0.59
5 ENGINEERING AND CONS IN SUERION SERVCES
51 Enginergvs(fbrOF)                                 004   058   062   002    004             068    017           1
52 Cosrudon supwvisionseioes(fbrIDIand OF)           003   048   051    002    003           056    014           :
53 Eneigand onsrucJnsuperonstvis(brWW rP)            004   062   066   002    004             072    018           c.
TotalforEngherig andCoctlonSupsmsionServices        0.11   168  1.78   006    0.11           1.95    0.50        2A
6& AUDTORS SERVICES                                  0.00   023   0.23   0.01    0.01         025    0.06          1) 31
7. FRONT-END FEE                                     0.00   0.24  024   0.00    0.00          0.24    0.00        0I2
GRANDIOTAL                                          393  1&19  22.12   081    1.2          32.60    .20         4040
- 52 -



ANNEX 3, APPErNDDt 1
PROJECT EXPENODrURE SCHEDULE
(n US$ million)
COMPONENTS                        Total             2001    2002    2003    2004    205
1. WATER SUPPLY - INmAL DEFINED INVESTMENTS
Retabilaon ofpumpng staons                               165              006     068     0 68    023    000
Estabbhnt of pesue zmes                                  745              026     3 08    308     1 03    0 00
Replaoernetdofppws                                       345              012     143     143     048     000
Repir and  0con equorrat                                065             002      0 27    0 27    0 09    0 00
ToalbforWaerSupplylIDI                                1320              0A6    546      5.46    182    0.00
Z WSEWAT1RTiEATMENT
21 Rehabiation of puffq  at WWrP 2                       280              000    0 76     1 53    051     000
2 2 Rehaion at WCP 1 and WWTP 2                          830              0 00    226    453      151    000
TotalfbrWastewafr                                      11.10            0.00    303      605     Z02    0.00
3. OPERATING FUND (OF)                                  10.60             025    3.65    3.65    225   o0o
4. INSTIUIONAL STRNEGTHENNG
4 1 Mnagmnr and Opeibons ImpmemertiAavwy Serv*es         280              028     070     0 70    070    042
42 PlUIrnaentlExpers                                     010              001     003     003     003     002
Total fbr lnsUtulio  Sth0ening                          290             029      0.73    0.73    0.73    OA4
5 ENGINEERING AND CONSTRUCTION SUtPERYdlON SERVICES
51 Enr eeingSies (lortheOF)                              085              000    017      043     026     000
52 Cos8idonSupeNsinSSesv(frtelDIandtheOF)               070             000     014     021      018    018
53 En p,etngandConsLpaviiknSevb(fortheWNTP)              090              018     036     027     009     000
Total for EngineeIhg and Constr  Seivces                246             0.18    0.67    091    0.52    0.18
6 AUDTORSFEES                                            0.3i             0.09    0.09    0.09    003    0.00
7. FRONT-END FEE                                         024              024
GRANDTOTAL                                            4030              1.50   13.63   16.89    7.37    1A1
- 53 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
UKRAINE: LVIV WATER AND WASTEWATER PROJECT
1.     A cost-benefit framework is used to assess the financial and economic viability of the project, and
associated risk analysis. Incremental costs and benefits of the project are determined on the basis of
projected with and without project scenarios. The analysis is modeled over 20 years (implementationi
period 2001-2020) given the expected life of civil works under the capital investment component. C.ash
flows are discounted using a discount rate of 10% which is the Bank's typical hurdle rate for water a ad
sanitation projects and is a reasonable proxy for the opportunity cost of capital in Ukraine.
2.     No macroeconomic conversion factors are used due to the relative openness of Ukraine's economy
and lack of relevant data. At the sectoral level, energy prices, which in Ukraine are currently below )order
prices, have been adjusted to border price levels for the economic analysis.
3.     The Economic Analysis for the project is presented in Appendix I to this Annex. The analysis
covers two parts: (i) the investments under the IDI and (ii) the project as a whole including the combined
impact of the IDI, the OF and the Institutional Strengthening components. The only benefits that are
measured in monetary terms in the economic analysis are the projected resource savings from reductilons in
energy and other operating costs as a result of the project. Other benefits expected to be realized under the
project, including environmental and public health benefits and reduction in coping costs have not bee-n
quantified for lack of relevant data. The ERR and the NPV accordingly are judged to represent lower
bounds as indicators of the project's benefits.
Summary of Cost-Benefit Analysis - Base Case
Table I
Indicators                 Economic Analysis               Financial Analysis
NPV of incremental net benefits             19.6                           40.6
(US$ million)
IRR                                         23%                            35%          _
* Incremental benefits are lower under the economic analysis because the effect of tariff increases is not
taken into account. It is conservatively assumed that tariffs are not a proxy of consumers' willingness to
pay. On the other hand the value of economic benefits arising from energy savings is larger under the
economic analysis because electricity prices have been adjusted to border prices for the economic analysis.
For the financial analysis, the required tariff increases are included, and electricity prices are assured to
gradually increase to international levels.
- 54 -



Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Economic Benefits and Costs (for society as a whole: resource savings, welfare gains)
Table 2
Source of Benefit/Cost               Benefits                         Costs
Water loss reduction and water   Energy savings, switch to less  Leakage reduction and
conservation                   expensive water supplies (gravity  conservation programs, metering
vs. pumping), avoided cost of
rehabilitation of redundant water
production and conveyance
facilities, load reduction for
wastewater collection and
treatment systems, avoided
damages to private and public
property
Network optimization           Energy savings, avoided damages Capital investments, monitoring
to the system                  systems
Improved pressure zoning       Reduction in water losses from  Capital investments, monitoring
leakages, energy savings,      systems
reductions in pressure fluctuations
in zones, reductions in pipe
failures
Pumping station rehabilitation  Energy savings, maintenance cost Capital investments
savings
Improvement and sustainability of Avoided private mitigating/coping Capital investments
water service/delivery         expenditures, increased
willingness to pay for water
Improvement of environmental    Better protection of surface water Capital investments, monitoring
conditions                     functions and services, reduced   systems
risks of damage to private
property from overflows, spillage
Review of subsidy and social   Better targeting of subsidies and   Costs of required studies and
assistance systems in Lviv     exemptions to help the poorer and analysis
vulnerable sections
- 55 -



Financial Benefits and Costs (for revenue-earning entities)
Table 3
Source of Benefit/Cost                 Benefits                          Costs
Tariff increases                Increased revenues for LVK       Transaction costs
Bilting and collection rate     Increased cash collection for LVK  Additional administrative co ,ts
increases
Reduction of operating and      Increased availability of cash for  Capital costs, costs of technIzal
maintenance expense             LVK                              assistance
- 56 -



Main Assumptions:
4.    Main assumptions with and without the project are summarized in Annex 5, Appendix 5.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Table 4
Financial                         Economic
NPV              FRR              NPV               ERR
Base Case     US$40.6 million       35%          US$19.6 million       23%
Collections 40%   -US$1.9 million        9%          -US$11.6 million       4%
lower
Tariffs 40% lower  -USS1.9 million       9%          US$19.6 million       23%
Water
consumption 40%    -US$1.9 million       9%          -US$11.6 million       4%
lower
Energy savings    US$18.9 million       20%           US$5.3 million       13%
40% lower
Capital costs 40%    US$28.6 million    22%            $9.7 million        15%
higher
- 57-



Annex 4, Appendix I
Economic Analysis
Existing Situation in Water Supply and Wastewater Systems
Water Sutpply
1.    Lviv's water and wastewater systems suffer from a legacy of poor designis, use of sub-standard
equipment, materials and construction practices, and chronic under-investment in maintenance, repair and
rehabilitation. This affects all elements of the water production and delivery system. Drinking water is
supplied to Lviv from 172 water wells located at 20 well fields at distances of 10 to 125 km from the city.
The oldest well field constructed in 1901 and the newest in the early 1980s. Quality of the underground
water meets the requirements of prevailing Ukrainian standards. Assured water reserves at the we:.1 fields
have been estimated at about 508,000 m3 per day with the capacity of an increase by up to another
132,000 m3 per day. Designed capacity is estimated at 469,000 m3 per day.  Average daily water
discharge is estimated at about 412,000 m3 per day. The quantity of extracted water is measured by water
flow-meters. Faulty design at the well fields causes inefficient operation: several pumps, often with. widely
varying specifications, pump water through the main pipelines over a distance of about 40 km to the first
booster pumping station. Specific power consumption per unit of output is high owing to the condition of
the pumps. Possibilities of reconstruction of the well fields were investigated, but given the adequacy of
the current capacity of 469,000 m3 per day (implying availability of 565 lpcd for a population cf about
830,000), it was decided to concentrate efforts on the reduction of water losses instead of increased water
production.
2.     Water is delivered from the well fields through nine delivery systems including nine pumping
stations and associated transmission mains. Not all the pumping stations are provided with reservoirs.
Operation of the pumping stations is controlled by valves rather than switches and results in ve-y high
power consumption. Total length of the transmission mains is about 460 km. LVK estimates tha:: about
26% (117 km) are in bad condition, and about 28% (129 km) in marginal condition. The nurmber of
failures of the transmission mains has grown to about 50 over the past three year period, or about 17 per
year, which indicates their bad condition and heavy operating loads.
3.     The city receives water from the transmission mains via seven main pumping stations at th- city's
perimeter. Lviv's water distribution network consists of seven hydraulically connected pressure zones.
However, zoning was carried out incorrectly. Besides, a large number of valves do not function. This
results in connection and mutual influence between the different zones. Altitude differences within the city
limits range up to 150 meters. The bad condition of many pipes and high pressure increases the occurrence
of losses, particularly in the low altitude areas of the city.
4.     Total length of the distribution network is about 900 km. LVK has classified them into three
groups:
*          pipes laid before 1945: made of cast iron; condition varies from bad to marginal
*          pipes laid between 1945 to 1975: made of cast iron or steel; most are in bad condition
*          pipes laid after 1975; made of cast iron or steel; condition ranges from bad to acceptable.
- 58 -



The overall picture is pipes in bad condition, requiring frequent repairs, 680 km or 76% of the total; pipes
in marginal to acceptable condition, about 220 km or 24%.
5.    The number of failures per year has grown from 3,500 in the period 1985-91 to about 6,500 in
1995 with a firther worsening of the situation since then. The failure rate is about 26 failures per working
day or 7.2 failures per km of pipe. About 40% of the failures are estimated to have been caused by holes
and cracks in the pipes, and 60% by failure of pipe joints or ruptures of fittings.
6.     Plumbing equipment in residential buildings is in unsatisfactory condition.  Round-the-clock
measurements (for a sample of nine residential buildings with about 560 occupants) with 24 hour water
supply registered uninterrupted water consumption during night hours of about 6 to 13 Ipcd.
7.     Per capita consumption is estimated at about 207 lpcd compared to levels around 120-130 Iped in
Western European countries. The volume of water billed is around 71-2 million m3 per year, including
supply to domestic institutional and industrial consumers.
8.     The combined result of the factors describe above can be seen from the following:
i       water extraction capacity: 469,000 m per day
e       estimated water production: 412,000 m per day
3       estimated losses in transmission mains: 44,000 m per day
3       water supplied: 368,000 m'per day
of which:
e       delivered to villages - estimated at 33,000 m nper day
*       delivered to Lviv city - estimated at 335,000 m' per day
*       billed to customers - estimated at 195,000 m3 per day.
The level of UFW is estimated at about 42% of total water production, which is high in relation to good
practice levels not exceeding 15% in efficiently-run Western water companies.
Wastewater
9.     Lviv is divided into two catchment areas, one discharging to the Black Sea and the other to the
Baltic Sea. The total urbanized catchment is about 5,300 ha. The Baltic Sea catchment area is served by a
combined wastewater and stormwater sewer system. The main sewer line is the upstream parts of the
Poltva river which is piped inside Lviv. Overflow during storms can only take place at the inlet to the
treatnent plant. The Black Sea catchment area is served by a separate wastewater and storinwater system.
The wastewater is either pumped, or flows by gravity through a large tunnel to the sewer system in the
Baltic Sea catchmnent. Stornwater is discharged to local rivers in the headwaters of the Dniester river
system.
10.   LVK operates a combined wastewater collection system whose history dates from the 1850s. It
consists of 671 km of collectors and nine lift stations. Septic tanks are employed only in a small area in the
north-east of the town. The oldest collectors are made of brick, cement and stone but the foundation of the
closed section in the old town is made of oak wood since it was under the groundwater line. LVK has
classified the collector systems as follows:
*   sections constructed before 1945: 375 km of which about 72%  in bad condition
- 59 -



*   sections constructed between 1945 to 1975: 158 km of which about 30% in bad condition
*   sections constructed after 1975: 138 km of which 1% in bad condition.
11.    LVK operates two wastewater treatment plants, Line I (WWTPI) and Line 2 (WWTP2.i. Both
plants are secondary treatment activated sludge facilities. The treated effluent is discharged to thc Poltva
river.
12.    WWTPI receives wastewater from the old trunk sewer which is near collapse. The plant v as built
in 1964 and has a nominal capacity of 140,000 m3 per day. Actual flows have been measured at
approximately 120,000 m3 per day. Main process units include 10 primary clarifiers, 7 step feed ;-.eration
basins and 10 secondary clarifiers. Average BOD5 is reported at about 320 mg/l and average effluent at
17-20 mg/I. WWTP2 has an inlet pump at the outlet of the Poltva river/new main trunk sewer. Flows not
pumped to the plant for treatment flow over a bypass weir to the Poltva river channel. The plant was built
in 1978 with a nominal capacity of 350,000 m3 per day. Actual flows have been measured at 150,000 m3
per day. Main process units include 8 primary clarifiers, 6 step feed aeration basins, 6 secondary clarifiers,
and 10 special combined aeration and clarification basins. Average BOD5 is reported at 330 trig/I and
effluent at 25 to 50 mg/I. The total flowthrough of about 270,000 m3 per day leaves about 50,000 m3 per
day to be bypassed over the inlet overflow weir directly to the Poltva river without treatment.
13.    Both plants are showing signs of serious deterioration of facilities. At WWTPI, equipmnent is
being employed well beyond its useful life but structures are generally in acceptable condition. W-WTP2,
although newer, is in worse physical condition, in part due to the use of low-quality construction materials.
Most units at the plant are in poor shape. Both plants have a strong need for rehabilitation of aeration and
pumping systems to save energy and improve treatment, and for general rehabilitation to stabilize other
facilities.
14.    A thermal sludge dewatering facility is not in operation. Un-dewatered primary and secondary
sludge is sent from both plants to 4 ha of sludge drying beds and 4 ha of sludge lagoons with a total storage
area of 250,000 m3.
Impact of the Existing Situation on Consumers
15.    Lviv has an estimated population of about 830,000. About 98% use the central water :upply.
Currently, an estimated 63% of the population receive water for six hours or less per day (water is si.pplied
two times a day from 6 a.m. to 9 a.m. and 6 p.m. to 9 p.m.). About 12% of the population live in areas
where water is supplied without schedule and the duration of the supply is unpredictable. Beneficiary
assessments carried out in 1996 as part of the project's feasibility analysis and updated through a Rapid
Social Assessment (RSA) in September 2000 have confirmed that consumers, in general, have a poor
perception of the quality of water and wastewater services they receive. Based on the sample surveys,
about 70% perceive the quality of water they receive as poor.  Main complaints are presence of rust
particles, residues and high chlorine content. Over 80% of the population sampled stored water at least
once a day. About 50% of the sample stored water up to 25 liters per day. About 15% indicated that they
poured out stored water into wastewater when they replenished their stocks. About 5% of the respondents
indicated that they drank water without prior treatment. The most conimon ways of treatment were hoiling
(80%) and storage for settling of sediment (42%). About 4% used water filters.
16.    Average household monthly expenditures in Lviv are estimated at about UAH490 (US$90). At
current tariff levels, household expenditures on water and wastewater account for about 3.65% of the
monthly expenditures for the lowest quartile of the households; the average for all households is 2.4%o. In
- 60 -



regard to willingness to pay, at present, most consumers feel that they are not getting adequate value in
terms of quality of services for the payments they currently make. At the same time, they indicated a
willingness to pay higher amounts (equivalent to up to 6% of monthly expenditures) if quality of services
were to be assured.  Priority areas for improvement of services were: 24-hour supply of water; improved
quality of water; reliable hot water supply; and higher water pressure.
17.   Although wastewater is collected from practically all houses, many sewers are in a poor state
resulting at times in a flooding of streets and basements. While there are no acute wastewater-related
health problems at present, this risk could increase in the medium to long term because of the state of the
sewers and the collectors. The problems at the WWTPs, particularly the poor state of WWTP2, need to be
addressed urgently to prevent a collapse of the wastewater treatment system which would lead to
uncontrolled discharges into the river systems.
The Project's Contribution
18.    The financial resources needed to undertake a complete overhaul of Lviv's water and wastewater
systems would run in to several hundreds of million US dollars. This is clearly beyond the capacity of
LVK and the LCG at this stage. The interventions proposed under the project are limited therefore to areas
where there are good prospects of an early and demonstrable impact that would serve two main purposes (i)
enable operating cost savings that would free up resources for LVK to be able to carry out other urgently
needed expenditures, and (ii) provide limited, but visible and significant benefits to consumers that would
serve to foster increased confidence in LVK and the LCG's willingness and ability to address consumer
concems, and to improve the water and wastewater situation in Lviv. In conjunction, LVK would benefit
from the engagement of the MOIA who would help it to improve its overall technical, commercial and
financial operations, and to meet the targets stipulated under its Performance Agreement with the LCG.
This is expected to result in additional benefits through further efficiency improvements and cost savings in
LVK's operations as a whole.
19.   Economic analysis for the project is discussed below in two parts (i) the Initial Defined Investments
(IDI); and (ii) the project as whole, i.e. taking into account the IDI, the Operating Fund (OF) and
institutional strengthening through the MOIA. No separate analysis can be made in respect of the OF
investments since these will be defined only after the engagement of the MOIA. However, these
investments would be necessary for the MOIA to be able to help LVK to attain the performance targets
under the PA.
(a) Initial Defined Investments
20.    Rehabilitation of Pump Stations: Energy cost is the largest single expense category in LVK's
operational expenses. In 1999, energy expenses were US$5.8 million or about 50% of LVK's total
operating expenses. Pump stations are large consumers of energy. Current pump stations range in age
from 20 to 100 years. Much of the rotating and electrical equipment is reaching the end of its service life.
In addition, there are pumps mismatched to the application. The most prevalent problem is the installation
of pumps that have too high a head for the application. System operation is achieved by throttling the
pump to match the head and flow conditions. This throttling substantially increases the specific energy
consumption (in kWhIm3). The proposed interventions under this component will focus on the items that
are absolutely necessary in each pump station to improve energy efficiency of the pumping process. Five
pump stations have been identified under this component. The expected benefits are:
- 61 -



*        reduction in energy consumption
*        reduction in wear and tear on valves and other components used to control flow
*        easier operations at the pump stations.
Investment: US$1.67 million (US$1.33 million excluding taxes and duties)
NPV (at 10%): US$2.83 million
ERR: 34 %
21.    Establishment of Pressure Zones: The land area in Lviv has an elevation difference of about 150
meters and this creates a problem in delivering water as the elevation changes cause water pressure
differences. Too low a pressure makes it difficult to deliver water to the upper floor of buildings wlile too
high a pressure can increase leakage, cause problems with plumbing, increase stress on the distiibution
piping, and waste energy. The establishment of pressure zones will allow LVK to have operational :ontrol
of the system. Currently, the sources of water from the various well fields that are located around  -le city
tend to pump water into one large, interconnected network. Under this method it is difficult to lbalance
where the water is going to and to have much control over the pressures in the various parts of the system.
Based on analysis carried out by USAID funded consultants, it is proposed to separate the existing system
into ten separate areas based on the ground elevation of the areas. The expected benefits are:
3        reduction in water lost due to leakage resulting from high pressures and faulty pipeline.,
e        reduction in energy used in pumps that are not properly matched to the system
3        reduction in pressure fluctuations in the separate zones
m        reduction in water loss or loss of delivery capability by isolating the effects of repai:-s to a
single zone
e        improvement in accounting of water entering and leaving the system
*        reduction in pipe failures due to pressure fluctuations.
Investment: US$7.44 million (US$5.94 million excluding taxes and duties)
NPV (at 10%): US$1.4 million
ERR: 14 %
22.    Replacement of Pipes.  Two methods are included under the IDI for reduce water losse. from
leakages. One is two control the pressures in the system by establishing well-operating pressure 7-ones.
The second is to replace some of the worst of the existing pipes. Since there are not sufficient fu -ids to
replace all the pipes that need replacement, the selection of pipes was based on concentrating on tho;~,e that
had the worst, recurring repair problems. The total amount of the pipes to be replaced is about 20 cm or
about 2% of the distribution network. Once the pressure zones are in place and operating, a further
evaluation of the system can take place and additional pipes be identified for repair to be funded from the
OF.
Investment: US$3.46 million (US$2.76 million excluding taxes and duties)
NPV(at 10%): -US$0.6 million
ERR: 6% (based on energy savings alone from reduction in pumping due to water saved)
23.    Repair and Construction Equipment:  With the existing state of the water and wastewater
systems, LVK is continually making emergency repairs to the network. LVK's repair and construiction
equipment is in poor condition and seriously constrains its ability to respond quickly to corre;t the
situation. Even relatively simple repairs take much longer than they should. A modest amour,t has
therefore been included under the IDI to increase LVK's capacity to undertake urgent repairs.
- 62 -



Investment: US$0.64 million (US$0.51 million excluding taxes and duties)
NPV and ERR are not estimated for this component given the nature of the use of the equipment.
(b) Quantifiable Contribution of the Project as a Whole
24.    Apart from the specific benefits under the IDI as discussed above, LVK is also expected to benefit
from the impact of the project as a whole, including the improvements to be brought about with the help of
the MOIA. Principally, these improvements are summarized in the targets to be achieved under its
Performance Agreement with the LCG.
25.    The ERR for the project is calculated as the return on project investments (excluding taxes and
duties) from the net incremental benefits of undertaking the project, i.e. the difference between the
incremental revenues and the incremental expenses of the with and without project situations. Basic
assumptions in regard to revenues and expenses are the same as for the estimation of the project FRR
(summarized in Annex 5, Appendix 5). The net incremental benefit stream for the ERR differs from that
for the FRR principally in two respects (i) energy is priced at economic cost (border price); and (ii) the
effects of tariff level increases are eliminated.
26.    On this basis, the project ERR is estimated at 23% and the project NPV at US$19.6 million at the
Bank's hurdle rate of 10%.
(c) Non-Quantifiable Benefits of the Project
27.   In addition to the benefits quantified above, the project is also expected to yield other,
non-quantifiable, benefits. These are summarized below.
28.    Environmental Benefits: Principal benefits include:
*   elimination of winter-season sludge discharges into the Poltva river
o   reduction of impoundment of lands
*   reduction in volume of sludge mixture from the WWTPs
*   improvement of wastewater treatment capacity
*   reduced risk of spillage and overflows affecting private and public property.
29.   Public Health Benefits: Improvements in the quality of water supplied and the environmental
effects described above would yield public health benefits through reductions in water and wastewater
related diseases and ailments.
30.   Impact on the Poor and Vulnerable Sections: These sections of Lviv's population would benefit
from the improvements in safety, reliability and availability of water supply, and the better targeting of
subsidies and other social assistance expected to be pursued under the project.
- 63 -



ANNEX 4, ApP,x0 2
Nat P,usent Vatue umd knnhMRfAao6RWm AaUyu
2001      2002      2003      2004     2005       2006     2007      2000      200       2010      2011      2012      2013     2014      2015
FNCIALANALYS
CapW so-dues                   1503    13627    108M9       7365      1410
NO w a*fltd                    8440    13859    14921    14831    14517    137Y2    14061    14110    14219    14172    14496    14831    15172    15621    18078
Cash00*0  sq0                  9400      9452      087      8562      811S      7585      7653      7718      7828      7937      0119     8306      0097      0002      00
Notlo6t                       -24S3    -9221   -11055    -1096        4991      8167      640S      6392      5691      62.?      6379     H625      H675      6829      49R
WMUT PROECT
N ei   9ACtdled                8440      8382      0433     8517      0608 8819           8924      9030      9138      9246      9469     9677      9899    10127    103l0
CS' w)wafl  1ws                894G0    13531    18094    11488    12127    12811    13S23    14t6S    14746    153E6    15719    19081    16460    161S    17216
MaoWeOm                         -900    -186S    -2461    -2971    -3519    -am92    -4S9          -513S      5        4118      4250      40        -m51      -6702    -SS6
NTenAL
CW i00 Wd0                     1503    13627    10009       73E6       1410         0        0         0         0         0         0         0         0        0         0
N       ll _Ne                    0      5477      6488     6414      S06       4933      5137      5080      5082      4925      5039      5155     5273      5365      5519
Coh q-nlg e                       0      499    -1806    -226    -4011         -5226    -5970    -644        -6916    -7429    -7603    -7775    -7954    -8136    -0324
NdberS                        AM-18     -7251    -0594      1875      8510    1015S    11180    1157B    M2O0    12326    12639    12929    13237    12301              13842
Do8                             100      102       128       107       110       112       115       117      120       123       126       128       131       134       137
bwlb(e- d        )fl 14   -1s5m    -70CE       6212      1751      7775        67      9091     8832    10D4    1D68    10053    16             100H8    10065    100H
FRR-     ~            ~~~~~ (U$60n16
WMM11$09s-    -5%      0
-64 -



EOONOMIf AWLYSIS
C lw i   'w4uas                1203    10902    13511       5632      1120         0         0         0         0         0         0        0         0         0         0
N.tIav    ascdedd              8469    11725    10285       99        9991      9503    10566    10280    10182    144    10171    10404    10644    10B99    11139
Cat osts oum                   9409      9452      9091     85        8116      7565      7653      7718      7929     797       8119      6200      8467      8892      9392
No( bN 68                     -2135    -6629   -12313    -4569          747     1916      2933      2562      2354      2107     2051      2089      2147      219B      2247
Ng v&nMd0                      9440 a     382       420     8517       90e8     e819      B924      9030      9138     9246      9459      9671      9B99    10127    10360
C; h q-a'9e4 5                 9840     10351    10694    t1458    12127    12811    13623    14166    14746    15389    15719    16081    18450    18929    17216
Notb et                        -960    -1989    -2461    -2971    -3519        -992       4699    4136    .1c8    46119          -260      4034       551     -6702      6656
4CREETAL
Cap" o      6s                 1203    109        13511      5692     1138         0         0         5         0 0       0                   0        0         0         0
Ne ,mv f6b0                      28      3343      1852      1469     1383       6B4      9602      1250      1045       796       712      738       745       762       779
C at            lt                0      -999    -181    -2826        4011       226    -5970    -448    -6916    -7429    -7600               .7915    -7854    -813   -6324
N4e586                        -1175     -680    -8652    -1598        4289      5910      7632      7689      790      627       811 6     8503      8m9       am85      903
cO tAm                          A r100    102      105       107       110       112       115      117       120       123       126       138       131       134       137
Netbmab(all de~zr4            -1175    -6510    -9414    -1493        3995      5275      6486      659       638       6704      0321     6821      6621      6621    6021
=P                       I l31938$18 3n40)
ERF-t   ===1ll6
-65 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
UKRAINE: LVIV WATER AND WASTEWATER PROJECT
ANNEX 5: FINANCIAL SUMMARY FOR REVENUE EARNING ENTITIES
Project Cost and Financing Plan
(in US$ million)
COMPONENT                        Total  2001   2002  2003  2004 2005
PROJECT COST
1. Water supply                                   13.20   0.46   5.46   5.46  1.82  0 00
2. Wastewater                                     11.10   0.00   3.03  6.05  2.02  0.00
3. Institutional strengthening                     2.90   0.29   0.73   0.73  C 73  0.44
4. Operating Fund                                 10.60   0.25   3.65  3.65  2 25  0.80
4. Engineering and construction supervision services  2 45   0.18   0.67  0.91  C 52  0.18
5. Auditors' services                              0.31   0.09   0.09  0.09  0 03  0.00
6. Front end fee                                   0.24   0.24   0.00   0.00  0 00  0.00
Total project cost                              40.80   1.50  13.63  16.89  7.37  1.41
PROJECT FINANCING
1. Bank loan                                      24.24   1.24   8.69   9.78  3.94  0.59
2. SIDA grant                                      6.00   0.00   1.64  3.27  1.09  0.00
3. LVK                                            10.56   0.26   3.30  3.84  2 34  0.82
Total financing                                 40.80   1.50  13.63 16.89  7 37  1.41
- 66 -



ANNEX 5, Appendix I
LVIV VODOKANAL - INCOME STATEMENTS (HIstoric 1999, Estrnated 20o0, Pojed 2001-2010)
(in US$ o0)
1999   2000   2001   2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007   2008   2009   2010
OPERA1TG REVENUES
Sales revenues
watersupply               8301   9332   11264  13583  13975  13441  13298  12113  12319  12378  12467  12550
wastewater                3729   4176   5041   6103   6298   6628   6006   6174   6183   6187   6242   6295
Less: VAT                  2406   2701    3261   3937   4055   4014   3861   3657   3700   3713   3742   3769
Net operating rvenues    9624  10806  13044  15749  16218  16056  15443  14630  14801  14852  14968  1507
OPERAIiNG EXPENSES
Electric power             5812   5559   5502   5163   4833   4455   4222   4122   4146   4166   4219   4270
Wages and benefits          636    644    653    661    669    678    687    695    704    713    722    732
Purchased water              35      33      34     33     33      33     33      34     34      34      35     35
WaterbooDsterpumping         336    324    319    306    293    280    271    263    270    272    276    279
Workshopexpenses             773    757    754    740    728    713    705    704    714    724    737    750
Maitenarnce and repair      1283   1258   1257   1236   1219   1199   1187   1185   1202   1219   1241   1263
Otiheroperang experses      511    502    504    497    493    467    484    483    490    497    506    515
Deprecamn                   1627   1877    1877   2043   2396   2667   2735   2806   2876   2947   3018   3086
Bad tlexpense               1925   2701    1957   1890   1297   1124    927    878    740    743    748    905
MOIAfeesand expenses                        280    700    700    700    420
PIUilroemenalaexpernses                       5     25     25      25     15
Audita etxspenses                            93     93     93      93     93      93      93     93      93     93
Operating expenses       12941  13656  13234  13386  12781  12453  11778  11268  11270  11408  11594  11929
OPERAlING MARGI            -3317  *2850   -190   2363   3438   3602   3666   3361   3532   3445   3374   3147
Coripulsry rontrbubons      266    272    279    285    292    298    305    312    319    327    334    34
Othertaxes                  770    788    806    625    844    863    883    903    924    945    967    989
klerestand8tnancaldiarges                   23    402    957   1464   1663   1668   1571   1487   1403   1319
NET INCOME                 -4354  -3910   -1207    851   1345    976    815    478    718    686    670    49
FINANCLAL RATOSl
Coecn ratio(%)               80      75      85     88     92      93     94      94      95     95      95     95
Worldng ra8O (%)            1 18   1 09    0 87   0 72   0 64    0 61    0 59   058    0 57   0 57    0 57   0 59
ozertingrabo(%)             134   126    101    085   079    078    076    077    076    077    077   079
internal cah generation  -2726 9 -2032 5   580 1 28944 3741 6 3643 8  35502 3284 2  3594 2 36329  3687S 3585 3
Cashopeirafngmargn       -16903  -9721  16876 44066 58344  62690  64009 61671  64063 63916  63915 6235
Netcslecfions             72178 86448 110878138589149209 149311 145167137519 140614 141098 142192141718
Nte Based on unaudted finanaal statements
- 67 -



ANNEX 5, Appendix 2
LVrV VDOKANAL - BALANCE SHEETS CHstoricat 19W9 EsDnad 2000. Projected 2001-10)
(on US$ NO)
1998     1999     2000     2001     2002      2003     2D04     2005     200D     2007      2008    20D9      2010
ASSETS
Cashand bankbatancas                          325      360      500      1087     1312     1352     1338     1287      1219     1233     1238     1747      1256
CustorneraraountsreCervaale                 10168    12611     5200      2609     2835     2595     2248      1853     1756     1776     1782     1 96      180
Otterreceavables                             2171     1401     1691      1691     1443     1387     1348     1327      1417     1405     1412     1 l11     1411
Inventdnes adothercurTntassets               1348     2874     2925     3531      4283     4390     4348     4180     3960      4007     4020     C.M52    4081
Total CurrentAssets                       14012    17246    10316      8918     9853     9723     9279     8S48    8a52       8422     8452     086       8
Grosstixedfassets                           75701    53169    53186    53641    62131    73647    77486    77486    79486    81486    83486       5-t186    8748
Less; Acumuated deproea8n                    1627     1627     3505     5392      7425     9822    12489    15225    1S030    20907    23854    26tf72    2996
Net fixed assets                          63629    51559    49681    46259    54705    63825    64997    62261    61456    60579    59632    S86i14    5752f
Total Assets                              77641    66880    59998    57178    64558    7354      74276    70909    69808    69001    S8084    67 20    66D
LJABILmES AND EQUITY
A&munts payablet torpsuers                   6885     8921     4350      1891     1635     1398     1166      971       801      729      655      t65       875
O4w payables                                 1390     1264     1300      1300     1200     1100     1000      800       500      300      200       00         0
Cusrtomrers advances                         3234     3458     3500      3500     3937     3730     3532     3243      2926     2812     2673     2 94     271
OtherrrTent 1bb es6                            60       34       50        50       50       50       50       80        80       80       SO       5)        St
Curnt portion of longtenn debt                                                                               1200      1200     1200     1200     10t0      1200
Total Current Uabillties                  11569    13377     9200     6741      6822     6278     5748     6264     5477      5091     4778     4709     483
IBRD loan and IDA credit                                                1240      9932    19711    23f;50    23040    21840    2D640    19440    18240    17040
Frounds'eqtRty                              66072    73159    59062    59758    54878    50016    45267    41179    41586    41648    41558    41 94    40930
SDA grant                                                                         1636     4909     68W      6000      8000     60       600 0    60)00     6OO0
Retained eannrgs                                0    -4354     8264    -9561    -8710    -7365    -8389    -5S74    -8096    4378    -3692    -3rs2   -2525
Total EquIty                             66072    68605    50798    49197    478D4    47560    44878    41605    42491    43270    43866    44171    4440
Total uabdiltes and Equity               77641    68O0S    59998    57178    64558    73548    74276    70909    69808    69001    68084    67-1 11   6608
1iNANCIALRATICS
Currentratio                                 121       129      112      132      144       155      161      138      152      165       177      1l1      164
%fDebttDDebt-Equity                           0.0       0.0      00       2.5     17.2     29.3      34.5     35.6     33.9     32.3      30.7     2.2      277
Note: Based on unaudited tncrial statements
- 68 -



ANNEX 5, APPENDX 3
LVIV VODOKANAL - SOURCES AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS (Hlstolical 1999, Estbmated 2000, Projected 2001-10)
(hi US$ 000)
1999  2000  2001   2002  2003   2004  2005  2006   2007  2008   2009  2010
SOURCES
Net income                               -4354  -3910  -1297    851  1345    976   815   478    718   686    670   497
Add: Deprecation                         1627   1877   1877   2043  2396   2667  2735  2806   2876  2947   3018  3088
Net intemal cash generation            -2727  -2032   580   2894  3742   3644  3550  3284   3594  3633   3687  3585
IBRD loan                                   0      0   1240   8692  9779   3939   561        0      0      0      0      0
SIDA grant                                  0      0      0   1636  3272   1091       0      0      0      0      0      0
Total Sources                         -2727  -2032   1820  13223 16793   8674  4111  3284   3594  3633   3687  3585
APPLICATIONS
Project investments                                    1503  13627 16889   7365  1410
Non-project investments                                                                   2000   2000  2000   2000  2000
Loan repayments                                                                           1200   1200  1200   1200  1200
Changes in working capital and cash balances   -2727  -2032    317   -405   -96   1309  2701    84    394   433    487   385
Total Applications                     -2727  -2032  '1820  13223 16793   87   41 11  3284   3594  3633   3687  3585
Note: Based on unaudited financial statements
- 69 -



ANNEX5, Appendb 4
SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (WI"Ft AND WflFtOUT PROJECT)
1999  2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2006  2006  2007  2008   2009  2010
TH PROJECT                    |
wawerproducion                 000m3               132987 124656 121121 113498 106535 981995  93862 91606  89710 87768  86677 8559
UFW                            %                      42    42    40       38    35    32    30    30        30    30      30
water sales                    000m3              77132  72301 72672  70369 69248 67317  65704 64124  62797 61438  60674 59889
wastewater volume              000 m3              79209  76225 76643 74658 73795 72264  71064 69887  68627 67338  66613 6586
average combined tSi (net of VAT)  US  13 ofdwa8te sold  12 48  14 95  17 95  22 38  2342  2385  23 50  2281  2357  2417  24 67  251
fullcostrecoverytartff(netofVAT)    USctm3ofwatersold   1812  2035  1973  2117  2148  2240  2226  2207  2243  2306  2357  24
ctuattarlifas %ofufloasttar,ff  %                     69     73    91    106   109   106   106   103    105   105    105   1
netsalesfaterVAT)              US$S00l              9624  10906 13044  15749  16218 16055  15443 14630  14801  14852  14968 15076
cottctaonratio                 %Ofdnetsates           80    75    80    85    88    92    93    94           94    95    90    96
netcolleclions                 US$S00               7699  8104  10436  13386  14272 14771  14362 13752  13913 14110  14219 1432
operating margin               US$ 000              -3317  -2850  -190  2363  3438  3602  3666  3361   3532  3445   3374  3147
ash operating margin           USS 000              -1690  -972  1688  4407  5834  6269  6401  6167   6408  6392   6391  6235
ntemal cash generation         US$ 000              -2727  -2032   580  2894  3742  3644  3550  3284   3594  3633   3687  3585
operatingratio                                       134   126   101   085   079   078   076   077   076   077   077   07
woftc  ratio                                         118   109   087   0 72   0 64   061   0 59   058   0 57   057   057   0
DpeaingmafgWnetsales           Y                    -345   -264   -15   150   212   224   237   230   239   232   225   20
ash opera" margiwiet Collecions  %                  -22 0  -12 0   162   329   40 9   42 4   44 6   44 8   461   45 3   449   43
WrrHOUT PROJECT         
water producdon               0O0 m3              132987 124656 127607 130754 134092 137825 141853 146127 150056 154277 158825 16373
UtW                            %                      42    42    43    44    45    46    48    49           50    51      52    54
wa  sales                      000 m3              77132 72301 72672 73057 73443 73929  74446 74953  75141 75329  75518 7570
wastewater volume             OO m3               79209  76225 76643 77209 77775 78537  79358 80160  80338 80517  80696 8087
averagecomtgnedtariff(netofVAT)  USctm3rfwatersold  1248  1495  1549  1572  1595  1623  1652  1681  1697  1713  1729  17
h cost recovery tariff (net of VAT)   US ctn3 dwab3r sodd
aotsf tanffas % of tLt cstrtff  %
netsales(allerVAT)             US$06O               9624  11076 11254  11482  11713 11996  12297 12599  12749 12900  13054  13209
colection ratio                %ofnetsates            75    75    73    72    71    70    70    70           70    70      70    70
net ooledctins                 US$ 000              7218   8307  8215  8267  8316  8397   8608  8819   8924  9030   9136  92
operatingmargin                US$S00              -2185  -755  -1087  -1387  -1720  -2059  -2429  -2846  -3873  -4640  -5451  -6311
cash operahing margin          US$OD               -558   835   468    133  -234  -606  -1009  -1458  -2517  -3314  4155  -504
internal cash generahon        US$000             -1594  -190  -602  -986  -1405  -1835  -2301  -2817  -3964  -4817  -5718  -8671
operabngaroA                                         123   107   110   112   1 15   117   120   123   130   136    142   1
workingrabo                                          106   092   096   099   102   105   108   112   120   126   132   138
operafing marginrnetsales                           -22 7   -68   -9 7  -121  -14 7  -17 2  -19 7  -22 6  -304  -360   -418  -478
cash operating margWndt colletions  %                -7 7   101    5 7    16   -2 8   -7 2  -117  -16 5   -28 2  -367  -45 5  -546
- 70 -



AFMID S, Appendix 5
MAIN ASSUMPTiONS UNDERLYING FINAIiIAL ANALY5SI
~~~ --  ~~~~~1999              2000     200      20e2    200      2o 20       05    2eo6      2007      2=t      2009     2010
GENERAL                            I
Domesteinirdation                   200Q= 100      77 6     1000    1183    1364    1506    1634    1756    1879    1992    2112    2238    237 3
US$ imlatton                        20C00100       97 8     1C00    102 3    1047    1071    1095    1120    1146    117 3    1200    122 7    125 5
Examigerate -end of ar              UAFUS$         5216    S550    643B    7275    7 864    8352    8786    9199    9 567    9950   i1034B   10 762
Exchangerae-averageforyear          UAHAJS$        4130    5450    6322    7144    7723    8201    8628    9033    9395    9770    10161   10568
Population                          No            815000   812000   816060   818508   820964   823427   825897   834156   842497  850922   859432   868026
WITHOUT PROJECT CASE         
waterproduction                     OOOm3          132987   124656   127607   130754   134092   137825   141853   146127   150056   154277   158625   16373
UFW (unacurted for Waaer)           %                  42       42       43       44       45       46       48        49       S0       51       52       54
water sales                         000 m3          77132    72301    72672    73057    73443    73929    74446    74953    75141    75329    75518    7570
per capita domnesic cornsmpon      Ipod               207      207      207      207      207      207       207      207      207      207      207      20
wastewater volume                   000 m3          79209   76225    76643    77209    77775    78537    79358    80160    B0338    80517   80896    8087t
averagewalertarid                   USAnm3                    1295    1311      1331     1350    1374    1399    1422    1429    1443    1456    147
averagewastewateraiif               UScdm3                     549      557      566      573      583      593      602      603      609      615      62
colledJon rato                      % of net sales     80       75       74       73       72       71        70       70       70       70       70       7
specil power consumption            kWvV/m3           097      097      098      099      1 01     1 02     104      107      1 09    1i11      1 13    11
power tatf                          US cAWh          0030    0033    0036    0040    0044    0048    0053    0058    0064    0 071    0078    0 08
numberof employees                  no               1651     1634     1618     1602      1586     1570     1554     1554     1554     1554     1554     15S
average wages and benefits          USS/emp           385      394      403      413      422      432      442      447       453      459      465      471
rHaklmrie rnaerlas                               20% fixed; 80% variable
electric power                                   10% fixed; 90% vadable
wages aid benefits                              fixed;
purrsed wter aporDonate to prodon;
water booster pumping                            20% fixed: 80% vadable
wonklsp expenses                                 50% fixed; 50% varable
mrnitenance and repalr                           50% fixed; 50% vadrable
depreciallon                                     wegte-d avesge of 0 0353%
povision for bad debt               % o riet sales     20       25       26       27       2B       29        30       30       30       30       30       30
overal operabonal expense eficiency factor 1999 = 1 000  1000    1015 1030225 1045678 1061364 1077284 1093443 1109845 1109845 1109845 1109845 110984
oDnptgsory condbioroms                           1999 levels, inrraseg with inflation
rftre txes                                       1999 levels, Increasi  with v nflsbon
- 71 -



ANNEX 5, AppendhK 5
MAIN ASSUMPTIONS UNDERLYING FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
1999     2000     2001     2002     2003      2004     200S     2006      2007     2000     2009     2010
WITH PROJECT CASE 
waterproduction                      000 m3         132987   124656   121121   113498   106535    98995    93862    91606    89710    E 768    86677    8555i
UFVV (unaccourted for water)         %                  42       42        40       38       35       32        30       30       30        30       30       30
water sales                          000 m3          77132    72301    72672    70369    69248    67317    85704    64124    62797    E 1438    60674    5988
percapitadomesticconsumpton          Ipod              207      207       207      198      193       185      178      170       164      158      154      15C
wastewater volume                    000 m3          79209    76225    76643    74658    73795    72264    71064    69887    68627    t '338    66613    6586
averagewatertariff                   USMcm3                    1291     1550    1930    2018        1997    2024       1889    1962    :1015    2055    2096
averagewastewatertarfl               UStrm3                     548      658      818       853      917      845       883      901      319      937       95t
collection rato                      % of net sales     80       75        80       85       88       92        93       94       94        95       95       95
spetfic power consumption           kiWh/m3            097      0 97     0 97     0 95      092      088      086       085      0 85     3 85     0 85      08
powertariff                          USctrkWh         0030    0033    0036    0040    0044    0048    0053    0058    0061    (.064    0068    0071
numberdoemployees                    no               1651      1634     1618     1602     1586      1570     1554     1554     1554       554     1554     1554
average wages and benefits    *      US$temp           385       394      403      413      422       432      442      447      453       459      465      471
norr-malntenarc.e materials                       20% tfxed; 80% variable
electric power                                    10% fixed; 90% vafiable
wages and benefits                               fixed;
purchased water                                   proporlionate to production;
water booster pumpng                              20% fixed; 80% vanable
workshp expenses                                  50%OfIXed; 50% variable
mainlenance and repair                            50%6 fixed; 50% variable
depredabon                                        weighted average of 0 0353%
provisionforbaddebt                  %ofnetsaler        20        25       20       15       12         8        7        6        6         5        5
overall operabonalespenseeffiaencyfactor 1999=1000    1060    0985    0970    0956    0941          0927     0913    0900    0906    ('900            0900   0
oompulory oontributons                            199 levels, ircreasing with inflaton
other taxes                                       1999 levels, increasing with inflation
- 72 -



ANNEX 5, APPendl 6
Rvincial Risk AMID"
2001   2002   2003  3064  2005  2006  2007  2000  2009  2010  2011  2012  2013  2014  2015  2016  2017  2018  2019  2020  2021
Cm1: D~a.  .s
caprA oosts                          ~1503 136271I8007365  1410             0      0      9      0      0      0     0      0      0      0      0      0     0      0      0 
Net wenues olleedo                                0440  13869  14921 14931 14117  13752 14061 14110  14219 14172 14400 14031 15172 15621 76078 10244 10017  16000 11239  1T7700 1819
EIe00151exporos                                    0002   0102   4033  4455  4232  4122  4146  4166  4219  4270  4359  4409  457   4077  4706  409   5007  5122  5240  5201  544
Ot   cshe06.se                                  30904290   4253  4207  3090  3402  3507  3552  3000  3000  3750  3037  3029  4015 410804202   4200  4308 4490 4602 47W
Nd benelt                                        -2403  .921  -11055 -1090  4991  0107  640   0362  6391  0236  037   6925  0075  6020  6900  7147  7311  7479  7051  7027  8000
W0h08 P0*08
COObI 6os8
NOtv0U00eS  D84C                                644    6392   0433  8517  0000  8819  0024  9030  9120  9249  9059  0077  099 10127 10300 105900  1002 11001 11340 11607 11871
Elec6icky exoffo                                  5502   0396   6767  7175  7617  9391  9420  0004  6199  9022  9644 10070 10202 10539 10781 11029 11202 11542 11007 12079 1235
ro csh expors                                   3000   3000   4127  4313  4610  4720  5107   5302  6547  0743   W 6010001  0149  0203  042   65813  6734  0069  7040  7210  727(
4etb0ne41s                                         -000  -109M  -2461  -2071  -3519  -3902  -4609  -5130  -500  -0119  -020   -0404  -006  -6702  -06015  -7014  .7175  -7340  -7509  -7692  -78
capoaccosts                                       1501313627 10089736591410              0      0      0      0     0      0      0      0      0      0     0      0      0      9      0      I
10'r,mU000986td2                                    0   5477   088M  444  000   4933  5137  669   -002  402   5039  5155  6273  5395  55109  5940  5775  5900   6044  0183  63Z
idyv,o,s                                       0  -1234  -1020  -2720) -3306  -3960  -4290  -4620  -4060  -5392  .5470  -5691  -5730  -5f06l -0900  -0134  -0276  -0420  -6007  -0718 -667,
YJ   ahe)pmns                                      0    325    120  -106  -0`16  -1250  -1000  -1910  -1938 -2077 .2125  -2174  -2234  -2275  .2327  -2341  -2430  -2492  -2549  -2698 -28
,let beneMs                         ~~~~~-1023  .7251  -6604   1005  0010 10159 11109  11520 12024  12355 12639 12929 13227 15291 13942 14101 14480 14019 05100 15509 1S
CoOaOl                                            1 00    1 02    1 06   1 07   1 19   1 12   1 15   1 17   120   123   1306   1 20   131   1 34   1 37   1 41   144   1 47   1 51   1 54   1 50
0lel b00e6I(a8tuereb0o1)                          -1003  -7008  -0212  1751  777090067  9691  9932 10004 10069 10068 IO00  10000  I000  10D60  10009  10008  10068  15008 10000 106
Npv                                         $404  200
am2: VWgwrcooupt nlowwothvn proft
(aj20%68r&
Ntbneflel9afberOOo00                            -3191  -9796 -11063  .030  5119  6012  7237  7425  7633  7758  77560  7158  7750  7750  7750  7768  7750  7758  7758  77560  775
NPV =                                        819,725800
FRR=                                               20%
()40% bo                                        -4979 .12507 -03915  -342   2466  4158  4794  5010  6202  5448  5448  5448  SW448            4 544 8 544 8 5448  5448  5448  5448  5448
uplv                                        ($1,189900)
Cae3: CoNeclon ra    ~m slwso81 se
(a) 20% boor                                      -9091  -9700 -10003  -153   511  6 012  7237  7425  7633  7758  7760   7750  7758  7758  7758  7758  7798  7758  7758  7758  77
NPV -$19,725 00
9)~40% DWW                                       -4079 -12507 -13915 -3020  2408  4150  4784  0018  0262  5449  5440  5448   5  5440                5446   5448  544 8 5448  5448  5446   5448
NPV                                          (81,199 00)
oFt                                               9%
Ca,. 4.79 Tm6hwto   SXK
a) 20% bwo,                                      -3191  -9798 -11003  -1030  5119  6612  7237  7425  7823  7758  7760  7758  7760  7709  7760  7758  T750  7750  7758  7750  77S
iPV                                         $19,735 06
4m.                                  ~~~~~~~~20%
b) 40%17W ~ ~   ~     ~     ~    55:801
27%
233%
FRR -                       27% ~~~~~~~~~~~   7 



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
UKRAINE: LVIV WATER AND WASTEWATER PROJECT
Procurement
General.
Project procurement arrangements shall include the procurement of goods (including incidental
services), works and consultants' services and shall follow latest edition of the Bank guidelines
"Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits," "Selection and Employment of Consultants by WVorld
Bank Borrowers." The project components not financed by the Bank shall be procured under the respective
guidelines of the co-financiers provided its acceptance to the Bank.
*   Table A      - summnarizes the project components, their estimated costs and procurement method.;
*   Table Al     - provides further details on consultant selection arrangements
*   Table B      - presents prior review thresholds and the Bank's review process
*   Table BI     - informs about the procurement capacity of the implementing agency
*   Table B2     - details packaging and estimates schedule in proposed Procurement Plan
*   Table B3     - specifies summary of findings and actions of procurement capacity assessment
The project will be financed from the proceeds of the proposed $24.25 million USD-equivalent
loan, the local expenditure contributions from the Government and donors financing. The total cost of the
project would be US$40.80 million A General Procurement Notice has been published on the Development
Business of the UN on December 1, 2000.
The project is designed to enhance water supply and wastewater system in the city of Lviv in
Ukraine. To this end, Initial Defined Investment (IDI) for water supply has been identified representing
supply and installation of goods and procurement of construction equipment totaling S 1 3.20) million. There
is a further investment program for water supply representing goods and works contracts estimated < 10 0 60
Tnillion of Operating Fund (OF) component. In addition, a wastewater component for rehabilitation of
inlet pumps estimated $2.80( million will be financed partially by the WB loan as a supply and insta]lation
package, while remaining rehabilitation of aeration systems, settling tanks and sludge disposal facilities
estimated at $S 30 million will be partially financed by SIDA Several Consultants contracts inc uding
Management and Operations Improvement Advisor estimated $2.80 million, shall be hired (i) to p -ovide
technical assistance and training; (ii) to help prepare final designs and bidding documents; (iii) to assist in
supervising construction; and (iv) to provide general management.
A Procurement Plan has been detailed for IDI and for the three major consultants contracts, but for
OF specific bidding packages can only be identified at a later stage. The project shall be implemented by
municipal enterprise Lviv Vodokanal (LVK), where the PIU headed by LVK deputy director ha- been
established by intemal decree. Progress on procurement will be reported semi-annually in project
implementation reports.
Procurement methods (Table A)
1. Procurement of Goods
Procurement of goods shall follow the World Bank Guidelines "Procurement under IBRD and IDA Credits"
dated January 1995, revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. The foll.owing
methods of procurement will be followed:
- 74 -



(i) International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
* Supply and Installation (S&1) procedure will be used for the rehabilitation of pumping stations, pressure
zones replacement of pipelines under IFI and for the rehabilitation of pumps under Wastewater Treatment
component. Estimated $15.35 million total for two contracts. Those under OF can be finalized only at a
later project stage.
* Procurement of Goods (G) procedure will be applied for supply of repair and construction equipment -
compressor, generator, excavator, welder, etc. under IDI component. Estimated $() 65 million. The OF
component may need further supply of pumps, valves, controls, etc. which can be finalized at a later stage
of project implementation.
(ii) International Shopping (IS) procedures will be used for readily available off-the-shelf goods of
standard specifications estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract up to an aggregate of
US $0 8 million (not more than 4% of total goods). These procedures will require quotations from at least
three qualified suppliers from two different Bank-member countries.
(iii) National Shopping (NS) procedures will be used for small contracts valued under US $50,000 each
up to an aggregate amount of US $0.2 million (not more than 1% of total goods). Contract award(s) will
be based on comparison of price quotations obtained from at least qualified three suppliers to assure
competitive prices.
2. Procurement of Works
Procurement of works shall follow the World Bank Guidelines "Procurement under IBRD and IDA
Credits" dated January 1995, revised January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999.
(i) International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures will be used for civil works contracts estimated
to cost more than $500,000 such as replacement of pipelines, leaking pipes, installation of valves, etc.
(ii) National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures will be used for civil works contracts estimated to
cost less that $500,000 such as rehabilitation of WWTP, small works in pumping and building facilities in
aggregate not to exceed $2.5 million.
(iii) Minor works (MW) procedures may apply under OF component for works less than $100,000 in
aggregate not to exceed $0 5  million. This can be defined only at a later stage of the project
implementation.
3. Procurement of Consultants Services
Procurement of Consultant Services shall follow the World Bank Guidelines "Selection and Employment
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated January 1997, revised September 1997 and January
1999.
(i) Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) procedures will apply for Management and Operations
Advisor and for engineering and construction supervision services (two contracts) estimated at $4.25
million.
(ii) Selection based on Consultants Qualifications (CQ) procedures will apply for training expenditures
other than operating costs, for surveys and studies related to public awareness, community relations or
similar activities.
(iii) Selection of Individual Consultants (IC) will be used for various types of assistance to the LVK such
as short-term advisory and legal services.
4. Provision for NCB Procurement
For all goods, works and consulting contracts Bank's standard bidding/contract documents shall be used.
For all non-ICB procurement ECA regional sample documents shall be used.
- 75 -



Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
1. Works                                  1.14              1.00            0.50            0.00          2.64
_       ~~(1.00)           (0.75)           (0.27)         (0.00)  _     (2.02)
2. Goods                                 22.58              0.00             1.00           0.00         23.58
(17.53)             0.00)          (0.77)          (0.00)  _ (18.30)
3. Services                              0.00               0.00            5.66            0.00          5.66
(0.00)            (0.00)          (3.69)          (0.00)  _     3.69)
4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00            0.00            8.30          8.30
(0.00\             0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.004
........ ...... ....... ......~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_ .      .-
5. Front-end fee                         0.00               0.00            0.24            0.00          0.24
(0.00)            (0.00)          (0.24)          (0.00)        (0.24)
Total                                 23.72              1.00            7.40            8.30         40.42
(18.53)            (0.75)          (4.97)          (0.00)       (24.25)
:Figmnes in parenthesis ale the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan All costs include contingencies.
Includes civil works and goods to be procured through intel national I national shopping, mqinor works,
consulting services and train3ig, PIU incremental expenses and audit services
- 76-



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
AFlrms               4.25    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.38    0.00    0.00      4.63
(3 .31)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.30)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (3.61 )
B. Individuals         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00    0.10    0.00      0.1l0
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0 .00)  (0.08)  (0.00)   (0.08)
Total  4.25    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.38    0.1l0    0.00      4.73
(3 .3 1)  (0 .00)  (0.00)  (0 .00)   (0.30)  (0.08)  (0.00)   (3 .69)
1\ Including contingencies
Note. QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N B F = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan
- 77 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
The Bank will require prior review of the first two/three contracts under all categories, except for IC'B and
QCBS, where all contracts will be subject to prior review. The Bank will ensure necessary input on ielated
prior and post reviews.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
T v~~~~~ o l d                          P r i m   ~~~~~~~~~~~ . . . . . ..~... .. .
1. Works                       >500,000                    ICB                $1.14 al' contracts
<500,000                   NCB              $0.1 first tlhree contracts
<100,000               Minor Works          $0.3 first t}ree contracts
2. Goods                       >100,000                    ICB                $4.11 all contracts
<100,000                    IS              $0.3 first three contracts
<50,000                    NS              $0.15 first three contracts
Supply and Installation           any                      ICB                $18.47 all contracts
3. Services                    >100,000                   QCBS                $4.25 all contracts
<100,000                    CQ              $0.2 first two contracts
<50,000<                    IC             $0.1 all contracts >50,000
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: estimated $29.12 inln
out of total $40.8 nln
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Tables Bt, B2 and B3 below are optional and prepared in accordance with Regional
Procurement Management Guidelines.
Table BI: Procurement Information Table B1-Procurement Information-L-VK(pasted as a picture):
- 78 -



Goods       ICB         NCB          IS          NS        Minor       Other    Percentage of
(G) and                                                    Works      methods  loan amount
Civil                                                                          subject to
Works                                                                           prior review
W)                 _                        _      _                          _
Procurement G:         G: N/A     G:<         G:<          <$100,000
thresholds    >$l 00,000          $100,000    $50,000      up to
individual             W:         up to       up to        $0.5mln
aggregate    W.>$500,0  $500,000   $0.8mIn    $0.2mln
00          up to      W: N/A      W: N/A
$2.5m(n
Prior      All         First three  First three   First three   First three
Review     contracts   contracts  contracts   contracts   contracts
Consulta   QBCS        QBS        Fixed        LCS         Qualifi-    Single     Individuals
nts                               Budget                   cations     Source
_      ~~~CQ  _     ISS)
Procurement  > $100,000                                    < $100,000             <$50,000<
method
thresholds
Prior      All                                             First two              All contracts
Review     contracts                                       contracts              above
and TOR                                        and TOR                 $50,000
Ex-post    Explain briefly the ex-post review mechanism. to be conducted one post-review in five
Review     contracts. 20 % of contracts will be ex-post reviewed
$.c1~n 2:capec~t~o l            2p~me :i i Agn,4 nPo0vt0 CdThsa
2~~~~  ...q frmst
Bnef statement
The PIU is created as a separate department within the water company LvivVodoKanal (LVK) headed by
Deputy Director of the LVK. PIU has no past experience in Bank procurement and consists of 6 full time
employees of LVK, trained during WB procurement and disbursement workshops. PIU staff is dedicated,
willing to learn and implement the project
The capacity of the PIU is inadequate to handle the procurement functions without external support.
Consultants funded by various donors have assisted in drafting bidding documents. This support will also
cover the evaluation of bids of IDI. The Management and Operations Improvement Advisor to be engaged by
Loan effectiveness will support LVK during the second phase in all procurement related activities. In addition,
engineering consultants will be hired to supervise the construction works.
Country  Procurement Assessment Report or Country Are  the  bidding  documents  for  the
Procurement Strategy Paper status:                    procurement actions of the first year ready
by negotiations
CPAR under preparation, report expected in spring 2001.
Yes a   No  1S
- 79 -



Estimated date  Estimated date of   Indicate if there is   Domestic    Domestic Pref6rence for
of Project    publication of     procurement subject to    Preference   Works, if applicable
Launch        General            mandatory SPN in          for Goods
Workshop      Procurement Notice  Development Business                 Yes ?   No  ?
Yes ?                    Yes ?
June 2001     November 30, 2000  No   ?                    No  ?       as of December 2000
Retroactive financing                                                 .         pXree 
Yes ?    No ?       Explain:                                         Yes. ... ...
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System:
LVK, assisted by Consultants, shall have full responsibility for preparation of procurement documentation
and contract management. Management and Operations Improvement Advisor to be engaged by
effectiveness will assist in procurement process, contract signing, installation and management of
procurement monitoring system. All procurement documents subject to prior review shall be clear d by WB
technical specialists and PAS on the project. Procurement information shall be reviewed by the PIT.J,
approved by the LVK management, recorded and submitted to the WB. Such information in quarte"ly
progress reports shall include inter alia :1/ revisions to cost estimates, 2/ update of time process on
procurement actions - advertising, bidding, contract award and completion, 3/ compliance on aggregate limits
under each method.
Co-financing: Explain briefly the procurement arrangements under co-financing:
Project components not financed by the Bank shall be procured under respective guidelines of the co-
financiers.
During project preparation USAID provided support to LVK in the preparation of feasibility studie ;., designs
and other project aspects since 1995. (CH2Mhil1: Project Definition Report, 1998-99). In addition to project
preparation study conducted by COWI in 1997, IECA (consultant) financed by the French Governmient has
assisted in preparing the TOR for the Operations and Management Improvement Advisor. DEPA .vill
support the preparation of bidding documents and evaluation of bids for Initial Investment Prograrn.
During proiect implementation SIDA will support the Wastewater treatment component. The support will
include financing of consulting services for designs and bidding documents, supply and installation of
equipment and the supervision of the construction. SIDA will also finance consultants services for the
preparation of bidding documents for the rehabilitation of inlet pumps at wastewater treatment plan: to be
financed from the loan.
- 80 -



...:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ... .......'    ) 
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the procurement in the
Project:
Name: Karina Mostipan, Procurement specialist, ECCUA. (appraisal only-due to time constraints before
negotiations) Ext: 5256-246
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in procurement:
Procurement service support functions for whole portfolio. Projects covered by fiduciary procurement
functions were approved by OCSPR memorandum of January 20, 2000 for ECSPF and ECSHD projects
below mandatory RPA review thresholds. Delegation arrangements shall be reviewed by RPA in March 2001.
- 81 -



Table B2: Procurement Plan LVK Procurement Plan.dt
(omponent                            Type       Cont # or     Estimat      1'rocurement      Invitation    Submissio      Contract       Contract
Est # of     ed Cost        Methods          to Bid       n of Bids       signing      Completion
Contracts      $000
(see
footnote
belowv)
1. WATER SUPPLY
I I Initial Defined Investments (IDI)
suipplv and Inswllatiot
Rehabilitationi al Pumpinig StaBinns and Pipes            Goods    One                          ICB               Sept 01       Nov '01      J3n '02        Jun '03
Gui,ds
_-d_
Equipment and Materials 11)1                              Goods    One                          ICB               Sept '01      Nov '01      JIn '02        Jun '03
2. WASTEWA I ER
2.1 Rehabilitation of Pumps at WWTP
Supply antd Installation
Rehabilitation of Punps                                   Goods    One                          ICB               Feh '02       Apr -02       J.n '02        Dec '03
2.2 Rehabilitation ofWWTPs                                 NBF                                  NBF               Feb '02        Apr '02       J,., '02      Jun '04
3. OPERA'I'ING l;UND (OFl)
ftsipplv awlu Inr.sullation
Rehabilitation of Pumping Stationis and Plaints            Goods    Several                     ICB                IL' '113      Mar '03       N' y '03      May n5
Supply of Pumps. pipes, Valves, Controls etc              Goods      Several                    ICB               Sept Y'0!     Nov '02       3a 1 '03       Sept '03
Suipply ofspales                                           Goods    Several                     IS                rdp i -l       Nov '02       Ja-l '03       Sept '03
(punmps, pipes. valves, controls etc
Supply of spirrcs aid materials                            Goods    Several                     NS                (Op(l 'I       Nov '02       Jau '03       Sept '03
lptamps. pipes, valves, controls etc I
wor ks
lnstallation of-lumps, Pipes, Valves, Coritrols etc        Work       Several                   ICB                I t.h '       May '03       Ju y'03       May'05
s
Installation of Pumps, Pipes, Valves, Controls etc         Work      Several                    NCB               Vlu' 03        May'03        Ju y '03      May'05
Minor installation works                                   Work      Several                    Minor works       I)c 1-2        Feb '03       M.r '03       May'05
- 82 -



External T aiaining                                        Cons       Agreed                       e)A Agreed       \pi ! d'l     June'02        Aug '02        Aug 04
Plan 8                     Plan"
4. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
4.1 Manag and Oper Impr.Advisor                             Colns      One                         QCBS              Jun '01       Aug '01        Oct '01        Dec '05
4.2 PIU Incremtental Expenses                               Servic     Agreed                     Agreed Plan'
es         Plan                       \1i
5. ENGINEERING AND SUPERVISION
5.l EngineeringServices(forOF)                              Cons       One                        W1 iS              Sept '01      Dec '01        Feb '02        Feb '03
Engineering Services (for OF)                             Cons       Several                    IC                Sept '02       Oct W2         Nov '02       Nov '04
5.2 Construction Supervision (for I11D & OF)                Cons       One                        QCBS               Jan '01       Apr '01        Oct '011       Dec '05
5.3 Engineering and Supervision for WWTP                    NBF        One                        NBF                Feb '01       Apr '01        Jun '01       Jun '04
6. AUDIT SERVICES                                           Cons       Several                    \ttlz              Sept '01      Oct '01        Nov '01        Dec '06
Estimated costs (column 4) are available in the Project Files in the Project Implementatuon Plan
ICB = Internatonal Competitive Bidding: IS  International Shopping: NS= National Shopping; QCBS  Qiality and Cost-Based Selection; CQ=Selection based on
Consultant Quali fications IC  Individual Consultant. NBF  Not Bank-financed
In accordance with annual budget and schedule satsfactory to the Bank
** To be planned by the Management and Operations Imnprovement Advisor
Table B3: Summary of Findings and Actions on Procurement Capacity Assessment
f
LVKCapacityAttachment2.d
Note: IThis table serves as additional in lormation amid may be de,leted while preparuig final l'AD).
Thresholds generally differ by country and project Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 83 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
(1) Works                                 2.02              100% of foreign expenditures,
80 % of local expenditures
(2) Goods                                               100% of foreign expenditures., 100 % of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
80 % of local expenditures for other
items procured locally
(a) Excluding Part C                     12.32
(b) For Part C                            5.98
(3) Consultants' Services                                             100%
(a) Excluding Part C                      2.49
(b For Part C                             0.30
(4) Unallocated                           0.90
Total Project Costs                       24.01         __- =
Front-end fee        0.24
Total                                     24.25
Table D: Bank Loan Disbursement Schedule
Fiscal Year    Quarter    Disbursement   Percentage    Cumulative    Percentage
2002          2             0.50           2.1            0.50          2.1
3             0.37           1.5           0.87           3.6
4             1.44           5.9           2.31           9.5
2003          1              1.44          5.9           3.75           15.4
2             1.44           5.9           5.19           21.3
3             1.44           5.9           6.63           27.2
4             2.09           8.6           8.72           35.8
2004          1              2.09          8.6            10.81         44.4
________1_    2        2.09          8.6            12.90         53.0
~32.09                       8.6           14.99          61.6
4             1.57           6.5           16.56          68.1
- 84 -



2005           1               1.57           6.5             18.13          74.6
2              1.57            6.5            19.70           81.1
3              1.57            6.5            21.27           87.6
4              1.57            6.5            22.84           94.1
2006           1               1.00           4.1             23.84           98.2
2              0.40            1.8            24.24           100.0
Special Account
The Borrower will open and maintain a Special Account (SA) at a foreign commercial bank
acceptable to the Bank. The bank selected for the purpose should be capable for providing efficient
payment and clearing facilities both locally and internationally. The SA will be maintained by the PIU.
The authorized allocation for this account will be US$2.0 million. However, the deposit would be limited
to US$0.5 million until the aggregate of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments have reached US$4 million. The SA shall be replenished at regular
intervals but at least quarterly.
In addition, LVK will establish a Local Project Fund Account for depositing its counterpart
financing contributions for the project. The LPF account will be kept at a bank that holds the SA, or
another acceptable local bank, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank,
including protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. LVK shall deposit into the LPF account, during
the life of the project, an amount sufficient to cover project-related expenditures estimated to be required
during the following three months. The amounts deposited into the LPF account shall be used exclusively
for financing costs of carrying out the project and for meeting LVK's anticipated Bank loan repayment
obligations.
Documentation
Disbursements from the loan proceeds for the following types of contracts will require full
documentation (i) civil works contracts valued at US$500,000 or more; (ii) goods contracts valued at
US$ 100,000 or more; (iii) consulting contracts with firms and training contracts valued at US$ 100,000 or
more; and (iv) services provided by individual consultants and training contracts valued at US$50,000 or
more. The Bank may require all other disbursements to be made against Statements of Expenditure (SOE).
Related docurnentation in support of SOE will not be submitted to the Bank but will be retained by the PIU
for at least one year after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the disbursement is
made. This documentation will be available for review by the auditors and the Bank staff. If ineligible
expenditures, including those not justified by the evidence firnished, or amounts in excess of agreed
disbursement percentages are financed from the SA, the Bank will have the right to withhold furthcr
deposits from the SA. The Bank may exercise this right until the Borrower has (a) refunded the amotnt
involved; or (b) submitted evidence, to the Bank's satisfaction, of other eligible expenditures that the Bank
can use to off-set the ineligible amounts. The PIU will be required to maintain all books and records for
post-review by the Bank's supervision missions and for the auditors.
- 85 -



Disbursements
Disbursements from the loan will be made on a traditional basis. The Project Monitoring Reports (:IMRs)
will be used for monitoring purposes.
- 86 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
UKRAINE: LVIV WATER AND WASTEWATER PROJECT
_ra~    $ied*~#e                          _____________________7A ct                   
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)             09/30/96                      09/30/96
Appraisal mission departure                     05121/97                      05/21/97
Negotiations                                    03/0512001                    04/23/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   10/31/2001
Prepared by:
LVK with the assistance of foreign consultants
Preparation assistance:
USAID, SIDA, DEPA and French bilateral grant financing
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
N_e                                         $pelai                             _______
Walter A. Stottmann*              Sector Manager, Water and Sanitation
Kishore Nadkarni*                 Sr. Financial Analyst
Kari Homanen*                     Sr. Water Specialist
Karina Mostipan*                  Procurement Officer - PAS
Hiran Herat*                      Sr. Financial Analyst - FMS
Igor Korablyov*                   Consultant
Kari Johansson*                   Consultant
Kishor Uprety*                    Sr. Counsel
Nicholay Chistyakov*              Sr. Disbursements Officer
Miroslav Ruzica*                  Sr. Social Scientist
Takao Ikegami*                    Sr. Sanitary Engineer - PAS
Ivy Cheng                         Sr. Financial Analyst
Piotr Krzyzanowski                Sr. Environmental Specialist
Aly Abu Akeel                     Sr. Counsel
Gennady Pilch                     Sr. Counsel
Maria Teresa R. Lim*              Program Assistant
Tamara Noel*                      Program Assistant
Mike Gain                         Peer Reviewer
Guillermo Yepes                   Peer Reviewer
Shobha Subramanian*               Program Assistant
* Current team
- 87 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
UKRAINE: LVIV WATER AND WASTEWATER PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
*   Introduction
* Project Design Summary
* Project Description
* Project Cost Estimates
* Financing Plan
* Implementation Schedule
* Implementation Arrangements
* Procurement Arrangements
* Financial Management Arrangements
* Environmental Management Arrangements
* Performance Indicators - Monitoring and Evaluation
*   Social Assessment
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1.    Rapid Social Assessment: Final Report (November 2000), prepared by staff (Dr. Vladimir
Paniotto and Ms. Valeria Karuk) of the Kiev Intemational Institute of Sociology
2.     LVK and PIU Procurement Capacity Assessment (December 2000), prepared by Karina Mostipan,
PAS
3.    Financial Management Assessment (August 2000), prepared by Hiran Herat, FMS
4.    Electronic files in regard to (i) financial analysis; and (ii) economic analysis
5.    Project Appraisal Document (November 1998), superseded by the current version of the PAD
C. Other
Project preparation studies undertaken by LVK, local institutes and foreign consultants:
1.    Lviv Water and Wastewater Project: Institutional Reform and Private Sector Participation: (June
1996), report prepared by Booz, Allen and Hamilton Inc.
2.    Lviv Water and Wastewater Project: Project Preparation Study Final Report (February 1997),
report prepared by COWI Consultants (financed by the Danish Environmental Protection Agency)
3.    Lviv Water Infrastructure Improvement Project: Project Concept Report: (September 1998),
report prepared by CH2MHilI International Services (financed by the US Agency for International
Development)
4.    Lviv Water Infrastructure Improvements Project: Project Definition Report (December 1998),
report prepared by CH2MHill (financed by the US Agency for International Development)
5.    LVK Business Plan for the Project for Modernization of Water Supply and Wastewater Disposal
in Lviv (July 2000), report prepared by LVK and submitted to the Cabinet Committee for Economic
Development
*Including electronic files
- 88 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
UKRAINE: LVIV WATER AND WASTEWATER PROJECT
Dec-2000
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                             disbursements'
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                       IBRD         IDA                  GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig  Frm Rev'd
P055739       2000 KIEV PB ENERGY EFFIC                              18 29      0 00                  0 00      0 00      1811       0 02       000
P049502       1999 EDAL II                                          300 00      0 00                 0 00       0 00       000       0 00       000
P040560       1999 FIN SECAL                                        300 00      0 00                 00 0       0        1000 0    100 00       00 
P049174       1998 TREASURYSYSTEMS                                   1640       000                   000       000       1609       1028       072
P044832       1998 KIEV DISTRICT HEAT                               200 00      0 00                  000       0 00     195 71     40 31       874
P044728       1998 ODS PHASE-OUT (GEF)                                000       000                 2320        000       1928      1684       -046
P040564       1997 COALSECAL                                        300 00      0 00                  000       0 00       000       0 00       D 00
PO09113       1997 AGRICULTURE SECAL                                300 00      0 00                 0 00       0 00       000       0 00       000
P045940       1997 SOC PROTECT SUPPORT                                2 60      0 00                  000       0 00       0 00      0 00       0 00
P044851       1997 EXPORT DEVELOPMENT                                70 00      0 00                 0 00       0 00      33 45      1819       000
P044444       1997 ELEC MKT DEVT                                    317 00      000                  000      240 59       000     240 12       0 00
P044110       1996 COAL PILOT                                        1580       000                   000       273        034       306       -016
P035814       1996 EDAL                                             310 00      0 00                  000       000        106       106        0 00
P034581       1996 HOUSING                                           1700       000                  000       1700        000      1700        000
P039168       1995 DANUBE DELTA BIODIV (GEF)                          0 00      0 00                  1 50      0 01       000       -0 08      000
P038820       1995 HYDROPOWER REHAB                                 114 00      0 00                 0 00       0 00      5996      5941        635
P009108       1995 REHABILITATION                                   50000       000                   000       000        000       000        0 00
P009117       1995 AGRICSEEDDEV                                      3200       000                  000       1090        800      1890        737
P009106       1993 INSTITUTION BUILDING                              2700       000                   000       013        000       013        013
P009103       1993 BIODIVPROT(GEF)                                    000       000                   050       000        000       002        000
Total:    2840 09        0 00              25 20      271 36      452 00    525 26      2268
- 89 -



UKRAINE
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Dec-2000
In Millions UJS Dollars
Committed                           Disbursed
IFC                                IFC
FY Approval          Company                          Loan   Equity    Quasi   Partic    Loan   Equityi   Quasi   Partic
1998                Creditanstalt Uk                  0 00     2 28     0 00      0 00     0 00    2 28      0 00     0 00
1996                 FUIB                             0 00     5 00     0 00      0 00     0 00    5 00      000      000
1994/96              Ukraine VC Fund                  0 00      1 50    0 00      0 00     00 0     080      000      0 00
Total Portfolio:           0 00     8 78     0 00      0 00     0 00     8 0;    0 00      0 00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval         Company                              Loan     Equity      Quasi     Partic
1998                Creditanstalt Uk                  5000 00       0 00       ( 00      0 00
1996                FUIB                             1(OOO 00       000        0 0       0 00
2000                MBU                               5000 00       0 00   2209 16        0 00
Total Pending Commitment:       2000( 00       0 00   2209 16        ( 00
- 90 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
UKRAINE: LVIV WATER AND WASTEWATER PROJECT
Europe &
POVERTY and SOCfAL                                               Central     Low-
Ukraine       Asia  Income        Development diamond*
19E-t7
Poeositorn, mis-yvear (Mn/ifons)                         50 0       475      241 r                   Life expectancy
GNP pPe capita (At9s merthod, US$3                       750       2,150       410
GNP (Atits method, US$ billions)                         37 5      1 022       q8l                         1
Avorage, annual growth, 1993-89
Population) M%                                           -0,7        0 1        I 9
Labotorce i%)                                            -04         06        2'       GNP       F      A    ;.         pGross
per                              primary
Most recent estimate (latest year avaltable, 1993-99)                                   capita                        enrollment
Povertv /% of population below nationat ooverwr n '-e     27
Urban poPulation (% of total poputationl                  68         67         31
Life expectancv at birth (vears)                          67         69         60                         
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                   14        22         77
Chitd malnutrition N% of children under 51                            8         43                 Access to safe water
Access to improved watAr source (% of popufation)                               64
Ittiteracy (% of population aqe 15-)                       0          3         39
Gross prinmarv enrollment (% ofschool-age population)     87        100         96                  -Ukraine
Male                                                    87        101        102                   Low-income group
Female                                                  87         909        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979  1989  1998  1999                              __
Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ billions at official exchanqe rate)                        41 9      30 8
Gross domestic investment/GDP                            25 9       208       19 8
Esports of soods and servicestGDP                        32 1       41 9      52 8
Gross domestic sevinqslGDP                               28 8       18 5      20 9
Gros& national savings/GDP                               36 9       17 7      22 5
Current account balance/G.7P                                        -31        2 7      Domestic
Interest pavments/GDP                                                1 0       2.5       oe                           Investment
Total debt/GDP                                                      30 4      4 8       Savings
Total debt service/exports                                          11 1      144
Present value of debt/GDP                                           278       37 i
Present value of debt/exports                                       63 8      68 7
Indebtedness
1979-49  1919-99      1999       1999   199903
(average annuai growthi
GDP                                           -10 7      -1 9       -0 4       25                  -  Ukraine
GNP per capita                                -10 7      -2 4       -0 7       3 6                    Low-income group
Exporte of goods and services                   0 5     -13 4       -7 9       $ 0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998       1999      Growth ot investment and GDP I%)
(% of GDP) 
Agriculture                                              22 9       14 2      12 8              a
industrv                                                 4B 4       35 4      38 4      -20  _7
Manufacturine                                           9 1        5 6        5 2        (      , 
Services                                                 28 7       50 4      48 8      40 t.
Private consumption                                      53 9       59 8      60 2      , o0
General government consumption                           17 3       21 6       19                      001 GDI        GDP
Imports of qnods and services                            32 1       44 2      51 7
1979-89  1989-99       1998       1999     Growth of exports and imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Aqriculture                                              -6 3       112        -4 2     20
Industry                                                -135        -01        34       ,s
Manufacturing                                         -13 4        D 0        5 5
Services                                                 -31        -0 6       -1 8     o       9     9-       ---
Private consumption                                      -8 0        1 3       0 5     -ID    94   95   55    9         9    s
General government consumption                           -4 7       -3 5      -12 0
Gross domestic investment                               -22 4        0 4        5- 4   -20
Imports of qoods and services                             4 0      -14 0      -191              t  -opnrss    '        ptm orts
Gross national product                                  -11 1       -2 7       -1 3
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates
The diamonds show four key indicators in the countrv (in bold) compared with its income-qroup averaqe If data are missinq. the diamond will
be incomplete
- 91 -



Ukrgi-ine
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979     1989      1998      1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                     500
(% chan,qe)
Consumer prices                                                  20 0      19 2
Implicit GOP deflator                                  3 8       12 0      24 4    300              -.-
200  
Government finance                                                                  100
(% of GOP, includes cunent grants)                                                   o
Current revenue                                                  36 0      34 4             94   95   96   97   99   99
Current budget balance                                           -2 1      -2 0            --GDP deflator  -4-CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                                          -2 8      -2 4
TRADE
1979    1989      1998      1999      Export and Import levels (US$ mill)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                                            13,699    12,463      OD0
Ferrous and non-ferrous metals                                5,336    4,84
Food and agncultural raw materials                            1,379     1,418     15000
Manufactures                                                  2.393     1,981
Total imports (cifl                                            16,283    12,945     10,00
Food                                                          1,052      902   s  .    '
Fuel and energy                                               6,170     5,441
Capital goods                                                 3,172     2,255        o
93  94  95  96  97  98 'r
Export pdce index (1995=100)                                      96        95
Import price index (1995=100)                                     102      105                 U Exports     H Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                          94       91
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979    1989       1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US$ millions)
Exports of goods and services                                  17,621    16,234
Imports of goods and services                                  18,828    15,237
Resource balance                                               -1,207      997      2
Net income                                                       -871     -869
Net current transfers                                             782      706
Current account balance                                        -1,296      834      2
Financing items (net)                                             -28      -551
Changes in net reserves                                         1,324     -283      4
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)                           793      1,094
Official exchange rate (Iocaf/US$, average)                       2 4       41
EXTERNAL DEST and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1989      1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                      Composition of 1999 debt (US$ mill)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                           12,718    12,588
IBRD                                                          1,599    2,020                      G:480
IDA                                                              0                                         A0 2,0200
Total debt service                                              2,017     2,600
IBRD                                                            68        98
IDA
IF: 4,6a2 i..E...i . .-I
Composfition of net resource flows                                                                                  C 2908
Official grants                                                 9 
Official creditors                                             253       297
Prvate creditors                                              1.344     -574
Foreign direct investment                                      743       489
Portfolio equity                                                  0       62                     E: 1.907    D:5s|
World Bank program
Commitments                                                    680         0      A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                                  385       422      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                                              0        2      C-IMF                       G - ShoT-te-  n
Net flows                                                      385       420                                            -
Interest payments                                               68        96
Net transfers                                                  317       326
Development Economics                                                                                                 9112100
- 92 -



Additional
Annex 11
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
A.    Organizational Structure/Project Management
1.    Overall project management and administration will be the responsibility of the Lviv Vodokanal
(LVK), who will achieve this through the PIU which has been established. Specifically, the PIU will be
responsible for (i) administration of the Special Account and Loan disbursements for all project
components; (ii) financial management- project accounting, internal controls, financial reporting,
monitoring and auditing arrangements; (iii) procurement and contracting; (iv) monitoring the management
contract; and (v) maintaining strong communication links with all project entities and the Bank. The PIU
is headed by a director with a staff of 5, including a procurement officer and a project accountantlfinancial
management officer. The PIU reports to the head of LVK. The PIU will be supported by donor financed
technical consultants up to effectiveness and by the Management and Operations Improvement Adviser
(MOIA) after effectiveness.
B.    Sources and Flow of Project Financing
2.    Financing of the proposed Project will be supported by Bank Loan of US$24.25 million, SIDA
grant of US$6.0 million equivalent and own resources of $10.55 million. The proposed Loan will finance
goods (75%), works (8%) and consultant's services and training (17%).
3.    Counterpart Funding. LVK counterpart financing will be generated from its own budget .
4.    Special Account. To facilitate timely project implementation, the Borrower would establish,
maintain and operate a Special Account in US dollars in a foreign commercial Bank under conditions
acceptable to the Bank . The PIU will be responsible for administration of the Special Account and all
Loan disbursement related transactions for the project. However, the actual withdrawal applications will
need to be countersigned by the Ministry of Finance, who will forward them to the Bank. Emphasis was
made to the Borrower and the PIU on the Bank general principle that other accounts should not be
commingled with Bank funds in the Special Account. Relevant charts and flow diagrams are set out in
the Project Implementation Plan (PIP).
C.    Existing and Proposed Financial Management System
5.    The purpose of the review of existing systems and internal controls of the PIU was to assess the
adequacy of accounting system, procedures and controls and determine how these can be used and relied
upon for the proposed project financial management functions. Shortfalls and inadequacies identified in the
system and remedial actions are presented in the attached time-bound Action Plan
6.    Project Accounting. LVK follow financial accounting and tax regulations issued by the central
government. These rules and regulations deviate greatly, at present, from International Accounting
Standards (IAS) for similar revenue earning entities. LVK does not use accrual accounting and they do not
record in their financial statements billings and their corresponding expenses until the revenues are
collected; profit tax are paid on reported cash receipts and financial statements are not subject to external
audits. One of the key tasks of the MOIA, to be funded under the project, would be to assess the financial
- 93 -



situation of LVK, and to recommend and implement a new and improved accounting and financial
management system which will adhere more closely to IAS. This system will likely be quite differert from
what is customary or allowable under the current Ukraine regulations. Thus, in the interim, it i. quite
conceivable that LVK may need to keep books under two sets of accounting principles in order to satisfy
internal as well as external accounting, reporting and monitoring requirements. The Governme nt has
indicated that it will adopt IAS in due time.
7.     Until such time as the MOIA is selected and is able to implement a new financial manag,ement
system for LVK, an interim system to record and monitor project sources and uses of funds will be
implemented by LVK. Prior to Board presentation, a Bank's FMS will review and certify the sys' em as
being acceptable to the Bank. The TOR for this assignment has been agreed with LVK. The -:roject
accounts will be based on Chart of Accounts drawn by the appraisal mission with the assistance of the PIU.
The Chart of Accounts will accommodate the proposed project to capture sources and uses of funds. assets
and liabilities in sufficient detail to satisfy PMR-based reporting requirements. Cash basis of accc:unting
will be applied. The proposed system will, in addition to producing periodic and cumulative budgeted and
actual expenditures link the financial data to measures of output of the project.
8.    Staffing and Training The PIU has a staff of five including the Director. The team will consist
of an accountant, procurement officer, a technical specialist, and a secretary/interpreter. Funds vill be
provided under the Loan to provide external training for the staff of the PIU.
9.    Internal Controls. A Draft Financial Management and Operational Manual has been prepared,
encompassing all levels of project financial management, procurement and administration. The Manual
includes financial management and staffing, identification of accounting and auditing standar.s and
procedures used for the project, project reporting and monitoring, procurement procedures, procedtures for
cash and asset management and format of project management reports.
10.   Reporting Requirements: The PIU will prepare quarterly Project Management Reports (iMRs)
including financial report, project progress report and procurement management report, for )roject
monitoring and reporting for submission to the Bank. The reporting system would support the e-entual
application of the PMR-based disbursements, if and when it is mutually agreed between the Banrk and
Borrower to convert the initial traditional to PMR-based disbursements. The PIU would also submit
comprehensive quarterly reports to the LVK covering project finances and implementation progress. A
fixed asset register will be maintained and updated regularly by the PIU. Outline of reports containec in the
system are presented in the PIP. Format of the PMRs was discussed and provided to the PIU dur ng the
Financial Management Assessment mission.
C.    Auditing Arrangements, Accounting and Auditing Standards.
11.   Auditing Arrangements. The PIU will recruit independent auditors under terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank . Audited Project Financial Statements will be submitted to the Bank , ith the
audit report six months after end of each year audited. Cost of the audit will be financed through i itemal
sources by LVK.
12.   Accounting and Auditing Standards  The proposed accounting system will be maintained in
accordance with international standards, based on principles of double-entry bookkeeping (see -para. 6
above). The Bank informed the PIU of Bank requirements on maintaining accounts and rec:nds in
accordance with International Accounting Standards (IAS), and conducting audit in accordanm e with
International Standards on Auditing (ISA). Independent auditors selected for the Project are required to be
- 94 -



members of the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC).
D.    Readiness for Implementation and Risks
13.    The project has in place a financial management system that meets the Bank's minimum financial
management requirements at this stage. Disbursements under the loan would be made on a traditional basis
and there is no intention to disburse on the basis of PMRs. However, LVK and the PIU have agreed to
take the necessary steps to produce full PMRs by the target date of July 31, 2002. The PMRs would be
used for monitoring purposes.
14.   An Action Plan (Attachrnent 1) in regard to establishment of a satisfactory financial management
system was discussed with LVK and the PIU during the financial management assessment mission, and
updated at Negotiations.
- 95 -



Attachinent I
ACTION PLAN
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
Action                              Responsibility     Due Date               Remarks
Operational Manual                    LVK,PIU           02/2001       Done, satisfactory
Special Account                       LVK,PIU           08/2001       Bank to confirm
acceptability of selected
commercial Bank - sanie
Open a Special Account for the                                        Bank holding the Special
project in a commercial Bank                                          Account for the PIBL.
acceptable to the Bank
Audit Arrangements
*      Appointment of auditor         LVK,PIU           11/2001
Certification of financial
management arrangements
*      Establishment of Interim        LVK,PIU          04/2001            Done, satisfactory
FMS, 
*      Bank Financial                   Bank            05/2001            Done, satisfactory
Management Specialist to test
system and certify system for
adequacy of project financial
management system for LACI.
Project Management Reporting
*      Produce full PMRs and          LVK,PIU          07/31/2002
quarterly thereafter
*      Consider disbursing on the     Borrower /       08/31/2002      Mutual agreement betveen
basis of submitted PMRs                 Bank                          the Bank and the Borrower
- 96 -



Additional
Annex 12
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
Introduction
1.     The purpose of the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) is to provide an instrunent for the
future supervision of the enviromnental impact of the project, and to plan and monitor project activities,
mostly construction works, in such a way that adverse environmental impacts are minimized. The EMP will
include issues related to both the upgrading of the wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) and to the
improvements to the water supply system.
2.     The purpose of the physical activities of the project is to improve water supply service levels in
Lviv; reduce leakage and energy costs; and upgrade equipment at the two WWTPs to reduce by-pass flows,
improve treatment efficiency and reduce sludge discharges. The project funds are not sufficient to carry out
a complete overhaul of Lviv's water supply and sewerage systems, but the project is expected to be able to
prevent a collapse of wastewater services, and to reduce discharges into the Poltva and Zuga Rivers, and,
consequently into the Baltic and Black Seas.
3.     The project is planned to be implemented in two overlapping phases. An  Initial Defined
Investments program (with an estimated cost of about US$13.2 million) has already been identified and
defined, and will establish pressure zones for the water supply, replace worn-out pumping equipment, and
rehabilitate about 8 km of the network in the worst condition, as well as eliminate by-pass flows from the
WWTPs and upgrade equipment. Simultaneously with the commencement of the IDI program, a
Management and Operations Improvement Advisor (MOIA) will be engaged by LVK. With the help of the
MOIA team, further rehabilitation investments will be identified and implemented under the Operating
Fund (OF) with a budget of about US$10.6 million. The total project cost (including taxes and duties) is
estimated at US$40.8 million.
4.     All works under the investment program involve rehabilitation only. The project will not entail any
resettlement, expansion of existing facilities or construction of new structures of significant size.
Construction works will predominantly entail (i) water distribution network pipe replacement, which
includes pavement demolition, trench excavation, pipe laying, trench filling, and pavement application; and
(ii) rehabilitation of existing pumping stations and specific components of the water production and
wastewater treatment facilities. Rehabilitation activities of significant size (in general more than US$
500,000 or of specific importance) will require, even if they are classified, for purposes of OP/BP/GP 4.01
as category B, a specific mitigation plan. The terms of reference (TOR) for the preparation of the final
designs and bidding documents will include the preparation of the specific mitigation plan for the potential
negative impacts to the environment.
5.    The TOR for the consulting services (financed by SIDA) will include a provision to carry out an
assessment of environmental impacts on the Poltva river and further downstream, and the preparation of a
strategy for further actions to increase treatrnent levels to meet HELCOM recommendations.
6.     The planned US$ 24.25 million World Bank loan is expected to become effective by August 2001
and the physical implementation is expected to start immediately thereafter in the fourth quarter of 2001.
- 97 -



Policy, Legal and Administrative Framework
7.     The following laws, standards and norms apply for the environmental regulation of the P:'roject.
The measures incorporated in this EMP summarize and complement these regulations.
*   The law of Ukraine "About health care" (1992)
*   The law of Ukraine "About environmental conservation" (199 1)
*   The Water Code of Ukraine (1995)
*   The law of Ukraine "About sanitarium and epidemiological welfare of population" (1994)
*   The law of Ukraine "About air conservation" (I 992)
*   The Code of Ukraine "About subsoil" (1994)
*   The Rules on federal system of environmental monitoring (Resolution of Cabinet of Ministers of
Ukraine, #391 of March 30, 1998)
*   Construction Norms and Regulations, part on Environmental Conservation.
Environmental Impacts
8.    The project will have the following positive environmental impacts:
(i)    Reduction of the use of underground water. The project aims at gradually reducing the rate of
water consumption in Lviv per capita from 207 I/d (1999) to 173 l/d by 2005 and 153 I/d by 2010. It will
also reduce the quantity of leakage by proper pressure zoning and repairing most critical parts of th+. water
supply network. The level of water production is expected to decrease from 354,000 m3/d (2(l00) to
239,000 m3/d (2010).
(ii)    The improvement of wastewater treatment quality. The rehabilitation of key components of the
wastewater system will reduce the pollution from the WWTPs and reduce the major environmenial risk
that would arise from a complete collapse of the WWTPs. The replacement of the pumps at the Main
Pumping Station WWT. 2 will eliminate the present raw sewage by-pass into the Poltva Rive .. This
by-pass discharge of about 50,000 m3/d of raw sewage is equivalent to sewage generated by about 150,000
people. Rehabilitation of aeration systems will bring substantial improvements in biological wasiewater
treatment, and therefore BOD5 discharges would decrease from 23,400 kg/d (in 2000) to 4,200 k ./d (in
2006). Total nitrogen discharges would be reduced from 4,000 kg/d to 700 kg/d. Replacen-ent of
mechanical equipment of clarifiers will improve the solid substance sedimentation process, as a result a
reduction of discharges into the Poltva River from 19,000 kg/d (in 2000) to 5,000 kg/d (in 2006) will be
achieved. In regard to phosphates levels, the average concentration in treated wastewater is 1.I mg/dm3 at
present, and does not exceed the permissible limits (1,5 mg/dm3.) However, a reduction in phosphorus
discharges is expected as well.
(iii)   Elimination of uncontrolled wintertime sludge discharges to the Poltva River These discharges
have not been recorded or estimated, but the positive environmental impact is likely to be significant. The
amount and impact of the discharge will be studied during the preparation of the designs for the W'TPs.
(iv)   Reduction of the wastewater sludge volumes . The sludge separated from the wastev ater is
dewatered in open drying beds. Due to the high volumes, large areas are used for this purpose. The
rehabilitation of the mechanical sludge dewatering facilities will reduce the sludge volume fromy 8,000
m3/d (in 2000) to 400 m3/d (in 2006). This will allow the areas now used for storing liquid sludgc to be
used for other purposes, and the final disposal of the limited amount dewatered sludge will be easier as
well.
- 98 -



9.     Adverse environmental impacts relate to the temporary effects during construction. During the
rehabilitation of the pumping station and treatment units, uncontrolled by-passes of untreated sewege
might occur. In addition, construction activities in the urban areas (sewers and pipes) will result in some
noise and dust problems. An important issue that needs to be addressed is the lack of sustainable solutions
for the final sludge disposal and utilization. Detailed investigation and assessment of alternatives is
required to solve the issue. This will be carried out under a study under the SIDA-financed component of
the project. TOR are included in the PIP.
Project Environmental Classification
10.   The project has been classified by the Bank, for the purposes of OP 4.01, in Category B. The
project will have significant positive and permanent environmental impacts far outweighing the temporary
adverse effects which are mainly due to the construction activities. An Environmental Management Plan
(EMP) has been prepared and discussed in a public consultation meeting in November 2000.
11.    The interventions under the project address immediate needs to help keep the wastewater treatrnent
facilities from collapsing, improve treatment efficiency and prevent by-passes. The activities will not bring
treatment levels to the standards applied in the Baltic watershed (HELCOM recommendations).
However, the project includes an assessment of the environrnental impacts on the Poltva river and further
downstream, and the preparation of a strategy and action plan to meet HELCOM recommendations in long
term.
Mitigation Measures for Potential Adverse Impacts
12.   The adverse environmental impacts will mainly be related to construction work. The required
mitigation measures are standard and widely used in construction practices properly supervised for
achievement of international standards of quality. The MOIA's TOR will include support to the PIU to
ensure compliance with these measures during project implementation.
13.   During project implementation, environmental authorities can request specific environmental
management plans if individual project components were to warrant it due to their size (generally more than
US$500,000) or to peculiarities of the scope of work as determined by the PIU or the environmental
authorities. The preparation of such specific plans will be incorporated as part of the scope of work of the
engineering consultant for preparation of detailed designs and bidding documents. The most important
component in this respect is the rehabilitation of the WWTPs. Upgrading of the plant equipment
necessarily means that untreated or partially treated wastewater has to be temporarily discharged to the
recipient body. The consultant is required to design the works and the contractor to install them in a way
that limits operational stand-downs to minimnum.
14.    The following mitigation measures will be adopted and applied to the project when required:
15.   Prevention program  to avoid undue disruption. There will undoubtedly be some short-term
inconvenience and traffic disruption. To avoid undue inconvenience the construction program would
include the following in the contract with contractors:
*   Specify the work implementation sequence for pipeline rehabilitation, such that local inconvenience is
avoided to the maximum extent feasible.
*   Specify the coordination measures for water service interruption, such that cut-off periods are reduced
to the minimum possible.
- 99 -



*   Specify the method of construction in highly congested areas to minimize access disruption, such as
trench-to-truck construction and provision of plates to provide access over trenches. Proper ac cess to
daily businesses will be guaranteed to the maximum extent practicable ways.
*   Require the contractor to secure approval of construction staging and lay down areas.
*   Require the contractor to use traffic routing for implementation of construction works. Safe tra 'fic and
safety signals and lighting should be in accordance with local regulations. Safe detours and walkways
for pedestrians will be implemented as necessary.
16.    Measures to minimize noise and vibration During construction, noise can be minimized ihrough
scheduling and specific restrictions for particularly noisy activities. To the extent possible, excavation and
related works in residential areas should not be undertaken from sundown to sunrise. Routine control on
maintenance of all equipment used for construction and transportation will be required to ensure reasonable
noise levels. In built up areas, excessive vibration from heavy machines during construction will be [kvoided
to the extent possible to reduce any damages to the surrounding areas. Manual excavation will be a.dopted
in certain cases. Local construction standards will be followed if they specify more stringent requirements.
17.    Protection of air environment from construction dust and pollution. The contractor will e mploy
dust suppression measures during the construction process and transportation of materials, such as
periodically sprinkling water in certain areas and removal of excess materials from the sites. All street
surfaces, sidewalks, and construction sites will be cleaned upon completion of activities. To reduce vehicle
emissions the contractor will use traffic routing. Also it will be required to provide routine control on
maintenance all equipment used for construction and transportation of materials, and to use the equipment
only when required.
18.    Disposal of demolition and excavation debris. The current construction norms and regulat rons of
Ukraine require proper measures for the removal of demolition debris from the sites. This material svill be
removed from the site and will be disposed of at an approved location. Salvaged material will be stored at
a designated location and protected from erosion.
19.    Disposal of water treatment silt and sludge.  The existing Ukrainian construction standard
requires special measures for handling collection and burial of the water treatment sludge. Only approved
locations will be used for these purposes. Sludge should not be disposed of in permeable soils or in the
proximity of surface waters or buildings.
20.    Avoidance of underground water pollution by construction run-offs. The current constiuction
norms and regulations in Ukraine require proper measures for protection of groundwater from consttuction
run-offs. Construction sites will provide for adequate runoff and drainage control. All vegetation destroyed
will have to be replaced, and trench surfaces will have to be restored to a condition at least equal x) that
existing before work, to prevent increased erosion. Negative impacts to groundwater are expected to be
temporary and minor in significance.
21.    Prevention of accidents during construction. The contractors shall take all necessary precautions
for the types of civil woks involved, specially in residential areas and those with high circulation of persons
and vehicles. All construction and rehabilitation works should be carried out with keeping the safety
equipment rules, and health and safety regulations. Safety measures will be adopted to protect the petsonnel
involved in the works. Public access to construction sites will be properly restricted. Intemationally
accepted practices and active regulations should be employed regarding restoration of construction health
and safety.
- 100-



22.    Control of fiuels and oils. All aboveground storage tanks and drums will be stored on low
permeability bases able to contain 110% of the stored volume. Proper measures will be taken to prevent
spillage during equipment maintenance activities. Pouring fuels or oils into soils or drains will be
prohibited. Active environmental requirements on the subject will be followed as to the treatment and
disposal of residues.
23.   Protection of vegetative cover. As a general principle, all vegetation destroyed will have to be
replaced. Ornamental trees that need to be cut will be properly replaced.
24.   Supplenmentary measuires:
*   All wood used during construction will be procured from authorized sources.
*   Solid waste (other than demolition and excavation debris) such as wood, paper, glass, plastic and trash
in general, will be properly collected, separated, stored, and disposed.
*   All construction sites will be kept clean and in good sanitary condition.
Monitoring of Implementation of the EMP
25.   It is planned to establish a monitoring system for the WWTPs and the Poltva River. The
monitoring will include the following:
*      Detennination of quality and quantity characteristics of wastes before treatment and after treatment
at WWTPs
3      Determination of the impact of wastes on the Poltva River
*      Provision of hydro-ecology forecasts
o      Improvement of the system of water conservation measures according to data received from the
monitoring system
*      Prevention of creation of dangerous situations
o      Provision of stable operation of the wastewater network and the WWTPs.
26.   One of the most important components in the monitoring system would be the procedure of the
collection of samples. At present, sample collection is performed by laboratory workers at the WWTPs
and downstream of the Poltva River at the outfall and 0.5 kilometers from the WWTPs. It is foreseen
that, in future, a part of sample collection and analysis will be done using automatic analyzers.
27.   Monthly laboratory workers will undertake sample collection (with further analysis in a laboratory)
at downstream of Poltva River at distances of 0, 0.5, 1.25, 1.75, 7.1 and 8.6 kilometers from the WWTPs.
28.   All analysis of data is presented to the Chief of the main laboratory and to the Chief Engineer at his
request. Once a month, the analysis is presented to the State Authority for Environmental Safety and to
the City Department of Hygiene and Sanitation, and is presented quarterly to the State Committee for
Construction, Architecture and Housing Policy.
29.   The preparation of a sludge disposal strategy will be financed by SIDA as part of the consulting
services for the rehabilitation of the WWTPs. Impacts of sludge disposal and their monitoring will be
discussed and agreed with LVK and other stakeholders as soon as the report is available.
- 101 -



Institutional strengthening
30.   Equipment Purchases. No new  instruments and/or monitoring equipment are intended to be
purchased within the Project.
31.   Consultant Services and Training It is planned to involve a consultant and to set up training for
operators and other specialists.
Schedule
32.   The activities are identified in the Project Implementation Plan.
Institutional arrangements
Collection of data:  Data are collected by operational staff once a week or during unusual situations, as
required.
Analyze of data:    The chief of the Central Dispatcher Office analyzes collected data by visual r eview.
Data are filed in the operational register.
Reporting-        The normal procedure is that the report with field operational data is sent to the
Chief Engineer once a month. A report in English will be submitted semi-a.nually
for review by the Bank. This report will also be made available to the local press
and presented to ecological authorities.
Decision:         The decision to take action is taken by the Chief Engineer.
Public Consultation
33.   The project, its components and environmental impacts were discussed in a public heating on
November 24, 1999. The LCG organized the hearing. The project concept and design were agreed without
adverse comments from the public. The recording of the hearing was, however, insufficient from :he OP
4.01 point of view, and at that time no environmental management plan was available for the public jeview.
34.   A public hearing was conducted again on November 24, 2000 in the conference room of the
Regional Community for Protection of Historical and Cultural Monuments (40a, Kopemika Str, Lviv).
The notification about the public hearing was published in the local newspaper (Vysokyy Zamok) dated
November 21, 2000 (Appendix 3). All persons present at this public hearing received a brief description of
the EMP. Minutes of the public hearing are attached in Appendix 1.
35.   LVK and the PIU will continue cooperation with all stakeholders, including concerned public
interest groups and NGOs, during implementation.
- 102 -



Annex 12, Appendix 1
Information about the Public Hearing Concerning the Environmental Management Plan of the
"Lviv Water and Wastewater System Enhancement Project
1. On November 24, 2000 Lviv Vodokanal (LVK) with the support of public organization --
"Geological-Ecological Fund" organized the public hearing concerning the Environmental Management
Plan for the "Lviv Water and Wastewater System Enhancement Project."
2. Interested public groups, state and science institutions, public and mass media (Appendix 2)
participated. Presentations included:
(i ) "Lviv Water and Wastewater System Enhancement Project with debt of the World Bank Loan"
(speaker: Lev Hipp)
(ii) "Project Environmental Management Plan" (speaker: Yuri Batig).
3. Comments received during the discussions concerned the following aspects:
Organizational and Legal:
*   the findings and conclusions by the firrns who did the ecological project assessment were not given in
advance.
*  the public are not acquainted with the World Bank mission's rernarks.
*   the execution phase schedule may provoke complaints from citizens.
Ecological:
*   insufficient involvement of local scientists in the assessment of impact.
*   the environmental assessment presented deal more with the building phase than with the operations
and maintenance phase.
-   the special peculiarities of Lviv are not included (State historical-architectural conservation,
monument world UNESCO inheritance), the works should be done with all requirements to
improvement.
Propositions:
*   During the monitoring of wastewater quality, both sarnple elements and the entire system (including
phosphates, etc.) should be taken into account.
3   Wide application of updated methods and advanced technology in Project modernization.
3   Interested public groups are ready to help "Lvivvodokanal" in improvement of EMP during the
Project implementation.
*   It is necessary to fully inform the city citizens about project implementation and problems through
the mass-media.
Conclusions:
*   The Project EMP should take into account the delineated propositions and remarks.
*   A Working Group should be established for giving consultation and practical advice concerning the
ecological components in the project.
*   Provisions should be made for Public Hearings during the construction and operations phases of the
Project.
Chairman                     Yuri Ziriko "Geological-Ecological Fund"
Secretary                   Igor Gnatuk "Geological-Ecological Fund"
- 103 -



Annex 12 Appendix 2
Participants List of Public Hearing concerning the Environmental Management Plan of the "Lviv
Water and Wastewater System Enhancement Project"
24.10.2000
l.Hipp L.P., MCE "Lvivvodokanal", deputy director
2   Litvinova O.S., "Lvivvodokanal", head of public relation department
3. Batig Y B., "Lvivvodokanal"
4. Dajber M.Y., "Lvivvodokanal"
5. Beljaeva T.V. , "Lvivvodokanal"
6. Sulypa N V., "Lvivvodokanal"
7. Hipp T R., The program of the improvement of municipal water supply
8. Tsarynnyk O.J., The program of the improvement of municipal water supply
9. Orobehuk B.A., department of city engineering economy
10 Nazarenko L., improvement and ecology inspection
11. Maryskevych O.G., Institution of the ecology of Carpethians
12. Oduha M.S., Lvivdiprokombud, director
13. Grycyshyn P.M., Western center of World laboratory Ukrainian department
14 Podoljak 1.1., USAID
15. Zheliak V I., National University "Lviv polytechnic"
16. Tyhonova I.A., National University "Lviv polytechnic"
17. Zhuk V.M , National University "Lviv polytechnic"
18. Rudko G.l., Lviv Ivan Franko National University
19. Vasylchenko V.O., Lviv Ivan Franko National University
20. Kovalchuk [.P., Lviv Ivan Franko National University
21. Voloshyn P K., Lviv Ivan Franko National University
22 Chupylo G.R., Lviv Ivan Franko National University
23. Kukurudza S.I., Lviv Ivan Franko National University
24. Shuber P M., Lviv Ivan Franko National University
25. Shevchuk O.M., Lviv Ivan Franko National University
26. Krychkivskyj I J., ZHEK ' 179
27. Ogonochenko V.P., Ecological Initiative Center
28. Halajm P.Z., regional board of nature protection ukrainian community, deputy director
29. Skrylnikov D.V., BF "ECOPRAVO-Lviv"
30. Zinko Y.B., "Ecogeofund", director
31. Gnatuk I.S., "Ecogeofund", manager
32 Say I 0, "Ecogeofund"
33. Yaremchyshyn T., "Ecogeofund"
34. Saveleva M., "Ratusha" newspaper
35. Vladymyr A., Informational agency "Media-Prostir"
36. Mazur B.v., "Moloda Galychyna" newspaper
37. Solomonchuk O.E., "Za Vil'nu Ukrainu" newspaper
38. Sakvuk V.A., "Za Vil'nu Ukrainu" newspaper
39. Morgulenko A.l., "Vysokyj Zamok" newspaper, Lviv regional state tv radio company
40 Vovk J.V., Lviv city board, Press service
41. Danko U., Lviv Ivan Franko National University, student
42. Pasichnyk R.A., UkrDLTU, student
43 Syvak L M., Lviv townsman
44 Farmanjak T.I., Lviv Stefanyk science library
- 104 -



Annex 12, Appendix 3
The notification about the public hearing
Newspaper "Vysokyy Zamok" dated November 21, 2000
MCE "Lvivvodokanal"
with the support of public organization - "Geological-Ecological Fund"
on November 24, 2000
in the conference room of the Regional Community for Protection of Historical and Cultural Monuments
(40a, Kopernika Str)
organized the public hearing concerning the Implementation of "Lviv Water and Wastewater System
Enhancement Project with debt of the World Bank loan" conceming the Environmental Management Plan.
Newspaper Report about the Public Hearing
Newspaper "Postup" #199 (643) dated December 5-6, 2000
Pipes are promised to be repairedfor $40 million
Recently MCI "Lvivvodokanal" together with "Geology-Ecological fund" held a Public Hearing
devoted to the "Lviv Water and Wastewater System Enhancement Project". We have already reported
about different aspects of that project. At the Hearing, the city public discussed the Environmental
Management Plan. That plan was developed in order to study all possible impact factors, during the
above-mentioned project's implementation, on the environment and the workers.
Quite a number of Lviv's citizens have learnt through the school of hard knocks, and know very
well what happens when the digging and construction activities are carried out - digging out roads, heaps
of mud, and loam that sticks to the shoes - all these you are not able to pass and drive round. However,
according to the project arrangements, these inconveniences will not occur. From the sum of money that
will be given by the World Bank, there will be money for masks, warning signs, catwalks, and certain
lighting at night. That means that nobody will fall into pits dug by "Lvivvodokanal."
Besides this, many other good things are foreseen by the Environmental Management Plan. For
example, it is proposed to do the works quickly, and to provide the workers with noise-protective tools and
respirators. In order to be protected from dust, it is proposed to moisten the ground with water from the
mobile supply sources. Excavated soils that are always accumulated in a big amount during the digging
are proposed to be piled up properly and covered with polyethylene film surface. Water from trenches will
be pumped out into sewerage. In addition, it is planned to transport the asphalt coat, concrete and roadways
at the approved location. Dismantled equipment will be removed to the "Vodokanal" storehouse from the
site, for repair and reuse evaluation.
How "Lvivvodokanal" is approaching the "Water-and-Wastewater-System-Enhancement-in-Lviv"
project is evident from the arrangements. In addition, when there would be US$40.80 million available, the
city will reduce losses in the distributive network, in buildings and in supply mains. Because Lviv has 38
per cent unproductive water losses, from the 360 000 m3 of water that are supplied daily, about 120,000
m3 are wasted.
- 105-



Additional
Annex 13
SOCIAL ASSESSMENT
A Beneficiary Assessment (BA) was carried out in 1996 and an updating Rapid Social Assessment (RSA)
undertaken in September 2000. The RSA has confirmed the main findings of the 1996 BA but has also
identified some new social issues. This summary is based on a limited survey of 100 respondents, seven
focus groups, and several in-depth interviews.
1.     Economic and social conditions have visibly worsened in Lviv since 1996. The Uicrainian
Center for Public Opinion Research Socinforn" estimates that about 7 percent of Lviv's households had a
monthly income below US$25 equivalent in 1996, but this figure had increased to about 49 pircent in
2000; for households with a monthly income of between US$25 to 50, the figures were about 15 pe rcent in
1996 and 34 percent in 2000. Formal sector employment has sharply declined both in Ukraine as a whole
and in Lviv since 1990. According to the "Socinform" surveys, the proportion of those older than 18 who
were not employed rose from about 39 percent in 1996 to 50 percent in August 2000. Pensioners (27
percent), university students (6 percent), and legally unemployed (12 percent) account for about 45 percent
of Lviv's population. These trends have increased the number of households living in poverty. There are no
reliable estimates for Lviv, but nation-wide household surveys have estimated that there were ;.bout 27
percent of the poor and 13 percent of the very poor in Ukraine in 1999. With regard to the self-perception
of respondents conceming their material situation, about 42 percent considered it as "bad" or "vern, bad" in
1996, but this percentage has risen to about 63 percent in January of 2000. The percentage of those who
have answered that their family income was "absolutely not enough" rose from 30 percent in 191)6 to 68
percent in January 2000. Household food production, by cultivating tiny land plots, constituted about 18
percent of household expenditures in a nation-wide household survey in 1999. Briefly, these social and
economic conditions constrain both the city government's capacity to improve the water supply system and
the citizen's capability to cope with increasing costs of municipal services.
2.    Lviv's water supply has slightly improved since 1996, but as yet only about 15 percent of the
inhabitants have a 24-hour water supply. According to LVK data, as of September 2000, 63 percent of
Lviv's households had a scheduled cold water supply of between six and ten hours per day. A limited and
quota-based survey carried out under the RSA indicates that about 56 percent of households h;-.d water
supply for not more than six hours per day. In spite of these differences in estimates, it appears that an
improvement has been achieved in comparison to 1996 when almost two-thirds of households had the water
supply less or around six hours a day. These recent improvements are mainly through the relatively more
stable and regular manner in which the water is supplied now. LVK observes its water supply s;chedule
and regularly informs households about possible changes. This more stable and regular water supply has
encouraged households to store less water in comparison to 1996. Although the respondents claim that the
water distribution is not equal, limited variations conceming the access to water in some parts of the city
seem to be based more on technical constraints (network, capacity of pump stations). The importance of
some public institutions in downtown Lviv makes the neighboring residential areas relative y more
privileged in having more hours of water supply per day.
3.     The citizens' general dissatisfaction with the service they receive is multi-dimensional First,
only about 30 percent of respondents assess the quality of water as good. The vast majority of about 70
percent see the water quality as ranging from bad and to very bad. They complain that their water has rust
- 106-



particles, residues, and a high content of chlorine. Only 5 percent of them use water without any sort of
purification. Thus, consumers employ costly coping strategies to deal with poor water quality and
intermittent service, i.e. boiling water and hoarding of water. Second, they claim not to be properly
informed in regard to the problems facing the water and wastewater systems. Third, they seem to have a
general distrust of municipal authorities and of LVK. Fourth, they see tariffs as being too high in relation
to the quality of services, especially after the substantial tariff increase of April 2000. They do not believe
that they are getting value for their payments.
4.    Household water expenditures. As was indicated earlier, household incomes and expenditures
have been decreasing since 1996. According to the RSA survey, almost 80 percent of households had
monthly incomes between $5 and $50 (or on average $25) and about 60 percent of households had monthly
incomes below $25. This indicates substantial social inequalities among citizens. Household cash income is
compensated, however by home food production, and nation-wide household surveys have documented that
real household expenditures may be up to 37 percent higher in comparison to their average incomes. With
regard to poorer households, their expenditures may be up to 70 percent of their estimated incomes.
Briefly, cash income is only a part of the households' available resources. So, within this context, the
estimated average costs for water supply and wastewater services do not exceed 6 percent of monthly
household income even for the low income sections. Actually, these costs are still below the intemational
levels in this regard. There are indications, however, that water bills may be a more serious challenge for
the poorer strata, but the RSA survey could not reach these groups in a systematic way. There is, however,
a public subsidy program that helps the poor (section 6 below).
5.     Billing, tariff increases, and readiness to pay. In April 2000, tariffs for water and wastewater
services in Lviv were raised substantially. In the RSA survey interviews, citizens expressed their discontent
with the increases, but no public action has taken place. The new increased tariffs have produced two main
outcomes so far:
First, there was an initial drop in the collection rate from households, but this has steadily been increasing
to about 65 percent in September 2000. The collection rate for industrial firms and public institutions is
more unstable and it is difficult to estimate due to large arrears and periodical (quarterly) fee payrnents.
Second, the number of installed individual meters has more than doubled in less than six months - from
about 14,000 in April 2000 to nearly 26,000 in September 2000. If this trend continues, it will demonstrate
a very pragmatic and rational attitude of the population, and it will substantially reduce the consumption of
water. According to a LVK survey, about 70 percent of their respondents would like to have individual
meters in their households. In a year or two, a continuation of the trend may create an enormous pressure
on Vodokanal how to financially cover the large loss of water through its pipeline network. Finally, the
meter installment trend affects the poorer strata of the Lviv population since they are not able to finance
individual meters. Due to technical constraints inherited from the past, a large number of the households
may need actually to install as many as four individual meters, but buying and installing of these meters
are estimated to cost about 600 UAH (US$110).
Third, citizens see tariffs as too high in relation to the quality of services provided by LVK, especially after
the recent substantial increase, and feel they do not get value for their tariff payments. The question is
whether will higher tariffs will reduce their readiness to pay for services. The evidence is inconclusive so
far. The initial drop in payments for the water supply is being steadily reversed, but collection rates are still
lower then planned. The RSA survey's findings confirm, however, citizen's readiness to regularly pay for
the water supply if the expected service quality is provided. Households have even revealed their readiness
to pay monthly around UAH 10 (or US$2) for the water supply if services improve. They also supported
the idea to cut off supply to households that do not pay their dues in a timely manner.
- 107-



6.     Subsidies to water users. A special nation-wide subsidy program was introduced in 1995 to
support poor and vulnerable households as users of municipal services (rents, water, electricity, ald heat).
A large number of households qualify for these subsidies. Because it is a decentralized progrnm, it is
difficult to get relevant information. The City Information Technology Center (CITC) estim;ates that
currently between 35 to 53 percent of Lviv's households received these subsidies.  The Lviv lalytska
District Administration (LHDA) estimates that about 35 percent of households receive this type of subsidy.
Information about the range of these subsidies is not reliable. The CITS indicates that on aver-age the
subsidy is UAH 36 (US$6.5) per family, and the LHDIA estimates that the average monthly subsidy is
UAH 65 (US$12). The subsidy formula is very simple: households with certain levels of income are
required to pay only up to 15% or up to 20% of their aggregate income for municipal services. The
government then subsidizes the municipal service providers up to the balance required to cover the full
price of services. The water subsidies are only a portion of the package in which heating subsidies are the
highest. It is obvious that the current program is too generous, does not appear to be well targeted, and
may be impacting  indirectly in increasing the costs of water supply. Although the assumption is that
practically all poor and vulnerable groups are subsidized this way, the evidence is not conclusive. The
nation-wide surveys have demonstrated that the program subsidizes primarily certain 'privileged groups,'
such as the war veterans, whose household incomes are well above the average population income. There
are estimates that almost 42 percent of Ulkrainian households were entitled to some kind of subsidies in
1999. On the other hand, the social assistance system is extremely limited due to heavy budget cor,straints
and very strict eligibility criteria. This means that the number of welfare clients -- the poorest citizens -- has
been rapidly declining. This is best illustrated by the fact that in January 2000 only about 7, 165 Uk rainian
households were granted with the social assistance benefits of UAH 106 (US$19) per capita. The 'e have
been announcements that the national subsidy and social assistance programs will be radically revised and
made more targeted on the poorer sections in the coming year (2001). There is also an initiative in Lviv to
integrate these two programs at least at the level of joint professional work and coordination. The key idea
is to introduce so-called 'social inspectors' whose main task would be the application of classic means-test
procedures, i.e. to evaluate incomes, expenditures, consumption pattems, and eligibility of all applicants.
7.    Information flow concerning water supply, wastewater treatment, and sewage system issues.
Despite efforts by LVK and the Lviv City Governent to make this issue a public agenda, it seemns that
both ordinary people as well as experts have very vague knowledge of the situation. Local mass metdia are
not specially interested in this issue. A round-table discussion with local mass media on October 2000
revealed that the participating journalists were able to ask only a few common sense questions conc: erning
this serious municipal problem.   Local mass media seem to be understaffed, with poor equipment,
controlled by local power groups, and are not sufficiently read or watched. A recent survey has revealed
that the major source of information for about 90 percent of the people in Ukraine is television (TV), and
that TV is the only source of information for almost 70 percent. TV refers here to the central TV stations
in Kiev. Their local counterparts seem to be more or less marginalized.
8.     To help enhance its consumer service orientation, L VK is planning to establish a smalii, new
public relations unit in the beginning of 2001.  It is planned to call it the Social Resear:h and
Information Unit, but it needs to be defined and staffed. Its main functions are envisaged to be cooptration
with city agencies, public relations, information production and dissemination, and initiation and
coordination of limited research activities. Based on the RSA's limited institutional assessment of LVK's
capacity in this domain, it seems that this new unit will need additional staff and some technical assisrance.
9.     Participation of citizens and NGOs. A limited survey carried out under the RSA indicates that
about 90 percent of the respondents are not interested in participating in the project's implementation. A
- 108-



foreign expert has suggested, however, that the focus should be on the remaining 7 percent who, it is
believed, can create a critical mass of interested citizens, capable of making a difference. The NGO focus
groups generally indicated their willingness to participate in the project's implementation. They see their
would-be roles in two domains. First, they can help integrate citizens around the main project objectives,
such as a 'water saving campaign' or a 'meter installing project.' Second, they can be involved in
information production and dissemination. This would include some training and monitoring activities.
There are approximately 30 NGOs with some interest and capacities to participate in project
implementation.
10.   Participatory approach, civil society involvement. LVK seems to have organized many public
relations events in informing and attracting citizens and experts to participate in this project since 1988.
With regard to mass media, two press conferences were held, round-table discussions with local mass
media are being held on regular basis, interviews are broadcast or published through local radio and
newspapers, and finally a number of advertisements were done in the local press in 1998 and 1999. LVK
has prepared special video-based public information material about its activities and shared it with
different audiences. Several public events were organized together with local NGOs, such as the "Water
Week," open houses and public hearings in regard to this project. In addition, LVK has made two small
surveys, organized a round-table to discuss this project, and made a brochure about its history and plans.
Some focus groups think that the project participatory design may be strengthened if a Project Advisory
Board is attached to the Lviv Mayor's Office. This Advisory Board would consist of prominent public
officials, private business representatives, and NGO representatives. During the RSA, this idea was shared
with both the LVK counterparts and with a deputy mayor, and it was generally accepted.  All these
activities and proposals should create a solid basis to design an attractive participatory approach for
citizens and NGOs to take part in implementation and monitoring of this project
11.   Summary offocus groups' suggestions and recommendations.
(i) The focus groups strongly suggested the creation of an Advisory Group, which should be
attached to the Mayor's Office. Its main task would be to oversee and support project implementation. Its
other important task would be to mobilize general public support in addressing and resolving some project
vital needs. It would consist of public officials, private businesses representatives, and NGO
representatives.
(ii) A special credit line from the city is suggested to help poor households to install individual
meters. This idea was discussed with the city administration but no decision was made. LVK management
feels that the project cannot fund the installation of individual meters, but it supports this idea.
(iii) A new legal clarification conceming both institutional responsibility and a division of labor is
suggested with regard to maintenance of newly privatized apartments. The mass privatization, followed by
a legal vacuum, has created problems with regard to shared infrastructure in large buildings and household
installations. The current rent arrangements are not able to address the maintenance problem, and the
institutional routine creates additional deterioration of the infrastructure.
(iv) Forrnation of condominium associations should be encouraged by the city administration to
help address the maintenance issue.
(v) Subsidies and other financial support to the poor and vulnerable groups should be revised and
made more targeted.
- 109 -



(vi) The participatory approach for project implementation should be more precise and conctrete. It
needs to define a set actions, actors, timing, reporting patterns, types of information and indicators to be
monitored, and such.
- 110-



IBRD 31000
20                                *        25                                           30' Jo UKRAINE                                                                           40-
B E L A R U S                                          RUSSIAN             LVIV MUNICIPAL WATER AND
.   z.'  <  'FEDERATION                    WASTEWATER PROJECT
<'  <,                 Uf                                 U    PROJECT LOCATION
P O L A N D 1 r _< ; I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ROADS
j ToBry { -t                                                             TMsly4+L   RAILROADS
0    SELECTED TOWNS AND CITIES
K.4  am   ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~Cenii                                                      o ocwNATIONAL CAPITAL
Konotop                   -    -  ~~~~~~~AUTONOMOUS REPUBLIC OR
OBLAST BOUNDARIES
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~otn  7_ T. M-
Sumy \--                         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
-501           T.Roo K-`/51
SLebOVAK ,o       s dr      rmionhrwD    \Ternopri        \Khmenytsk             Tt       r Sol.ava
REPUBLIC                                                                        nnytsia                 Sheeyd on e I                        r                Tic              S     d-.   ts ..
/'  -~~  *.   Kalusoh                                       nsi
-,       / U z7                                                  Ao hh.od  Franks    &
K~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~
EfJC > ,> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p'                                                             Kirovohrq   Komiason<  On   r- petrov  _   i ntyiD
HUNGARY                                                                                                                                                        3 AvDoiv aJ nefDetsk           To
Thiko-p op,oJd by h. Mp D.J,nUnf Th. Wr,id MA
,d          ,up ony   ROMANIA l'  -
7        FEDRUSSIAN FEDERATION                                                                                                                                               )       RUSSIAN
BELARUS   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~nnr~iKSnpr&ou~FEDERATION
POLAND                                                    5 Blko;
Ova                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~45--
Liv.RFF ;  ; KYIr       .-TURKEY                                                                           -                                                     To KB3snod.r
UKRAINE                                                   -2
SLOVAK~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KLMTR
FE.REP  T                                                                                    oio AN
ISRRE~~~~~~~  -  Black Sea  -:>--.~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~ ~ub-  it
BUUARIGARY 
G~RG(A    BULGARIA                         30                                                                                   IT5 AMium
AIR ~  ~    >~---     TURKEY                -'                                                                                                                                           -
JULY 2000)



