Report No. PID5760
Project Name                    Ukraine-Municipal Water and Wastewater (+)
Project, Odessa and Lviv
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Other Water Supply and Sanitation
Project ID                       UAPE35786
Borrower                         Ukraine
Implementing Agency              Municipal Water and Wastewater Enterprise
of Lviv (LVK):
Mr. Sulipa, Director, Lviv Vodokanal
City of Lviv Council
1 Rynok Square
290008 Lviv, Ukraine
Fax. 380-482-664-093
Municipal Water and Wastewater Enterprise
of Odessa (OVK)
Mr. Alexandr Sergeevitch Shikin,
Director, Odesvodokanal, 5
Basseynovaya St.
Odessa, Ukraine 270046
Tel. 380-482-22-87-36,
fax 380-482-66-40-93.
Probable Cost                    tbd; most likely about US$ 100 million;
US$ 40 million for Lviv and US$ 60 million
for Odessa
Appraisal                        June 1997
Projected Board Date             June  1997
Date of PID                      November 5, 1997
Background
1.      The recent political and economic events in Ukraine have had
profound effects on the municipal water and wastewater sector. The
country's overall economic downturn and severe fiscal constraints
have cut off municipal water and wastewater enterprises (Vodokanals)
and local governments from the large subsidies which they used to
receive from the national budget for subsidizing operating and
covering investment costs. As a result, Vodokanals today suffer
from large financial shortfalls which preclude proper maintenance
and operation of existing systems and do not allow much needed asset
rehabilitation, replacement and expansion. The scarcity of
financial resources has brought investments in water and wastewater
almost to a complete stop. If the present trend of increased input
prices and diminished revenues continues, the provision of safe
water and wastewater services in many Ukrainian cities is in
jeopardy. Vodokanals need help to keep their systems functioning and
maintain a minimum service quality necessary for public health. The



gradual introduction of full cost recovery for operations and
investments is essential for allowing Vodokanals to generate the
resources needed to improve services. At the same time, Vodokanals
must become more efficient, as much scarce capital is wasted in poor
administration, inefficient operation (losses, excessive water
consumption, hydraulically inefficient networks and plants with high
energy consumption) and investment choices of questionable priority
and justification.
2.      The Bank has proposed the following two pronged sector
assistance strategy: (a) assistance to the government in the
definition and implementation of a reform program aimed at
introducing more appropriate sector policies and and a stronger
institutional and regulatory environment; and (b) support for
demonstration projects with reform minded municipal governments to
improve the management, financial capacity, and operation of water
and waste water enterprises and for the financing of cost effective
and affordable investment programs to improve water and wastewater
services with emphasis on system rehabilitation and operational
improvements. The projects in Lviv and Odessa have been selected
for several reasons, including: local government interest in reform,
urgent needs, and connection with externally supported environmental
initiatives - the Black Sea Environmental Program (Odessa) and the
Baltic Sea Program (Lviv). The experiences gained from the projects
in Lviv and Odessa are expected to motivate other cities in Ukraine
to improve the functioning of Vodokanals through similar reform efforts.
Project Objectives
3.      The objective of the proposed projects in Lviv and Odessa are to:
a) strengthen the managerial, financial, and operational capacity of
the Vodokanals through programs of technical assistance and
training. In Odessa that would be acomplished through a twining
arragment, and in Lviv through a management service contract with an
international private utility operator;
b) stop the decline in the quality of water and wastewater services
and improve the efficiency of of operations of plants and networks;
and
c) support small locally managed environmental activities - water
quality monitoring, coastal zone management, for example.
Project Description
4.      The project has the following components:
Indicative Cost
US$ million
Component                          LVK      OVK
(a)  investments to rehabilitate and improve the            36        54
operating efficiency of existing water and wastewater
- 2-



facilities, including water and wastewater treatment
plants, leak detection and repair, unaccounted-for-
water reduction, metering, demand management, and energy
conservation
(b) consulting services for: (i) the preparation of
final designs, supervision of construction and project         5       7
management; (ii) strengthening management and
administration; and (iii) implementing a systematic
program of plant and network rehabilitation and
efficiency improvements
(c)  envrironmental investments                                3        2
Total        44        63
Financing
5.      The Bank would finance up to 90t of net investment cost.
Vodokanal/local government would provide financing for 10t of net
investment cost and duties and taxes.
Cofinacing
6.      To lower the financial burden on Vodokanals, donors are
encouraged to provide grant funding for selected investments. The
Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (SIDA) has
expressed interest in financing improvements in wastewater treatment
in Lviv.
Implementation
7.      The project would be implemented during 1998 - 2002.    The
Vodokanals of Odessa and Lviv would be the implementing agencies of
the project. International consultants assisted by local consultants
would assist Vodokanal management and staff in institutional
reorganization and strengthening, definition and implementation of
the project. Environmental components would be executed by the
municipal and/or oblast agencies.
Benefits
8.      Immediate benefits would be the improvement of water and
wastewater services -- reliability and water quality -- to the
population served by participating Vodokanals. The institutional
strengthening programs to be undertaken by OVK and LVK will
introduce better management and control, increased autonomy and
better information management and a new relationship with the
consumer. Physical investments to be implemented under the project
will address the most urgent problems in a most cost efficient way,
will achieve some initial efficiency gains, reversing the present
trend of the system and service deterioiration. Better Vodokanal
management, improved resource mobilization through introduction of
cost recovery, more cost effective allocation of investment
- 3 -



resources and more efficient operation of facilities and lower
levels of consumption and losses will ultimately lead to cost
savings for the population and release pressure on local and
national budget resources. In the longer run, the reforms
introduced in beneficiary Vodokanals are expected to carry sector
reform to other cities in Ukraine. Environmental benefits accrue by
improving the efficiency of wastewater treatment plants, increasing
the capacity of Oblast agencies to regulate, enforce and monitor
water and wastewater water quality and to address resource
management issues.
Sustainability
9.      The sustainability of the project will depend primarily on the
ability of the Vodokanals to raise the resources needed to fund
their operations adequately and generate the internal funds for
local counterpart contributions and repayment of the loan. Cost
recovering tariffs and rigourous collection are essential to turn
Vodokanals into financially enterprises capable of supporting the
project. To demonstrate that there is sufficient commitment on
these points, Vodokanals are expected to meet rigorous quality of
entry requirements regarding institutional and financial capacity.
The chances for sustainability of the project will be enhanced by
ambitious, but realistic conditionality and rigorous project supervision.
Risks
10.     The main risk associated with the project is waning commitment
to institutional reform. Relaxation of financial discipline,
refusal by the authorities to raise tariffs as needed and poor
collections would not only jeopardize the project's development
objectives, but also make it impossible to complete the investments
envisioned. Again, insistence on clear upfront commitment and
action, realism in the definition of project objectives, scope and
cost, and rigorous supervision will keep these risks to a minimum.
Poverty
11. In the project cities most people already have water and
wastewater services, but the poor segment of the population tends to
suffer the most from inadequate services. Improvements in the
quality and reliability of water and wastewater services will
contribute to poverty alleviation. In project design emphasis will
be given to improving service conditions for the poor segment of the
population.
Contact Point:           Walter Stottmann, Task Manager
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-2495
Fax: (202) 477-3378
- 4-



Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities
and/or components may not necessarily be included in the final
project.
Processed by the World Bank InfoShop week ending November 21, 1997.
- 5 -



Annex
Environmental Aspects
The project carries EA category "B." The project concentrates
entirely on rehabilitating and improving the efficiency of existing
water and wastewater systems. No increases in new capacity are
contemplated. Proposed investments in water supply will result in
modest improvements of the quality of the water distributed to
consumers with accompanying public health benefits. Investments in
wastewater collection and treatment will reduce the pollution load
on the aquatic environment in both Odessa and Lviv. In Lviv,
restoration of sewer collectors would remove the risk of spillage
into living areas, thereby providing large potential health
benefits. The project would not have any harmful effect on downtown
riparians. Because all construction would proceed on sites already
in use, there are no resettlement issues. No negative environmental
impacts are foreseen.
-6-



