E434
Ukraine - Lviv Water and Wastewater Project
Environmental Management Plan
(November 2000)
FILE COPY


﻿Ukraine - Lviv Water and Wastewater Project
Environmental Management Plan
Introduction
1.    The purpose of the Environmental Management Plan (EMP) is to provide an instrument for the
future supervision of the environmental impact of the project, and to plan and monitor project activities,
mostly construction works, in such a way that adverse environmental impacts are minimized. The EMP
will include issues related to both the upgrading of the wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) and to the
improvements to the water supply system.
2.   The purpose of the physical activities of the project is to improve water supply service levels in
Lviv; reduce leakage and energy costs; and upgrade equipment at the two WWTPs to reduce by-pass
flows, improve treatment efficiency and reduce sludge discharges. The project funds are not sufficient to
carry out a complete overhaul of Lviv's water supply and sewerage systems, but the project is expected
to be able to prevent a collapse of wastewater services, and to reduce discharges into the Poltva and Zuga
Rivers, and, consequently into the Baltic and Black Seas.
3.   The project is planned to be implemented in two overlapping phases. An  Initial Defined
Investments program (with an estimated cost of about US$13.2 million) has already been identified and
defined, and will establish pressure zones for the water supply, replace worn-out pumping equipment,
and rehabilitate about 8 km of the network in the worst condition, as well as eliminate by-pass flows
from the WWTPs and upgrade equipment. Simultaneously with the commencement of the IDI program,
a Management and Operations Improvement Advisor (MOIA) will be engaged by LVK. With the help
of the MOIA team, further rehabilitation investments will be identified and implemented under the
Operating Fund (OF) with a budget of about US$10.6 million. The total project cost (including taxes and
duties) is estimated at US$40.8 million.
4.   All works under the investment program involve rehabilitation only. The project will not entail
any resettlement, expansion of existing facilities or construction of new structures of significant size.
Construction works will predominantly entail: (i) water distribution network pipe replacement, which
includes pavement demolition, trench excavation, pipe laying, trench filling, and pavement application;
and (ii) rehabilitation of existing pumping stations and specific components of the water production and
wastewater treatment facilities. Rehabilitation activities of significant size (in general more than US$
500,000 or of specific importance) will require, even if they are classified, for purposes of OP/BP/GP
4.01 as category B, a specific mitigation plan. The terms of reference (TOR) for the preparation of the
final designs and bidding documents will include the preparation of the specific mitigation plan for the
potential negative impacts to the environment.
5.   The TOR for the consulting services (financed by SIDA) will include a provision to carry out an
assessment of environmental impacts on the Poltva river and further downstream, and the preparation of
a strategy for further actions to increase treatment levels to meet HELCOM recommendations.
6.   The planned US$ 24.25 million World Bank loan is expected to become effective by August 2001
and the physical implementation is expected to start immediately thereafter in the fourth quarter of 2001.


﻿Ukraine - Lviv Environmental Management Plan                                            2
Policy, Legal and Administrative Framework
7.   The following laws, standards and norms apply for the environmental regulation of the
Project. The measures incorporated in this EMP summarize and complement these regulations.
*  The law of Ukraine "About health care" (1992)
*  The law of Ukraine "About environmental conservation" (1991)
*  The Water Code of Ukraine (1995)
*  The law of Ukraine "About sanitarium and epidemiological welfare of population" (1994)
*  The law of Ukraine "About air conservation" (1992)
*  The Code of Ukraine "About subsoil" (1994)
*  The Rules on federal system of environmental monitoring (Resolution of Cabinet of
Ministers of Ukraine, #391 of March 30, 1998)
*  Construction Norms and Regulations, part on Environmental Conservation.
Environmental Impacts
8.   The project will have the following positive environmental impacts:
(i)  Reduction of the use of underground water. The project aims at gradually reducing the rate of
water consumption in Lviv per capita from 207 l/d (1999) to 173 l/d by 2005 and'153 l/d by 2010. It
will also reduce the quantity of leakage by proper pressure zoning and repairing most critical parts of
the water supply network. The level of water production is expected to decrease from 354,000 m3/d
(2000) to 239,000 m3/d (2010).
(ii)  The improvement of wastewater treatment quality. The rehabilitation of key components of the
wastewater system will reduce the pollution from the WWTPs and reduce the major environmental risk
that would arise from a complete collapse of the WWTPs. The replacement of the pumps at the Main
Pumping Station WWTP2 will eliminate the present raw sewage by-pass into the Poltva River. This by-
pass discharge of about 50,000 m3/d of raw sewage is equivalent to sewage generated by about 150,000
people. Rehabilitation of aeration systems will bring substantial improvements in biological wastewater
treatment, and therefore BOD5 discharges would decrease from 23,400 kg/d (in 2000) to 4,200 kg/d (in
2006). Total nitrogen discharges would be reduced from 4,000 kg/d to 700 kg/d. Replacement of
mechanical equipment of clarifiers will improve the solid substance sedimentation process, as a result a
reduction of discharges into the Poltva River from 19,000 kg/d (in 2000) to 5,000 kg/d (in 2006) will be
achieved. In regard to phosphates levels, the average concentration in treated wastewater is 1.1 mg/dm3
at present, and does not exceed the permissible limits (1,5 mg/dm3.) However, a reduction in
phosphorus discharges is expected as well.
(iii) Elimination of uncontrolled wintertime sludge discharges to the Poltva River. These discharges
have not been recorded or estimated, but the positive environmental impact is likely to be significant.
The amount and impact of the discharge will be studied during the preparation of the designs for the
WWTPs.
(iv) Reduction of the wastewater sludge volumes . The sludge separated from the wastewater is
dewatered in open drying beds. Due to the high volumes, large areas are used for this purpose. The
rehabilitation of the mechanical sludge dewatering facilities will reduce the sludge volume from 8,000
m3/d (in 2000) to 400 m3/d (in 2006). This will allow the areas now used for storing liquid sludge to be
used for other purposes, and the final disposal of the limited amount dewatered sludge will be easier as
well.


﻿Ukraine - Lviv Environmental Management Plan                                            3
9.   Adverse environmental impacts relate to the temporary effects during construction. During the
rehabilitation of the pumping station and treatment units, uncontrolled by-passes of untreated sewage
might occur. In addition, construction activities in the urban areas (sewers and pipes) will result in some
noise and dust problems.
10.  Under the SIDA-financed part of the project, a detailed investigation and study will be carried out
to evaluate alternatives and develop a long-term strategy for sludge disposal.
Project Environmental Classification
11.  The project has been classified by the Bank, for the purposes of OP 4.01, in Category B. The
project will have significant positive and permanent environmental impacts far outweighing the
temporary adverse effects which are mainly due to the construction activities. An Environmental
Management Plan (EMP) has been prepared and discussed in a public consultation meeting in November
2000.
12.  The interventions under the project address immediate needs to help keep the wastewater
treatment facilities from collapsing, improve treatment efficiency and prevent by-passes. The activities
will not bring treatment levels to the  standards  applied in the Baltic watershed (HELCOM
recommendations). However, the project includes an assessment of the environmental impacts on the
Poltva river and further downstream, and the preparation of a strategy and action plan to meet HELCOM
recommendations in long term.
Mitigation Measures for Potential Adverse Impacts
13.  The adverse environmental impacts will mainly be related to construction work. The required
mitigation measures are standard and widely used in construction practices properly supervised for
achievement of international standards of quality. The MOIA's TOR will include support to the PIU to
ensure compliance with these measures during project implementation.
14.  During project implementation, environmental authorities can request specific environmental
management plans if individual project components were to warrant it due to their size (generally more
than US$500,000) or to peculiarities of the scope of work as determined by the PRU or the environmental
authorities. The preparation of such specific plans will be incorporated as part of the scope of work of
the engineering consultant for preparation of detailed designs and bidding documents. The most
important component in this respect is the rehabilitation of the WWTPs. Upgrading of the plant
equipment necessarily means that untreated or partially treated wastewater has to be temporarily
discharged to the recipient body. The consultant is required to design the works and the contractor to
install them in a way that limits operational stand-downs to minimum.
15.  The following mitigation measures will be adopted and applied to the project when required:
16.  Prevention program to avoid undue disruption: There will undoubtedly be some short-term
inconvenience and traffic disruption. To avoid undue inconvenience the construction program would
include the following in the contract with contractors:
*  Specify the work implementation sequence for pipeline rehabilitation, such that local
inconvenience is avoided to the maximum extent feasible;
*  Specify the coordination measures for water service interruption, such that cut-off periods are
reduced to the minimum possible;


﻿Ukraine - Lviv Environmental Management Plan                                                4
*   Specify the method of construction in highly congested areas to minimize access disruption,
such as trench-to-truck construction and provision of plates to provide access over trenches.
Proper access to daily businesses will be guaranteed to the maximum extent practicable ways;
*  Require the contractor to secure approval of construction staging and lay down areas; and
*   Require the contractor to use traffic routing for implementation of construction works. Safe
traffic and safety signals and lighting should be in accordance with local regulations. Safe
detours and walkways for pedestrians will be implemented as necessary.
17.  Measures to minimize noise and vibration: During construction, noise can be minimized through
scheduling and specific restrictions for particularly noisy activities. To the extent possible, excavation
and related works in residential areas should not be undertaken from sundown to sunrise. Routine
control on maintenance of all equipment used for construction and transportation will be required to
ensure reasonable noise levels. In built up areas, excessive vibration from heavy machines during
construction will be avoided to the extent possible to reduce any damages to the surrounding areas.
Manual excavation will be adopted in certain cases. Local construction standards will be followed if
they specify more stringent requirements.
18.  Protection of air environment from construction dust and pollution: The contractor will employ
dust suppression measures during the construction process and transportation of materials, such as
periodically sprinkling water in certain areas and removal of excess materials from the sites. All street
surfaces, sidewalks, and construction sites will be cleaned upon completion of activities. To reduce
vehicle emissions the contractor will use traffic routing. Also it will be required to provide routine
control on maintenance all equipment used for construction and transportation of materials, and to use
the equipment only when required.
19.  Disposal of demolition and excavation debris: The current construction norms and regulations of
Ukraine require proper measures for the removal of demolition debris from the sites. This material will
be removed from the site and will be disposed of at an approved location. Salvaged material will be
stored at a designated location and protected from erosion.
20.   Disposal of water treatment silt and sludge:  The existing Ukrainian construction standard
requires special measures for handling collection and burial of the water treatment sludge. Only
approved locations will be used for these purposes. Sludge should not be disposed of in permeable soils
or in the proximity of surface waters or buildings.
21.   Avoidance of underground water pollution by construction run-offs: The current construction
norms and regulations in Ukraine require proper measures for protection of groundwater from
construction run-offs. Construction sites will provide for adequate runoff and drainage control. All
vegetation destroyed will have to be replaced, and trench surfaces will have to be restored to a condition
at least equal to that existing before work, to prevent increased erosion. Negative impacts to groundwater
are expected to be temporary and minor in significance.
22.   Prevention of accidents during construction: The contractors shall take all necessary precautions
for the types of civil woks involved, specially in residential areas and those with high circulation of
persons and vehicles. All construction and rehabilitation works should be carried out with keeping the
safety equipment rules, and health and safety regulations. Safety measures will be adopted to protect the
personnel involved in the works. Public access to construction sites will be properly restricted.
Internationally accepted practices and active regulations should be employed regarding restoration of
construction health and safety.
23.   Control of fuels and oils: All aboveground storage tanks and drums will be stored on low
permeability bases able to contain 110% of the stored volume. Proper measures will be taken to prevent


﻿Ukraine - Lviv Environmental Management Plan                                              5
spillage during equipment maintenance activities. Pouring fuels or oils into soils or drains will be
prohibited. Active environmental requirements on the subject will be followed as to the treatment and
disposal of residues.
24.   Protection of vegetative cover: As a general principle, all vegetation destroyed will have to be
replaced. Ornamental trees that need to be cut will be properly replaced.
25.   Supplementary measures:
* All wood used during construction will be procured from authorized sources;
*  Solid waste (other than demolition and excavation debris) such as wood, paper, glass, plastic and
trash in general, will be properly collected, separated, stored, and  disposed; and
*  All construction sites will be kept clean and in good sanitary condition.
Monitoring of Implementation of the EMP
26.   It is planned to establish a monitoring system for the WWTPs and the Poltva River. The
monitoring will include the following:
* Determination of quality and quantity characteristics of wastes before treatment and after
treatment at WWTPs;
* Determination of the impact of wastes on the Poltva River;
* Provision of hydro-ecology forecasts;
* Improvement of the system of water conservation measures according to data received from the.
monitoring system;
* Prevention of creation of dangerous situations; and
* Provision of stable operation of the wastewater network and the WWTPs.
27.   One of the most important components in the monitoring system would be the procedure of the
collection of samples. At present, sample collection is performed by laboratory workers at the WWTPs
and downstream of the Poltva River at the outfall and 0.5 kilometers from the WWTPs. It is foreseen
that, in future, a part of sample collection and analysis will be done using automatic analyzers.
28.   Monthly laboratory workers will undertake sample collection (with further analysis in a laboratory)
at downstream of Poltva River at distances of 0, 0.5, 1.25, 1.75, 7.1 and 8.6 kilometers from the WWY'TPs.
29.   All analysis of data is presented to the Chief of the main laboratory and to the Chief Engineer at his
request. Once a month it, the analysis is presented to the State Authority for Environmental Safety and to
the City Department of Hygiene and Sanitation, and is presented quarterly to the State Committee for
Construction, Architecture and Housing Policy.
30.   The preparation of a sludge disposal strategy will be financed by SIDA as part of the consulting
services for the rehabilitation of the WWTPs. Impacts of sludge disposal and their monitoring will be
discussed and agreed with LVK and other stakeholders as soon as the report is available.
Institutional strengthening
31.  Equipment Purchases: No new    instruments and/or monitoring equipment are intended to be
purchased within the Project.
32.   Consultant Services and Training: It is planned to involve a consultant and to set up training for
operators and other specialists.


﻿Ukraine - Lviv Environmental Management Plan                                            6
Schedule
33.   The activities are identified in the Project Implementation Plan.
Institutional arrangements
Collection of data:  Data are collected by operational staff once a week or during unusual situations,
as required.
Analyze of data:   The chief of the Central Dispatcher Office analyzes collected data by visual
review. Data are filed in the operational register.
Reporting:         The normal procedure is that the report with field operational data is sent to the
Chief Engineer once a month.  A report in English will be submitted semi-
annually for review by the Bank. This report will also be made available to the
local press and presented to ecological authorities.
Decision:          The decision to take action is taken by the Chief Engineer.
Public Consultation
34.  The project, its components and environmental impacts were discussed in a public hearing on
November 24, 1999. The LCG organized the hearing. The project concept and design were agreed
without adverse comments from the public. The recording of the hearing was, however, insufficient from
the OP 4.01 point of view, and at that time no environmental management plan was available for the
public review.
35.  A public hearing was conducted again on November 24, 2000 in the conference room of the
Regional Community for Protection of Historical and Cultural Monuments (40a, Kopernika Str, Lviv).
The notification about the public hearing was published in the local newspaper (Vysokyy Zamok) dated
November 21, 2000 (Appendix 3). All persons present at this public hearing received a brief description
of the EMP. Minutes of the public hearing are attached in Appendix 1.
36.  LVK and the PIU will continue cooperation with all stakeholders, including concerned public
interest groups and NGOs, during implementation.


﻿Ukraine - Lviv Environmental Management Plan                                           7
Appendix 1
Information about the Public Hearing Concerning the Environmental Management Plan of
the "Lviv Water and Wastewater System Enhancement Project
1. On November 24, 2000 Lviv Vodokanal (LVK) with the support of public organization --
"Geological-Ecological Fund" organized the public hearing concerning  the Environmental
Management Plan for the "Lviv Water and Wastewater System Enhancement Project."
2. Interested public groups, state and science institutions, public and mass media (Appendix 2)
participated. Presentations included:
(i )"Lviv Water and Wastewater System Enhancement Project with debt of the World Bank Loan"
(speaker: Lev Hipp)
(ii) "Project Environmental Management Plan" (speaker: Yuri Batig)
3. Comments received during the discussions concerned the following aspects:
Organizational and Legal:
* the findings and conclusions by the firms who did the ecological project assessment were not
given in advance;
* the public are not acquainted with the World Bank mission's remarks; and
* the execution phase schedule may provoke complaints from citizens;
Ecological:
*  insufficient involvement of local scientists in the assessment of impact;
*  the environmental assessment presented deal more with the building phase than with the
operations and maintenance phase; and
*  the special peculiarities of Lviv are not included (State historical-architectural conservation,
monument world UNESCO inheritance), the works should be done with all requirements to
improvement.
Propositions:
*  During the monitoring of wastewater quality, both sample elements and the entire system
(including phosphates, etc.) should be taken into account;
*  Wide application of updated methods and advanced technology in Project modernization;
*  Interested public groups are ready to help "Lvivvodokanal" in improvement of EMP during.the
Project implementation; and
* It is necessary to fully inform the city citizens about project implementation and problems
through the mass-media.
Conclusions:
*  The Project EMP should take into account the delineated propositions and remarks;
*  A   Working Group should be established for giving consultation and practical advice
concerning the ecological components in the project; and
*  Provisions should be made for Public Hearings during the construction and operations phases
of the Project.
Chairman                   Yuri Zinko "Geological-Ecological Fund"
Secretary                  Igor Gnatuk "Geological-Ecological Fund"


﻿Ukraine - Lviv Environmental Management Plan                                          8
Appendix 2
Participants List of Public Hearing concerning the Environmental Management Plan of the
"Lviv Water and Wastewater System Enhancement Project"
24.10.2000
1. Hipp L.P., MCE "Lvivvodokanal", deputy director
2. Litvinova O.S., "Lvivvodokanal", head of public relation department
3. Batig Y.B., "Lvivvodokanal"
4. Dajber M.Y. , "Lvivvodokanal"
5. Beljaeva T.V., "Lvivvodokanal"
6. Sulypa N.V., "Lvivvodokanal"
7. Hipp T.R., The program of the improvement of municipal water supply
8. Tsarynnyk O.J., The program of the improvement of municipal water supply
9. Orobchuk B.A., department of city engineering economy
10. Nazarenko L., improvement and ecology inspection
11. Maryskevych O.G., Institution of the ecology of Carpethians
12. Oduha M.S., Lvivdiprokombud, director
13. Grycyshyn P.M., Western center of World laboratory Ukrainian department
14. Podoljak I.I., USAID
15. Zheliak V.I., National University "Lviv polytechnic"
16. Tyhonova I.A., National University "Lviv polytechnic"
17. Zhuk V.M., National University "Lviv polytechnic"
18. Rudko G.I., Lviv Ivan Franko National University
19. Vasylchenko V.O., Lviv Ivan Franko National University
20. Kovalchuk I.P., Lviv Ivan Franko National University
21. Voloshyn P.K., Lviv Ivan Franko National University
22. Chupylo G.R., Lviv Ivan Franko National University
23. Kukurudza S.I., Lviv Ivan Franko National University
24. Shuber P.M., Lviv Ivan Franko National University
25. Shevchuk O.M., Lviv Ivan Franko National University
26. Krychkivskyj I.J., ZHEK ' 179
27. Ogonochenko V.P., Ecological Initiative Center
28. Halajm P.Z., regional board of nature protection ukrainian community, deputy director
29. Skrylnikov D.V., BF "ECOPRAVO-Lviv"
30. Zinko Y.B., "Ecogeofund", director
31. Gnatuk I.S., "Ecogeofund", manager
32. Say 1.0., "Ecogeofund"
33. Yaremchyshyn T., "Ecogeofund"
34. Saveleva M., "Ratusha" newspaper
35. Vladymyr A., Informational agency "Media-Prostir"
36. Mazur B.v., "Moloda Galychyna" newspaper
37. Solomonchuk O.E., "Za Vil'nu Ukrainu" newspaper
38. Sakvuk V.A., "Za Vil'nu Ukrainu" newspaper
39. Morgulenko A.I., "Vysokyj Zamok" newspaper, Lviv regional state tv radio company
40. Vovk J.V., Lviv city board, Press service
41. Danko U., Lviv Ivan Franko National University, student
42. Pasichnyk R.A., UkrDLTU, student
43. Syvak L.M., Lviv townsman
44. Farmanjak T.I., Lviv Stefanyk science library


﻿Ukraine - Lviv Environmental Management Plan                                           9
Appendix 3
The notification about the public hearing
Newspaper "Vysokyy Zamok" dated November 21, 2000
MCE "Lvivvodokanal"
with the support of public organization - "Geological-Ecological Fund"
on November 24, 2000
in the conference room of the Regional Community for Protection of Historical and Cultural
Monuments (40a, Kopemika Str)
organized the public hearing concerning the Implementation of "Lviv Water and Wastewater System
Enhancement Project with debt of the World Bank loan" concerning the Environmental Management
Plan.
Newspaper Report about the Public Hearing
Newspaper "Postup" #199 (643) dated December 5-6, 2000
Pipes are promised to be repaired for $40 million
Recently MCI "Lvivvodokanal" together with "Geology-Ecological fund" held a Public Hearing
devoted to the "Lviv Water and Wastewater System Enhancement Project". We have already informed
about different aspects of that project. At the Hearing, the city public was discussing the Environmental
Management Plan. That plan was developed in order to study all possible impact factors, during the
above-mentioned project's implementation, to the environment and the workers.
Quite a number of Lviv's citizens have learnt through the school of hard knocks and know very
well what is happening when the repairing-earthworks are held. Digging out roads, and heaps of mud and
loam that sticks to the shoes. All these you are not able to pass and drive round. However, according to
the project arrangements, these inconveniences will be missing. Conversely, from the sum of money that
will be given by the World Bank, there will be money for masks, warning signs, catwalks and certain
lighting at night. That means that nobody will fall into pits dug by "Lvivvodokanal."
Besides that, it has been foreseen many other good things by the Environmental Management
Plan. For example, it is proposed to do the works quickly, and to provide the workers with noise-
protective tools and respirators. In order to be saved from dust it is proposed to moisten the ground with
water from the mobile supply sources. Soils that are always accumulated in a big amount during the
digging are proposed to be piled up properly and covered with polyethylene film surface. Water from
trenches will be pumped out into sewerage. In addition, it is planned to transport the asphalt coat, concrete
and roadways at the approved location. Dismantled equipment will be removed to the "Vodokanal"
storehouse from the site, for repair and reuse evaluation.
How "Lvivvodokanal" is approaching the "Water-and-Wastewater-System-Enhancement-in-Lviv"
project is evident from the arrangements. In addition, when there would be US$40.80 million available,
the city will reduce losses in the distributive network, in buildings and in supply mains. Because we have
38 per cent unproductive water losses, from the 360 000 m3 of water that are supplied daily, about
120,000 m3 are wasted.
P:\UKRAINE\INFRA\MUNWATER\3LENN\ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN.REVISED.020601.doc
2/6/2001


